Other Industrial Truth Revenue year ended 31 December 2008 Truth designs and manufactures operating hardware, hinges and locks 230.3m for North American producers of windows, patio doors and skylights utilised in both the new construction and the repair and remodel 1 Headline operating profit year ended 31 December 2008 residential markets.
Most of Truths products are manufactured in its 16.4m plants in Minnesota, USA and Ontario, Canada.
Revenue and operating profit were significantly lower in 2008, Average number of employees year ended 31 December 2008 reflecting decreases in US housing starts of 30% compared to 2007 for FKI businesses since acquisition on and 60% from their peak in 2005.
However, Truth was successful in 3,948 1 July 2008 and MPC for full calendar year achieving gains in market share as a result of growth initiatives to Revenue by geographic area % increase both its customer base and its product offering.
Notwithstanding the gains in market share achieved in 2008, ASIA 2% customer delivery times were far from satisfactory.
This was partly due NORTH AMERICA 26% to the hangover from the closure of Truths plant in Pennsylvania and EUROPE 72% the absorption of its operations into the Minnesota plant at the end of 2007.
These production issues have been the subject of close attention since acquisition: and by focusing on streamlining the manufacturing process, including significant capital investment in new Revenue by sector % machines and tooling, gains in cost, speed and quality have been achieved, resulting in more acceptable customer service.
TRACTION 11% HARRIS 14% Outlook LOGISTEX EUROPE 29% In view of the continuing weakness of the US housing market, MPC PRELOK 24% management has embarked on a rigorous programme of cost TRUTH 18% reductions, including a headcount decrease of about 15%.
These OTHER 4% actions on costs, which should result in annualised savings of Business units Websites approximately US$9 million of payroll expense at a cost of www.
com approximately US$1.5 million, supported by Truths strong presence www.
com in its market, give us confidence that Truth will continue to trade www.
com profitably through the current downturn and be well placed when www.
co. uk Logistex Europe www.
com Logistex is a provider of material handling solutions and products for airports, postal facilities, parcel distribution, manufacturing and TRACTION warehouse and distribution facilities.
Although revenue for the six months ended 31 December 2008 1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset was lower than in the comparable period in 2007, profit was higher amortisation other than computer software.
with the improvement being driven by better project evaluation and execution, together with lower operating costs.
Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008 14 INTRODUCTION & BUSINESSES A highlight in the period was the exceptional cash generation Harris as a result of substantial improvements in the cash management Harris is a leader in scrap and waste reduction equipment design, processes.
In the six months to 31 December 2008 the cash engineering, manufacturing and servicing.
It operates out of two plants generated exceeded operating profit by 16 million.
These in Georgia, USA, and has full service capability and serves the scrap improvements represent permanent reductions in working capital metal and fibre recycling industries.
and additional actions have been put in place to further lower the Harris performed well in the six months ended 31 December future working capital requirements of the business.
2008 on the back of exceptionally strong scrap metal prices during In the period under review the Airport and Post and Parcel most of this period.
Scrap pricing is a key determinant in the activity businesses secured large project orders with Norwegian Post, levels in this industry.
Toll Post, Delhi Airport and TNT.
These new orders, together with Design and engineering capability is at the heart of Harris a stronger opening order book, enabled this part of the business business culture with its emphasis on highly engineered solutions for to trade profitably.
In contrast, the European Warehouse and customised applications.
As part of this focus, a new product Distribution business experienced more difficult trading conditions, development team was formed in 2008 to introduce new products with several large project orders being delayed or even cancelled.
and enhance the options and performance of existing products.
The Sales into China during the period were on projects with existing most significant were two new products which complement Harris customers expanding in the territory.
These products have begun to contribute to Further to the launch of the LS-4000, the companys new both sales and the order books.
sorting system, the period under review saw the completion of the Management has continued with its push into the parts and first project incorporating this new system for Joseph Witt GmbHs service business, which in 2008 accounted for about 20% of Harris major new-build mail order and distribution centre in Weiden, revenue.
This provides a more stable revenue base and will result in Germany.
The on-time delivery of this industry-leading, energy-efficient increased profitability.
sorting system was completed in a timescale of just 22 weeks from the start of the installation to initial operations commencing.
Outlook Due to the advanced talks in relation to its sale, Logistex US Although the price of steel fell dramatically towards the end of 2008, is included in discontinued items.
given the reasonably long lead times in this business, Harris entered 2009 with a fairly strong order book.
However, the order intake has Outlook fallen and sales in 2009 are projected to be lower than in 2008.
As a result of market conditions, restructuring plans were actioned in The management team has been strengthened and actions have January 2009 to reduce the headcount of the business and cut costs.
been taken to reduce the cost base to a level consistent with lower In addition to this, the strategy for the business will be to focus on sales.
To this end headcount has been reduced by 17% this year and project selection and execution, product excellence, working capital overheads have been reduced by 12%.
This will achieve annualised control and operational efficiency.
This sharpened focus, supported by savings of approximately 2 million.
a strong Airport business backlog, point to a satisfactory year for Although profit will be lower in 2009 than in 2008, Harris will be Logistex Europe.
well placed to recover strongly when market conditions improve and in the longer term will benefit from the increasing emphasis on recycling with its attendant environmental benefits.
The new FKI Logistex LS-4000E Tilt-tray sorter provides an efficient order This Harris model HS-98115 shredder is located in Atlanta, Georgia and is one of four different models of ferrous metal shredders offered by Harris.
Harris fulfilment solution for the Joseph Witt GmbH e-commerce distribution centre in Weiden, Germany.
The market leading LS-4000E products offer customers designs, manufactures, and installs all of its equipment worldwide.
Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008 15 Weber Knapp Outlook Weber Knapp manufactures hardware for the appliance and furniture The outlook for 2009 looks somewhat mixed.
So far there has been industries, specialising in ergonomically designed office products.
little sign of reduced orders although the lower usage of freight Revenue and operating profit were adversely affected in 2008 by vehicles is beginning to impact wheel replacement and overhaul.
the weakness of the US economy.
In addition, although management Although some future projects are likely to be delayed for financial was able to pass on the substantial raw material price increases reasons, given the priority attaching to the upgrading of the railway experienced during the year primarily steel in respect of the high network, the longer term outlook is promising.
specification, value-added products, this was more difficult for the more commodity-type volume ergonomic products.
MPC Significant investments in process improvements and tooling MPC manufactures engineered plastic injection moulded and components were made in 2008, notably the addition of multiple extruded components and metal pressings for sectors including food colour capability to the auto powder coat line and the hard tooling of and beverage packaging, automotive, construction and industrial.
the new Whirlpool counterbalance hinging system.
MPC reported a good trading result in 2008.
Although revenue for the Management took decisive action during the year as the year ended 31 December 2008 was only marginally higher than in economy continued to weaken.
Close attention was paid to cash 2007, headline operating profit was up by 10%, reflecting the management resulting in a cash-to-profit conversion ratio of 158%.
In companys continuing emphasis on higher quality business.
addition, there was a 19% reduction in the administrative employees Underlying cash generation before capital expenditure was particularly and a 7% reduction in factory employees.
strong and was 119% of operating profit before depreciation.
Highly engineered value-added automated processes were again Outlook at the forefront of MPCs business development strategy, with the The quality of Weber Knapps products and the strong position it business successfully installing and commissioning new production has in its market, supported by the actions of management to meet cells for Diageo, Scottish & Newcastle and Jaguar Land Rover.
the challenges, position the company well to benefit when the A contraction in the European competitor base brought significant economy improves.
opportunities for MPC, not only to win new business but also to expand into new, leading-edge materials and technologies utilising Brush Traction Traction MPCs recognised technical skills, particularly regarding tool making.
Traction specialises in the refurbishment and re-engineering of UK MPCs success in 2008 was linked to its significant capital railway locomotives and components from its two sites at expenditure programme in the year amounting to 3.5 million.
improved the plant profile, increased flexibility and reduced energy Tractions results in the six months ended 31 December 2008 costs.
Machines dedicated to production for Marks & Spencer and were particularly strong due to increased vehicle numbers and Toyota were installed during the year in addition to a new  work on the High Speed Train HST contract.
Cash art robotic fully abated paint plant.
generation was also significantly ahead of plan.
The major HST contract, which has provided the backbone of Outlook Tractions production over the last two years is coming to an end in Given the poor market conditions, management is paying very 2009 and as a result Traction is stepping up its marketing efforts at close attention to conserving cash and to examining ways of cutting Loughborough to build on its sales of bogies, vehicle upgrade kits and costs in the business.
We are confident that the highly experienced locomotive upgrades.
management team will be successful in mitigating the effects of the Kilmarnock started work during the year on its first major vehicle downturn, whilst at the same time continuing to take advantage of refurbishment contract since the purchase of Hunslet Barclay at the opportunities that arise to improve and expand the business.
This project has to date been successful and is expected to be completed towards the end of 2009.
Management continues to improve its processes and reduce operating costs through the rigorous application of lean management principles, together with tight control of overheads and focused investment in plant and equipment.
DAVID ROPER 11 March 2009 HST 43301 is the first of a batch of re-engineered power cars ordered by Arriva Cross Country Trains, for their service from Scotland to Cornwall, shown at Brush Tractions Loughborough Works Test Facility.
