Dynacast Dynacast has reported a satisfactory trading result in 2008 with Revenue year ended 31 December 2008 revenue and headline operating profit up by 4.4% and 15.6% 246.3m respectively.
This profit includes a foreign exchange gain on translation of 3.9 million primarily from the strengthening of the Euro and the 1 Headline operating profit year ended 31 December 2008 US dollar against Sterling and the benefit from recent acquisitions of 33.4m just under 1 million.
In August 2008 Dynacast acquired the Canadian and UK assets of Fishercast Global, a former competitor, from the Average number of employees year ended 31 December 2008 bankruptcy court in Canada for approximately 7 million including acquisition costs.
2,647 The price of zinc, Dynacasts major raw material, continued to fall Revenue by geographic area % during 2008, with the average LME cost falling by 42% over the year to around US$1,900 per tonne in 2008, which is firmly back within its NORTH AMERICA 35% historic price range and this bodes well for future business ASIA 24% development.
At the year end the price stood at US$1,120 per tonne.
EUROPE 41% Although movements in the price of zinc have relatively little effect on profit, as a result of being able to pass on these changes to the customer, they do have a significant effect on revenue.
This has resulted in a reduction of the reported revenue in 2008 by Revenue by sector % approximately 21 million.
As foreshadowed in the interim report, the weakening global AUTOMOTIVE 35% economy has resulted in a slowing of Dynacasts profit growth in the ELECTRONICS, COMPUTERS & TELECOMMUNICATIONS 26% second half of 2008 over the rapid growth experienced in the first HEALTHCARE 12% half.
As is widely known, this economic slowdown accelerated sharply HARDWARE & TOOLING 12% towards the end of 2008.
During such times it is encouraging that OTHER 15% Dynacast management has an excellent record of cash control and in 2008 Dynacast converted 124% of its profit into cash.
Business units Sales in Europe were marginally down in the year and profit was broadly flat year-on-year.
The biggest reduction was in Spain, which suffered from weak automotive and construction sectors for much of the year.
France and Austria performed well in the year but saw slowdowns in demand in the final quarter of the year, as automotive Website sales slowed.
Strong actions on cost controls together with the www.
com benefits from reorganisations in prior years have helped to mitigate 1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset the impact of the sales reduction.
amortisation other than computer software.
North America had a challenging year in 2008 with the US being the first of the major economies to head into recession.
The construction industry was the first sector to show clear signs of a slowdown, which affected Dynacasts sales of its hardware products Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008 12 INTRODUCTION & BUSINESSES during the year.
Sales in the US automotive industry started the year weakly and continued to deteriorate throughout the year, particularly in the final quarter.
Managements decisive action has resulted in quick and positive returns from the acquisition of Fishercast Canada in the last quarter of the year.
Revenue and profit in Asia were both higher in 2008.
This reflected a very strong year in Malaysia, a good year in Singapore and continued growth in China.
Singapore is an important centre for Dynacast in terms of investment in design and engineering skills and machine upgrades, which supports its active programme of new product development.
Business wins included supplying components for the exciting new Apple iPod.
Outlook We continue to see growth opportunities in Asia, and Dynacast will be opening its plant in Dongguan, southern China, in the second quarter of 2009.
This plant will target the consumer electronics market in China and has recently achieved a notable success in securing business with Dell to supply components for its servers which will be manufactured in China until 2012.
With the continuing uncertainty in economic and financial markets, Dynacast management remain highly focused on the cost structure of the business and on aggressive cash management.
Dynacast has reduced its workforce on a full time equivalent basis by over 22% which will result in an annualised saving of approximately 10 million at a cost of approximately 250,000, and continues to carefully monitor customer demand against manufacturing capacity.
Should demand continue to reduce, a deeper restructuring will be considered, particularly in Europe and North America where some further consolidation might be necessary.
At the same time they will be alert to opportunities to make small in-fill acquisitions as less well financed competitors struggle with lower sales volumes.
Dynacast is a high quality, well managed engineering group supplying a wide range of products in different sectors to global markets in which it has strong shares.
As such, although 2009 looks set to be a difficult year for Dynacast it will meet the challenges totally prepared and should emerge in a stronger position when market conditions improve.
Efficient heat dissipation and high strength requirements lead to the choice of Rapid time-to-market is essential to Dynacasts customers.
Dynacast has the Dynacasts precision aluminum die-casting to produce this complex automotive resources and excellent programme management to provide integral fan clutch housing.
components for laptop computers utilising proprietary thin-wall technology.
