Lifting Bridon Revenue year ended 31 December 2008 Bridon designs and manufactures a comprehensive range of lifting 232.3m and stabilising solutions for applications in wire rope, fibre rope, steel wire and strand, serving global customers in oil and gas, mining, 1 Headline operating profit year ended 31 December 2008 industrial, marine and infrastructure.
35.7m Bridon performed well in the six months ended 31 December 2008 on the back of strong demand in its principal markets of oil and Average number of employees year ended 31 December 2008 gas, mining and high-performance cranes.
Although the cost of Bridons major raw material steel continued to rise rapidly during 3,575 since acquisition on 1 July 2008 most of the period, management was successful in passing these Revenue by geographic area % costs on through a mixture of surcharges and contractual escalation provisions.
Bridon also benefited from movements in foreign NORTH AMERICA 51% exchange rates as sales made in US dollars and Euros increased in EUROPE 35% Sterling terms.
Cash generation was particularly good with 105% of ASIA 9% profit being turned into cash in the period.
REST OF WORLD 5% In addition to the strong demand in its offshore oil and gas and mining markets, Bridon continued to gain market share by making inroads into key accounts in all its primary market sectors, particularly Revenue by sector % the global crane and mining OEMs.
Major progress has been achieved in Bridons marine fibre business, based in Coatbridge Scotland, WIRE 5% where certain contracts have been renegotiated and lead times have MINING 10% been reduced, resulting in increased profitability.
Other highlights of ENERGY 38% the year include record performances at Bridons Singapore and INDUSTRIAL 31% Indonesian operations.
OTHER 16% While continuing to focus on its core geographic markets of Europe and North America, during the year Bridon acquired an 80% Business units Websites interest in a specialist rope maker in Hangzhou, South Eastern China.
com This is in line with the companys policy of focusing on high www.
com performance products serving the local industrial, oil and gas and www.
com mining industries in faster growing regions including China, Russia and South East Asia.
Following the acquisition by Melrose, Bridon management successfully negotiated an exit from its 50 50 Chinese joint venture engaged in the manufacture of commodity-type elevator rope.
1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation other than computer software.
During the year, an investment programme of approximately 3 million over three years was approved to upgrade the wire mill at Doncaster to improve manufacturing efficiencies and significantly reduce carbon emissions and other environmental waste.
Bridon, Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008 10 INTRODUCTION & BUSINESSES which is known for its superior quality, technical support and Outlook innovation, further increased its product development efforts in Crosby is more exposed to the onshore oil and gas markets in order to meet its customers increasingly demanding needs and contrast to Bridon where the projects tend to be smaller and the applications.
In addition to this, management continues to pursue recent falls in oil and gas prices have resulted in a softening of with vigour its ongoing commitment to the application of lean demand.
The Crosby management team are highly experienced principles to support sustainable cost reduction efforts across all units.
and have already implemented plans to reduce working capital further and to take out costs across the business including reducing Outlook the headcount by approximately 10% in the United States which Notwithstanding the adverse economic climate, Bridon entered 2009 will result in an annualised saving of 5 million.
with a record order book of 79.0 million, representing approximately Although 2009 will be a more difficult year for Crosby, the 30% of the years budgeted sales.
Although Bridon is seeing strength of its business franchise and the quality of its management weakening in its construction and industrial markets, the offshore will ensure that the current adverse conditions are well handled and sector, where Bridon has a strong presence and which is dominated that the business is in good condition to resume its previous growth by bigger customers engaged in large projects with long lead times, when more normal conditions return.
is performing resiliently and is evidence that this sector will be less affected than other markets.
There is also optimism in the speciality Acco Material Handling Solutions Acco structures sectors as various bridge and stadia projects remain Acco is a US manufacturer of custom engineered material handling scheduled for development over the next several years.
products including: monorail cranes: wire rope and chain hoists: and Overall, this gives us confidence that Bridon will have a good year.
Acco achieved a good trading performance in the six months Crosby ended 31 December 2008 together with a decent profit to cash Crosby is a world leader in the manufacture and sale of fittings and achievement.
These results were attributable to an improved revenue blocks to the oil and gas, construction and mining sectors, primarily mix as increased sales of monorail cranes were offset by lower sales through a global network of specialist distributors.
of industrial carts and trailers.
Crosby achieved a good result in 2008 on the back of global Although Acco bore substantial steel cost increases during the economic growth and strong demand particularly from the oil and gas year it was able to protect operating profit by passing these on.
Crosby experienced significant raw material cost increases Sales and margins were also improved through ongoing efforts to and shortages during the year.
However, as a result of its strong outsource products and components and in addition, efficiency gains market position and close relationships with its customers it was able were achieved by the rationalisation of two similar product lines to pass on most of these price increases and by working closely with during the year.
suppliers it was able to ensure availability of supply.
Growth was achieved in all of Crosbys geographical markets with Outlook the highest being in North America.
Crosby invested significantly in We have confidence that Acco will have another good year in 2009. product and process development during the year, whilst at the same time introducing new specialised lifting systems and fittings for both the offshore and onshore oil and gas markets.
The development of the block and sheave centres in Europe and China was pushed ahead and resulted in increased sales in these markets.
During the period Crosby continued to focus on its programme to train the end users of its products.
As safety standards in the industry around the world continue to rise, Crosby is at the forefront of a series of initiatives to enable rigging personnel to achieve certification status.
This dedicated focus on customer needs and attention to detail in the provision of a highly technical product where safety and reliability are of paramount importance serve to differentiate Crosby in its market.
Bridons Big Hydra World Record Breaking rope measures 138.5mm in The Crosby Group, through its McKissick Products division, provided NASA with diameter, weighs in at 337 tons and is 4,000 metres long.
Manufactured at the lifting tackle used to place the space shuttle onto the 747 for return travel Bridons German factory, the rope is supplied to Heerema Marine Contractors across the United States.
and used as a winch rope on the installation pipe laying vessel The Balder.
