Business review Operational and financial review Safety and health 02a Subhead 2 02b Subhead 3 01 Main body copy One of Mondis uncoated fine paper machines at its Syktyvkar operation in Russia.
By contrast, the South Africa Division was successful in implementing The worsening of the global economic environment price increases and enjoyed an improved underlying operating performance, with profits up 33 million or 42%.
had an adverse impact on our business.
In particular, from October 2008 we saw a marked Merchant and Newsprint saw a significant decline in underlying downturn in trading in Europe.
However, it is operating profits 33 million as our joint venture, Aylesford Newsprint incurred losses, suffering from both declining selling prices and testament to Mondis low-cost production strategy, increases in input costs.
By contrast, Aylesford contributed nearly ingrained cost focus and ability to respond quickly half of Merchant and Newsprints profits in the year ending 2007. to changing market conditions that a creditable A strong working capital performance net inflow for the year of performance was delivered in a year which ended 27 million despite higher revenues coupled with renewed focus amid some of the most difficult trading conditions on cost reductions and cash flow optimisation limited the increase in the Groups history.
in Group borrowings to 183 million, despite capital expenditure of 324 million on the two major capital projects in Poland and Russia.
Mondi enjoys a strong liquidity position and as at the end of December Group sales rose by 1% to 6.35 billion and underlying operating profit the Group had nearly 1.1 billion of undrawn committed debt facilities was 12% below the prior year, with the slowdown in Europe only partially 0.7 billion of which is available under a 1.55 billion facility, expiring offset by a much improved performance from the South Africa Division.
Within the Europe & International Division underlying operating profit Cost pressures were evident throughout the year, most significantly was down 52 million or 13%.
We did not see the usual post-summer chemicals and energy, although there was some easing of key raw seasonal pick-up in demand and trading in the last three months of material input costs towards the latter part of the year notably 2008 was weak, resulting in falling volumes and some price weakness.
recovered fibre, energy and chemicals.
Similarly, while the weaker In response, we proactively took significant market-related downtime South African rand supported margin improvement in export sales in a number of our European operations mainly in sack kraft paper from our South Africa Division, the strength of our major emerging amounting to 130,000 tonnes in the last quarter 12% of capacity and European production currencies negatively impacted on our cost 212,000 tonnes for the full year.
By the end of the year stock levels were base.
The continued strengthening of the Polish zloty in particular low across all paper grades, leaving us well placed for the coming year.
had a significant negative effect on profitability, although this pressure eased towards the end of the period.
Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group 15 Directors report Business review Operational and financial review continued Europe & International Division million 2008 2007 change % Segment revenue 5,159 5,189 1 of which inter-segment revenue 155 153 1 EBITDA 623 670 7 Underlying operating profit 334 386 13 Bags & Specialities 159 154 3 Uncoated Fine Paper 126 99 27 Corrugated 49 133 63 1 Capital expenditure 2 Major projects 324 40 n a Other 277 271 2 Net segment assets 3,659 3,907 6 Bags have been Return on capital employed % 9.6 11.2 14 produced at Mondis wiecie operation in 1 Capital expenditure is cash payments and excludes business combinations Poland since the 1960s.
2 Polish and Russian expansion projects which commenced in second half of 2007 In mitigation of ongoing cost pressures and the weaker trading The European business environment continues to be challenging environment, significant additional cost reductions and further and we remain focused on driving down costs and rationalising productivity improvements were achieved.
Overall, the Group delivered any remaining low quality, high cost assets.
As a direct result of a further 128 million in cost savings, representing approximately 2.4% the slowdown in European demand, underlying operating profit was of the cash cost base.
Mondi remains committed to targeting annual down 13% versus the prior year.
The Division delivered 114 million savings of at least 2% per annum.
The 2009 target is 180 million in cost savings, with the benefits from the various rationalisation 3.3% of 2008 cash costs.
We also completed the restructuring and and restructuring measures a significant contributor.
simplification of our European Uncoated Fine Paper UFP business, Operations which realised significant cost reductions during the year, with further In the Bags & Specialities business underlying operating profits for benefits flowing in 2009. the year were up 5 million, although the second half saw profits down Disappointingly, the average return on capital employed, a key measure 33% versus the comparable period.
The business benefited from higher of Mondis performance, declined to 9.5% 2007: 10.6%, reflecting the average kraft paper and converted bag prices up around 6% : however, more difficult trading environment in the second half.
As noted volumes were soft in the second half as demand, particularly from the elsewhere, actions are being taken to improve the profitability of the building industry, slowed.
This decline in demand was exacerbated by Group which we are confident, when taken with an improvement in an element of destocking as the supply chain adjusted to the weaker the business cycle, will lead to improving returns.
In response, the kraft paper business took significant market-related downtime of around 100,000 tonnes in the fourth quarter Net finance costs of 159 million were 60 million higher than in 2007 around 40% of available capacity in the quarter to balance inventories.
due to higher borrowings and average interest rates particularly in some Industry statistics suggest bag demand was down around 9% in the last emerging markets and foreign currency charges on the devaluation of quarter versus the comparable period in the prior year.
Specialities were emerging market currencies to which we are exposed.
The effective impacted by lower volumes and margins and as a result profits were tax rate before special items of 29% was in line with the prior-year rate.
marginally below the comparable period.
The results benefited modestly Underlying earnings per share were 33.9 euro cents per share, down from the acquisition of Unterland in the second half of 2007.
16 16 A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 00 08 8 M Mo ond ndii G Gr ro oup up Job No: 0912 Proof No: 14 Operator: BO JF IM JF SJL JF SJL JF Job Title: Mondi Annual Report Date:03 03 09 Spellchecked: Y N Signature s : Client: SAS Software: CS3 Proof Reader: In the Uncoated Fine Paper UFP business underlying operating Restructuring profits were up 27 million or 27%.
Whilst average selling prices were 2008 saw significant restructuring in response to the economic slightly up against the comparable period, volumes were impacted by downturn.
In the first half, three sheet feeder plants in the UK were the weaker trading environment in the second half and the closure of sold for an enterprise value of approximately 21 million, the Nyborg Hungary down 4% on the prior year.
Around 37,000 tonnes of specialities plant in Denmark was closed and the closure of the Szolnok commercial downtime around 2.5% of available capacity was taken in UFP mill in Hungary was completed.
We closed the Holcombe recycled the year.
UFP benefited from the restructuring actions announced at the containerboard mill in the UK capacity 110,000 tonnes per annum and end of 2007, as well as a better performance from all our mills, notably the Zaragoza bag converting plant in Spain capacity 55 million units in our Russian pulp and paper mill in Syktyvkar where the local market the second half.
Towards the end of the year, the sales of the 160,000 continued to experience good demand.
Declining pulp prices in the tonne per annum Niedergsgen recycled containerboard mill in second half improved the profitability of our Austrian non-integrated Switzerland and two corrugated converting operations in France were paper mill.
agreed for total proceeds of approximately 22 million.
Further initiatives include the announced restructuring of the Turkish corrugated business In the Corrugated business, underlying operating profits were down and the restructuring of the coatings business in Finland and the UK.
84 million at 49 million as costs increased and selling prices fell back The total cost of these and other closure, disposal and restructuring following substantial increases achieved in 2007.
Brown kraftliner and activities, excluding impairments, is approximately 85 million and has testliner prices were down around 5% year-on-year on average testliner been treated as a special item in the accounts.
After the year-end we declined sharply in the second half, ending the year over 20% down on sold the St Quentin corrugated packaging plant in France and have the prior year close.
Whitetop kraftliner, a key open market product for taken the decision to mothball both the 110,000 tonnes per annum the Group, was more stable with prices up around 1% year-on-year.
Stambolijski pulp and kraft paper mill in Bulgaria and the PM5 kraft The price declines were due to a combination of slowing demand and, paper machine capacity 75,000 tonnes per annum at our mill in Dyns towards the latter part of the year, falling input costs.
having increased in the first half, started to taper off in the second half.
Results were also impacted by market-related downtime in recycled Major projects containerboard around 44,000 tonnes, representing 4% of annual Despite the challenging business environment, we remain committed capacity.
The continued strength in eastern European currencies to completing the development of our two major projects in Poland particularly the Polish zloty during the period served to further erode and Russia.
We believe the rationale behind the development of these the profitability of our eastern European production base.
This currency projects, to secure our position as cost leader in our chosen markets, trend started to reverse towards the end of the period, although the is reinforced by current events.
positive financial impact will only be seen in 2009 due to the Groups The construction of the new 470,000 tonne recycled containerboard rolling six-month currency hedging programme.
machine at wiecie in Poland is progressing well total cost of Our Turkish corrugated packaging subsidiary, Tire Kutsan, acquired 305 million.
We remain on track for completion in the second half of in 2007, continues to underperform.
This is mainly the result of softer 2009 within the budgeted cost.
We anticipate that this machine will have demand coupled with new competitor capacity coming on-stream and the lowest operating costs of its type.
Similarly, the related 45 million the resulting impact on prices in the local market.
We have taken steps investment in the new box plant and associated infrastructure on the to restructure the business appropriately, including streamlining the wiecie mill site is in progress, with start-up planned for the end of 2009. organisation and reducing headcount.
The project to modernise our mill in Syktyvkar total cost of 525 million is also making good progress and we remain on track for completion within the budgeted cost by the end of 2010.
The key value drivers of this project are to improve efficiency, lower our cost base in Russia and increase energy production and revenue by selling surplus energy to the grid.
In addition it will provide modest extra capacity both pulp and paper for the domestic market.
By the end of the period, 364 million had been spent on these two projects out of the total capital commitment of 875 million.
The bulk of the remaining expenditures of 511 million are expected to be incurred in 2009, with some flowing into 2010.
Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group 17 Directors report Business review Operational and financial review continued Safety and health 02a Subhead 2 02b Subhead 3 01 Main body copy Containerboard warehouse at Mondis Richards Bay operation in South Africa.
In the domestic market which represents about 37% of the Divisions South Africa Division UFP volume, price increases during the year of around 20% were million 2008 2007 change % achieved.
The domestic market for UFP continues to grow at around 4% per annum.
Sales to Africa which represent approximately one-quarter Segment revenue 587 591 1 of the Divisions UFP volume became a major focus area, with price of which inter-segment revenue 285 367 22 increases quoted in USD of around 10% realised during the year.
EBITDA 152 122 25 The remaining UFP volume, which is destined for non-African markets, was significantly down, but margins benefited from the weaker rand.
Underlying operating profit 111 78 42 1 Uncoated Fine Paper 75 53 42 Pulp sales volumes were up by 19%, while price increases quoted in USD of 15% year-on-year were achieved.
Corrugated 36 25 44 2 Almost 80% of the production from our corrugated operations, Capital expenditure 44 23 91 comprising the whitetop linerboard machine at Richards Bay, is Net segment assets 760 966 21 exported.
Sales levels were similar to the previous year, as global supply Return on capital employed % 15.9 9.5 67 and demand remained in balance throughout the year.
Accordingly, 1 profits were up in the period, with export sales benefiting from the Includes pulp and forestry business 2 weaker rand.
Capital expenditure is cash payments and excludes business combinations A significant breakthrough was achieved in the settlement of land claims in South Africa, with the signing of a land restitution settlement whereby The South Africa Division recorded an increase in underlying operating the first of Mondis forestry land will be transferred to two local profits of 33 million.
Profitability increased as the year progressed communities under a sale and leaseback agreement.
Mondi retains following a slow start, due partially to the loss of more than three weeks ownership of the forests, which ensures security of timber supply to production at Richards Bay largely as a result of an extensive maintenance Mondis operations, while meeting the needs of the land restitution shut.
Throughout the period substantial progress was made on the process in South Africa.
It is anticipated that this settlement will provide management of product mix to optimise margins as opposed to a framework for settling future forestry land claims with Mondi.
volumes, evidenced by 86,000 tonnes of commercial downtime on UFP production, otherwise destined for low margin export markets.
Results towards the end of the period benefited from these product mix changes as well as selling price increases for both domestic and export sales.
The Division also delivered 6 million in cost savings in the period.
18 Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group Job No: 0912 Proof No: 14 Operator: BO JF IM JF SJL JF SJL JF Job Title: Mondi Annual Report Date:03 03 09 Spellchecked: Y N Signature s : Client: SAS Software: CS3 Proof Reader: Mondi Packaging South Africa MPSA Merchant and Newsprint million 2008 2007 change % million 2008 2007 change % Segment revenue 474 419 13 Segment revenue 593 591 0 of which inter-segment revenue 27 28 4 of which inter-segment revenue 1 1 0 EBITDA 52 53 2 EBITDA 24 60 60 Underlying operating profit 28 35 20 Underlying operating profit 7 40 82 1 1 Capital expenditure 38 47 19 Capital expenditure 10 18 44 Net segment assets 301 335 10 Net segment assets 196 248 21 Return on capital employed % 8.6 13.8 38 Return on capital employed % 3.3 17.3 81 1 1 Capital expenditure is cash payments and excludes business combinations Capital expenditure is cash payments and excludes business combinations Mondis joint venture operation, Aylesford Newsprint which accounted Underlying operating profit was marginally up 1% in local currency, including a full-year charge for the amortisation of Lenco intangibles for just under half Merchant and Newsprints 2007 full-year operating profit, recorded an operating loss for the year as a result of falling selling acquired in July 2007.
The local currency performance was, however, impacted on translation into euros at the much weaker rand rate, prices, due to competition from imports, and rising energy and recycled fibre input costs.
The recent weakening of sterling, together with resulting in an underlying operating profit decline of 7 million to 28 million.
Demand and pricing remained positive and corrugated newsprint capacity closures in Europe and North America, supported UK newsprint price increases of around 20% for 2009, which will see a packaging and containerboard volumes were up 4% and 5% respectively versus the comparable period.
This performance was return to profitability of this business.
At Europapier margins came under pressure in the second half as trading was impacted by the general helped by good demand from the agricultural sector.
Price increases were implemented for the domestic containerboard market with effect economic slowdown and adverse currency movements.
However, price increases lagged input cost Shanduka Newsprint earnings were down in local currency, with volume pressures, particularly from recycled fibre.
In anticipation of a softer and price increases largely eroded by cost pressures.
A significantly trading environment in early 2009, the corrugated mills took marketweaker rand exchange rate exacerbated the earnings decrease on related downtime in the fourth quarter amounting to 7,000 tonnes translation into euros.
10% of the capacity in the quarter.
The Lenco acquisition rigid plastics manufacturer contributed positively to profits and is now performing Corporate and other better after a slow start.
Net corporate costs after special items were 1 million higher than Progress on the execution of major projects has been good, with the the comparable period in 2007, due mainly to the disposal of non-core Felixton rebuild commissioned on time in April 2008 and within budget.
businesses at the end of 2007 which contributed approximately This will increase containerboard production by 45,000 tonnes per 3 million of profits in the comparable period.
annum to 155,000 tonnes per annum.
This repositions Felixton to produce lightweight recycled containerboard to serve the growing domestic market.
During the period MPSA was refinanced through a R1.0 billion cash injection from Mondi Limited which allowed for the pay-down of expensive external debt.
The funds were provided by way of loans and equity.
As a result of the refinancing, Mondis shareholding in the business increased from 55% to 70% with effect from 17 December 2008.
Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group 19 Directors report Business review Operational and financial review continued Paper machine 18 controller at Ruomberok.
A non-operating special item charge of 29 million was recognised, Reconciliation of underlying profit which mainly comprises the loss on the sale of the Niedergsgen to reported loss recycled containerboard mill in Switzerland, the two corrugated converting operations in France and three UK corrugated sheet million feeder plants.
Underlying profit 202 Special items refer to note 5 of the financial statements : Finance costs Operating special items 358 Net finance charges of 159 million were 60 million higher than 2007 Net loss on disposals 27 due to higher borrowings and average interest rates, related particularly Impairment of assets held for sale 2 to emerging market debt, and foreign currency charges.
The latter were incurred mainly in the fourth quarter and amounted to 28 million 2007: Related tax 4 2 million.
This was largely due to significant devaluations of various Reported loss 181 emerging market currencies notably Mexico, Russia, Turkey and the Ukraine, resulting in foreign exchange charges being incurred on nonlocal currency denominated loans made to our businesses in these Special items refer to note 5 of the markets.
Excluding these charges, the effective cost of net debt was financial statements 7.5% for the year.
Approximately 25% of the debt is South African rand-denominated with average interest rates of 12.4% for the year.
In aggregate, pre-tax special items amounted to a charge of 387 million 383 million after tax, made up as follows: Taxation An operating special item charge of 358 million, principally comprising: The effective tax rate before special items of 29% was similar to the goodwill impairment costs of 194 million: 2007 full-year rate.
There is only minor tax relief on special items.
asset impairment costs of 99 million: Minority interests closure and restructuring costs of 56 million: and Minority interests for the year were 17 million lower than the charges related to demerger arrangements put in place for senior comparable period, as earnings were down at the significant operations executives following the demerger from Anglo American plc in where there are non-controlling interests, particularly at wiecie in July 2007 of 9 million.
Poland within the Europe & International Division.
20 Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group Job No: 0912 Proof No: 14 Operator: BO JF IM JF SJL JF SJL JF Job Title: Mondi Annual Report Date:03 03 09 Spellchecked: Y N Signature s : Client: SAS Software: CS3 Proof Reader: Cash flow Balance sheet and returns on invested capital million 2008 2007 EBITDA 814 870 2008 2007 Trading capital employed in m 4,367 4,818 Fair value adjustments and other non-cash movements 44 9 ROCE pre-taxation % 9.5% 10.6% Movement in working capital 27 97 Shareholders funds in m 2,323 2,963 Taxes paid 71 93 Return on shareholders funds % 6.5% 8.1% Net cash flow from operating activities 726 865 Net debt in m 1,690 1,507 Capital expenditure 693 406 Gearing Net debt trading capital employed % 38.7% 31.3% Investment in forestry assets 43 41 EBITDA interest cover times 5.1 9.6 Acquisitions of subsidiaries and associates 49 193 Disposals of businesses 17 166 Other investing activities including interest received 58 40 Trading capital employed at the year-end was 4,367 million, 451 million lower than 2007, mainly due to special item impairments of 293 million, Net cash flow used in investing activities 710 434 foreign exchange movements of 454 million and disposals of Cash flow from financing activities 8 717 94 million, partially offset by capital expenditure of 816 million including Net cash inflow outflow 24 286 business combinations 443 million in excess of depreciation.
Return on capital employed declined from 10.6% to 9.5% as a result of reduced profitability.
This return is below our target across the cycle of 13%.
EBITDA of 814 million in the year was 6%, or 56 million, lower than 2007, reflecting the more difficult trading environment.
Cash inflows from Treasury and borrowings operations of 795 million were 162 million down on the comparable The Groups treasury function operates within clearly defined Boardperiod, mainly due to the lower EBITDA and lower inflows on working approved policies and limits, follows controlled reporting procedures capital than achieved in the prior year.
Cash inflow from working capital and is subject to regular internal and external reviews.
of 27 million was achieved despite a 1% increase in sales and an already strong performance in the prior year 97 million.
Indeed, Net debt at year-end of 1,690 million was 183 million higher than 2007 since the half-year working capital inflows amounted to 153 million.
only 35 million up since the end of June 2008 as the rate of capital expenditure increased on the two key capital projects in Poland and Capital expenditure of 369 million excluding spend on the two major Russia.
Gearing as at 31 December 2008 was 38.7%, and the net debt strategic projects of 324 million was slightly lower than depreciation to EBITDA ratio was 2.1. of 373 million.
We have reviewed our capital expenditure plans with a view to limiting 2009 capital expenditure approvals to below 40% of Group liquidity is provided through a range of committed debt facilities depreciation.
The remaining expenditure on the two major projects is of 2.8 billion, which are in excess of the Groups short-term needs.
The estimated at 511 million, the bulk of which will be spent in 2009 with principal debt facilities are a 1.55 billion, 5 year, syndicated revolving some flow through to 2010. credit facility, and a R2.0 billion 152 million 3 year amortising term loan maturing in 2010.
Despite the unfavourable banking environment in 2008 Spending on acquisitions completed during the year totalled the Group secured additional long-term facilities to assist in funding its 89 million enterprise value.
Acquisitions were primarily focused two major investment projects: a 174 million, 11 year amortising facility on the strengthening of the product mix and geographic coverage from Export Credit Agencies was signed to part fund the investment in of our Bags & Specialities business.
Russia: and a 140 million, 9 year facility from the European Investment Bank was arranged to fund the investment in Poland.
Additionally, R1 billion 76 million of new facilities were arranged in South Africa with a 3 year maturity.
The average maturity of the committed debt facilities is 3.4 years versus 3.5 years in 2007.
Drawn facilities maturing over the next 12 months amount to 371 million.
We would expect the majority of these facilities to be renewed, but to the extent they are not they will be financed out of existing undrawn committed facilities nearly 1.1 billion at year end.
Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group 21 Directors report Business review Operational and financial review continued a comprehensive reporting system, including monthly results, annual Risk management and internal control budgets and periodic forecasts, monitored by the Boards: The DLC executive committee, mandated by the Boards, has approval by the Boards of all major investments, with proposals being established a Group-wide system of internal control to manage Group subject to rigorous strategic and commercial examination: risks.
This system, which complies with corporate governance codes in South Africa and the UK, supports the Boards in discharging their a centrally co-ordinated internal audit programme, using internal responsibility for ensuring that the wide range of risks associated with and external resources to support the Boards in ensuring a sound Mondis diverse international operations is effectively managed.
control environment: Internal control completion by business unit management of a six-monthly internal The system of internal control, embedded in all key operations, provides control assessment, confirming compliance with Group policies and reasonable rather than absolute assurance that the Groups business procedures, detailing controls in operation and listing any weaknesses: objectives will be achieved within risk tolerance levels defined by the assurance activities covering the key business risks summarised and Boards.
Regular management reporting provides a balanced reported annually to the Boards, the DLC audit committee or, where assessment of key risks and controls and is an important component appropriate, the DLC sustainable development committee: and of the Boards assurance.
In addition, certain Board committees focus on specific risks, such as safety, and provide relevant assurance to annual risk-profiling by local businesses and the Group to identify, the Boards.
monitor and manage significant risks, with the results discussed at business reviews and internal control, audit and risk meetings.
The finance heads of the business units provide six-monthly confirmation that financial and accounting control frameworks have Risk management operated satisfactorily.
The Boards also receive assurance from the The Boards risk management policy encompasses all significant DLC audit committee, which derives its information in part from financial, operational and compliance-related risks which could regular internal and external audit reports of the Groups risk and undermine the Groups ability to achieve its business objectives.
dynamic risk management system has the commitment of the Groups senior management and is designed so that different businesses can The Groups internal audit function formally collaborates with the tailor their processes to the specific circumstances.
Clear accountability external auditors to ensure efficient coverage of internal controls and is for risk management is a key performance criterion for the Groups line responsible for providing independent assurance to the DLC executive managers, who are provided with appropriate support through Group committee and Boards on the effectiveness of the Groups risk policies and procedures.
The requisite risk and control capability is management process.
assured through Board challenge and appropriate management Key elements of the Groups system of internal control are: selection and skills development.
Continuous monitoring of risk and a clearly-defined organisation structure with established responsibilities: control processes across all key risk areas provides the basis for regular reports to management, the DLC executive committee and the Boards.
a simple and focused business strategy, restricting potential risk exposure: Principal risks and uncertainties It is in the nature of our business that Mondi is exposed to risks and Group financial, business conduct, operating and administrative policies uncertainties which may have an impact on future performance and and procedures which incorporate statements of required behaviour: financial results, as well as upon our ability to meet certain social and a continuous review of operating performance: environmental objectives.
The Group believes that it has effective systems and controls in place to manage the key risks identified below.
Mondi operates in a highly competitive environment The markets for paper and packaging products are highly competitive.
Similarly, prices of Mondis key paper grades have experienced substantial fluctuations in the past.
However, Mondi is flexible and responsive to changing market and operating conditions and the Groups geographic and product diversification provides some measure of protection.
Uncertain future trading conditions may have an impact on the carrying value of goodwill and tangible assets and may result in further restructuring activities.
22 Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group Job No: 0912 Proof No: 14 Operator: BO JF IM JF SJL JF SJL JF Job Title: Mondi Annual Report Date:03 03 09 Spellchecked: Y N Signature s : Client: SAS Software: CS3 Proof Reader: Main Header Main intro copy Safety and health 02a Subhead 2 02b Subhead 3 01 Main body copy Automated warehouse at Hausmening paper mill in Austria.
Input costs are subject to significant fluctuations Whistleblowing programme Materials, energy and consumables used by Mondi include significant During 2008 the Group relaunched its whistleblowing programme, amounts of wood, pulp, recovered paper, packaging papers and called Speakout.
The programme, monitored by the DLC audit chemicals.
Increases in the costs of any of these raw materials, or any committee, enables employees, customers, suppliers, managers or difficulties in procuring wood in certain countries, could have an adverse other stakeholders, on a confidential basis, to raise concerns about effect on Mondis business, operational performance or financial conduct which is considered to be contrary to our values.
However, Mondis focus on operational performance, and communication channels available to any person in the world who has relatively high level of integration and access to its own fibre in Russia information about unethical practice in the Groups operations.
During and South Africa, act to mitigate these risks.
It is also anticipated that 2008 reports were received via the global programme facility covering the recent settlement of land claims in South Africa will provide a a number of areas.
Reports were kept strictly confidential and referred framework for settling future forestry land claims with Mondi.
to appropriate line managers for resolution.
Significant capital investments including acquisitions More information is available at www.
com speakout carry project risk Mondi is in the process of completing two significant capital investments to expand and upgrade existing facilities in Poland and Russia.
These projects carry risks and Mondi has put in place dedicated teams to ensure delivery of the projects on time and within budget.
Accountability and audit The Boards are required to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects, which are provided in the joint chairmens statement and chief executives review on pages 8 to 14 and in this operational and financial review.
The responsibilities of the directors and external auditors are set out on pages 50 to 53.
Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group 23 Directors report Business review Operational and financial review continued Pulp warehouse at Mondis Hausmening operation in Austria.
Going concern As highlighted in note 21 to the financial statements the Group meets The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its funding requirements through two principal loan facilities, being a its future development, performance and position are set out in this 1.55 billion, 5 year, syndicated revolving credit facility expiring in June operational and financial review.
The financial position of the Group, 2012, and a R2 billion 152 million 3 year amortising term loan maturing its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in May 2010.
The availability of these facilities is dependent upon the in the financial statements on pages 54 to 118.
In addition notes 37 and Group meeting certain financing covenants, most significantly an 38 to the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies EBITDA to net debt ratio of 3.5.
At the year end this ratio was 2.1. and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management Mondi had nearly 1.1 billion of undrawn committed debt facilities as at objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: 31 December 2008 with an average maturity of 4.0 years, which should and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
provide sufficient liquidity for Mondi in the medium term.
The current economic conditions will impact short-term demand growth The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonable for our products, as well as place pressure on both customers and possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should suppliers who may face liquidity issues, and could have an adverse be able to operate within the level of its current facility and the related impact on Mondis business.
Furthermore, the lack of credit availability covenants.
could impact the Groups ability to effectively execute its strategy.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed However, Mondis geographic spread, product diversity and large to manage its business risks successfully, despite the current uncertain customer base mitigate these risks.
The proactive initiatives by economic outlook.
management in rationalising the business through cost-cutting, asset closures and divestitures have consolidated the Groups leading cost After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation position in its chosen markets.
Working capital as a percentage of sales that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational has reduced and capital expenditure programmes have been reduced.
existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
24 Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group Job No: 0912 Proof No: 14 Operator: BO JF IM JF SJL JF SJL JF Job Title: Mondi Annual Report Date:03 03 09 Spellchecked: Y N Signature s : Client: SAS Software: CS3 Proof Reader:
