Mouchel has had another outstanding year.
Business Review Once again our performance has outstripped Overview that of previous years in terms of revenue and profit.
A combination of organic growth and acquisition through the year has allowed us to achieve a better mix of professional services, enabling us to gain wider access to the public service markets in which we operate.
Our business, at the start of the new financial year, is well positioned to build on past successes.
The shape of the business has evolved following the acquisition of HBS and Hedra: these are investments which have allowed us to extend our service portfolio both laterally in our current markets for example, building our capability in Business Process Outsourcing BPO to local government and vertically, through the introduction of more strategic consulting and project management skills.
The Groups new brand has been comprehensively embedded across the business, an exercise which has allowed us to re-examine our positioning and differentiation in our principal markets and to more quickly integrate our new acquisitions.
We would regard this as a successful and worthwhile exercise which leaves us with an identity of which we are proud.
We have strengthened both the plc Board and our Group Management Board GMB through new appointments and have restructured the GMB to reflect the shape of the business going forward.
This year, too, we have expanded our leadership team to include those senior managers who represent the future of the Group.
This team meets regularly to consider the direction and strategy of the business, giving an increased level of ownership to those who are responsible for most of our day-to-day activities.
Richard Cuthbert Chief Executive Kevin Young Group Finance Director Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 06 Mouchel Group plc Business Review Guiding Principles Group Management Board From left: Piers Clark, Richard Cuthbert, Ruth Mundy, Kevin Young, Amanda Massie, Keith Jackson, Mark Campbell, Steve Morriss.
We want working with Mouchel to be a positive and fulfilling experience.
Our guiding principles We want the services we provide, for our clients and the public, to meet and exceed expectations time after time.
We want being employed by Passion for success Mouchel to be an enriching part of our peoples careers.
striving for excellence in everything we do To achieve this we have developed a set of guiding principles taking responsibility for our actions a measure of who and what we are now and the organisation we want celebrating the achievements of our teams to be.
Weve kept this simple, straightforward and motivational.
Weve reflected the aspirations of our clients, our people and our investors Spirit of adventure and weve described a distinctive position that will continue to having a sense of excitement and fun differentiate us as a company thats great on relationships at every level.
being inquisitive in nature, inventive in our approach embracing change as an opportunity At Mouchel, above all else, we have a passion for success, believe in a spirit of adventure and have integrity at heart.
Integrity at heart keeping our promises and doing the right thing appreciating the diversity of our people treating everyone with compassion and care Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 07 Mouchel Group plc Business Review 46% Our Strategy for Growth Revenue growth for the Group in 2007 08 taking us up to 656.7 million Mouchel will continue to provide consulting and business services, predominantly to the public sector and public service industries.
Mouchel has achieved high levels of year-on-year growth and fully expects to continue to do so.
We operate in sustainable markets which have become increasingly dependent on private sector support and which offer low risk, high volume and stable levels of demand.
Many of the markets in which Mouchel operates are specialist areas in which barriers to new competition are relatively high, making our position even more sustainable and the prospects for further growth good.
Mouchels business model is based on: maintaining a balanced portfolio of managed services and consultancy activities in public sector and public service industries: in highways, in water, environment and energy, in public sector property, in rail, in education and in BPO continuing to achieve strong renewal and new win rates, combined with further market penetration, to provide our existing mix of services in partnership with new clients in our existing market sectors increased integration across our portfolio of services to develop new business combinations which will meet the wider needs of our current client base and the introduction, through acquisition and organic growth, of other new services and products to meet the broader needs of our current client base for example, the move to acquire Traffic Support in 2006 in order to enter the parking enforcement market A new learning experience the extension of our existing portfolio of services into new, related Mouchel has been involved markets other public sector or public service markets which offer in the project management a similar profile of risk and return in the UK and overseas: for example of more than 30 Academies.
to blue-light organisations and second-tier councils.
This strategy which has underpinned our approach to date is designed to offer resilience to the cyclical nature of some existing markets, to achieve our commitments to revenue growth, and to provide our clients with an even more comprehensive range of services to reflect new priorities and needs.
Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 08 Mouchel Group plc In this present climate, we believe there is good evidence that local Business Review government will also look more and more to the private sector for support and partnership in order to improve the effectiveness of service Market Development delivery.
The successful firms will be those that work with their clients in a collaborative spirit: responding to their changing needs, understanding their real priorities and constraints, and improving the value of outputs and outcomes rather than just reducing the cost of delivery.
Mouchels history of successful performance improvement on major public sector partnerships for example, in Milton Keynes, Liverpool Our markets and Rochdale provides a solid platform for continuing growth.
As citizens, we are all users of the services that Mouchel provides: The BPO market is expected to grow at around 14% per annum the roads we drive on, the railways we ride on, the schools we depend between now and 2012: competition in the local government sector on, the airports we fly from, civic services and blue-light operations is relatively low, and we expect further firstand second-tier local these are just some of the areas in which our people make an impact.
authorities to outsource professional, technical and support services There is little doubt that pressure on credit, sharply rising fuel prices in the coming years.
and stagnation in economic growth present challenges for all sectors of the economy.
As a society we are increasingly concerned about The local government property services market is more mature, climate change, sustainability and personal security.
In the sectors and many of the opportunities in the future will be second-generation where Mouchel operates these pressures translate as a continuing drive outsourced service contracts.
But this is a long-term and relatively towards greater efficiency, transparency, and value for money and stable market, albeit with a general trend towards more bundling significant areas of opportunity for us to extend the breadth and depth of local authority property services with BPO services: a move which of our support.
Mouchel remains the force behind the delivery of many public services, Education applying private sector technical expertise and commercialism to In education, the Building Schools for the Future BSF programme, transform and develop the way in which they are delivered our influence which seeks to modernise and improve the 3,500 secondary and primary ranging from strategic to operational support.
The acquisition of Hedra, schools in Britain and invests an average of 2.5 billion to 3 billion a year, whose management consulting expertise is firmly fixed on public sector is a major area of opportunity.
The Comprehensive Spending Review transformation, brings a new dimension to what we can offer, both to settlement for 2008 11 has allocated 9.3 billion to this programme over our existing clients and to other clients in the same sectors.
City Academies independently managed schools funded in partnership by the private and public sectors provide a new Mouchel is one of the largest professional services organisations learning experience for children of secondary school age.
In 2007 the in its core sectors.
Total fees rendered by UK engineering consultancy government extended the Academies programme to a total of 400 companies according to leading trade journal, New Civil Engineer, throughout the country and it is now an integral part of BSF.
To date which provides listings for nearly one hundred companies amounted to 130 Academies have been opened, of which Mouchel has been involved 8.6 billion in 2007, up 17% on the previous year: the top 10 companies in more than 30.
Mouchel was ranked fifth, with a market share of nearly 6% accounting for over 60% of this revenue.
Health The government has recently completed the largest review of the National Mouchel is ranked by New Civil Engineer as one of the largest two Health Service NHS in its 60-year history, resulting in the publication companies in the highways sector and its predominantly UK-based of the Lord Darzi Review: High Quality Care for All NHS Next Stage workload makes it the largest in Britain, we believe.
It is also the second Review.
While the past 10 years of NHS reform have been designed to largest provider of technical services to the public sector and is ranked increase capacity across the service, the new challenges for the NHS are third in the water industry.
to improve quality and personalisation and to give more power to clinicians and patients.
In support of the Darzi recommendations the Department Mouchel competes in the highways sector with companies like Atkins of Health has set aside 550 million, to be invested between 2009 and and Amey whilst in the water sector we compete with Mott MacDonald 2011.
The 2008 Comprehensive Spending Review will increase spending and global engineering consultancy MWH.
In the overall provision of on the NHS by 4% per year in real terms, taking its budget from 90 billion support services to local government, major competitors include Capita, in 2007 08 to 110 billion by 2010 11.
Serco and BT, whilst in the management consulting arena we compete with major consultancy firms such as Accenture and PwC.
The These changes present a major area of opportunity for Mouchel acquisition, in this financial year, of Hedra has transformed the market as NHS organisations must be fit to operate as effective, efficient positioning of Mouchel in the management consulting field and has businesses in a competitive market environment.
Commissioning provided access to a number of new markets such as health and organisations need a strong understanding of what and how they central government.
will procure in order to meet the needs of the local population.
In partnering with the NHS we are able to define and implement their Central and local government business strategies, structures and processes while supporting them The economic downturn will undoubtedly lead to a reduction in with a full suite of consulting services across the business management overall taxation revenue, placing government departments under lifecycle: one example is Connecting for Health, the UK governments further and increasing pressure to reduce the cost of service delivery national programme to bring modern computer systems to the NHS.
and to improve value for money to their customers and citizens.
Major technology investments need to deliver the improvements needed in Transport service quality and there is an ongoing opportunity for private sector Transport remains very much part of the current agenda, politically involvement in such projects, including the personalisation of public and economically.
Current focus is on more sophisticated technological service delivery around specific customer service needs.
solutions to address rising demand as cost-effective and environmentally friendly alternatives to new construction in the highways and rail sectors.
The pace of policy change in central government is unremitting, reflecting the need to engage with people in new and different ways For Mouchel, whose focus has shifted over a number of years from on matters ranging from criminal justice and immigration to the effects design services to network operations, where higher and more of an ageing population.
For Mouchel, there are opportunities to help sustained revenues could be generated, a further shift is now taking government departments translate policy into action: such as improving place towards technology-led services, which offer the prospect of the responsiveness of government contact centres, ensuring that major higher margins in the future.
This stems from increasing interest by technology programmes deliver cashable and non-cashable benefits, our major clients in opportunities to squeeze greater capacity from and implementing shared services for government departments the existing network without large-scale construction investment.
Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 09 Mouchel Group plc in Britain is being promoted as part of a programme to generate at least Business Review 20% of our energy in this way by 2020.
Mouchels energy business has Market Development developed around the need for alternative methods of delivering power continued to the consumer, looking in particular at renewable sources and at the opportunities for localisation of the energy supply market a prospect that offers improved efficiencies over the current, more centralised model for generation.
Gas and oil are amongst the most important commodities in the UK, providing energy and fuel for transport, industry and homes.
Following Transport continued the opening up of the electricity market, the generating sector has Road travel on trunk roads and motorways has increased by nearly attracted a variety of new market entrants, including regional electricity 15% over 10 years and the use of driver information and Active Traffic companies, gas and oil companies and US and European operators.
Management ATM to manage congestion is increasingly important.
At present, electricity is generated from a variety of sources of which The M42 motorway ATM scheme, project-managed by Mouchel, has renewable sources account for only 5%.
The governments Renewables been heralded a success and the concept is now being rolled out Obligation sets new and more demanding targets for more sustainable around Birmingham, with plans for other congested sections of the forms of power generation, an area in which Mouchel expects rising national network, allowing Mouchel to gain further benefits from its levels of opportunity in the coming years.
In cities, the emphasis on controlling traffic movements through charging systems is gathering pace, offering Water increased opportunity to Mouchels parking and traffic congestion The water sector continues to offer the prospect of significant management business.
In August 2008 each water company in England and Wales submitted its proposals for investment for the In England and Wales, the construction of new roads and motorways period 2010 to 2015, the fifth cycle of investment since privatisation is no longer a major part of the highways programme but still accounts AMP5.
Investment will include base service maintenance, service for around 1.9 billion of expenditure per annum, mostly on widening enhancements including capital investment in new facilities and and safety schemes.
However, in Ireland further investment in the road supply demand management.
The total projected value of expenditure infrastructure is still very much part of the equation with estimates for the AMP5 period is approximately 27 billion an increase on the placing expenditure on roads in Northern Ireland at around 3.1 billion current AMP4 programme of approximately 40%.
Mouchel, which has over the next 10 years and approximately 33 billion 26 billion on existing relationships with every major UK water company, is well placed roads and public transport in the Irish Republic over the period 2007 to to capture a significant proportion of the associated consultancy and 2013.
Mouchel is developing a multi-disciplinary business in Ireland to asset delivery work.
provide expertise in highway design, road maintenance management, water quality and leakage management, and consultancy to the health Climate change and education sectors.
Climate change, and the increasing focus on carbon management, represents an opportunity for Mouchel to provide support to both public The highway network operations market, worth a combined 3.4 billion and private sector clients.
The Climate Change Bill, which was presented to the Highways Agency and local authorities, is relatively mature and to Parliament in November 2007 and commits Britain to a 60% reduction has, in recent years, consolidated to the advantage of a relatively in carbon dioxide emissions by 2050, is forcing organisations to small number of operators capable of providing both management re-assess their activities and the concept of carbon pricing is becoming and operational expertise in so-called Managing Agent Contractor a reality.
An emerging market exists for consultancy and managed services to those organisations affected most by the new legislation.
Mouchel, through its partnership with Enterprise and previously with Amey, is one of those experienced and In parallel, and perhaps as a consequence of climate change, well-proven providers able to offer this type of service.
A continuing the need for effective flood prevention has become self-evident stream of large, long-term opportunities to provide such services in the last few years, and there is a continuing demand for services is expected to continue as current contracts are renewed.
from the Environment Agency, local authorities and Network Rail.
The recent Environment Agency report the Pitt Report on the summer Expenditure in the rail sector has fluctuated in past years following floods of 2007 highlighted the need for an increase in flood defence the privatisation of British Rail.
However, the government has since and mitigation funding to 1 billion a year by 2011 rather than the 2000 pledged record levels of investment in the rail network under 800 million per year currently proposed by the Government.
The report its Ten-Year Plan for Transport.
Recent reviews have also resulted also suggests that substantially more investment is required for flood in a shift in funding from renewal to maintenance with Network Rails prediction and forecasting.
There is already a notable move by water overall expenditure in this area set at 23 billion over the next five companies to improve their understanding of the risk of flooding to their years.
Mouchel is taking a cautious approach to the rail market, critical assets and we are already leading the way in regard to this work.
with focus shifting towards asset management, design and project delivery and away from contracting services.
Middle East There remains substantial investment in the United Arab Emirates UAE, In July 2007, the government published its White Paper, Delivering driven by a number of government-backed developers and the private a Sustainable Railway, which announced a programme of investment sector.
The focus is on developing an economy that is independent of to increase the capacity of the network.
Network Rail is now proposing oil and gas, ensuring suitable governance arrangements for local and expenditure of some 9.6 billion in expansion schemes, 11.4 billion central government, and on taking the UAEs development and tourism in renewals, 10.4 billion in operations, and 156 million in station model to other locations around the world.
The development boom improvements making this an active market for civil, structural and in Dubai will continue for another 10 years or more and Abu Dhabi related engineering services.
The continuing development of Londons recently announced plans for another US$200 billion 118 billion Crossrail project, which received its Royal Assent in 2008 and in which spend on infrastructure projects.
There is strong demand for portfolio Mouchel has been involved since 2002, provides another substantial and programme management as well as the project and engineering source of investment between now and 2017.
Mouchel is continuing management of infrastructure developments.
As whole new towns to invest in consultancy services in this market including signalling emerge there is, in parallel, a growing need for municipal management design, civil engineering and structural engineering.
services commissioned by the developers themselves.
This is currently an immature and evolving market but sits well with Mouchels business Energy in the UK.
Most of our competitors focus on construction rather than The governments 2007 Energy White Paper highlighted the importance operation of the infrastructure, giving Mouchel a distinctive position in of providing sustainable energy at affordable prices.
In this Paper, the this emerging market.
role of renewable sources was highlighted and their more extensive use Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 10 Mouchel Group plc Working for Mouchel Business Review 83% of our employees say Mouchel 1 Managing Talent in Mouchel is a great place to work 90% say team communications work well 26% of our people are women 10% of our people work part-time The development of our employees at all levels is key to the success of Mouchel.
We have implemented a broad range of training and assessment processes to ensure that we retain and motivate our people.
1 Staff numbers Our journey Mouchel is on a journey: constantly searching out new and better ways 08 11,341 to do the things we do, enquiring and challenging, listening and leading.
07 8,168 We are united in our belief that good is not good enough.
06 5,967 Pride is very much in evidence throughout the business.
Were a 05 5,195 company with a sense of fun, a spirit of adventure and a passion for 04 4,120 success.
We provide challenging careers for the ambitious, security and 1 Average staff numbers are reported for 2004. stability for those who seek it, and a great place to work for everyone.
Thereafter figures show actual staff numbers as at 31 July.
We encourage selflessness, reward achievement, and outlaw apathy.
We know that people are our most important asset and go out of Breakdown of staff by business stream our way to attract lively, free-thinking professionals, place them in a stimulating environment, and nurture their particular talents to help 1 1 Highways 30% 4 them grow as individuals and as part of the Mouchel team.
2 Government Services 43% 3 Regulated Industries 24% 4 Group functions 3% All shapes and sizes 3 Our new logo is an illustration of who we are as a company an 2 outward-looking collection of people with many perspectives, many faces and many skills.
Its no surprise, perhaps, that our clients come in all shapes and sizes too.
Were building great relationships through the range of people we employ, celebrating our diversity and focusing on our differences.
Women account for 26% of our workforce and our ethnicity has broadened by 2% in the last year.
Our diversity policy Our logo, an illustration of who we are doesnt create quotas: it builds awareness, provides choice and we strive for respect for every one of our people.
The number of people working for Mouchel has grown by 39% this year.
The people we employ have an extremely broad range of backgrounds and skills and our approach to recruitment has changed to reflect this more diverse pool of talent.
Some 55% of our new recruits found the opportunity directly through our internet site, through our referral scheme and using other online media, and all our more senior appointments took part in aptitude and psychometric testing.
We made over 1,900 offers of employment in the last year and 85% of these were accepted.
We recognise that for many, mobility and the chance to work in many different environments is attractive, and we accept a level of voluntary staff turnover that reflects this prevailing attitude.
At 13%, voluntary staff turnover is close to our industry norm, but in order to retain those we most value our aim, always, is to provide the choices and opportunities to which an individual may aspire at every stage in their career.
Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 11 Mouchel Group plc Business Review Managing Talent in Mouchel 1 6 t h continued Our position in the Sunday Times Best Big Companies to Work For league table Raising the bar A great way of life Great talent is not in short supply at Mouchel and our selection Making the grade as one of the UKs top 20 larger employers in the processes ensure that we keep the bar at a level which continues to Sunday Times Best Big Companies to Work For league table in 2008 meet our business aspirations and those of our clients.
Were getting was a milestone for us, ranking us amongst the countrys elite in terms better, year on year, and it is evident that more candidates think of of our ability to provide fulfilling, worthwhile careers for our people.
Mouchel first when considering their next career move.
Now, building upon this success and capturing the passion of our Shaping those talented individuals to the varied and many needs people to do more, we have launched Mouchel Life, an employee of our clients is our challenge as an employer and service provider.
engagement programme that works with staff across the business So the journey of discovery, for an individual in Mouchel, is never to help them gain more from their relationship with the company.
really over: and as a company we are constantly seeking new ways Mouchel Life addresses a range of issues from personal growth, to equip ourselves to meet the changing world in which we all work.
pay and conditions to team development, community engagement and personal health and well-being.
In the last year 3,000 people thats over a quarter of all employees have attended our corporate training programmes in management and leadership.
Online training forms a significant element in our training programme: for example, every single member of staff receives a robust grounding in health, safety and welfare issues through a series of online modules, which in turn makes our workplace a better and more secure environment.
As line managers, project managers and technical experts, our people are commonly called upon to take the lead.
Leadership skills abound in the company, fostered by a programme of progressive training beginning at junior management level and extending to an executive coaching programme for our most senior people.
Equipping our people to become effective, confident leaders at a variety of levels is essential to our continuing success and another way in which we support the ongoing development of our business: leadership and direction is part of the service we offer.
Added to this, our leadership team a group comprising the 60 or so most senior managers in the business is taking part in a bespoke coaching exercise to strengthen communication skills and to spearhead a company-wide engagement programme through 2008 09. Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 12 Mouchel Group plc Revenue increased by 46% to 656.7 million compared with last Business Review year.
Excluding the acquisitions of HBS and Hedra, and the additional revenue from the acquisitions completed in the prior year, underlying Current and Future revenue rose by 14%, which was in line with our targeted organic growth rate of between 10% and 15% a year.
Development and Performance Profit before tax and exceptional items increased by 20% from 32.4 million to 38.8 million.
As expected, operating margins moved from 7.4% to 6.4%, reflecting the initial impact of the acquisition of HBS.
Now that HBS has been successfully integrated, we expect Mouchel has again delivered significant margins to improve and our medium-term target for the Groups overall operating margins continues to be 8%.
growth in both revenue and underlying profit for the year ended 31 July 2008.
We have delivered these strong results notwithstanding the current economic difficulties.
Our activities continue to be mainly focused on the UK public sector and regulated industries and, to a large extent, comprise the maintenance and management of existing infrastructure assets.
The defensive nature of these activities and recent diversification, both within our existing markets and, by acquisition, into new markets, mean that we have been less affected than other businesses by the recent turmoil in financial markets and the related upheaval elsewhere in the economy.
The results for the year included exceptional costs of 12.5 million of which 5.7 million 2007: 2.4 million related to the amortisation of intangible assets arising from business combinations.
The increase compared to last year was due to the acquisitions of HBS and Hedra in the year under review as well as the acquisitions of Traffic Support, Ewan Group and Hornagold & Hills, all of which were completed part-way through the prior year.
Other exceptional items totalled 6.8 million and mainly comprised 5.8 million for integration and Key performance indicators transition costs associated with the acquisitions of HBS and Hedra and 0.8 million incurred in the rebranding of the acquired businesses, 2008 2007 % change and the Group as a whole.
As a result of this expenditure we were Revenue m 656.7 448.4 46 targeting annual cost savings of 3 million in HBS and 1 million in Underlying operating profit m 41.7 33.0 27 Hedra, all of which have now been secured in full.
Operating margins % 6.4 7.4 The accounts for the year ended 31 July 2007 had included an Operating cash flow m 38.0 31.4 21 exceptional net gain of 18.2 million from the reduction in the Groups Cash conversion % 91 95 pension liability following the move from a final salary arrangement to 1 a career average revalued earnings basis for the Groups two main Order book m 2,100 2,200 -5 defined benefit schemes.
2 Bidding pipeline m 2,200 2,500 -12 3 Contract win rate % 33 46 Profit before tax but after exceptional items was 26.3 million Staff numbers 31 July 11,341 8,168 39 2007: 48.1 million.
Staff turnover voluntary % 13 14 1 2007 figure includes HBS order book of 0.7 billion.
2 2007 figure includes HBS bidding pipeline of 1.1 billion.
3 Win rate is calculated by contract value.
41.7m Our underlying operating profit in 2007 08 up 27% Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 13 Mouchel Group plc... were working with the Highways Agency to manage traffic demand on the M42 Our success In September 2006 hard shoulder The challenge running commenced along the 17km Congestion is an increasing problem stretch between Junctions 3A and for users of our motorway network 7 of the M42.
making journeys unpredictable and, at times, frustrating.
In 2002, Two years into the scheme a study the Highways Agency appointed on the initial 12 months of operation Mouchel as Managing Consultant found that journey time reliability had to deliver a revolutionary congestion improved by 27% during weekdays, management pilot project on the with 95% of motorists complying with M42 near Birmingham Airport.
The solution The Highways Agency is now The pilot scheme on the M42 expanding the innovative scheme implemented new and innovative onto other sections of the measures to manage congested motorway box around motorways, including the use of Birmingham including mandatory variable speed limits other sections of the and the use of the hard shoulder M42, the M6 and as a running lane under controlled the M40.
conditions during periods of congestion, and to assist with the management of incidents.
This became Britains first Active Traffic Management ATM scheme.
2 7 % Improvement in journey time reliability thanks to ATM 95% Motorists complying with speed limits on the scheme Hardeep Sandhu Commuter Business Review 1, 200km Current and Future Trunk roads and motorways Development and Performance in Southern England under Mouchels jurisdiction in Highways the HAs Super Agency contract Area 3 During the year, revenue increased from 201.9 million to 221.2 million.
At the same time, margins improved from 7.3% to 7.5%.
The year-end order book and bidding pipeline figures were 588 million 2007: 501 million and 870 million 2007: 717 million respectively.
Key performance indicators Revenue included an additional contribution of 2.0 million from Highways Traffic Support, which was acquired part-way through the prior year, in November 2006.
2008 2007 % change Revenue m 221.2 201.9 10 Over the last year, we have seen a definite trend towards focusing government highways expenditure on maintenance and traffic Underlying operating profit m 16.6 14.8 12 management rather than the building of new road infrastructure.
There Operating margins % 7.5 7.3 has been an increase in the use of technology to manage traffic and the Order book m 588 501 17 Highways Agency HA is committed to a network-wide programme of Active Traffic Management ATM.
The move towards larger integrated Bidding pipeline m 870 717 21 contracts continues and our relationship with Enterprise, who acquired 1 Contract win rate % 35 53 our previous partner in this area, Accord plc, has been very successful Staff numbers 31 July 3,480 3,488 0 in addressing this market development.
Staff turnover voluntary % 13 16 Technology 1 Win rate is calculated by contract value.
The use of technology to control traffic, manage road space and regulate parking is now regarded by highway authorities as offering an effective, sustainable form of investment in many situations.
The acquisition of Traffic Support in November 2006 has helped strengthen our position as one of the UKs leaders in highway technology solutions.
The decriminalisation of on-street parking offences places new responsibilities on local authorities for parking enforcement activities.
Mouchel is emerging as one of a small number of companies able to provide a fully integrated service in this area and during the year we won our first commission with the London Borough of Hillingdon offering, in addition to parking management, other civil enforcement activities and related expertise including back-office processing, IT hosting and further on-street services.
Congestion charging as a mechanism for traffic management in city centres is attracting further interest in Britain as a small number of authorities consider congestion management schemes.
Mouchel has successfully secured a position in the IBM-led team that will become responsible for Londons congestion charging scheme in 2009. Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 16 Mouchel Group plc The M42 ATM pilot scheme, between the M40 and the M6, which attracted much publicity in 2007 when sections of motorway hard-shoulder were opened as active running lanes during periods of peak congestion, was designed and project-managed for the HA by Mouchel.
This scheme is now acknowledged to have been a very successful pilot and a model for further schemes: leading to Mouchels re-appointment by the HA to rollout ATM on other sections of the motorway network in the West Midlands, with the potential to address other similar opportunities elsewhere in the country in due course.
During the year, we started work on two TechMAC commissions contracts comprising the design, management and maintenance of technology assets on the road network for the HA, and delivered in a 50:50 joint venture with Peek Traffic Systems.
These involve the management of the HAs technology assets in the East Midlands and East of England.
We also secured and began work on a further HA technology project consultancy framework commission.
Network management During the year, we enjoyed further success through the EnterpriseMouchel joint venture formerly AccordMP.
We have a 50% shareholding in this arrangement, which was formed specifically to address the move towards vertically integrated supplier relationships in the highways network management market.
This is a trend which we see continuing.
Our biggest achievement in this sector during the year was to secure the HA Super Agency contract in Area 3 South of England.
This is the second largest vertically integrated maintenance management contract in the country, covering 1,200km of trunk roads and motorways including parts of the M3, A3, A303, M4, M27 and A34 in Hampshire, Berkshire, Surrey, Oxfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Wiltshire and Dorset.
Mobilisation of the commission has gone very well and the contract commenced on 1 September 2008 and runs for five years extendable to seven.
Since implementation of the ATM scheme on the M42, weve seen a reduction in congestion, noise and vehicle emissions, as well as improved journey time reliability for travellers during the busiest periods.
Eloise Phillips Project Manager, Mouchel Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 17 Mouchel Group plc Business Review Current and Future Development and Performance Highways continued The success in Area 3 followed our first HA contract win through sustainable transport and traffic management services.
The alliance the EnterpriseMouchel joint venture in HA Area 1, covering 320km was formed in 2002 and followed our initial appointment in 1997, when of trunk roads in Devon and Cornwall including the A30 and A38.
the professional services contract with Hertfordshire County Council The results for the year benefited from the first full year of trading became our first highways win in the local government marketplace.
following commencement of the commission on 4 September 2006 for four years extendable to seven.
Elsewhere, we have just been named as the sole partner for the new highways and transport partnership commission with Leeds City We are currently bidding the latest round of HA Super Agency Council for a minimum of three years with potential extensions of contracts.
Whilst we have learnt that, along with the M25 DBFO, up to 10 years.
The contract follows on from our previous five-year we have not been successful in Area 7 East Midlands and Area 9 commission which finished on 1 September 2008.
West Midlands, we are still in contention for Area 12 Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire.
We are also positioning ourselves for the next Capital projects round of HA maintenance management tenders which are expected During the year, we were appointed as client advisor to the Northern to include Area 13 Cumbria, where we are currently part-incumbent Ireland Roads Service on the 88km A5 Western Transport Corridor through our AmeyMouchel joint venture, and Area 14 North Yorkshire, improvement scheme, between Derry and Aughnacloy in Northern Durham and Northumberland.
This is a regeneration project, jointly funded by the British and Irish governments, to make businesses and communities in the far In the local government field, we benefited from the full-year impact north-west of Ireland and in the border regions more accessible from of the road maintenance and improvement commission for Transport other parts of the island.
It is currently the UKs largest road-building for London in South London.
The contract, which is for six years project and, whilst Mouchels current role only extends to the planning extendable to 10, commenced on 1 April 2007, covers 234km and feasibility stage, we hope to extend our involvement to subsequent of the strategic road network in nine London boroughs and includes phases of this project.
three of Londons most strategically important connections the Blackwall, Rotherhithe and Eltham tunnels.
We also recently secured a three-year extension to our three-way strategic alliance with Hertfordshire County Council and the term contractor, AmeyLafarge, delivering maintenance, safety engineering, 9 Number of London boroughs covered under our road maintenance and improvement commission for TfL in South London Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 18 Mouchel Group plc 2 2 1.
1 m Revenues for Highways in 2007 08 Hertfordshire Highways Mouchel has secured an extension to its highways contract with Hertfordshire County Council.
Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 19 Mouchel Group plc... were helping to improve learning and social care services in North East Lincolnshire The challenge Our success In June 2005, the Department for By the end of the contract the number Children, Schools and Families DCSF of pupils attaining five A to C grades appointed a Mouchel-led team to work at GCSE rose by 18.5%.
with North East Lincolnshire Council In addition, exclusions were reduced to improve learning and social care in by 50% and the number of teenage the authority.
In doing so the councils girl smokers in the region was childrens department became the also halved.
first in the UK to be managed through a strategic partnership with a private Ofsted recognised the childrens sector provider.
departments progress by moving it from an inadequate status The solution to good.
From the start of the contract Mouchel worked with the DCSF to redefine the contracts original targets, balancing the emphasis on inclusion and educational attainment.
Mouchel implemented a three-year plan to achieve continuous improvement, working to build capacity at all levels from council directors to school headteachers.
Through its partnership approach it aimed to deliver a sustainable service by the end of the contract.
1 8.5% Rise in number of pupils attaining five A to C grades at GCSE in North East Lincolnshire 50% Reduction in permanent exclusions and number of teenage girl smokers Students of The Lindsey School & Community Arts College Business Review Current and Future Development and Performance Government Services Government Services comprises Mouchels existing long-term contracts in property, education and regeneration, together with the business process outsourcing BPO contracts from the former HBS business which was acquired in August 2007.
It also encompasses our management consulting activities, including the Hornagold & Hills and Hedra businesses which were acquired in November 2006 and March 2008 respectively.
Key performance indicators Revenue for the year increased from 101.4 million to 267.1 million, Government Services largely reflecting the HBS and Hedra acquisitions during the year, and the full-year impact of the Hornagold & Hills acquisition in the prior year.
2008 2007 % change Excluding the impact of the acquisitions, underlying revenue increased Revenue m 267.1 101.4 163 by 26%, mainly due to the impact of the contract wins last year in Underlying operating profit m 14.4 9.3 55 Oldham and, to a lesser extent, in Cambridge and Islington.
Operating margins % 5.4 9.2 As expected, operating margins for the year reduced from 9.2% to 1 Order book m 1,218 1,370 12 5.4% following the acquisition of HBS, but we expect these to improve, 2 Bidding pipeline m 1,129 1,593 41 partly due to the synergies identified as a result of the HBS and Hedra 3 deals and partly due to a larger management consulting business where Contract win rate % 27 29 typically we achieve higher margins compared to our other activities.
Staff numbers 31 July 4,832 1,966 146 Staff turnover voluntary % 11 10 Following the acquisitions of HBS and Hedra, we anticipated securing synergies with an annual benefit of 3 million and 1 million respectively.
1 2007 figure includes HBS order book of 0.7 billion.
Integration of the two businesses has now been successfully completed 2 2007 figure includes HBS bidding pipeline of 1.1 billion.
and the anticipated synergies have been secured in full.
At the year end, the order book and bidding pipeline were 1,218 million 2007: 670 million and 1,129 million 2007: 493 million, largely reflecting the acquisitions during the year.
The acquisitions of HBS and Hedra were, in part, driven by the need to address changes in the marketplace.
We are seeing continued pressure on local authorities to improve services and reduce costs.
The trend towards the bundling of contracts comprising a broader range of services for longer periods of time is continuing and this is creating the scope for further partnerships between local authorities and the private sector.
Opportunities in education continue through the Building Schools for the Future BSF programme.
30 Number of City Academies Mouchel is involved in Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 22 Mouchel Group plc Educating young pedestrians A road safety project run by the Unity Partnership, our joint venture with Oldham Metropolitan Borough Council.
Property and business process outsourcing Mouchel continues to work on major property commissions with Kent, Bedfordshire, Oxfordshire and Cambridgeshire County Councils and the London Boroughs of Lewisham and Islington, and this year we have expanded our portfolio with the extension of our Surrey County Council contract and new commissions with Northumberland County Council, the Environment Agency and the Metropolitan Police Authority.
Our BPO offer complements our property services offer and allows us to compete more effectively in the local authority market.
The acquisition of HBS has allowed us to develop service streams in ICT, fi finance and administration, procurement, human resource management, pension administration, revenues and benefi ts management, and payroll services.
This year we have been able to extend our partnership with Lincolnshire County Council by one year to 2011, as a result of which we are now hopeful of also securing the remaining four years potential extension which would take the contract through to 2015.
In addition, we have delivered organic growth in existing commissions with Middlesbrough, Milton Keynes and Oldham Councils.
Other partnerships, including our 2020 Liverpool joint venture and the Impact Partnership in Rochdale, continue to contribute strongly to our performance.
Our partnership in North East Lincolnshire is about improving young peoples lives and their prospects for the future.
Its been a privilege to be a part of it.
Peter Newton Principal Consultant, Mouchel Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 23 Mouchel Group plc... were making it easier for residents in Liverpool to park outside their homes on match days The challenge Our success With two separate resident parking One of the principal objectives schemes operating around Anfield of the scheme was to discuss the and Goodison Park football grounds, proposals with the local community Liverpool City Council decided that it to allay any fears or concerns they needed a single controlled parking may have regarding the proposals.
zone CPZ that would improve This consultation was successfully parking conditions for residents when carried out at the start of the project.
matches are being played at either When the scheme eventually goes club.
The importance of the scheme live in November 2008 it will secure was heightened by the proposals parking for all residents and place for a new 60,000 seater stadium greater emphasis on football fans for Liverpool Football Club.
The solution 2020 Liverpool Mouchels joint venture partnership with the City Council devised a scheme that provides parking for residents in an area covering 714 hectares.
During the summer of 2008 a team of engineers and technicians laid thousands of metres of new yellow and white lines and put traffic calming measures in place.
32,000 The number of homes protected by Liverpools football CPZ 7 1 4 Area, in hectares, covering the scheme Liverpool residents on match day The impact during the year of the Unity Partnership, our joint venture Business Review with Oldham Metropolitan Borough Council, has been particularly Current and Future significant.
The contract, which started towards the end of our last Development and Performance financial year in April 2007, is for 12 years extendable to 15 and covers highways, property, customer, exchequer and ICT services.
Government Services continued This commission was originally secured in a 50:50 joint venture with HBS prior to the acquisition of the HBS business by Mouchel.
Other related markets offer similar opportunities to the local government sector, albeit on a different scale and with a somewhat different service mix.
Our attention has been on the development of a business in the so-called blue-light sector comprising police, fire and rescue, and ambulance services.
Our five-year commission to provide property services to the Metropolitan Police Authority, won earlier this year, represents an early success in this area.
We have also recently secured payroll commissions for the police authorities in Lincolnshire, Leicestershire, West Yorkshire and Nottinghamshire, all of which are for three years extendable to seven.
Earlier in the year, we won pensions administration contracts for the police forces in Cheshire and Merseyside, both for five years, with the latter including payroll.
Education Investment in the UKs education infrastructure continues and Mouchels proven ability to design, project manage, and commission modern education facilities gives us a solid position in this market.
We are market leaders in the City Academies sector, having been involved in the project management of more than 30 City Academies across the UK.
The BSF programme the governments initiative to improve the infrastructure and IT facilities at every secondary school in Britain is continuing to gather pace.
The procurement of packages of design, construction and project management work under this programme has proved to be a lengthy process.
During the year, we were appointed preferred bidder for the Groups first BSF commission in the London Borough of Hackney.
Contract negotiations are currently being concluded and financial close is imminent.
The learning associated with this demanding procurement process has placed Mouchel in a strong position to benefit from further, similar opportunities and we are now one of two short listed potential providers in the London Borough of Southwark.
In North Somerset, Mouchel has just been awarded an ICT contract on a BSF programme, beating traditional competitors in this market and raising our credentials in this area.
Also, in Liverpool, our 2020 joint venture with the council has recently undertaken the design of the citys first BSF scheme, in Walton.
The controlled parking zone has been really well received by the residents in this part of Liverpool.
I feel very lucky to work on a project thats had such a positive impact!
Sonia Smith Project Manager, 2020 Liverpool Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 26 Mouchel Group plc Management consulting Mouchels Management Consulting business has evolved significantly over the past two years, such that today we are one of the leading independent consulting firms in the public sector market.
The acquisition, in November 2006, of project management and management consulting firm Hornagold & Hills was the first stage in the growth of Mouchels consulting business, merging with the Groups existing management consultants to improve our industry reach and capabilities.
Subsequently, with the acquisition in March 2008 of Hedra, Mouchel has developed into one of the largest independent consulting practices shaped exclusively to operate in the public service marketplace.
The new Management Consulting business operates across a number of markets: central government, local government, health, utilities, education, aerospace and transport.
Services include business change and transformation consulting, systems engineering and technology services, procurement, and project programme management.
We currently have a major long-term role supporting Computer Sciences Corporation providing change and transformation consulting services for the NHS Connecting for Health programme.
Our Management Consulting business now works with clients ranging from HM Treasury and the Cabinet Office to local authorities, education delivery agents, the NHS and, in the private sector, Thames Water and the supply chain for the defence industry.
In addition, the broader consulting capability is already providing additional transformational services to our bundled services clients such as Oldham, Lincolnshire and Middlesbrough, and stronger propositions for our major bids.
The Management Consulting business has also secured some significant new commissions since the acquisition of Hedra, including an appointment to work with a group of seven local authorities to review the potential for a shared revenue and benefits service operation in the North of Scotland.
The blue light sector Mouchel has a five-year commission to provide property services to the Metropolitan Police Authority.
It is an early success in developing our blue light business with police, fire and rescue, and ambulance services.
Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 27 Mouchel Group plc... were helping to maintain safe river levels with the Almondbank Flood Prevention Scheme The challenge At the core of the teams work was In response to a series of large-scale engaging with the local community localised flood events, Perth & Kinross in the schemes outline design, with Council appointed Mouchel to design special attention being given to the flood prevention measures to protect needs of local businesses.
This led the village of Almondbank, which is to a successful public consultation situated less than three kilometres where over 100 residents of the north-west of Perth.
village discussed the proposals for the scheme with representatives In the past, flooding had caused from Mouchel and the local council.
a twin-arched bridge to collapse and resulted in millions of pounds Our success in damage to residents and local Following the consultation process, businesses, including an aviation an outline design will be finalised business and a trout farm.
Flooding that will secure all properties had also significantly increased bank and local infrastructure from erosion along the River Almonds major flooding events.
channel, threatening a local playing field pavilion and road access to the towns bowling green.
The solution Mouchels scheme design proposes a series of flood walls, embankments, demountable defences, pumping stations and sluices, as well as flood storage and erosion protection.
Mouchel also highlighted listed structures at risk from flooding.
4.5m Estimated flood damage costs that the scheme will help to prevent 150 Estimated number of people to be protected by the scheme Andy Commins Trout farmer, Almondbank Business Review Current and Future Development and Performance Regulated Industries Revenue for the year increased from 145.1 million to 168.4 million, while operating margins improved from 6.1% to 6.4%.
Both the order book and bidding pipeline at 294 million and 201 million respectively were broadly comparable with last year 2007: 329 million and 190 million respectively.
Key performance indicators The increase in revenue partly reflects the full-year impact of the Regulated Industries acquisition of Ewan Group in November 2006, as well as strong growth in the underlying businesses.
The slight improvement in margins is due 2008 2007 % change to the repositioning of our rail activities towards higher value consultancy Revenue m 168.4 145.1 16 activities.
We would expect the bidding pipeline and order book to grow Underlying operating profit m 10.7 8.9 21 as we begin to bid for the forthcoming AMP5 water contracts.
Operating margins % 6.4 6.1 The marketplace for our services in this area remains largely buoyant.
Order book m 294 329 -11 The indications are that there will be an increase in expenditure under Bidding pipeline m 201 190 6 AMP5 compared to previous periods.
We are also continuing to benefit 1 from the strong demand for  services in the Gulf.
Contract win rate % 42 44 In addition, the present climate change and sustainability agenda is Staff numbers 31 July 2,671 2,391 12 providing important consultancy opportunities for us.
Staff turnover voluntary % 16 15 Water and energy 1 Win rate is calculated by contract value.
We have grown our water business to be ranked in the NCE Consultants File as the third largest provider of water-related consultancy services in the UK and the largest provider in Scotland.
We deliver a full range of services to our water utility clients from provision of strategic consultancy advice and professional engineering services right through to operational asset management activities, and currently we work for all the UK water companies, providing services through more than 40 framework contracts.
Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 30 Mouchel Group plc In September 2008, Mouchel took control of leakage detection for all eight zones in Thames Waters North East and North West areas, while also picking up trunk main leakage management in addition to seepage management, as a related activity.
As part of the contract, Mouchel will carry out leakage detection and associated activities across North London, covering two of Thames Waters four network areas.
The commission is expected to run to 2010, with the potential to extend a further five years beyond this.
We have also been awarded a place on a design framework for Severn Trent Water to undertake up-front feasibility and preliminary design ahead of their AMP5 capital programme.
Our first commission under this framework is to carry out works related to the flood protection of Mythe Water Treatment Works, which was threatened during the severe storm events of the last 12 months.
This represents an early first success as part of the overall AMP5 process and also expands our client base for capital design activities.
During the year, we won a new two-year network modelling and drainage commission with Severn Trent Water and extended our existing leakage detection contract by one year.
We also secured additional work through our current commission with Scottish Water.
As well as providing services to the water industry, we also have comprehensive expertise in designing and managing strategic flood alleviation projects for local authorities, government agencies and developers.
We have refocused our efforts in this area by combining our existing activities in this sector to give us a much more holistic approach, covering coastal as well as fluvial issues.
As one of the top providers of services to the environment industry we have continued to further enhance our growth in the sustainability market through being appointed to the London Development Agency LDA Environmental Sustainability Panel.
Within this panel we will assist the LDA in delivering a diverse range of sustainable development consultancy services.
LandAspects, Mouchels land information management business, was appointed earlier this year to provide land referencing services to the Cross London Rail Link project and on a waterways estates project in the Irish Republic.
With changes in the cost and in the supply and demand of energy, Mouchel continues to develop new services for this increasingly important market sector.
Although currently relatively small, our energy business has been very successful, growing threefold over the last three years.
This growth has been achieved by building upon our existing relationships within the UK energy sector and by extending our overseas activities.
The extension of our work in the UK Liquefied Natural Gas LNG sector through to international LNG projects in Kuwait already illustrates the early success of this strategic growth.
Floods can cause serious problems for a community.
Ive been proud to be involved in a scheme that will help to protect both the residents and the businesses of Almondbank.
Paul Lambert Graduate Engineer, Mouchel Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 31 Mouchel Group plc Business Review Current and Future 168.4m Development and Performance Regulated Industries Regulated Industries continued revenues for 2007 08 Rail International According to the NCE Consultants File we are one of the top Mouchel has grown its international business to become one of five consultants providing services to the rail industry in the UK.
the largest providers of infrastructure services in the Middle East.
Our business covers a diverse range of services and operates We will continue to focus our services in four main areas: infrastructure, with both Network Rail and London Underground, providing programme and project management, managed services, and water.
services to infrastructure owners and to other clients interfacing United Arab Emirates UAEgovernment-backed prime developers with the rail environment.
continue to invest in major infrastructure projects in the UAE and we anticipate that this will continue to be a growing market for Mouchel.
During the year we repositioned our rail business, moving more towards consultancy-based contracts and programme management In Dubai, Mouchel is working on a four-year contract to design opportunities where we believe that the activities are more profitable and supervise the infrastructure, marine and landscaping works and less risky.
We are now concentrating on three main areas: asset for the Dubai Waterfront development, the worlds largest waterfront 2 management, design and project delivery.
We have been awarded a development, consisting of 440km of water and land developments.
professional services framework with Network Rail and a property help desk service contract that provides us with order book visibility to 2013.
We have also secured our first three major infrastructure design projects in Abu Dhabi, following on from several engineering masterplanning We also continue to work extensively with London Underground, where and concept design commissions.
The new major developments in we are continuing to roll out a digital advertising media programme Dubai and Abu Dhabi will be run by private authorities on behalf of in support of CBS Outdoor.
Since the financial year end Mouchel has the developers themselves rather than the municipalities and we are been named as one of the bidders for the Cross London Rail Link positioning ourselves to help set up and run these authorities.
Crossrail design framework and programme management partner commissions.
Mouchel is also part of a framework developing ground-breaking designs to reduce the temperature on London Undergrounds station platforms as well as on its trains.
The Cooling the Tube programme aims to manage temperature on the underground through a combination of improved ventilation and air-cooling solutions, designed for each location, and we have undertaken scheme designs for eight stations on the Central and Jubilee lines.
3 r d largest provider of water consultancy services in England NCE Consultants File Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 32 Mouchel Group plc Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Kuwait Mouchels team in the Gulf is involved in the design, project and programme management of major infrastructure and building developments in Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Kuwait.
Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 33 Mouchel Group plc Managing risks Business Review Reducing risk and uncertainty in our clients business activities is an integral part of the service we provide at Mouchel.
But the effective Risks and Uncertainties management of risk and uncertainty in our own business is also important.
We regularly assess, at Board level and at project level, the various strategic, market and operational risks we face as a company.
Mouchel maintains a register of the risks and uncertainties faced by the business as a whole: these are reviewed quarterly by the Group Management Board and our ongoing business strategy is developed Mouchel regularly reviews its corporate with this risk climate in mind.
A similar exercise is undertaken at business stream level, looking more specifically at the risks and risks and maintains a risk register uncertainties relevant to the particular marketplace and the services which considers strategic and structural we provide within it.
At project level we prepare and maintain risk registers to identify, assess and ameliorate the risks faced by our risks affecting the industry: financial, clients, our people and our company.
In 2008 we introduced the commercial and legislative risks: safety, safeguard risk management system to provide a more uniform and structured approach to risk assessment in the business.
health, environmental and security risks: managerial and organisational Our principal risks arise in a number of areas, described below.
risks: and Group-wide operational risks.
Market and economic environment The current slowdown in the economy of the UK has direct or indirect impacts for most companies.
Mouchels business is, however, largely focused on providing and managing the essential infrastructure on which our society depends, working almost exclusively for public sector and public service organisations within the British Isles.
Demand for commodities like transport, water, energy and citizen services is relatively inelastic and, as our direct clients come under increasing pressure to realise further organisational efficiencies, reliance on private sector providers like Mouchel is expected to increase.
We anticipate that the segments that are least susceptible to changes in the macroeconomic environment will include health and education, water and energy supply.
Sectors that could see a levelling-off in spending include highway construction and non-educational property development, though this would be counterbalanced by increased demand for maintenance and asset management.
Mouchel has broadened its portfolio of service propositions in the last 12 months to improve resilience to macroeconomic change and our wider service combinations mean we are now able to leverage new revenue streams from existing commissions.
Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 34 Mouchel Group plc Reputation Health, safety and security Design, management and communication errors, accidents and incidents The health, safety and welfare of our employees, our clients, and others and poor stakeholder relationships could all threaten the reputation of the affected by our activities are absolutely paramount.
We work in a range business.
To minimise this risk we have strengthened our management of business environments, many of which present particular hazards systems, focusing in particular on consistency and best practice through to our people: road and rail traffic, heights and confined spaces, the the wider adoption of ISO 9001 quality management, ISO 14001 potential for assault or abuse.
In the past year we have strengthened environmental management and OHSAS 18001 safety across the our health and safety management structure, introduced new systems Group.
We have also strengthened our corporate communications and to report and evaluate incidents and competencies, and improved brand management teams, building upon the wider visibility of our new training and awareness across the Group.
brand to reinforce perceptions of the company within our core sectors.
People Competitive position Our ability to attract, recruit and retain sufficient numbers of people Our record in winning work is excellent.
Competition in our major with the appropriate qualifications, experience and attitudes is critical markets is significant but there are complex barriers to entry in areas to our capacity to provide services to our clients.
The breadth of our such as highway maintenance and business process outsourcing service portfolio now means we target candidates from a wider range which limit our exposure to new competition.
Mouchels focus over of backgrounds than ever before and work done in the past year to the past year has been on building and strengthening relationships raise the visibility of our brand means that we are better known in with our principal clients: our account management processes are our sectors than in the past.
Our pay and benefits are benchmarked being strengthened and we have improved the quality of feedback annually to ensure that they remain consistent with industry norms we obtain, on an independent and regular basis, from our clients.
and our staff development programme is comparable with the very best in the industry.
Joint ventures A considerable proportion of our work is carried out in joint venture with Company growth other organisations: sometimes with our public sector clients but more The growth of Mouchel, which continues to expand by 20% to 25% commonly with other service companies.
Such joint ventures allow us per year, risks outpacing our management systems, organisational to extend the breadth of our offer and are essential in areas like highway structure and leadership capabilities.
Since 2007 we have been maintenance and water services delivery, but we choose our partners investing in a new, enterprise-wide management information system with care, building relationships over time and across many contracts, which will go live in 2009: and a strengthened leadership team of as joint ventures do bring some additional risks to the Group.
Highway around 60 directors and senior managers improves the resilience network management commissions are now undertaken in joint venture of our operations and back-office support.
with Enterprise plc, and we are enjoying early success on our Highways Agency commissions in the South West and Southern England under Acquisition strategy the EnterpriseMouchel banner.
Where possible, and where it is The success of any acquisition is dependent upon the companys ability to integrate the new business within the wider Group, to appropriate to do so, we seek to acquire complementary businesses identify appropriate synergies quickly, to instigate management and that allow us to undertake a greater proportion of our work using organisational changes over a short transition period, and to build upon in-house teams: the HBS acquisition is a good example of this.
the complementary skills and abilities of the combined team.
This year Mouchel has successfully delivered two major acquisitions, applying a now well-proven transition plan to achieve integration in the shortest possible time.
Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 35 Mouchel Group plc Mouchels business model is centred on Business Review the development and improvement of Corporate Responsibilities the infrastructure and services needed by society, working through public sector and public service organisations to raise levels of efficiency and value for money.
So it is perhaps no surprise that we take our responsibilities to society, to the environment, and to our people extremely seriously.
A separate Report describes our approach to Corporate Responsibility Our approach in more detail, but the following paragraphs provide a brief overview of our approach and activities.
Our approach to Corporate Responsibility is based on a series of commitments to our key Building trust stakeholders.
These are as follows: We are committed to demonstrating our values and principles through our day-to-day behaviour, and to conducting ourselves in a way that is 1. to build trust with all of our stakeholders responsible and ethical.
To this end, we have created three key policies 2. to meet community and society expectations covering our conduct and ethics, fraud and whistle-blowing.
We also by having a positive impact on the world have a share-dealing code.
That code and the procedures associated around us with it are the responsibility of the Company Secretary.
3. to be a trusted partner to our customers and suppliers One of our strengths as a company is the diverse skills, abilities, 4. to nurture an organisation that our employees attitudes and demographics that we embrace.
Our aim is to feel is a great place to work and one that they ensure diversity works for us as a positive business driver.
We have take pride in established a Diversity Steering Group chaired by a member of our Group Management Board to take the lead on change across the organisation.
We also have a Diversity and Responsibility Manager to provide a central focus for managing the diversity agenda across Mouchel.
We are also keen to communicate our corporate responsibilities clearly to our stakeholders.
A part of this is our Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Report, which is available both in printed form and electronically via our website www.
In the Report, we highlight key performance indicators for our Corporate Responsibility programme wherever possible.
Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 36 Mouchel Group plc People Environment and community Mouchel expects to employ around 15,000 people by 2012.
Growth Providing benefit to local communities and the environment for on this scale will be the natural outcome of being good at what we do: example, through safer roads, better schools, cleaner water and providing our clients with innovative, effective services and maximising less pollution is central to the work that Mouchel does.
the potential of all of our employees.
By working with our clients to develop solutions that incorporate We want to nurture a lively working environment, where people enjoy sound and sustainable results, we can maximise the opportunities coming to work, have a clear sense of pride in the company, have a for environmental enhancement.
By encouraging our employees to healthy work-life balance and feel recognised, rewarded and cared engage in a wide range of social, environmental and economic initiatives for.
A strong culture is a valuable asset that helps us to work effectively in the communities within which they work, we are bringing further with clients, partners, communities and each other.
benefits to our customers as well as our employees, shareholders, business partners and a range of voluntary and charity organisations.
We never compromise on the health, safety and welfare of our people and we apply an equal standard of care to our clients and partners staff During the last year our approach to managing our environmental together with others affected by our activities.
Our human resources and risks has ensured that we maintained another clean record in terms of health and safety teams work closely together on issues affecting the environmental prosecutions and regulatory action.
We have continued health and wellbeing of our employees and to provide guidance and to improve the accuracy of our operations environmental performance support to our staff on work-life quality issues.
data, and have focused on aligning our measurement and reporting processes with the most appropriate best practice guidelines.
We always consider requests for individuals to work flexibly to combine their needs with the needs of the business.
Our flexible benefits scheme Customers and suppliers offers childcare vouchers and the opportunity to extend a number of Mouchels aim is to be seen by its clients and suppliers as a trusted healthcare benefits to employees families.
We also have an employee partner that keeps its promises and is in tune with their needs and assistance programme, which provides unlimited access to a free expectations.
24-hour helpdesk offering independent advice, information and support on a wide range of work, personal and health matters.
We continued to strengthen our approach by implementing a system of account management and appointing a customer relationship In terms of health and safety, no enforcement actions were taken management team, who manage a programme of independent against the company in 2007 08 and the severity of accident-related feedback interviews with key clients.
These surveys complement injuries and work-related ill-health has remained low.
We continue to feedback we collect at a project level, which are governed by investigate all accidents in order to continuously improve our safety policies and procedures defined in our Group Quality Management behaviours and performance.
So, for example, our accident incidence System QMS.
rate AIR is 206, which is significantly less than the industry average for the construction sector.
There were 17 reportable accidents under Our Group QMS also defines the processes for selecting and the Health and Safety Executives Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and appointing key suppliers.
These include a vetting process which, Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RIDDOR during the year, also depending on the level of risk to our business and our customers, well below the industry average.
will include a review of the suppliers financial, health and safety, environmental management and quality management systems.
We build effective, efficient and collaborative long-term relationships with our joint venture partners and suppliers.
2 7 % of employees support their communities by volunteering Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 37 Mouchel Group plc Order book and pipeline Business Review The bidding pipeline of potential contract extensions and other near-term opportunities was 2.2 billion at 31 July 2008, versus Other Financial Matters 2.5 billion at 31 July 2007 and 2.1 billion at the half year.
Although we now expect the pipeline to reduce following the year-end and the and Business Outlook determination of the latest round of HA maintenance management commissions, we would expect it to grow again in the near future through inclusion of the next round of HA contracts, several bundled service BPO contracts and the AMP5 opportunities in water.
At 31 July 2008, the Groups forward order Our contract win rate for the year was still within, albeit at the bottom end of, our target range of 33% to 40% of contracts tendered by value.
book stood at 2.1 billion, compared with 2.2 billion at 31 July 2007.
This represents Cash flow and working capital Cash generated from operations before exceptional costs was more than three years revenues, meaning 38.0 million for the year ended 31 July 2008, compared with that we continue to have outstanding visibility 31.4 million for last year.
At 31 July 2008, net bank borrowings totalled 81.9 million, compared with a net cash and cash equivalents balance of our future earnings.
The contract wins of 2.8 million positive at 31 July 2007 and net bank borrowings of in HA Area 3 and the BSF preferred bidder 51.2 million at the half year.
appointment in Hackney, together with the Cash conversion for the year was again excellent, with 91% of the contract extensions in Hertfordshire and Groups underlying operating profit being converted into operating cash flow i. e. cash generated from operations per note 33 versus 95% Lincolnshire, ensured that we were able to last year.
Working capital management continued to be satisfactory, maintain the order book above 2 billion.
with the overall investment in unbilled revenue and trade receivables maintained at approximately two-and-a-half months revenues.
The overall cash performance for the period reflected the acquisitions of HBS and Hedra, the investment in working capital associated with recently secured commissions, additional pension contributions and exceptional integration and rebranding costs.
On 1 August 2007, an unsecured revolving credit facility of 125 million was put in place jointly with Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds TSB to finance the acquisition of HBS, fund existing working capital requirements and provide capacity for the future growth and development of the business.
On 4 March 2008 the Group extended this facility to 185 million, following the decision to acquire Hedra, the acquisition of which was completed on 5 March 2008, for a total consideration of 50 million, comprising 42 million in cash and 8 million in new Mouchel Group shares.
Of the total facility, the original 125 million matures in August 2012 with the other 60 million maturing in September 2009. Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 38 Mouchel Group plc Earnings per share Taxation Adjusted earnings per share increased 22% from 21.0p to 25.7p.
The effective rate of tax on profits before tax and exceptional items Adjusted earnings per share is calculated after adding back shares was 26.7%, compared with 29.0% for the year ended 31 July 2007. held by the employee share trusts to the weighted average number The difference between the effective rate of tax and the statutory rate, of shares.
Earnings are adjusted to exclude amortisation of intangible which was 30% until it reduced to 28% in April this year, again reflected assets arising from business combinations and other exceptional items the benefit of additional reliefs, partly offset by the normal level of net of taxation.
Basic earnings per share was 17.9p 2007: 31.5p.
Dividends Pensions It is proposed that a final dividend of 4.25p 2007: 3.45p per ordinary Following the acquisition of HBS, the Group now operates three share will be paid on 19 December 2008 to shareholders on the register main defined benefit pension schemes: the Mouchel Superannuation as at 24 October 2008.
Taken together with the interim dividend of Fund MSF, the Mouchel Staff Pension Scheme MSPS and the 1.85p, this gives a total dividend of 6.1p for the year, an increase of HBS Business Services Group Limited Pension Scheme and also 22% on last year.
has admitted body status in the Teesside pre-funded defined benefit scheme.
The Group accounts for all four schemes under IAS 19 Outlook Employee Benefits.
The IAS 19 charge for the year was 5.2 million for We have significantly strengthened the foundations for our continuing the four schemes, compared with 7.2 million in the same period last growth through the two acquisitions completed during the year.
year for the two pre-existing schemes.
The reduction in the charge Between them, they open up a whole range of opportunities in both partly reflects the changes to the MSF and MSPS schemes, whereby our existing and potentially new markets.
The integration of both most members in the non-public sector sections of the two schemes is complete and we have secured the synergies we were targeting.
moved from a final salary arrangement to a career average revalued earnings CARE basis for the calculation of their pension benefits.
We are very pleased with our progress over the last year.
We have On this basis, the link to final salary was effectively removed for reported another outstanding set of results.
Our profits have continued both past and future service.
to grow strongly and our cash performance has again been excellent.
We continue to have good visibility of our future income.
At 31 July 2008, the total deficit under IAS 19 was 34.6 million before tax for the four schemes compared with 32.3 million for the On behalf of the Board.
four schemes at the half year and only 18.0 million at 31 July 2007 for the two pre-existing schemes.
The movement in the deficit compared with a year ago reflects actuarial experience in the intervening period and inclusion of the deficits in the two HBS schemes, both of which Richard Cuthbert served to increase the overall deficit.
This was only partly offset by Chief Executive the additional company contributions during the year and the benefit of moving to the CARE basis referred to above for the two original Kevin Young Mouchel schemes.
Group Finance Director 28 October 2008 From a funding point of view, the last actuarial valuations of all three main defined benefit schemes were undertaken at 31 March 2007.
These have only recently been finalised, following which funding targets and related recovery plans have just been agreed with the relevant trustees.
The next valuations fall due in March 2009 for the two original Mouchel schemes and March 2010 for the HBS scheme.
2.1bn Forward order book representing nearly three years revenues Business Review 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 39 Mouchel Group plc
