NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC 36 ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT AND BUSINESS REvIEW Appendix to the directors report and business review Group financial KPIs NWL financial KPIs Gearing to RCV Regulatory gearing Definition and calculation: The ratio of Definition and calculation: The ratio Group net debt to NWLs Regulatory Capital of NWL net debt to NWLs RCv.
The RCv represents the total represents the total capital value of the capital value of the appointed water and appointed water and sewerage business sewerage business on which Ofwat allows on which Ofwat allows a rate of return at a rate of return at price reviews based on price reviews based on its view of the cost its view of the cost of capital.
Purpose: The RCv generates most of Purpose: The RCv generates most of the revenue stream of the Group and the revenue stream of the Group and regulatory gearing is an important factor regulatory gearing is an important factor in credit ratings.
Source of underlying data: NWLs RCv Source of underlying data: NWLs RCv is calculated by Ofwat and published each is calculated by Ofwat and published each year.
Ofwat also publishes anticipated year.
Ofwat also publishes anticipated values up to five years ahead, based on values up to five years ahead, based on its last price determination.
Group net its last price determination.
NWLs net debt debt is disclosed in the audited can be found in the audited regulatory financial statements.
accounts and Ofwat annual reports on financial performance.
Cash interest cover NWL non-financial KPIs Definition and calculation: Cash generated from operations less tax divided Water by net interest paid.
Purpose: Measures the ability of the Group Drinking water quality to service its debt.
Definition and calculation: Compliance Source of underlying data: Audited with drinking water regulations as financial statements.
monitored by the Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI.
Purpose: To monitor drinking water quality.
Cash flow to net debt Source of underlying data: Samples Definition and calculation: Cash recorded by NWL and audited by the DWI.
generated from operations less tax paid divided by net debt.
Purpose: Indicates the Groups ability to Leakage reduce debt in the absence of need for Definition and calculation: Total additional investment, without resorting leakage from the water network including to asset disposal.
Source of underlying data: Audited Purpose: To monitor compliance with financial statements.
Source of underlying data: Information recorded by NWL and audited by Ofwat.
NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 37 NWL non-financial KPIs Customer satisfaction Environment Definition and calculation: Domestic customers satisfaction with overall service Sewage treatment works and overall value for money, expressed as Definition and calculation: Percentage satisfaction averaged over the surveys of population equivalent served by carried out during the year.
non-compliant works failing Look Up Purpose: To enable tracking of perception Tables consents.
of reputation, service and value for money Purpose: To monitor the performance of over time.
NWLs sewage treatment works and their Source of underlying data: Independent impact on the environment.
surveys of 500 customers 300 north, 200 Source of underlying data: Information south chosen at random, but representative recorded by NWL and the Environment of the customer base, carried out each Agency EA and reported on by the latter.
Bathing waters Mandatory Standard NWL non-financial KPIs Definition and calculation: Percentage Employee of bathing waters complying with Mandatory Standards.
Lost time reportable accidents Purpose: To monitor the impact of Definition and calculation: Injury NWLs coastal treatment works on accidents that are reported to the Health & the environment.
Safety Executive as required by the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Source of underlying data: Information Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995. recorded and reported by the EA.
Calculated as number of accidents reported in financial year per 1,000 employees.
Pollution incidents Purpose: To monitor the safety Definition and calculation: Number of performance of NWL over time.
category 1, 2 and 3 pollution incidents in Source of underlying data: Completed the calendar year as defined by the EA.
NWL Accident Incident report forms.
Purpose: To monitor the performance of Employee numbers provided by the human NWLs sewerage system and its impact on resources department.
Source of underlying data: Information Sickness absence recorded and reported to Ofwat by the EA.
Definition and calculation: Sickness absence days as a percentage of total working days NWL non-financial KPIs multiplied by the end of month headcount.
Customer Purpose: To track and trend sickness absence levels across the organisation.
Customer levels of service Source of underlying data: Sicknotes, return to work interviews and weekly Definition and calculation: Customer returns by managers.
service standards are established by Ofwat, the economic regulator, and calculated using source data in the company.
Employee turnover Purpose: To monitor performance of NWL.
Definition and calculation: Number of Source of underlying data: Information leavers within the year as a percentage of collected by the company and submitted to average headcount.
Purpose: To track the employee turnover within the business to ensure that it is within benchmark data.
Source of underlying data: Current employees details are held within the human resources management system reports show leavers against headcount.
