04 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 BusinEss REViEW Dr iain DOrrity Dr Peter J. Finnegan chiEf ExEcutivE officEr chiEf fiNaNcial officEr SuMMary OF BuSineSS reView b Achieved a strong operational performance during 2008 b Demand for our products in 2008 was strong and was driven by increase in the global PV module market b We are expanding our wafering capacity both in-house and with our subcontractor in Japan Pv crystalox Solar is committed to systematically 05 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 intrODuCtiOn OPeratiOnS anD StrategiC DeVeLOPMent We achieved a strong operational performance during 2008 We continue to make progress in our medium and long-term aim with improved silicon utilisation and production efficiencies of reducing further the cost of wafer production to enhance the enabling us to deliver considerable improvement over the groups position as a low cost producer.
sales of our core silicon products increased by 29% to 273.8 million 2007: 212.9 million while adjusted EBit Effective silicon utilisation has been improved as our customers excluding currency gains was 106.5 million, an increase of have progressively moved to thinner wafers and 65% of wafers 46.6%.
Wafer shipment volumes increased by 21% to 230MW shipped during the year were supplied at industry leading 180m 2007: 190MW, reflecting the processing of additional contracted thickness.
this momentum is being maintained this year with 82% polysilicon deliveries which started in the second half of 2007 of shipments made at this size in the first two months of 2009. coupled with improved silicon utilisation.
Additional savings are being made by the progressive reduction in wire thickness from 140 150m to 120m.
Furthermore the Demand for our products in 2008 was strong and was driven by adoption of new technology for ingot cutting has also enabled a an increase in the global PV module market.
According to industry very significant reduction in silicon losses during block production.
consultant, solarbuzz, module installations grew by 110% to the new ingot wire saws have effectively reduced silicon kerf 5.95gW with spain surpassing germany to become the largest losses during cutting by more than 90% in comparison with market and accounting for 2.46gW 41% of total installations.
the sawing equipment used previously.
As expected there has been no resumption of our trading activity the construction of our polysilicon manufacturing facility in in the sale of single crystal ingots which stopped during fourth Bitterfeld is proceeding on schedule with mechanical completion quarter 2007 at the request of our partners.
since the business achieved in December 2008 and the final stages of commissioning was carried out primarily to facilitate relationships and at low currently underway.
initial polysilicon production is now expected margins, the impact on our overall profits has been minimal.
to start in May with a projected output of 450Mt in 2009 in balance with our current wafer production requirements.
in the the group had a free cash flow of 23 million in 2008 after medium-term our production target for 2011 remains at 1,800Mt.
spending 61 million on fixed assets net of grants in the year.
this capital investment was mainly in connection with the During the year we have continued with the planned construction of the polysilicon plant at Bitterfeld.
net cash expansion of our ingot production capacity in the uK through balances totalled 81 million on 31 December 2008. the construction and installation of the groups in-house designed systems.
We expect to reach our capacity target of 350MW by mid-2009.
in parallel we are expanding our wafering capacity both in-house and with our subcontractor in Japan.
crucibles are filled with high purity silicon Sales of our core silicon products increased by 29% to 273.9 million Wafer shipment volumes increased by 21% to 230mW enhancing leadership in the Pv industry 06 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 BusinEss REViEW cOntinuED SaLeS OF SiLiCOn PrODuCtS OPeratiOnS anD StrategiC DeVeLOPMent COntinueD PV crystalox solar is committed to systematically enhancing its leadership in the PV industry as an independent producer of multicrystalline silicon wafers.
By focusing on the wafer and 28.6% not competing with our customers in cell production we are able 273.8 million to develop strong relationships with solar cell producers.
it is our intention to be the one of the PV industrys cost leaders eBit exCLuDing CurrenCy gainS and to supply quality wafers at competitive prices whilst retaining attractive margins.
60.7% We have long established relationships with solar cell producers in Japan and germany and these companies continue to represent 106.5 million the groups major customer base.
in 2008, 84% of our sales were made to these two geographic markets which, together with china, represent the three leading global PV manufacturing centres.
Our strategy of cost leadership and flexibility is underpinned by carrying out wafer production in both Japan and germany.
this proximity of production to customers not only facilitates closer cooperation but also enables us to address rapidly changes in customer needs.
Furthermore our dual geographic wafer production locations help offset the influence of Euro yen exchange rate variations.
We also recognise the growing importance of china as a manufacturing location and our sales in this region accounted for 6% of our revenues.
the signing of our sales agreement with suntech, chinas leading cell module producer, is expected to result in china accounting for an increasing proportion of our revenues in future years.
Although the PV industry sees an increasing number of new entrants to solar cell and module production, our focus remains on the major integrated cell module producers.
customers within the leading ten PV companies accounted for more than 68% of our core silicon product sales in 2008.
At the same time we are developing relationships with those smaller companies which we identify as having the potential to grow to become significant players in the market.
Multicrystalline silicon blocks Quality management long established relationships with solar cell producers 07 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 During 2008 we have consolidated our partnerships with leading PV companies in Europe, Japan, Asia and the usA through the signing of seven new wafer supply agreements with predetermined prices and volumes.
customers include Q cells, suntech, schott solar and the intel spin off, spectraWatt.
the newly contracted wafer volume is equivalent to 900MW over the period 20092011 and complements wafer supply agreements signed in 2007. riSkS the Board regularly reviews risks faced by the group and how they may be mitigated.
the principal risks and uncertainties can be summarised as follows: Dr huBert a auLiCh Pv cryStalox Solar ExEcutivE DirEctor, b continued government incentives are critical to the GErmaN oPEratioNS development of the solar electricity industry and without Following the ground breaking ceremony in september 2007 these the increased uptake of solar electricity may be slow to the construction of the groups production facility for solar develop.
the group mitigates these risks by focusing supply grade silicon was completed in December 2008. on major PV companies which, through their superior market the site will allow the group to produce solar grade silicon at share and operating efficiencies, are better equipped to push favourable rates allowing it to further expand its international product into the market.
the facility has been built in the Bitterfeld chemical Park in germany, which is one of the largest chemical production sites in Europe.
PV crystalox solar will employ a b While the long-term prospects for the PV industry remain modified version of the well established siemens process, which strong, the current economic uncertainty and the tight has been optimised for solar applications.
the process allows financing situation may reduce global demand in the high purity silicon to be produced that meets the companys short-term but the impact and its duration are difficult specifications for its in-house multicrystalline wafer technology.
Evonik Degussa gmbH, Dsseldorf, the largest chlorosilane producer in the world, will supply PV crystalox solar with the b s ales to a small number of customers represent a substantial high purity raw material siridion chlorosilane in a fence to fence operation.
the company has signed a ten year contract portion of the groups revenues and the loss of any major with Degussa for the delivery of chlorosilanes.
customer might impact significantly on the groups financial condition.
the group seeks to mitigate this risk, however, by the the state of sachsen Anhalt, the german Federal government use of long-term agreements wherever possible although the and the European union have provided grants of approximately 21 million for the construction of the facility.
the plant will create possible renegotiation of such contracts cannot be discounted around 100 new jobs and will be one of the first industrial production in difficult market conditions.
in addition we concentrate on sites in Europe dedicated exclusively to providing high purity silicon customers that are financially strong with a clear strategic for solar electricity.
vision for the PV industry and accordingly the potential to be long-term major players in the industry.
the group operates two ingot manufacturing facilities in the uK, a wafering operation in germany, the Bitterfeld facility and is also reliant on a sub-contractor to process its ingots into wafers in Japan.
Production problems at any one of these would interrupt revenue flows.
if the market develops according to expectations, we will be able to further increase the capacity in Japan and Germany underpin our strategy 08 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 BusinEss REViEW cOntinuED We have consolidated our partnerships with ingot bonding eBit riSkS COntinueD b silicon availability is crucial to the efficient operation of the group.
the group mitigates this risk by setting up its own silicon feedstock facility in Bitterfeld and by securing high quality 111.5% feedstock at fixed prices from leading suppliers.
142.8 million b the polysilicon facility at Bitterfeld represents a new PrOFit aFter tax technology area for the group.
in order to mitigate the execution risk and to ensure the most efficient operation we decided to locate next to and to purchase, rather than 119.7% manufacture, the input gas silicon tetrachloride from Evonik, the worlds largest manufacturer of chlorosilanes.
Furthermore 103.2 million Evonik has been an engineering partner in the design and manufacture of large sections of the plant and has assisted us with commissioning of the facility.
b the groups relationship with Evonik and their supply of silicon tetrachloride is critical for our production of polysilicon.
this is secured by a ten year supply agreement.
OutLOOk Although the mid-term market drivers for the PV industry remain positive, the outlook for 2009 is uncertain with few credible forecasts of positive growth.
it is generally expected that the dramatic contraction in the PV market in spain coupled with the effects of the global economic crisis will result at best in flat market demand in 2009. group wafer shipments and prices remained strong both at the end of 2008 and in the first two months of the year.
While revenues for the first quarter are expected to be above those achieved in the same period in 2008, visibility for the second quarter and beyond is limited by the difficult market conditions experienced by our customers.
Market weakness has become evident during recent weeks and we are now working with a few of our customers to assist in these uncertain times by rescheduling deliveries.
However, the net effect of the rescheduling is modest to date and is equivalent to less than 10MW in the first quarter.
09 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 leading Pv companies Mechanical handling in a market already showing resistance to modules of unknown quality produced by less established players, our focus on major PV companies is expected to offer some protection as these companies will be better able to market their products in this difficult environment and to cope with any financial stress.
We have contracts for supply of 275MW wafers in 2009 but the current economic uncertainties and lack of market visibility mean solar facade and artwork outside the new polysilicon factory that we cannot be confident at this stage that these shipment at Bitterfeld volumes will be achieved.
Wafer deliveries are scheduled to increase in the second half of the year as our production ramps up using polysilicon from our Bitterfeld facility.
At that time, there is some expectation of a better solar market environment, with demand being boosted from growth in germany, which is traditionally stronger in the second half of the year, and funds starting to flow to renewable energy companies from the us government's economic stimulus bill, but timing and visibility remain uncertain.
similarly in Japan, the Ministry of Economy, trade and industry MEti has reintroduced a subsidy scheme for residential PV installations.
this program will run at least until the end of 2010 and is expected to stimulate growth in PV installations which have declined in recent years following the withdrawal of earlier subsidies in 2006.
Furthermore, MEti is also considering the introduction of a feed in tariff scheme in 2010 similar to that successfully operating in germany, which would oblige electricity utilities to purchase power generated by PV systems at approximately double the current electricity price.
An important component of 2009 will be the ramp up of Bitterfeld although the group will not see significant output until the second half of 2009. the group enters 2009 with a robust net cash balance of 81 million and this together with our strong customer base and cash generation ability will ensure that we are well positioned to benefit from the eventual improvement in global PV markets.
Dr iain DOrrity chiEf ExEcutivE officEr 25 march 2009
