Net revenues grew by 13% constant to 6,563m.
Adjusted operating profit up 15% constant to 1,535m.
Total dividends paid of 441m, up 23% versus 2007.
Colin Day Chief Financial Officer Net revenues m This review for the financial year ending focus, but which play a r Operating margin % 80bps ole as scale builders Adjusted net income m 31 December 2008 conforms to the in local markets.
24 8000 1200 Business Review required under the 1,143 These leading positions include: 23.4 7000 Companies Act 2006.
It should be read in 1000 22.6 6,563 22 6000 conjunction with the rest of this annual Fabric Care 905 21.5 800 report, the Companys latest Sustainability No.
1 worldwide in Fabric Treatment 786 5,269 5000 4,922 Report and the Companys website products to remove stains from clothes, 669 20 4000 600 4,179 20.1 3,871 577 www.
carpets and upholstery with Vanish around 19.3 3000 the globe and Resolve Spray n Wash in 400 NATURE, OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES 18 2000 North America.
OF THE BUSINESS 200 1000 Reckitt Benckiser is one of the worlds leading No.
2 worldwide in Garment Care laundry 16 0 0 manufacturers and marketers of branded cleaning products for delicate garments 04 05 06 07 08 04 05 06 07 08 04 05 06 07 08 products in household cleaning and health & with Woolite.
adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional items adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional items personal care, selling a comprehensive range No.
1 worldwide in Water Softeners products through over 60 operating companies into to prevent destructive limescale build-up on Diluted earnings per share pence Operating margins adjusted % around 180 countries.
Approximately 73% of Operating and net cash flow m washing machines and laundry with Calgon.
net revenue in 2008 was generated by brands 160 25 1750 157.8 Operating that are either market leader or ranked second The Company also has a number of local 23.4 1,640 22.6 1500 21.5 in their markets.
The Companys principal market positions in Laundry Detergents and Net 20 20.1 120 123.4 19.3 product categories are listed below.
Fabric Softeners for example, in Spain, Italy, 1250 1,228 1,231 107.1 certain East European markets and Korea.
1,177 15 Reckitt Benckisers vision is to deliver better 1000 90.0 The Company also has a small private label 80 946 953 914 consumer solutions in household cleaning and 861 77.1 750 business, the majority of which provides 10 758 health & personal care for the ultimate purpose 664 Laundry Detergent to major multi-national 500 of creating shareholder value.
5 250 The strategy of the business is described in Surface Care 0 detail in the Chief Executives Review.
1 worldwide in the overall Surface Care 04 05 06 07 08 04 05 06 07 08 04 05 06 07 08 In summary: category due to leading positions across adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional items adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional items Have a disproportionate focus on our disinfectant cleaners, non-disinfectant all Total dividends paid m 17 Powerbrands to realise our vision and purpose cleaners, lavatory care, speciality Dividend per share pence Gross margin % 100bps drive above industry average growth to cleaners and polishes waxes.
500 strengthen their global market positions.
1 worldwide in disinfectant cleaners 80.0 441 400 59.3 Transform the above industry average net products which both clean and disinfect 58.3 58 358 revenue growth into attractive profits and surfaces, killing 99.9% of germs with 60 300 cash flow.
Lysol in North America and the Surface 300 55.0 56.7 56 262 Care products in the Dettol range outside 45.5 THE COMPANYS BRAND PORTFOLIO AND 216 200 40 North America.
54.9 39.0 54.8 MARKET POSITION 54 34.0 The Company benefits from many very strong No.
1 worldwide in lavatory care with Lysol in 100 20 market positions for its brand portfolio.
North America and Harpic across Europe and 52 Excluding Laundry Detergent and Fabric Developing Markets.
0 04 05 06 07 08 Soft50 ener, the Company is the world market 0 The Company has a number of local 04 05 06 07 08 04 05 06 07 08 leader in household cleaning products and has leading brands in non-disinfectant all leading positions in selected health & personal purpose cleaners, speciality cleaners and care categories.
These positions derive from the polishes waxes.
strength of the Companys leading brands, described as Powerbrands, which are the flagship brands in the Companys five major categories and on which the Company focuses the majority of its efforts and investment.
1 worldwide in Automatic Dishwashing Commission for treatment in the 27 states of 160 1750 23.4 22.6 157.8 Operating 21.5 products used in automatic dishwashers the European Union, Norway and Iceland, 20 1,640 20.1 1500 19.3 with Finish Calgonit internationally and with exclusivity until 2016.
As with all Net 120 123.4 15 1250 Electrasol Jet Dry in North America.
prescription drugs, the protection of this 1,228 1,231 107.1 1,177 business has a finite term unless replaced 1000 The Company also has some small, local 90.0 10 with new treatments or forms.
Therefore, the 80 946 953 914 positions left in the declining manual 861 77.1 750 revenue and income of this business may not 758 dishwashing products market.
664 5 be sustained going forward unless replaced 500 40 Home Care with new treatments or forms, on which the 250 0 Home Care consists of Air Care, Pest Control Company is actively working.
At the same 04 05 06 07 08 0 and Shoe Car 0 e. time, the Company is engaged in developing 04 05 06 07 08 adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional items 04 05 06 07 08 potential new treatments with third parties No.
2 worldwide in Air Care with Air Wick.
adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional items that would have either patent protection or No.
2 worldwide in Pest Control with market exclusivity in similar areas to where it Total dividends paid m Gross margin % 100bps Mortein, the Companys international brand, is active today.
Dividend per share pence 60 500 supported by local brand franchises like THE INDUSTRY, MARKET AND COMPETITIVE 80 59.3 d-Con in North America.
2 worldwide in Shoe Care with such The household cleaning and health & personal 358 60 56.7 brands as 300 Cherry Blossom and Nugget.
care industry is characterised by steady growth 56 300 55.0 in demand, with little variation due to 262 54.9 Health & Personal Care 54.8 45.5 54 216 200 macro-economic factors, particularly in 40 The Health & Personal Care category consists of 39.0 developed markets.
Some developing markets 34.0 products that relieve or solve common personal 100 52 exhibit more volatile demand in reaction to 20 and health problems.
1 worldwide in topical Antiseptics of market growth in all markets are the rate of 04 05 06 07 08 04 05 06 07 08 0 and Antiseptic Personal Care products household formation and growth in the level of 04 05 06 07 08 with Dettol.
disposable income, combined with demand for new products that offer improved performance No.
1 worldwide in Depilatory products or greater convenience.
The industry is intensely competitive, with No.
2 worldwide in Acne treatment a comparatively small number of major with Clearasil.
multi-national competitors accounting for No.
1 worldwide in Medicated Sore Throat a large proportion of total global demand.
The Company competes with numerous, well-established, local, regional, national and No.
2 worldwide in Cough Relief international companies, some of which are with Mucinex.
very large and aggressively establish and defend Leading positions in Analgesics and Upper their products, market shares and brands.
Gastro-Intestinal products in Europe and Principal competitors include FMCG companies Australia with Nurofen and Gaviscon.
like Procter & Gamble, Colgate-Palmolive, Clorox, S. C. Johnson, Henkel and Unilever, and The Company also has local leading such pharmaceutical companies as positions in Denture Care, Dry Skin Care and GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, Novartis Cold Flu products.
and Bayer, plus a number of strong local Other industry players.
The Company also has two non-strategic The Company competes, particularly in strongly businesses: Food and Pharmaceuticals.
branded segments, through its focus on its Food.
The Company owns a largely North leading position in higher growth categories American Food business, the principal where it is typically the market leader or a close brands of which are Frenchs Mustard the follower, and through its ability to introduce No.
1 mustard and Franks Red Hot Sauce new products whether improved or newly the No.
2 hot sauce in North America.
developed supported by a rising and substantial level of marketing, particularly Pharmaceuticals.
formerly known as media investment.
Much industry competition BBG or the Buprenorphine Business Group focuses on competing claims for product is responsible for the development of performance rather than price or terms.
For this the Companys Subutex and Suboxone reason, failure to introduce new products and prescription drug business.
Both products gain acceptance thereof may significantly are based on buprenorphine for treatment impact the Companys operating results.
Suboxone is a more Company also encounters challenges to its advanced product compared to Subutex, as leadership positions in markets, the defence it has substantially better protection against against which requires significant marketing abuse by the opioid-dependent population.
Subutex is principally marketed in Europe by Schering Plough Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey to whom it is licensed, while Suboxone is sold by Reckitt Benckiser directly in the USA and Australia, with Orphan Drug Status in the US until the end of September 2009.
Suboxone has recently received 16 Reckitt Benckiser 2008 The Companys products also compete with The central Category Development function, RESOURCES private label products sold by major retail where appropriate supported by Global Sales, The major resources required by the business companies.
The Company competes with is responsible for Powerbrand strategies, brand are an adequate supply of the raw and private label primarily by focusing on delivering equity programmes and best practices and new packaging materials consumed by the innovative new products with real consumer product development including R&D and Companys products and the necessary funds benefits, on which private label typically does consumer and market research, for for developing new products and reinvestment not focus, and by consistent marketing implementation by the Area organisations.
in advertising and promoting those brands.
The investment to communicate the benefits of its other principal resource is management.
The three geographical Areas are brands direct to consumers, where private label responsible for local execution of marketing The Company considers that its primary raw is not advertised.
and sales programmes: materials, such as bulk chemicals including a Technological change and product improvement number of petrochemicals, plastics, pulp, metal Eur ope.
The Area covers the regions of can therefore be a key determinant of the cans etc, are generally in adequate supply Northern Europe UK, Ireland, Scandinavia, Companys success.
The cost of these items fluctuates from Central Europe Germany, Netherlands, in introducing new and improved products time to time but not at levels that seriously Austria, Switzerland, Western Europe stems from its heavy focus on developing a impinge on the ability of the Company to France, Belgium, Southern Europe pipeline of product innovation.
The Company supply its products or generate profit.
The Italy, Greece, South Western Europe maintains a large category development Company is profitable and cash generative, Spain, Portugal and export business and organisation, including market and consumer even after reinvesting in marketing, Eastern Europe Poland, Hungary, Czech research, R&D and marketing sales best specifically media, at levels well above the Republic Slovakia Romania, Adriatics, practice, to fuel this pipeline and share category industry average.
The Company therefore Russia CIS, Turkey.
The Company believes that its ability to reinvest in supporting invested 109m in R&D in 2008.
While the North America & Australia NAA.
The and building its brands is a significant Company believes R&D to be a key contributor Area covers the markets of North America competitive advantage.
to innovative new products, it does not believe USA, Canada, Australia and New Zealand.
Supply constraints do exist in the Companys it to be the dominant performance indicator for Developing Markets.
The Area covers the supply chain from time to time.
The Companys success is regions of Latin America Brazil, Mexico, arise due to unexpected demand for new demonstrated by the fact that over 35% of its Argentina and smaller markets, Africa products or to the time delay involved in net revenue comes from products launched Middle East South Africa, Middle East, stepping up production of new items to the over the last three years.
Pakistan, East Africa, West Africa, South levels required to supply many millions of INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS AND Asia India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, units internationally.
REGULATORY POSITION Indonesia and East Asia Korea, Hong Kong, The Companys supply chain is deliberately The household and health & personal care China, Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia, relatively well spread in terms of geography industry is heavily regulated by, inter alia, the Thailand, Japan.
and technology, such that the reliance on any European Union, the United States government The Supply function is responsible for all one facility is minimised.
However, there are and individual country governments elsewhere.
procurement raw and packaging materials a number of facilities that remain critical to Ingredients, manufacturing standards, labour and services, production and logistics globally, the Companys supply chain where major standards, product safety, marketing and and is directly responsible for the operation of interruption to normal working could involve advertising claims are all subject to detailed and the Companys 41 production facilities disruption to supply.
The Companys suppliers developing regulation.
Approximately 85% of are similarly deliberately well spread in terms Reckitt Benckiser has operating companies manufacturing and supply is through these of geography and supplied items, but there in over 60 countries and has sales in around 41 sites around the world, with facilities located are nonetheless some risks to continuity of 180 countries worldwide.
At present, over in Europe 15 facilities, North America 5 supply arising from some specialised suppliers 75% of the Companys net revenue derives facilities, Australia and New Zealand 1 facility both of raw materials and of third party from Europe, North America and and the remaining facilities spread across Asia manufactured items.
Australia New Zealand, with the remainder 12, Latin America 4 and Africa Middle East The supply of strong management for the coming mostly from semi-established or 4.
These include a small number of facilities in Company remains more than adequate.
The Company is higher risk labour and social environments in attributable to the Companys culture and its expanding its operations in these semiAsia and Latin America.
highly performance-oriented remuneration established economies, which may bring Information Services is responsible for the policy which is based on paying for excellent increased risks from greater economic volatility, Companys global systems infrastructure and performance.
The Company believes that its additional governmental burden and global systems, including the Companys ability to attract and retain the excellent regulation, political instability and local labour chosen Enterprise Resource Planning ERP management it needs to continue its success conditions.
However, this is not the case with system and its associated programmes.
depends critically on this system.
all developing markets, many of which offer higher economic growth potential.
The Company has a comprehensive set of The Company trains and develops its policies and procedures designed to enforce management pipeline through formal training The Company structures its business through and protect its reputation and govern its programmes focusing on three areas: a matrix of a centralised Category business methods and practices.
These cover, leadership skills, functional skills and general Development organisation, Global Sales inter alia, a comprehensive Code of Business skills, and through a deliberate policy of organisation, Supply organisation and support Conduct, an Environmental Policy, a Global training on the job.
The Company has functions Finance, Human Resources and Manufacturing Standard, Product Safety Policy 15 formal training modules for middle Information Services, combined with three including compliance with all regulatory management and Top 400 managers.
During Area organisations, Europe, North America requirements, and product quality.
Internal 2008, the Company ran 77 courses on these & Australia, and Developing Markets, plus controls on environmental, social, governance modules, training over 1,300 people.
ESG matters and reputational risk are further Management is international, and is trained outlined on pages 18 and 19 of this report.
through rotation in international postings both in countries and in the Companys central functions.
Succession planning is a critical management discipline and is reviewed at least annually at the full Board and the Executive Committee.
Reckitt Benckiser 2008 17 Business review 2008 continued The Company closely monitors and tracks its The Company has many suppliers.
The suppliers Environmental, Social and Governance Top 400 international managers T400, the are predominantly international chemical and ESG and reputational risks core management team of the business.
The Company sources Another group of risks concern the reputation a diverse group, consisting of 48 nationalities: most of its supplies through its global of the Company and its brands, but are and over 57% of the T400 is working in a purchasing function, which acts as its primary reduced by the fact that the Company and its country that is not their original domicile, interface with its suppliers.
brands are not necessarily connected in the consistent with the Companys policy to mind of consumers.
The principal risk factors that may be develop a multi-national management team.
considered in relation to the Group are, in the Risks from the perspective of Environmental, Turnover within this T400 group in 2008 was opinion of the Directors: Social and Governance ESG matters and 9%, which the Company considers satisfactory reputation are discussed in the Report of the given the need to retain high-quality Market risks Directors on pages 24 to 29.
These should be management offset by the benefits of Demand for the Companys products may read in conjunction with the Companys annual refreshing the team with new talent.
2008 saw be adversely affected by changes in Sustainability Reports available on the around 29 promotions, 62 moves and fewer consumer preferences.
Companys website which address a number than 25 external recruits.
The Company ended Customers, mainly large retailers, may decide of potentially reputation-affecting ESG matters the year with an historically low level of to fide-list the Companys brands, or not such as employee health & safety at work and vacancies within the T400 of 12, or around participate in the active promotion of the how the Company is addressing such matters, 2.7% of the measured group.
and which are independently assured.
There is a comprehensive set of policies Competition may reduce the Companys In summary, the principal ESG risks identified by governing employment and employees to market shares and margins.
the Company are: ensure that the Company remains an attractive employer.
The Company is The expiry of the Companys exclusive licence Industry sector and product & consumer committed to the principle of equal opportunity for Suboxone in the United States in 2009, safety regulatory risks.
The household in employment: no applicant or employee with the possibility that the Company will products and health & personal care sectors receives less favourable treatment on the not develop new forms that offer new have a number of product and ingredient grounds of nationality, age, gender, religion intellectual property protection beyond 2009. issues relating to ongoing developments in or disability.
It is essential to the continued ingredient regulation and concerns voiced Competition from private label and improvement in efficiency and productivity over the potential long-term effects of unbranded products may intensify.
that each employee understands the household chemicals and OTC over-theCompanys strategies, policies and procedures.
Operational risks counter drug ingredients on human health Open and regular communication with The Companys new product pipeline may and the environment.
employees at all levels is an essential part not generate consumer-relevant innovation Supply chain risks.
Most product and raw of the management process.
A continuing and improvement to fuel growth and build material supply chains present a number of programme of training and development market shares.
potential reputational risks relating to: labour reinforces the Companys commitment to Key management may leave, or management standards: health, safety and environmental employee involvement.
The Board encourages turnover may significantly increase.
standards: raw material sourcing: and the employees to become shareholders and to social, ethical and environmental participate in the Companys employee share Information technology systems may be performance of third party manufacturers ownership schemes.
disrupted or may fail, despite the Companys and other suppliers.
disaster recovery processes, interfering with The Company relies on its brand names and the Companys ability to conduct its business.
Failures in product intellectual property.
All of the Companys quality controls could potentially lead to major brand names are protected by nationally Regulatory decisions and changes in the legal damage to the reputation of and trust in the or internationally registered trademarks.
and regulatory environment could increase Companys brands.
The Company also maintains patents or costs or liabilities or limit business activities.
other protection for its significant product The Company has a full set of policies, Operating results may be affected by formulation, designs and processing programmes and control arrangements, increased costs or shortages of raw materials methods.
The Company aggressively building on its central Code of Business labour or by disruption to production monitors these protections and pursues any Conduct, that addresses the full range of ESG facilities or operating centres.
The Code itself Unfavourable economic or business is currently the subject of a comprehensive RELATIONSHIPS AND PRINCIPAL RISKS conditions may adversely affect or disrupt internal training and awareness programme, The Companys critical external relationships are operations in countries in which the and is covered by an annual review and with its major customers, typically the large Company operates.
certification process carried out by Internal grocery, mass market, multiple retailers, and its Audit and the Legal Department.
The Board suppliers of raw and packaging materials and Significant movement in the exchange rates holds a formal review of ESG matters at finished goods.
in which the Group purchases its raw least annually.
materials and packaging may limit the The Companys customer base is diffuse with Groups ability to expand margins.
no single customer accounting for more than 10% of net revenue, and the top ten customers A major supplier or customer could only accounting for between a quarter and a experience financial difficulties, impinging on third of total net revenue.
These customers are the Groups normal course of business.
becoming more concentrated and more The Company may not be able to protect its multi-national, increasing demands on the intellectual property rights.
In addition, many retailers compete with the Companys products with their own private label offerings.
The Company maintains its relationship with its principal retail customers through the efforts of its dedicated sales force, including key account directors, and its global sales organisation specifically set up to manage its interface with the growth of international retailers.
18 Reckitt Benckiser 2008 Financial risks tonnes COequivalents per annum.
PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESS IN 2008 2 The Companys policies and procedures on the Additionally, the Company has been Net revenue increased 25% 13% at management of financial risk are explained in proactive in managing the energy use of its constant exchange to 6,563m.
The Company has a number of direct operations so as to continually reduce growth was 10%.
Adams contributed 233m risk exposures in relation to tax, treasury, its associated GHG emissions since 2000: for the 11 months since acquisition, while financial controls and reporting that are actively specifically, the Company reduced the GHG disposed businesses contributed 49m in 2007. managed through the Companys financial emissions from its global manufacturing The gross margin improved by 100bps to manual of policies and procedures, through facilities energy use between 2000 and 2007 59.3% due to sales price increases, benefits regular review and controls, and through by 33% per unit of production and by 21% in from cost optimisation programmes, volume regular auditing, both internal and external.
leverage and the impact of a positive mix more Environmental matters, employees and The Company has taken a leadership position than offsetting higher input costs.
The inclusion social & community issues in terms of its products carbon footprint, by of the recently-acquired Adams business In line with the requirements of the Companies seeking to understand, measure and reduce contributed approximately 50bps of the Act 2006, a rationale has been developed the greenhouse gas emissions generated by all increase of 100bps.
and a review undertaken to determine what stages in the product life cycle for its global Marketing investment was higher, and pure information to include in this Report as product portfolio, and including amongst other media investment rose 26% 14% constant necessary for an understanding of the things: the raw and packaging materials to a level of 12.4% of net revenue, consistent development, performance and position of provided by its suppliers: the Companys own with 2007. the business of the Company relating to direct manufacturing and other operations: environmental matters including the impact of transportation of both raw materials and Operating profit as reported was 1,505m, the Companys business on the environment, finished products: the retail sale of its products: 22% higher than last year 9% constant.
its employees, and social & community issues.
consumers use of its products: and, the Excluding the exceptional charge of 30m in A summary of this information is provided here, disposal recycling of those products and their 2008 and the net gain of 43m in 2007, with further information provided in other packaging.
The Company publicly launched this adjusted operating profit was 1,535m, an sections of the Business Review and in the initiative in November 2007, comprising its increase of 29% on 2007 15% constant.
Report of the Directors on page 27.
Carbon 20 programme and the target to The adjusted operating margin improved by reduce its global products carbon footprint 80bps to 23.4% due to gross margin Overall, Environmental, Social and Governance across their complete life cycle by 20% per expansion, partially offset by additional matters and reputational risk are addressed in unit by 2020 versus a 2007 baseline marketing investment.
the Report of the Directors on pages 24 to 29, www.
and with regard to Employees and Internal Net finance expense was 31m 2007: 24m, Control on pages 24 and 26.
These should be Recently, in January 2009, the Company reflecting interest on the debt to finance the read in conjunction with the Companys latest launched Our Home Our Planet, an Adams acquisition early in the year.
The tax rate Sustainability Report available on the international consumer communication for the year was 24%.
programme across many of its major brands.
Net income was 1,120m, an increase of com which addresses a number of potentially Our Home Our Planet aims to change consumer 19% 6% constant on 2007.
On an reputation-affecting issues such as employee behaviour by informing consumers how they adjusted basis, net income growth was 26% health & safety at work and how the Company can reduce their impact on the environment 12% at constant.
is addressing those issues, and which is when using the Companys products for independently assured.
example by reducing domestic energy and Diluted earnings per share grew 21% to water use whilst also saving money on their 154.7 pence.
Earnings per share diluted, In summary environmental, employee and household bills www.
adjusted increased 28% to 157.8 pence, social & community issues identified by the ahead of net income growth as the accretion Company are: product ingredient regulation As noted above under the section on from the buy back more than offset dilution and specifically REACh the new European Relationships and Principal Risks: the Company from new share issues.
framework for the Registration, Evaluation, has a full set of policies, programmes and Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals, control arrangements in place, building on which is discussed in the Report of the Directors its central Code of Business Conduct, that on page 27: product quality safety and addresses the full range of ESG matters and specifically the Companys arrangements for reputational risks.
The Code itself is currently managing product quality such as to prevent the subject of a comprehensive internal training large scale sub-standard quality events and its and awareness programme, and covered by an arrangements to ensure that its products are annual review and certification process carried both suitable and safe for their intended use, out by Internal Audit and the Legal which are discussed in the Report of the Department.
The Board holds a formal review Directors on page 27: in terms of the of ESG matters at least annually.
environment, the carbon footprint of its products, which is described below: and, in terms of the impact of the Companys business on the environment, the greenhouse gas GHG emissions originating from its direct operations and specifically energy use at its global manufacturing operations.
Due to the Companys industry sectors and product 2008 results excluding RB Pharmaceuticals categories the greenhouse gas emissions In light of the increasing significance of the RB Pharmaceutical business, the Company provides the originating from energy use at its direct following information relating to the performance of the business in 2008 excluding operations is of medium-to-low impact in RB Pharmaceuticals on an adjusted basis : comparison to those of other similarly-sized companies, as assessed for example in recent RB ex Pharmaceuticals RB Pharmaceuticals Total RB m % constant m % constant m % constant reports of the independent Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, www.
net : specifically, Net revenue 6,222 12% 341 45% 6,563 13% the GHG emissions from the Companys global Adjusted Operating Profit 1,342 12% 193 43% 1,535 15% manufacturing operations is circa.
300,000 Adjusted Operating Margin 21.6% 40bps 56.6% 70bps 23.4% 80bps Reckitt Benckiser 2008 19 Business review 2008 continued GEOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS AT CONSTANT Developing Markets 18% of net revenue Dishwashing.
Net revenue increased 9% to EXCHANGE 2008 net revenue was ahead 16% to 754m due to the success of Finish Quantum 1,187m, with strong growth evident across all and the launch of Finish Max in 1 in Europe, as Europe 50% of net revenue regions and categories.
In Fabric Care, Vanish well as strong growth of Electrasol 3in1 2008 total net revenue increased 5% to benefited from initiatives to drive category Powerball tablets in North America behind 3,269m: excluding disposals in the prior year, penetration across the Area.
In Surface Care, increased investment.
like-for-like net revenue improved 7%, with Harpic, and Veja in Brazil, were the key growth growth coming across all categories.
Net revenue increased 6% to drivers.
In Home Care, growth came from Care, growth was led by Vanish behind recent 908m, driven by Air Care.
Growth was led by Air Wick, driven by Freshmatic.
In Health & initiatives such as Vanish Oxi Action Intelligence the continuing success of Air Wick Freshmatic Personal Care, range extensions and additional and Magnets, and Calgon Water Softeners.
and such new initiatives as Mini Freshmatic, investment generated growth behind Dettol, Growth in Surface Care came from new Cillit Air Wick Aqua Essences and the Air Wick Veet and Strepsils.
Bang variants such as Grease & Floors and Symphonia liquid electrical ranges.
Stain & Mildew, Harpic including the new For the full year, adjusted operating profit Health & Personal Care.
Net revenue cageless in-the-bowl toilet cleaners and Dettol increased by 19% to 163m.
This resulted in increased 29% to 1,682m, with like-for-like All in 1.
Dishwashing was driven by a strong a 30bps improvement in the adjusted growth of 16%.
Dettol antiseptic grew performance from Finish Max in 1 and operating margin to 13.7%.
strongly in Developing Markets, owing to the Quantum.
Home Care increased as a result of Pharmaceuticals 5% of net revenue expansion of the personal wash range and new initiatives such as Air Wick Freshmatic 2008 net revenue for the Groups Subutex and higher marketing investment.
Strong Mini, Aqua Essences and the Symphonia Suboxone prescription drug business grew performance in Health care was led by Strepsils liquid electricals range.
These buprenorphine-based and Nurofen, boosted by such successful & Personal Care came principally from products are used to treat opiate dependence.
innovations as Strepsils Cool and Sore Throat Nurofen and Strepsils, following increases This very strong growth was predominantly & Blocked Nose variants and Nurofen Express, in marketing support.
driven by a continued increase in penetration supported by higher investment.
The Adams For the full year, the adjusted operating margin of Suboxone in the USA.
business contributed 233m to net revenue was 10bps ahead of last year at 23.9%: this for the 11 months of ownership, as marketing For the full year, the adjusted operating margin resulted in a 5% improvement in adjusted investment drove increased penetration improved by 70bps to 56.6%.
operating profit was 193m, an increase North America & Australia 27% of of 43%.
Total Household and Health & Personal net revenue Care.
Net revenue was ahead by 11% to As a result of its Orphan Drug Status, Suboxone 2008 total net revenue including Adams 5,996m, 8% on a like-for-like basis.
has exclusivity in the USA until the end of increased 22% to 1,766m.
Like-for-like September 2009 and in Europe until 2016.
2008 net revenue for the growth was 6%, and Adams contributed Within the Pharmaceuticals division, the US groups Subutex and Suboxone prescription 233m to net revenue in the 11 months Suboxone business generated net revenue of drug business grew 45% to 341m, of ownership.
285m and adjusted operating profit of predominantly driven by a continued increase in Excluding Adams, financial year net revenue 172m.
While the Group continues to search penetration of Suboxone in the USA.
Adjusted growth was driven particularly by Dishwashing, for ways to offset the impact of the loss of operating profit was ahead 43% to 193m, Surface Care and Health & Personal Care.
In exclusivity in the USA at the end of September equating to a 70bps improvement in the Dishwashing, growth came from the continuing 2009, up to 80% of the revenues and profits of margin to 56.6%.
success of Electrasol 3in1 Powerball tabs, while that business might be lost to generic Food.
Net revenue grew 8% to 226m with Surface Care increased as a result of Lysol competition in 2010, with the possibility of good performance across the consumer disinfectants and disinfectant cleaners.
portfolio, in particular further growth for Health & Personal Care, increased marketing CATEGORY REVIEW AT CONSTANT Frenchs Yellow Mustard, Frenchs Fried Onions investment helped drive strong growth for EXCHANGE RATES and Franks Red Hot Sauce.
Adjusted operating Nurofen and Strepsils.
Net revenue increased 5% to profit increased 4% to 60m.
Food performed well, with growth coming 1,473m.
This growth largely came from particularly from the consumer brands of Vanish, driven by recent initiatives such as Frenchs Yellow Mustard, Frenchs Fried Onions Vanish Oxi Action Intelligence and Magnets.
Calgon Water Softeners also performed well due to higher marketing investment.
For the full year, adjusted operating profit increased 23% to 397m, due primarily to the Surface Care.
Net revenue grew 6% to mix benefit from the Adams acquisition.
The 1,112m, driven by strong growth for the adjusted operating margin was 100bps higher Dettol and Lysol ranges, the launch of further at 22.5%.
variants of Cillit Bang such as Grease & Floors and Stain & Mildew, and Veja in Brazil.
Harpic Lavatory Care also performed well, due in part to the new cageless in-the-bowl toilet cleaner.
20 Reckitt Benckiser 2008 FINANCIAL REVIEW 34.0% 2007: 39.3% on a reported basis or The Board of Directors reviews and agrees Like-for-like LFL.
Growth describes business 34.7% 2007: 37.9% on an adjusted basis.
policies, guidelines and authority levels for all performance on a comparable basis, excluding areas of treasury activity and individually Dividends.
The Board of Directors the impact of business acquistions, disposals approves significant activities.
The GTC recommends a final dividend of 48.0p per share and foreign exchange movements.
operates under the close control of the Chief 2007: 30.0p, an increase of 60%, to give a Financial Officer and is subject to periodic Constant exchange.
Movements in exchange full year dividend of 80.0p per share 2007: independent review and audits, both internal rates relative to sterling affect actual results as 55.0p, an overall increase of 45%.
The constant exchange rate basis dividend, if approved by shareholders at the adjusts the comparative to exclude such AGM on 7 May 2009, will be paid on 28 May Foreign exchange risk movements, to show the underlying growth of to shareholders on the register at the record a Translation risk the Group.
The ex-dividend date The Group publishes its financial statements in is 25 February 2009 and the last date for sterling but conducts business in many foreign Net income.
Net income is the equivalent of election for the share alternative to the currencies.
As a result, it is subject to foreign profit for the year.
dividend is 6 May 2009. currency exchange risk due to the effects that Net finance expense.
Net interest payable exchange rate movements have on the Share buy back.
During 2008, the Group was 31m, a 29% increase on 2007 24m, translation of the results and the underlying net purchased 10.7m shares at a cost of 300m reflecting interest on the debt to finance the assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
as part of its share buy back programme.
The Adams acquisition early in the year.
Board of Directors has decided to move The Groups policy is to align interest costs Tax.
The tax rate was 24%, underlying 24% immediately to a dividend payout ratio of 50%, and operating profit of its major currencies in 2007: 22%, underlying 24%.
reflecting its confidence in the prospects of the order to provide some protection against the Group and its future cash flow generation.
The translation exposure on foreign currency Net working capital.
Inventories, short-term Board also considers that the optimal use of profits after tax.
The Group may undertake receivables and short-term liabilities excluding cash flow is currently to repay debt further.
borrowings and other hedging methods in the borrowings and provisions improved by 271m Therefore, it has decided to cancel the share currencies of the countries where most of its to minus 1,097m, mostly due to further buy back programme in 2009. assets are located.
The Group completed the b Transaction risk Cash flow.
Operating cash flow was 1,333m acquisition of Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, It is the Groups policy to monitor and, only 2007: 975m and net cash flow from Inc. on 30 January 2008 for a consideration of where appropriate, hedge its foreign currency operations was 1,177m 2007: 861m.
Net $60 per share or approximately $2.3bn transaction exposure.
These transaction interest paid was 3m higher at 27m 2007: 1.1bn.
Of the net assets acquired, intangible exposures arise mainly from foreign currency 24m and tax payments increased by 48m to assets net of deferred tax represented $1.0bn receipts and payments for goods and services, 280m 2007: 232m.
Results for the Adams and from the remittances of foreign currency was higher than the prior year at 216m 2007: business have been included in the Groups dividends and loans.
The local business units 134m due to the investment in the Muse results from the date of acquisition.
On enter into forward foreign exchange contracts brand and the exclusive licensing agreement acquisition, the Group announced an with the GTC to manage these exposures with QLT USA, Inc totaling 51m.
exceptional charge to cover the necessary where practical and allowed by local Net debt.
Net debt at the end of the year was reorganisation associated with the integration regulations.
The GTC matches the Group 1,096m December 2007: 125m, an of Adams into Reckitt Benckiser.
exposures, and hedges the net position where increase of 971m.
This reflected net cash flow possible, using spot and forward foreign Contingent liabilities.
The Group is involved from operations of 1,177m, offset by the currency exchange contracts.
in the early stage of a number of enquiries from acquisition of Adams for 1,081m, the competition authorities including the European Market price risk payment of two dividends totalling 441m, the Commission and several member states.
Any The Group is not exposed to equity securities share buyback of 300m and the adverse potential liability in respect of such enquiries is price risk.
Due to the nature of its business the foreign exchange translation impact on net not quantifiable as at the date of this report, Group is exposed to commodity price risk debt minus 332m, net, predominantly arising therefore the Directors have made no provision related to the production or packaging of from the strengthening of the US dollar during for such potential liabilities.
finished goods such as oil related and a diverse the year.
The Group regularly reviews its range of other raw materials.
This risk is, banking arrangements and currently has Financial risk management however, managed primarily through mediumadequate facilities available to it, none of which The Groups multi-national operations expose it term contracts with certain key suppliers and is expires within one year.
to a variety of financial risks that include the not therefore viewed as being a material risk.
effects of changes in foreign currency exchange Balance sheet.
At the end of 2008, the Group rates foreign exchange risk, market prices, Interest rate risk had shareholders funds of 3,294m 2007: interest rates, credit risks and liquidity.
The The Group has both interest-bearing and non 2,385m, an increase of 38%.
Net debt Group has in place a risk management interest-bearing assets and liabilities.
The Group was 1,096m 2007: 125m and total capital programme that uses foreign currency financial manages its interest expense rate exposure employed in the business was 4,390m instruments, including debt, and other using a mixture of fixed rate and floating rate 2007: 2,510m.
instruments, to limit the impact of these risks debt.
The Group manages its interest rate This finances non-current assets of 7,228m on the financial performance of the Group.
exposure on its gross financial assets by using a 2007: 4,426m, of which 637m 2007: combination of fixed rate term deposits and The Groups financing and financial risk 479m is tangible fixed assets, the remainder forward rate agreements.
management activities are centralised into the being goodwill, other intangible assets, Group Treasury Centre GTC to achieve Credit risk deferred tax, available for sale financial assets benefits of scale and control.
The GTC manages The Group has no significant concentrations of and other receivables.
The Group has net financial exposures of the Group centrally in a credit risk.
Financial institution counterparties working capital of minus 1,097m 2007: manner consistent with underlying business are subject to approval under the Groups minus 826m, current provisions of 73m risks.
The GTC manages only those risks and counterparty risk policy and such approval is 2007: 36m and long-term liabilities other flows generated by the underlying commercial limited to financial institutions with a BBB than borrowings of 1,668m 2007: 1,054m.
operations and speculative transactions are rating or above.
The amount of exposure to any The Groups financial ratios remain strong.
individual counterparty is subject to a limit Return on shareholders funds net income defined within the counterparty risk policy, divided by total shareholders funds was which is reassessed annually by the Board.
Reckitt Benckiser 2008 21 Business review 2008 continued Liquidity risk COMPANY PROSPECTS Cautionary note concerning forward The Group has bilateral credit facilities with The Company believes it is well-positioned to looking statements This document contains forward looking statements, high-quality international banks.
All of these continue to deliver on its strategic objective of including statements with respect to the financial facilities have similar or equivalent terms and profitable growth.
condition, results of operations and business of Reckitt conditions, and have a financial covenant, For the medium-term outlook, the Company Benckiser and certain of the plans and objectives of which is not expected to restrict the Groups targets to deliver above industry average the Company with respect to these items.
The committed borrowing forward looking statements are made pursuant to the growth in net revenue, converted into facilities, together with available uncommitted Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private attractive growth in earnings, with increasing facilities and central cash and investments, are Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The Company has confidence considered sufficient to meet the Groups all statements that express forecasts, expectations and in its ability to continue to generate strong cash projected cash requirements.
None of the projections with respect to future matters, including flow and to return substantial cash to trends in results of operations, margins, growth rates, Groups borrowing facilities expires within shareholders annually.
overall market trends, the impact of interest or one year.
exchange rates, the availability of financing to the The unknown factor is the ability of the Funds over and above those required for Company, anticipated cost savings or synergies and Company to enhance its prospects through short-term working capital purposes by the the completion of strategic transactions are forward mergers and acquisitions.
The industries in looking statements.
These forward looking statements overseas businesses are generally remitted to which it competes are already characterised are not guarantees of future performance: By their the GTC.
The Group uses the remittances to by high levels of concentration, resulting in very nature, forward looking statements involve known settle obligations, repay borrowings, or, in the infrequent opportunities to buy worthwhile and unknown risk and uncertainty and other factors event of a surplus, invest in short-term assets or businesses.
The Company is of the because they relate to events and depend on instruments issued by institutions with a BBB circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a belief that add-on acquisitions, geographically rating or above.
number of factors, discussed in this report, that could and by product category, could enhance the cause actual results and developments to differ Capital management business, but is not in a position to forecast materially from those expressed or implied by these The Companys objectives for managing capital if and when such acquisitions might occur.
forward looking statements, including many factors are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue The Company retains substantial resources to outside Reckitt Benckisers control.
Past performance as a going concern, in order to provide returns fund such acquisitions and believes it has the cannot be relied upon as a guide to future for shareholders and benefits for other management capability to absorb, integrate performance.
Each forward looking statement speaks stakeholders and to maintain an efficient and manage such acquisitions within its as of the date of the particular statement.
capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.
In maintaining an appropriate capital structure The Company is targeting a strong year in and providing returns for shareholders, in 2009.
Based on the current market outlook, 2008 the Company adopted a programme the Groups targets in 2009 are for net of returning cash to shareholders through revenue growth of 4% base 6,563m a combined dividend and share buy back and net income growth of 8-10% base programme, current details of which are 1,143m, both at constant exchange.
included in the Financial Review for the year, above.
The Group monitors net debt total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Due to the low level of net debt in its recent history, the Company does not actively monitor a gearing ratio, but seeks to pay down net debt using cash generated by the business to maintain an appropriate level of financial flexibility.
Detail of numerical disclosures relating to the Groups financial risk management are included in note 24 to the Accounts on page 65.
22 Reckitt Benckiser 2008 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Board and the Executive Committee have identified a number of Key Performance Indicators KPIs that are most relevant to the Company and are used to measure performance.
KPI 2007 2008 Comments Net revenue growth 9% 10% Measures the increase in sales of the Company % like-for-like growth of net revenues at constant exchange Powerbrands 66% 70% Measures the growth and importance of the % of net revenue from top 17 brands Companys flagship brands Gross margin % 58.3% 59.3% Measures the resources available for reinvestment gross profit as % of net revenues or profit growth Media investment 12.4% 12.4% Measures the rate of reinvestment in the media investment as % of net revenue Companys brands Operating margin % 22.6% 23.4% Measures the profitability of the Company operating profit as % of net revenue EPS fully diluted 123.4p 157.8p Measures the increase in profit per share of the Company % change in EPS fully diluted 15% 28% Net cash flow m 861m 1,177m Measures how the Company converts its profits into cash see page 39 -10% 37% Net working capital ratio -826m -1,097 Measures the ability of the Company to finance defined as inventories, short-term receivables and its expansion and release cash from working capital short-term liabilities excluding borrowings and provisions as % of net revenue -15.7% -16.7% Management turnover 10.1% 9% % of T400 management that has left the Company % of net revenue in No.
1 77% 73% Measures the health of the Companys or No.
2 brand positions brand market positions Adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional items Re-stated to reflect the reduction in the number of Powerbrands to 17 from 18, and to include those local brands being transitioned into Powerbrands Reckitt Benckiser 2008 23
