Business Review Consumer packaging has long been regarded as a relatively Despite pressure from the volatility in raw materials, energy and defensive industry.
In Rexams case, this defensiveness is further freight costs, operating margins improved owing to the synergies enhanced by our balanced product portfolio of Beverage Cans and from the OI Plastics acquisition and some margin recovery in Plastic Packaging as well as a broad geographic spread comprising Beverage Cans.
a mix of well established and emerging markets.
As a result we As a Group we continued to achieve significant efficiency savings delivered a record underlying performance in 2008.
It was delivering 35m in line with previous years.
Further lightweighting essentially a tale of two halves with a strong first six months and a and scrap reduction as well as other efficiencies in Beverage Cans more difficult second half due to softer trading as global economic delivered 14m.
Plastic Packaging delivered 21m of the and financial conditions deteriorated, which was offset by the efficiencies.
Some 8m came from synergies from the successful favourable effect of foreign currency exchange.
integration of OI Plastics, while the remainder derived from energy While we began to see the impact of the economic slow down saving, improved equipment utilisation and reduced scrap the result in those segments of our businesses more exposed to discretionary of a more systematic adoption of Lean Manufacturing and Six Sigma consumer spending, we continued to grow the top line.
Group sales practices across the Plastic Packaging operations.
advanced 28% to 4,618m driven largely by the OI Plastics and In recent years, Rexam has made significant investments in new Rostar acquisitions.
Foreign exchange, primarily the strengthening plants and additional or modified production lines as we look to of the dollar and euro against sterling, accounted for 10% of the realise opportunities for organic growth especially in the European increase.
Organic sales, adjusted for currency and acquisitions, Beverage Can business.
In 2008, we opened new plants in Russia grew 7% as a result of continued beverage can volume growth, and Denmark and added new lines in Spain, Egypt and Austria.
higher resin pass through and price increases in both Beverage As a result, net capital expenditure by continuing operations for the Cans and Plastic Packaging.
year at 383m remained higher than historic levels.
The stronger Underlying operating profit grew 32% to 466m of which organic US dollar and euro translation impact increased our earlier estimates growth was 3%.
The OI Plastics and Rostar acquisitions contributed by about 30m.
Our investment programme is now past its peak 57m while 47m was derived from the benefit of currency translation.
and in 2009 capital expenditure is returning to more normal levels Underlying profit before tax rose to a record 328m with underlying of between 1.1 and 1.2 times depreciation and amortisation.
earnings per share increasing 26% to 35.3p 2007: 28.0p, which Further details can be found in the Cash flow section on page 36. is lower than the growth in profit before tax due to shares issued in Our traditionally very strong working capital management was mid 2007 to part finance the OI Plastics acquisition.
affected during the second half of the year by a number of one offs as well as changes in trading terms which resulted in a disappointing outflow.
See under Cash flow on page 36 for further details.
With our focus on cash, we remain confident that we will improve our working capital position in 2009 and we are committed to achieving positive free cash flow post dividends for the full year 2009.
Free cash flow generation in 2008 was negative 128m, compared with 24m in 2007, owing to the increase in capital expenditure, as well as the aforementioned increase in working capital.
This, along with the Rostar acquisition and a sizeable negative currency translation impact, increased net debt to 2.6bn and reduced interest cover from 3.7 to 3.5 times.
Further details and commentary can be found under Balance sheet and borrowings on page 37.
Leslie Van fide Walle Chief Executive Officer Rexam performs and shows its resilience 10 Rexam Annual Report 2008 balance, closing plants and adapting assets to market conditions.
Statutory results Ensuring the optimal levels of utilisation is paramount in our business.
On a statutory basis, results include the effect of acquisitions, disposed If market conditions are such that we have to mothball or take out businesses, currency translation and exceptional and other items.
further capacity, we will do so.
Sales for continuing operations were 4,618m 2007: 3,611m and profit before tax was 240m 2007: 260m.
Total profit for We are also managing our business proactively.
We have largely the financial period was 171m 2007: 240m, including 66m removed the risk to us of volatile raw material input costs through the from discontinued operations and total basic earnings per share was implementation of pass through contracts with most of our customers.
During the year, we absorbed significant increases in energy and Being proactive and pragmatic freight costs.
We continue to focus on manufacturing costs and Consumer packaging is generally regarded as a defensive industry delivering operational efficiencies.
These have always been a key because even in times of recession, people continue to eat, drink priority for Rexam and are even more critical in an environment with and take care of their health three areas where we are a supplier an uncertain growth trajectory.
We have two well positioned and well invested global Another key priority for 2009 is cash, and in Beverage Cans and businesses in Beverage Cans and Plastic Packaging.
We have long, Plastic Packaging we have two highly cash generative businesses.
well established relationships with our customers and our suppliers We are managing our capital expenditure very tightly, spending are mostly large global companies.
Beverage cans as an industry only on previously committed projects and on health, safety and has proven to be relatively recession resistant on a global scale, maintenance requirements.
There are no new major growth although specialty cans are as yet untested.
In Plastic Packaging, investment projects planned in 2009. our focus is on higher growth and higher margin segments, but the business is less economically resilient than Beverage Cans.
While maintaining our relentless pursuit of efficiencies and manufacturing excellence, we continue to strengthen our marketing In these uncertain times our overriding aim is to protect the and product innovation as the organisation becomes even more foundations of the business.
Flexibility is a key word as we manage commercially focused.
2008 was the second year in succession our business pragmatically and focus on cash generation and cost that we put through price increases in both Beverage Cans and reduction.
In 2008, we acted swiftly in both Beverage Cans and Plastic Packaging.
Plastic Packaging to ensure capacity and demand remained in While few can predict when the current financial and economic situation will turn around, we remain confident that Rexam will come through this downturn as a leaner, more effective organisation.
We measure the achievement of our objectives through a number of financial and non financial Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
For progress on Safety and Environment KPIs, see pages 26 to 31.
Shareholder value Safety Environment Improve organic financial performance Zero work related injuries Manage environmental impact Sales growth Lost time accident rate per formance No uncontrolled or abnor mal Underlying operating profit growth Implementation of management systems environmental releases Underlying ear nings per share growth Emissions per tonne Free cash flow of production Dividend growth To have certi ed Environmental Growth by investment Management Systems in all businesses Capital expenditure Number of cer tifications Retur n on investment Operational excellence Underlying operating profit margin Cost efficiencies and savings 1 1 Shareholder value 2008 2007 2006 2005 2 Sales m 4,618 3,611 3,301 2,806 2 Underlying operating profit m 466 354 375 371 2 Underlying operating profit margins % 10.1 9.8 11.4 13.2 2 Underlying earnings per share p 35.3 28.0 35.6 34.8 Capital expenditure gross m 389 311 214 176 Free cash flow m 128 24 173 248 3 Ordinary dividends per share p 21.0 20.0 19.0 18.12 Return on invested capital % 11.0 11.9 15.0 15.5 2 Annual cost efficiencies and savings m 35 32 28 29 1 Sales and underlying performance have been restated for the discontinuance of the Glass business.
2 Underlying business performance is continuing operations before exceptional items, the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets and fair value changes on financing derivatives.
Rexam Annual Report 2008 11 Operational excellence remains the strategic foundation of our global beverage can business to reduce costs and improve quality.
A few years ago, when converting from steel to aluminium at our Berlin plant, we faced a tough start up period.
Can making is can making but aluminium is not steel and it was a matter of almost relearning the process.
Through the rigid application of Lean tools and the commitment of the plant teams, Berlin today has transformed itself into one of Rexams best.
Reducing direct material consumption, energy consumption, oil usage and repair expenses, among others, it has created 12 best practices from the work carried out.
These practices are now being shared throughout our manufacturing network.
12 Rexam Annual Report 2008 Business Review Rexam has an extensive range of beverage can Beverage Cans sizes and categories to ensure customers have 2008 2007 the opportunity to choose the most suitable Sales 3,289m 2,686m format for their product.
The 33cl Rexam Underlying operating profit 306m 244m SLEEK can provided Coca Cola with a unique Return on sales 9.3% 9.1% piece of packaging for a speci c marketing requirement.
2008 was characterised by a significant difference in market volumes between the two halves of the year.
During the first six months, volume growth remained largely in line with previous years, while in the second half it slowed appreciably, especially in Eastern Europe and North America.
Against this backdrop, our Beverage Cans sales grew 22% compared with last year, reflecting the effect of foreign currency translation as well as the additional sales from Rostar, the Russian beverage can maker which we acquired at the start of 2008.
Sales also benefited from continued market growth in Europe and South America.
Organic sales grew 8%, driven largely by volume and mix.
Underlying operating profit grew 25%, again including the effect of foreign currency.
Organic underlying operating profit improved 4% as a result of increased pricing, continued efficiency savings as well as rigorous contract management to ensure appropriate cost recovery.
We benefited from a reduced exposure to aluminium volatility in Europe following the renegotiation in 2007 of a number of contracts to the pass through model that we use in our North and South American Beverage Can businesses.
In the majority of contracts without pass through, we hedged the cost of aluminium.
Margins for Beverage Cans improved from 9.1% last year to 9.3%, a little lower than we expected due mainly to higher freight and energy costs, as well as curtailment costs associated with temporary overcapacity in the latter part of the year in the US.
In 2009, we expect to benefit from inflation escalators and adjustments as well as from the closures we announced in our North American manufacturing network during 2008, which are discussed on pages 14 and 15.
Our aim remains to improve global can margins over time but that will depend on the future growth in the markets in which we operate.
Rexam has well established systems in all its regions to capture the pockets of operational excellence that exist throughout its global manufacturing network.
These areas of excellence are documented and disseminated in formal forums.
They target cost reduction, quality improvement and customer satisfaction with practices shared across areas such as utilities usage, repair materials, spoilage and line ow.
The focus is on both the daily operational and game changing ideas that will create a competitive edge for Rexam.
Rexam Annual Report 2008 13 Business Review The new plant in Fredericia, Denmark, produced its first commercial Beverage Can Europe & Asia beverage cans at the start of 2009 and a second line is due to start In Europe, the year started well as the market continued to grow up, as planned, by the end of the first quarter.
Even though the at a similar rate to recent years in both Western and Eastern Europe.
overall European market growth rate has slowed, the Nordic market This was driven principally by increased at home consumption, continues to expand.
The strategic location of this new plant will particularly in the Nordic countries as well as in the UK, and enable us to better serve our customers in the region as well as increased beer and carbonated soft drinks consumption in Eastern optimise freight costs across Europe.
Europe as cans substituted other forms of packaging and consumers increased their overall consumption of packaged beverages.
In the Asia Pacific market, there was good volume growth as we In the second half there was a change in momentum as conditions continued to develop our position in this key emerging region.
Our deteriorated in a number of markets and growth slowed.
Western joint venture in South Korea celebrated its 30th anniversary with Europe showed good resilience, especially in beer, while Eastern sales of beverage cans growing as we increased the levels of Europe displayed the volatility often associated with emerging cooperation with our partners and supported the growth of specialty markets.
Market growth for Europe as a whole was 5%.
In China we saw improved profitability through a better product mix.
India remains a relatively small market but the Rexams own beverage can volumes in Europe grew 7% with no steel beverage cans produced by our joint venture are regarded as significant difference between the two halves.
New capacity in a suitable pack for the market conditions by both multinational and Spain, Egypt and Austria as well as the buoyant Nordic market local customers.
helped maintain our leadership position.
The new capacity also Beverage Can North America gives us the opportunity to further optimise our manufacturing base, North America is the largest beverage can market in the world with reducing freight costs and improving mix.
total annual volumes in the region of 100bn cans, of which Rexam Russia, where we are the largest domestic manufacturer of beverage makes some 22%.
In recent years, market conditions in North cans, was especially volatile.
Volume growth was in line with America have been challenging and during 2008 there was little previous years in the first half but disappeared almost entirely in the respite, especially in terms of demand for carbonated soft drinks final months, reflecting the extremely challenging financial and CSDs.
Strong industry CSD pricing in the latter part of the year economic conditions, to finish ahead for the year as a whole.
exacerbated the situation and CSD can volumes in North America However, we remain confident in the long term growth prospects in declined 5% year on year overall, with the decline accelerating in Russia.
It is a large market and we are well placed to take the second half.
advantage of the return to growth.
The integration of Rostar has gone well, synergies are coming through according to plan and we are While the US beverage can market is declining, we continue to covering our cost of capital as expected.
In May we started focus on our strategy of improving profitability and return on assets, production at a new plant in Argayash, 1,500km east of Moscow, and maximising cash generation.
The Rexam operation traditionally and trading in this region continued strongly throughout the year.
generates strong cash flows and has a high return on net assets.
Our own 12oz volumes were down 4%, slightly better than the Our own volumes of standard cans in Europe grew 6%.
We acted swiftly to address this decline and protect our cans, which are mainly used for energy drinks and new categories business.
In July we announced the closure of the Forest Park plant of beverage, showed good growth after a slow start to the year with in Georgia and shut down a 12oz line in Longview, Texas, which volumes up 10% for the full year.
together represented some 1.9bn of our 12oz can capacity.
In Good price increases on about a quarter of open sales contracts, December we announced a further plant closure in Oklahoma City along with good cost recovery and contractual cost inflation which will remove an additional 1.2bn 12oz cans from the market.
escalators, helped offset increases in oil related costs such as freight These measures were accompanied by associated reductions in and energy.
support staff in the North American organisation.
The closures In the region of 2,500 new beverages are launched each year on the US market alone.
Many of these new products are aimed at helping people cope with the speed and stress of modern day life, such as these products pictured here.
In this urry of launches, products need to make their voices heard and stand out on the crowded store shelves.
The Rexam 12oz SLEEK can is the kind of packaging that draws attention and appeals to todays consumers not simply because of its modern looks but because it is 100% recyclable.
14 Rexam Annual Report 2008 increase the overall utilisation of our asset base and do not impair It is important for us as a partner to our our ability to meet customer requirements as we continue to supply beverage customers to be able to meet their cans from other plants in our system.
different needs and enable them to create multi channel opportunities and maximise their In total, the capacity reductions will result in a total exceptional brand.
The beverage can and the new Fusion restructuring charge of around 36m US$67m, of which some bottle work in harmony, satisfying similar needs 15m US$27m will be cash costs net of asset disposal proceeds.
but providing clear differentiation between the In aggregate, these measures are expected to generate annualised two.
The ability to provide an entire offering savings of more than US$20m.
We will continue to monitor the reinforces our relationships with our customers situation in North America to ensure optimal utilisation of our and helps maintain our industry leading position.
Closures and adjustments announced by the whole of North Americas beverage can making industry in 2008 reduced can making capacity by 6.5bn the equivalent of the volume decline the industry has experienced in the market since the beginning of 2007.
The US specialty can market also saw a decrease in volumes as a result of the economic downturn.
Our own specialty volumes declined following our strategic exit from the 8oz and a large portion of the 16oz can market, both of which had experienced significant margin erosion during the year.
However, volumes of our 24oz can and the Rexam CapCan both grew over 15% compared with the prior year as we intensified our focus on these core, higher margin products along with our range of Sleek cans.
Beverage Can South America In South America, the market continued to grow well and Rexams own volumes were up 9%.
Volumes of standard cans grew 5%, with especially strong performances across the region in Brazil, Argentina and Chile.
Specialty can volumes were up 59%, albeit from a low base, as customers continued to favour these alternative sizes as an effective means of differentiation.
Specialty cans now account for 11% of our South American volume compared with 7% this time last year.
Beverage cans remained competitive despite the weakening of the Brazilian Real as the effect of the depreciation of the currency was broadly offset by the decline in aluminium prices.
The successful development of our portfolio across the region improved the product mix and enabled us to boost margins and recover profitability.
We also hedged some of our foreign exchange transaction exposure which will reduce volatility going forward.
Through our focus on innovation, we work closely with our customers to understand the extra value we can add to their brands and products.
In Beverage Cans we have a range of nishes to provide that difference.
This may involve thermochromic inks, sparkle varnish, embossing, smooth varnishing, tactile ink printing or, as illustrated in this beverage can from our South American operation for the Brazilian market, UV and glow in the dark inks to ensure that the product stands out from the crowd.
The customer intends to introduce the UV technology in other beverage can formats.
Rexam Annual Report 2008 15 Investment in a range of growth projects in Plastic Packaging continued in the year.
This new Dispensing Systems plant in Lacrost, France, was completed in the final quarter of 2008.
It provides a new platform to serve our customers in the growing lotion pump market.
The plant replaced two former plants in the area, neither of which could be updated for modern manufacturing operations.
The move to the new premises involved 45 injection moulding presses, 150 moulds and more than 30 assembly lines, as well as 160 people.
The project was delivered successfully on time and on budget and production was able to restart as planned.
16 Rexam Annual Report 2008 Plastic Packaging 2008 2007 Sales 1,273m 880m Underlying operating profit 157m 105m Return on sales 12.3% 11.9% Plastic Packaging is a portfolio of high quality rigid plastic businesses comprising three divisions: Healthcare, Personal Care and Closures, each with three business units.
Plastic Packaging accounts for 34% of Rexams underlying operating profit.
The diversified nature of our portfolio protected overall performance during 2008 with the business as a whole progressing reasonably well.
Reduced customer demand, particularly in the last two months of the year, affected our Personal Care and Closures businesses, while the Healthcare business remained resilient.
The Safe n Sound system is a fully passive Towards the end of the year, results came under pressure as safety device for pre lled syringes.
It was customers reduced their inventory levels and destocking became developed by Rexam in response to concerns a greater issue throughout the supply chain.
We continue to monitor over possible exposures to unprotected needles.
demand levels closely and will take action to address the situation It provides healthcare providers and patients on capacity if this becomes necessary.
with full protection from needles, therefore avoiding any chance of contamination.
The Sales grew from 880m to 1,273m, mainly as a result of the simple design of sleeve, body and spring is acquisition of OI Plastics in mid 2007.
Organic sales growth was an example of how we are meeting increasing 4% with most businesses ahead of prior year save for Home & safety regulations in the healthcare market Personal Care, part of the Personal Care division.
Resin costs rose with innovative products.
considerably compared with last year.
These were largely passed through to our customers and accounted for the vast majority of the organic sales growth, with other net price increases being offset by the impact of volume and mix changes.
Underlying operating profit grew from 105m to 157m.
Organic profit was flat as price, efficiencies and synergies from the OI Plastics acquisition offset a drop in volumes, mix change and higher labour costs.
Operating margins improved on last year owing to the impact of higher margins in acquired businesses and good progress on efficiency savings and acquisition synergies.
The integration of the OI Plastics business, which we acquired to bring scale, growth and added value to our own Plastic Packaging operations, progressed broadly according to plan during the year.
Approximately 8m of synergies were generated during 2008 and we remain on track to meet our target of 25m in total savings by 2010.
During the year, we leveraged our scale to improve procurement of raw materials, especially resin, along with energy and freight.
The implementation of SAP business solutions software at all the former OI Plastics US plants, to bring them into line with the Rexam standard, was successfully completed on schedule a huge testament to the skill and determination of the teams involved in the project.
Further improvements will continue to be made to the functionality and business processes to help deliver targeted savings and pro table growth.
Rexam Annual Report 2008 17 Business Review We continued to optimise our manufacturing footprint, shutting three Healthcare plants in the US with other Rexam manufacturing facilities absorbing Sales in Healthcare increased 7% due to volume growth and price the production from these plants.
These measures were in keeping increases across all of its businesses.
Margins increased and remain with the original restructuring programme following the OI Plastics well above the average for the Plastic Packaging portfolio.
acquisition and the cost is expected to be around 21m as The Pharma packaging business delivered strong sales growth driven previously indicated.
largely by the ramp up of the manufacture of new drug delivery We put in place a new structure to manage the business globally systems.
Sales remained robust in both the first and second half of the instead of regionally which better positions us to meet the needs year.
The overall Pharma packaging market grew 6% relative to last of increasingly global customers at reduced overhead costs.
Our year and Rexam maintained its market share.
objective is to build further on existing customer relationships to The Prescription business maintained its number one position in its facilitate the cross selling of our products and to pursue opportunities segment in the US.
Volumes were flat and pricing was established to internationalise the business in emerging markets.
We have to recover increasing resin costs.
already started using the in house expertise of our Closures team to manufacture closures in India and we are now using our footprint Primary packaging operates in a market which experienced strong in Make Up in China to manufacture Dispensing Systems products pricing pressure from competitors.
As a result some volume was for global customers.
We are looking at further opportunities which conceded.
It continued to recover higher resin costs on existing include growing the Personal Care and Healthcare businesses in business.
Mexico and China, and establishing the high barrier food container Personal Care business in Asia.
Sales in Personal Care were flat year on year with growth in Investment in a range of growth projects continued in the year.
Dispensing Systems and Make Up offset by continued softness in the A number of Pharma packaging plants were extended to increase Home & Personal Care business.
Margins held up but remain below capacity for next generation products that are due to come into full the average of the Plastic Packaging portfolio.
production in the near future.
For example, a new clean room area In Dispensing Systems, sales grew in line with the market driven by was added to the plant in Bangalore, India, to support the growing strong demand in Brazil and higher demand for lotion pumps and pharmaceutical market in that region for products such as eye foam pumps.
Demand for fragrance pumps and samplers was lower droppers, nasal sprays and child resistant closures.
A new as key customers focused resources on refining their existing product Dispensing Systems plant at Lacrost, France, was completed in lines rather than on new launches.
It will provide a platform for further expansion in the growing lotion pump market.
Make Up sales grew slightly on last year as it maintained its market share position on increased volume demand from key European Investment also continued in the development of new products such customers.
as XD11, a new fragrance pump, and Oxygen, a lipstick mechanism that is being developed as the new standard.
It will streamline the In mid July, a warehouse fire at one of our Make Up plants in range and simplify choice for customers by replacing a variety Shanghai resulted in the tragic loss of three firefighters lives.
The fire of different mechanisms.
destroyed inventory and interrupted production for a number of days.
As a result of the fire, safety procedures have been reviewed at all Make Up plants in China with the aim of preventing a recurrence of such an incident.
The 5m cost of the fire was charged to the profit and loss account.
In a world with a growing population of senior citizens, it is important to focus on the needs of this group.
The 1-Clic vial has been developed with seniors in mind.
It incorporates a dual purpose lid that can be used as a child resistant closure to comply with regulations, while still being easily openable for seniors.
If no children are in the users household, the lid can be conveniently turned around so that it simply screws on.
18 Rexam Annual Report 2008 Home & Personal Care is a mainly US business.
It experienced difficult trading with demand from key customers lower than last year in light of the general economic conditions in the US.
Products such as specialty closures for sports drinks were particularly affected.
Volumes in Europe doubled from a low base, with the increase being driven largely by increased demand for a major branded mens care product following its launch in Russia.
Closures Sales in Closures grew 7% with the benefit of passing through higher resin costs to customers and price increases partially offset by reduction in volumes as a result of lower consumer demand for CSDs and packaged water, especially in the last quarter.
Operating margins remain in line with the average for our Plastic Packaging portfolio.
Despite the volume shortfalls in beverage closures, Rexam Closures made a small gain in market share following roll out of the innovative short height closure for a major soft drinks manufacturer.
This product enables our customers to lower their input costs as it uses only 75% of the resin used in a standard closure.
There is also an environmental benefit as the closures use less resin and are lighter in weight.
Rexam Closures remains the market leader for Closures To understand the dynamics shaping the market in the US and number three on a worldwide basis.
we aim to forge closer relationships with end The High Barrier Food business, where we are market leader in users, so that we can deliver the innovation the US, continued to show good underlying growth 9%, owing customers want.
Coupling our knowledge of to increased volumes and the pass through of resin costs, with packaging manufacturing with a deep the second half stronger than the first.
understanding of what consumers really want, we are able to better offer packaging solutions that will set our customers apart.
The miniature version of Kiss Kiss lipstick by Guerlain, a replica of the full size version also produced by Rexam, is designed to meet the on the go needs of the modern consumer.
To some, this is a simple dispensing closure for a condiment a commodity even.
But closures contain a high degree of engineering.
In a very small zone they have to perform a multitude of tasks such as seal, provide tamper evidence and protection as well as ease of opening and closing.
This closure, for example, acts as a stable base to an upside down bottle.
It incorporates a valve system to enable a clean squeeze with no residual product left on the spout.
The hinge snaps open and stays open to allow a free ow of product.
It is these layers of engineering that provide value to our customers.
Rexam Annual Report 2008 19 Business Review A number of key social trends are impacting packaging Market and industry characteristics development, one of the most prominent being increased consumer Primary consumer packaging is regarded as a relatively resilient interest in environmental concerns.
As a result, packaging materials industry and although the breadth and depth of the current global and their recyclability are becoming a priority in the consumers financial and economic crisis is unprecedented in recent times, choice of product.
The packaging industry wants to keep materials industry experts PIRA Packaging Industry Research Association to a minimum not least to reduce costs and it continues to estimated that the world market for consumer packaging grew 5% in examine ways of producing innovative packaging that will address US dollar terms in 2008 and is now worth US$480bn.
Examples are the use of plastic resins that are easier stronger in South America and Asia, reflecting the rapid development to recycle and packs with clearer communication on how to recycle and increasing importance of emerging economies.
Aluminium and steel beverage cans are strongly placed to Beverage and food packaging accounted for more than two thirds benefit from this trend, since they can be recycled again and again of the total market.
Other Rexam markets, such as packaging for without any loss of material performance.
In the case of aluminium pharmaceuticals, beauty and personal care products, accounted for cans, the energy used to make cans from recycled aluminium is only more than 10%.
All Rexams end use markets saw further growth in 5% of that used to make a can from virgin raw material.
2008, with healthcare the fastest growing category globally, a result of a greater focus on well being combined with the increase in Other key trends among end users include rising health awareness, ageing populations allied to their enhanced purchasing power.
ageing populations and the increasing need for convenience.
The issue of convenience will possibly have the greatest impact upon the Mature markets showed moderate year on year increases, while industry, encouraging innovation in packaging as consumers seek out developing countries, with their increasingly affluent consumers, efficient alternatives to traditional packaging to address the needs of demonstrated above average growth in all end use markets.
modern day living such as on the go consumption, or the increasing On a global basis, consumer packaging market growth is expected number of single households in the western world.
It is also believed to be between 2% and 4% pa in the foreseeable future, with higher that more and more products will have to cater to two or more growth in certain market segments and regions.
consumer trends, reflecting packaging innovation across many product groups and markets.
In terms of packaging materials, plastic represents close to 40% of The following section looks more closely at the two markets in which world packaging and is growing faster than any other packaging Rexam operates.
Its growth is mainly attributable to advances in material properties which is leading to substitution of other materials predominantly glass and the development of new applications.
Metal as a packaging material is performing strongly in food and beverage applications, the latter in line with increased consumption of packaged soft drinks and the preference in many markets for packaged rather than draught beer.
Consumer packaging market by material 2008 % Consumer packaging market growth by material 2008 % Rigid plastics 6.3 Flexible plastics 6.2 Paper and board 30% Beverage cans 5.2 Rigid plastics 25% Paper and board 4.3 Flexible plastics 14% Other metal 10% Glass 3.5 Glass 8% Beverage cans 7% Other metal 2.6 Others 6% Others 0.8 2008-2012 CAGR: 4%.
Source: PIRA 2008 and Rexam estimates excludes industrial bulk packaging Source: PIRA 2008 and Rexam estimates excludes industrial bulk packaging 20 Rexam Annual Report 2008 Beverage cans Plastic packaging Beverage cans, which are made of both aluminium and steel, are a Plastic is the most widely used material in consumer packaging.
popular form of beverage packaging.
Consumers appreciate the fact It is also the fastest growing, having grown in the region of 6% pa that cans are lightweight, easy to chill and that they keep the contents in recent years.
New plastics, new applications and a mixture of carbonated.
Beverage producers like them because they are quick standard and highly customised products add up to a high degree and efficient to fill, maintain product integrity and are easy and of both product and process innovation, a trend expected to continue efficient to transport.
They are effective in moving volume especially into the future.
Customers appreciate the materials formability, in multi pack formats and their flat metallic surfaces also provide lightness and ease of handling, as do end consumers.
For retailers, cans are easy to handle There are a variety of plastic grades with a range of properties such and, as they are easily stackable, make effective use of space on as high barrier, microwaveability and good impact strength, among supermarket shelves.
Added to all this, they are the most recycled others.
Plastics are also recyclable, where facilities exist, and type of beverage packaging.
Today the beverage cans share of biodegradable plastics are becoming more common, although the CSD pack mix is 22% by volume and 43% by unit.
In beer, limited availability, high prices and performance limitations are the shares are 22% and 30% respectively.
Rexam is predominantly focused on rigid The beverage can industry is a well consolidated global industry plastic packaging, which accounts for about US$115bn of the total where Rexam is the leading player.
We operate predominantly in market.
Within rigid plastics we mainly focus on packaging for Europe and the Americas.
There are four players in the US and three beauty and personal care products, pharmaceuticals, food and significant ones in South America and Europe.
Our market shares in beverages, and household products.
The segments in which we these regions are 22%, 66% and 47% respectively.
The overall operate are technologically advanced and significant intellectual global beverage can market, which is made up of largely standard property is associated with many of the products.
12oz 33cl cans, is growing at a rate of around 3% pa.
This growth The rigid plastic packaging market remains fragmented with the top varies between different regions.
North America is the biggest can 10 manufacturers accounting for just 16% of the market.
Within rigid market in the world.
It is declining but its inhabitants still have an plastics, there are various subsegments, all displaying different average annual per capita consumption of around 350 cans.
Overall, PIRA estimate that the market grew around and South America have annual per capita consumption of only 75 6% pa in US dollar terms in 2008, and remains the fastest growing and 69 cans respectively, and within these regions there is generally segment within plastic packaging.
Growth in non standard sizes, such as those for energy drinks or larger cans for beers or iced teas, is significantly faster but from a lower base.
Beverage cans are increasingly being used to package premium beer, cider, spirits and mixers as well as still and sparkling wines.
Resealable cans have also been growing in popularity, much appreciated by brand owners for their novelty and by consumers for their functionality.
Consumer packaging market growth by end use 2008 % Consumer packaging market growth by geographic region 2008 % Healthcare 6.0 South America 10.0 Food 5.7 Asia & Rest of world 6.0 Beverages 5.1 Europe 5.0 Cosmetics 4.5 North America 2.0 Home other 1.0 2008-2012 CAGR: 4%.
Source: PIRA 2008 excludes industrial bulk packaging Source: PIRA 2008 excludes industrial bulk packaging Rexam Annual Report 2008 21 Business Review In our relationship with our suppliers, we drive performance Relationships and risks improvement and value within the supply chain applying both Relationships strategic procurement and Lean Enterprise tools.
As part of our Rexam is the number two global consumer packaging company continuous improvement, we use Supplier Relationship Management in terms of sales.
The critical external relationships are with our major programmes to set targets for quality, supply, cost and innovation, customers and our suppliers of raw materials, mainly aluminium, to define improvement plans and to work with our strategic suppliers steel and resin.
The vast majority of our sales are made to large consumer products companies which are typically large multinational or regional brand In 2007, Rexam implemented a programme to ensure compliance owners.
Our customers are invariably world class organisations.
They with the Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals are well consolidated and continue to rationalise their supplier base.
Phase 1 of the implementation programme was completed They look to align themselves with global partners who understand in 2008.
Our programme involved contacting suppliers and customers the scale and nature of their business, and who can supply their to obtain assurance that all of the materials we use that are covered needs at a local level.
They require us to support their growth plans by REACH are registered for our particular use.
Our programme has in established and emerging markets, with investment in plants or been successful and Rexam has not identified any requirements to capacity or through acquisition, and to deliver consistency in terms pre-register materials in our supply chain.
Phase 2 of our programme of technological capability, service and quality.
They expect us to began in 2009 to provide continuing assurance of compliance.
be proactive in contributing to innovative solutions to their changing Risks packaging needs and in driving costs out of the supply chain.
They There are many risks facing a global company such as Rexam: expect us to act in a responsible manner.
Therefore everyone in the market, operational, environmental, social, governance and financial.
Rexam organisation shares the responsibility to maintain relationships With the current global financial and economic crisis, these risks with our customers.
The global account managers, sales force, have been further accentuated.
Our challenge is to identify those technical and engineering staff and quality controllers and those risks that are most relevant and develop appropriate methods to involved in the day to day manufacture of our products all have avoid or mitigate them.
An overview of Rexams process for managing a vital role to play.
and reporting risks is covered under Internal control and risk management in the Corporate Governance Report on page 46.
Our customer base is concentrated.
As a Group, our top ten customers account for 58% of our annual sales.
In Beverage Cans, Consumer packaging is regarded as a defensive industry from a the concentration is even higher with the top ten customers accounting shareholder point of view.
Consumers will always need to eat, drink for 76% of sales.
The equivalent figure for Plastic Packaging is 32%.
and look after their well being and health even in times of economic Of the remaining customers, none accounts for more than 1.4% of downturn.
In recent years, we have invested heavily in growth our sales.
projects and made a number of acquisitions to upgrade the portfolio Rexam has a vast supply network across the globe involving more to higher growth segments and expanded the regions in which we than 25,000 companies.
Over the years, we have established strong operate.
In addition to the well established markets of Western strategic relationships with the major aluminium producers and resin Europe and North America, we now have operations in countries companies.
These raw materials are considered to be in adequate such as Brazil, Egypt, Guatemala, India, Malaysia, Mexico, Russia supply globally.
The procurement of these primary raw materials, and Singapore.
as well as energy, is co-ordinated by a central function across the A diversified product portfolio and a global spread can help mitigate businesses for efficiency and economies of scale.
For example, risk, but we are conscious that the higher growth potential in following the acquisition of OI Plastics, Rexam Supply Chain teams emerging markets is associated with greater risks in terms of political focused efforts on the integration of the new businesses and on and economic stability compared with more established and mature delivering maximum value by optimising resin purchasing synergies.
Rexam is the second largest consumer Top 10 consumer packaging companies by 2008 sales US$bn packaging company in the world in terms of sales.
Tetra Pak 10.5 Rexam 8.6 Crown 8.1 OI Glass only 7.9 Ball 6.8 Alcan Rio Tinto 6.2 Rank 6.0 Saint Gobain 5.6 Toyo Seikan 5.6 Amcor 5.5 Source: Company annual accounts and Rexam estimates The figures are proforma, which for Rexam includes its 2008 acquisition 22 Rexam Annual Report 2008 economies.
As with all the risks facing us, the risks associated with emerging markets are assessed in detail by directors and senior management when considering investment opportunities and setting financial policies and procedures.
They are managed through our normal risk management processes.
The following section gives more details on the principal risk factors and the way we aim to manage them.
Dependency on key customers Loss of sales volumes from key customers would adversely impact our business.
Many of our largest customers have traded with us for a long period of time, during which we have built up a strong interdependency and sense of partnership, especially where our growth has been closely associated with theirs.
Our relationships extend deep into the supply chain.
This not only helps drive out costs to the benefit of both Rexam and customers, it also increases the likelihood of retaining customers, provided that we continue to supply the quality of product required at a competitive price.
The wall to wall facilities we have with a number of our beverage can customers, and proprietary online ordering systems for beverage cans are just two examples of how we are cementing and deepening our relationships with customers.
National political and economic stability Rexam is a global company operating in countries and regions with diverse economic and political conditions and sensitivities.
Our strategy to expand in emerging markets means that this degree of sensitivity is increasing.
Our operations and earnings may be adversely affected by political or economic instability and unrest, including civil unrest, wars, international conflicts, financial crisis especially regarding currency or taxation, tighter government regulation on cross border trading, production, pricing and environmental regulation.
We remain vigilant to these risks.
We take external advice on such matters and consider the risks when determining whether or not to do business in countries or regions which are recognised as unstable.
In Beverage Top 10 customers account for 58% of Rexam sales 2008 Cans, the top ten customers account for 76% of sales and for Plastic Packaging it is 32%.
Of Anheuser-Busch the remaining customers, none accounts for more than 1.4% of our sales.
Arizona Iced Tea Baltika Carlsberg Coca-Cola 58% Heineken InBev PepsiCo Procter & Gamble Red Bull Rexam Annual Report 2008 23 Business Review Changes in packaging legislation Competition may reduce market share and margins Changes in laws and regulations relating to packaging could Rexam operates in competitive markets.
In most of these markets adversely affect the business if arbitrarily implemented on a large Rexam is either the leader or one of the top three players.
In Beverage scale in the major markets in which we operate.
These primarily Cans, for example, we are the worlds number one manufacturer, relate to deposits, recycling quotas for certain types of packaging and in Plastic Packaging we hold leading global or regional and the use of recycled content.
Our own experience indicates positions in the majority of our markets.
Aggressive pricing from our that deposits and recycling systems pose limited risk to our business.
competitors may cause a reduction in our sales and margins.
To The stipulation that certain types of packaging must contain a given minimise this risk, we aim to build long term relationships with our percentage of recycled material also poses little risk at present.
Raw customers with the aim of becoming an integral part of their supply material producers, especially in the beverage can industry, already chain and helping to drive out costs.
We also ensure that we are the have a high content of recycled material in their products.
Many of supplier of choice by focusing on innovation for our customers and the markets in which we operate employ mandatory deposit systems.
maintaining the highest standard of operational excellence to achieve The risk to the business, in our view, is the way in which these lowest cost manufacturer status.
systems are implemented and managed.
We actively make available Changes in consumer lifestyle, nutritional preferences and health our considerable packaging know how and our experience of setting related concerns up deposit and recycling systems to ensure that any recycling system The majority of our sales are generated by packaging for products is optimised from the very outset.
To monitor the regulatory such as carbonated soft drinks and alcoholic beverages.
Any far environment and to minimise the risk of arbitrary implementation reaching consumer shift away from these product types as a result of any measures that may affect consumer packaging, we have of lifestyle, nutrition and health considerations, or even legislation, a Director of External Environmental Affairs reporting to the Chief could have a significant impact on our customers and hence our Executive Officer.
We engage with governmental and non business.
Whilst it is difficult to fully plan for this change, we monitor governmental organisations directly or through trade associations market and consumer trends as well as political developments to ensure that our views are represented.
through our own and external business intelligence services and Changes in the regulatory environment through our involvement in national and international packaging Changes to health and food safety regulations could increase costs associations in the countries and regions where we operate.
In the and also might have a material adverse effect on sales if, as a result, case of carbonated soft drinks, our customers are naturally aware public opinion of end products for which we provide packaging of these risks.
They are focused on developing new types and changes substantially.
When it comes to such risks, we remain categories of products to fill the void should the need arise.
Beverage vigilant to change and work with others in the supply chain including cans are inherently an important part of a customers pack mix.
The raw material suppliers, consumer goods manufacturers and retailers rise of the energy drink segment and, more recently, nutritional drinks as well as the regulatory authorities.
and iced teas are examples of new categories that have quickly found consumer favour and which are both expanding at high growth rates.
When US Power Brands was looking for an innovative container for its new vitamin enriched water, it wanted a container that would reinforce the environmental credentials of the contents.
It chose to launch with the resealable Rexam 24oz CapCan using the slogan Refresh.
While the CapCan provided product integrity and added shelf appeal, the 100% recyclability of the can was seen as the overriding bene t. 24 Rexam Annual Report 2008 Changes in the cost and availability of direct materials Financial risk Aluminium is our most significant raw material cost but resin costs Rexams financial risk management is based upon sound economic are increasingly important as our Plastic Packaging business grows.
objectives and good corporate practice.
Our main financial risks are We also purchase quantities of steel for our European beverage can related to the availability of funds to meet our business needs and operation.
Steep and prolonged rises in input prices may have a movements in interest rates and currency exchange rates as well as material impact on our results.
One consequence of a substantial rise commodity costs.
Derivative and other financial instruments are used in material costs could be a change in demand for our products as to manage exposures under conditions laid down by the Board and customers adjust their packaging mix and the materials they use, monitored by its Finance Committee.
Further details of our financial although we did not notice this in particular in the recent period of risks and the way in which we mitigate them are set out in note 23 aluminium price volatility.
In the North and South American beverage to the consolidated financial statements.
can businesses, we charge our customers on a pass through basis.
Tax risk In Europe, we have moved largely to a pass through model with our As a Group, we seek to plan and manage our tax affairs efficiently main customers such that 70% of our supply needs are now on this in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
In doing so, we act in basis.
To mitigate the risk on the remaining aluminium exposure, compliance with relevant laws and disclosure requirements.
Tax we hedge the aluminium cost and associated currency requirements.
planning will complement and be based around the needs of our In Plastic Packaging, some 80% of the resin costs are on pass operating businesses.
In an increasingly complex international tax through contracts which include resin escalator fide-escalator clauses environment, uncertainty is inevitable in estimating our tax liabilities.
that allow change in our selling price as resin prices change.
While We exercise our judgement in assessing the required level of these commercial arrangements are agreed with customers and provision for tax risk and allocate resources appropriately to protect suppliers and are intended to protect us from price risk, changes our position.
could occur in the commercial arrangements which expose Rexam to risk.
Supply of faulty or contaminated products Rexams reputation as a business partner relies heavily on its ability to supply quality products on time and in full.
The consequences of not being able to do so, owing to accidental or malicious raw material contamination or due to supply chain contamination caused by human error or equipment failure, could be severe.
Such consequences might include adverse effects on consumer health, loss of market share, financial costs and loss of turnover.
As part of our Environment, Health and Safety policy and our Lean Enterprise framework we have strict control measures and systems in place to ensure the safety and quality of our products are maintained.
We help to ensure that we are the supplier Ef ciency gains m of choice by focusing on innovation for our customers and maintaining the highest standard 2008 14 21 35 of operational excellence to achieve lowest cost manufacturer status.
In 2008, ef ciencies 2007 17 15 32 totalled 35m, exceeding our annual target, as we delivered the expected synergies from 28 2006 14 14 acquisitions.
Looking into 2009 we continue to expect 2005 21 8 29 to deliver ef ciencies of around 30m.
Beverage Cans Plastic Packaging Rexam Annual Report 2008 25 Minimising our impact on the outside world is a key part of our Corporate Responsibility work.
Our Beverage Can plant in Cuiab, Brazil, completed in 2007, was designed from the outset with the environment in mind.
Its aim was to reduce the amount of energy used in the manufacturing process and it has already reduced LPG consumption by almost 20%.
The reductions have been achieved by measures including reducing of compressed air pressure, optimising of the conveyors and improving the equipment cooling system.
Heat generated in the drying ovens is also used to heat the water used for washing the cans.
In keeping with the plants pro le, it has planted 700 eco-ef cient trees tecas which are irrigated by treated water from the manufacturing process.
26 Rexam Annual Report 2008 Consumers are increasingly looking for ways Corporate Responsibility to go green and reduce their environmental As a leading global consumer packaging company, Rexam impact.
Rexam is the first packaging company recognises that the activities carried out in the performance of its to develop and market liquid oval containers business will impact on society and the environment.
Our overall aim ovals made with 100% post consumer is to minimise the impacts on society and in doing so maximise the recycled PET resin.
The ovals are used by benefits to our business.
The packaging We are committed to ensuring that our business is managed and meets relevant US government standards and developed in a responsible and sustainable manner and recognise can be recycled again and again, further that our approach requires alignment with our business profile and reducing resource consumption and objectives.
Our continual efforts to improve and develop our environmental impact.
The new recyclable ovals Corporate Responsibility CR policies, programmes and performance provide a degree of differentiation, allowing must also reflect our business and position in the market.
We believe pharmacies to market themselves as this approach will allow us to meet our CR responsibilities while environmentally friendly.
responding to changing business requirements and challenges.
The Rexam Corporate Responsibility programme can be set out into four clear areas of activity: Our People focusing on their protection, their working environment and their development Environment understanding and managing our impacts on the environment including climate change, resource use, liabilities and risks, and developing a capability and awareness to act responsibly The Community working with our stakeholders to enhance our positive impact on society Governance implementing business controls and procedures, a code of conduct and supply chain management These areas of activity are explained in more detail below.
Part of our responsibility is to help reduce the environmental impact throughout the supply chain.
This includes using alternative means of transportation.
Trucks and trailers are normally used to deliver Rexam products.
But in the US, our Plastic Packaging businesses have started to use the railroad.
This not only bene ts the environment in eliminating carbon emissions from going into the atmosphere, it saves costs.
Rexam will continue to increase the conversion of road to rail to bene t the environment and help lower costs.
Rexam Annual Report 2008 27 Business Review Our safety performance is measured against our Lost Time Accident Our People their welfare, safety and development Rate LTAR and the implementation of appropriate management Rexam employs more than 24,000 people in more than 20 countries systems.
Performance improved on both measures in 2008. around the world.
We value the diversity that our people bring and However, we consider that any injury is one too many.
Analysis we aim to harness this potential for innovation in our business, of the root causes of the incidents recorded during the year showed processes, products and performance.
that 66% were based on inappropriate or unsafe behaviours.
Providing employees with a safe, fair and enjoyable place to work As such we have realigned our approach and invested a significant is core to our business and characterises our approach to people.
amount of resources in developing and initiating Behaviour Based We recognise the link between good environmental, health and Safety Programmes across our operations.
The aim is to create a safety EHS performance and improved business rewards.
This is sustainable culture of safety consideration where positive behaviour much in evidence in our work in Physical Risk Management PRM.
is recognised, measured and demonstrated consistently and As a Group, we have shown continual improvement in EHS as well unambiguously by our people.
as loss prevention over the past five years.
However, we recognise that, although our current performance is good in terms of our We have a rigorous approach to measuring lost time accidents industry sector, we cannot accept any injury, detrimental impact on by including restricted work days in the calculations.
In 2008, the environment or damage to assets during the performance of our the Beverage Can and Plastic Packaging sectors showed a 50% business activities.
In 2008, we committed to a new five year PRM improvement in their LTAR performance.
During the year, however, strategy to maximise the use of existing good practice within Rexam we experienced a number of incidents, the most serious of which and within recognised industry leaders in this field and to provide were two separate partial finger amputations at our Beverage Can a step change in performance across our business in terms of EHS plant in Egypt and a loss of sight in one eye in one of our Beverage and loss prevention.
The employees involved have returned to work.
Each of these incidents was fully investigated and a number of The implementation of the strategy began in 2008 using our Inter improvements implemented.
The learning points arising from these Company Working Group ICWG which comprises EHS managers incidents and subsequent improvement actions were communicated from each of the business sectors.
It was instrumental in ensuring that to the wider business.
the approach agreed took into account the different challenges that We measure the severity of injuries using the number of days away the businesses face and that the strategy was communicated and and or restricted time DART.
This continues to show year on year implemented within the sectors in a timely manner.
Each business reduction with the overall Group DART improving by 48% in 2008. sector now has a clearly defined PRM plan and strategy for the This gives us some assurance that the nature of the injuries occurring next five years aligned to the business strategy.
is becoming less severe and reinforces our belief that the programmes Rexam considers the protection and welfare of its employees we are using are helping to improve the protection of our employees.
and others impacted by our operations as a key business priority.
Regrettably, in a fire at one of our Plastic Packaging sites in Shanghai, Loss Prevention three Chinese firefighters tragically lost their lives.
The incident was The new PRM strategy places an emphasis on safeguarding Rexam fully investigated by both ourselves and external resources, including assets through protection and prevention programmes.
Our belief the Chinese fire authorities and a specialist forensic consultant is that our focus should be on preventing an incident from occurring engaged by us.
The investigations resulted in a number of immediate through good engineering practice, best practice management and longer term actions being completed across the Group.
These systems and appropriate behaviour.
Where there is a residual risk, include improvements in fire protection systems as well as structural we work on providing adequate protection matched to the degree changes to improve evacuation routes and reduce the likelihood and nature of the remaining risk.
of fire transmission from one building to another.
As part of the new strategy, we are working more closely with our lead insurers and our insurance brokers.
We have been developing enhanced systems for monitoring the implementation of insurance recommendations and can report 70% of those made were actioned.
In 2008, 37% of Rexam sites achieved zero LTAR Lost Time Accident Rate compared with 27% in 2007, a signi cant improvement.
During the year, the Plastic Packaging Healthcare site at Greenville, US right and the Beverage Can plant in Fair eld, US, achieved the milestones of five and four years respectively without accident.
28 Rexam Annual Report 2008 Further surveys are completed by independent consultants to assess We also substantially refreshed our approach to reward, bringing the status of our loss prevention and protection systems.
Improvements together a competitive market-related approach with incentives that include updating permit to work systems, smoke detection systems recognise sustained business and individual performance.
See and upgrading sprinkler systems.
Remuneration Report for further details.
The major loss prevention incidents during 2008 were four fires By increasing our focus on Talent Management, we strengthened resulting in asset damage: two in warehousing at our Plastic our succession planning and put in place robust talent development Packaging sites in Shanghai, China: one in an electrical substation processes across all areas of the business.
As a result, alongside at our Beverage Can plant in Naro Fominsk, Russia, and one in an selective external hiring, we saw a significant improvement in our ice maker at the Beverage Can Forest Park site, US.
Each of these talent pipelines and succession strength.
The launch of the Rexam incidents was subjected to further investigation and action plans Academy in 2008 marked an important investment in our future to prevent recurrence.
The aim of the Academy is to provide a clear development plan, ideas for career options in Rexam and a mentor for those Developing our people who are at an early stage in their Rexam career.
We see the ability for everyone to work in a safe environment, free from discrimination and bullying as a fundamental right.
In return, we We understand the importance of engaging our employees, expect our employees to demonstrate high levels of ethical behaviour and make use of a range of communications tools in order to reach and have a genuine respect for the rights of individuals.
The Rexam different employee groups within the business.
Regular Group news Code of Conduct clearly sets out the expectations that we have bulletins give people a broad view of Rexams activities, while a of ourselves.
Groupwide team briefing process cascades news and information to local plant teams.
The CEO has a web log on the intranet where The Rexam Vision, to be the leading global consumer packaging employees can ask questions directly to him.
Additionally, he also company, continues to communicate a clear and consistent direction posts regular video broadcasts on the intranet at important times of and sense of purpose.
This is reinforced by our four core values: the year such as half year and full year results, or when there is a Continuous Improvement, Trust, Teamwork and Recognition, need to reach a wider audience quickly.
The businesses also publish encapsulated in and represented by The Rexam Way.
These values their own newsletters and magazines to keep their employees establish a common framework and a set of fundamental beliefs for informed of relevant business news.
everything that we do across our operations.
We know that the foundation of delivering our vision and values is through the Recognising the contributions that our people make, both formally performance of our people.
and informally, continues to be a feature of Rexams employee engagement processes.
The Companys award structure, the It is our belief that our people can only perform if they are well led.
Cornerstone Recognition Program, is a robust mechanism designed In 2008, therefore, we focused heavily on developing clear and to recognise both team and individual achievements in our four areas relevant Rexam-specific leadership practices.
These were developed of strategic focus: operational excellence, profitable growth, satisfied from real examples of Rexam leaders inspiring change and customers and Rexam people.
These awards not only recognise improvement in a manner aligned with The Rexam Way.
The outstanding accomplishments but act as the catalyst for developing leadership practices are now a key element in how we develop best practice across the organisation and in further embedding people and manage performance across the Group.
We also know that people perform at their best when they are clear We have taken major steps during 2008 to motivate, engage, about their objectives, receive feedback on their progress, have the recognise and develop our people but we still have much to do.
chance to develop themselves and are properly recognised and In 2009, we shall seek to build on these efforts further through rewarded.
To facilitate this, we successfully launched an integrated developing the capability of our people to drive excellence in online Performance Development System in 2008 which combines the business leadership, business ethics and business performance.
measurement of leadership practices and business objectives, as well as considering input on personal development and individual potential.
LTAR Lost Time Accident Rate per 100 employees per year 2008 1.0 2007 2.0 2006 1.4 Industry rate 3.5 2008 0.4 2007 0.8 2006 1.0 Industry rate 3.7 The industry rates are based on US labour statistics data 2006 Beverage Cans Plastic Packaging Rexam Annual Report 2008 29 Business Review GHG emissions.
In our Beverage Cans business, for example, Environment working to a sustainable future we have reduced electricity and gas consumption by 4.6m through Rexam recognises that climate change, including carbon the application of best practice in terms of air compressors, lighting management, is one of the biggest issues facing society today.
We are implementing programmes and projects to achieve real and measurable reductions in carbon emissions.
This provides In 2008 we redefined our environmental KPIs to ensure that we clear business gains along the value chain as well as social and collect data that is relevant to us, our stakeholders and reflects our environmental benefits.
Our work supports our customers efforts impact on the environment.
The new KPIs also recognise the revised to reduce their carbon emissions.
Consumers can use products that profile of the Group since the sale of the Glass operations and the do not compromise their environmental integrity while satisfying their greater significance of Plastic Packaging.
The revised definitions need for product quality and performance.
A further benefit of this will be implemented in January 2009 and will be reported when approach is that we become more attractive to employees and we have sufficient input to make the data meaningful.
The sites and future recruits who want to be part of a company that is actively businesses will use this data to establish their own objectives and participating in tackling climate change in its industry.
Rexam has had an environmental policy in place since 1991.
The Minimising releases and negative impact on the outside world policy is set and implemented by our senior management team, led During 2008, the number of reportable environmental incidents was by the CEO.
The management teams in the businesses adapt the key low.
These included a minor spill of resin pellets at Rossville, US and guiding principles of the Group policy to specific local conditions a loss of containment of process water in Evansville, US.
All of the and regulations.
Although we continue to improve the environmental environmental incidents were contained and remediated effectively profile of the Company, especially when addressing the effects of using on-site emergency procedures.
climate change, the key guiding principles have changed little since 1991 because they are based on sound business practice.
Our In our 2007 report we provided an update on the progress with a main goals are to: trichloroethylene TCE leak identified in 2005 at our Annecy site in France.
Our remediation programme in 2008 involved a system of reduce the consumption of natural resources and energy pumping and treating contaminated water.
During the drilling of bore minimise releases and negative impact on the outside world holes in preparation for our next phase of remediation using in situ chemical oxidation ISCO remediation techniques, we encountered increase product value and save resources in distribution.
further discrete pockets of TCE.
We have, therefore, reverted back Reducing the consumption of natural resources and energy to the pump and treat approach until we are in a position to Our culture of process innovation and continuous improvement recommence the programme.
We are working closely with the offers the opportunity to advance the sustainability of our operations.
relevant French authorities to ensure that we have an agreed Our Six Sigma and Lean Enterprise activities work to eliminate waste programme for improvement.
and improve efficiencies and as such have provided significant In our 2007 report we also identified slightly higher than normal improvements in our carbon footprint through reduced energy levels of fluoride and hydrocarbons in groundwater whilst consumption, increased output per unit, waste prevention and decommissioning an underground storage tank at our Beverage Can spoilage reduction.
In 2008 work was completed to define the scope of the contamination and propose a remediation programme During the year we continued work started in 2007 to collect energy which has been accepted by the local authorities.
and greenhouse gas GHG emission data.
This project has been piloted within the business and we have successfully collected, Increasing product value and saving resources in distribution collated and verified this data through invoices across the North We aim to develop and manufacture packaging that will reduce and American business.
We are now looking to use this system to report minimise environmental impact, while ensuring that the packaging on energy usage and GHGs across the rest of Rexam.
We have meets the need for product protection.
This is necessarily a joint effort been engaged in many projects to reduce energy and associated involving our customers as well as our suppliers so that we balance consumers expectations regarding the functionality of a piece of By focusing on reducing our energy consumption Resource consumption raw material tonnes tonnes of production and improving process ef ciencies, Rexam 2008 1.16 reduced the CO equivalent per unit tonne of 2 2007 1.25 raw material converted by 7%.
These gures 2006 1.45 are derived using basic raw material and 2008 1.04 energy consumption data.
We recognise that 2007 1.08 our approach does not take into account the 2006 1.10 differing mix of electricity generation between countries.
However, it gives an indication of the impact we are having on controlling and Energy consumption per tonne of raw material MWh tonne reducing carbon emissions arising from our 2008 2.43 manufacturing operations.
We will be working 2007 2.56 to take more of these considerations into 2008 2.64 account in future reports.
2007 2.90 Beverage Cans Plastic Packaging 30 Rexam Annual Report 2008 packaging with its environmental impact.
The use of resources, We do this in close co-operation with our raw material suppliers, raw materials and energy in a packaging system is ultimately about customers, retailers and local authorities.
We actively work toward finding the right balance between the resources needed in improving public awareness of the value of recycling through packaging and the potential savings to be made in the distribution education and information programmes for consumers.
In North system as well as the avoidance of product loss and damage.
America, for example, all our plants take a leading role in their communities to raise recycling rates, while in Mexico, our Queretaro Product innovation offers a major opportunity to make a difference plant has set up a recycling machine outside its gates to encourage to the sustainability of the packaging we manufacture.
In Beverage people to recycle.
Cans, we focus on making cans lighter.
In the last forty years, the weight of a standard 12oz aluminium beverage can has been The community reduced by 40%.
Similar lightweighting has been done on steel Rexam plants are often significant constituents in their local beverage cans.
Considering that today we alone produce more communities.
They are not only important employers but they also than 60bn cans a year, even very small reductions in weight will contribute in many other ways: through charitable donations: staff have a substantial impact on the amount of raw materials used, volunteering: product donations and any other way in which they with the added benefit of reduced greenhouse gas emissions and can usefully contribute to the strength and well being of their local less weight to transport.
In Plastic Packaging, we look to alternatives communities.
We understand the important role our operations play to petroleum based resins as well as opportunities to further reduce in community life both as an employer and in contributing to society.
the weight of our products.
The successful launch of the short height We also recognise that we have a responsibility for operating in a closure for CSDs in 2008 resulted in a 20% reduction in resin sustainable manner.
Examples of work in the community during 2008 include our During 2008 we continued our work to promote the recycling continued involvement with Communities That Care in North America of beverage cans.
Along with the industry and its suppliers, we and the support given by the Pharma division to the Kinkeliba participated in a life cycle analysis of aluminium and steel beverage Association, an NGO working in Eastern Senegal to promote cans to examine and understand the impact of each stage of a cans educational progress and childcare improvements.
For the last three life cycle so that we can make further improvements to the cans years, our operation in South America has run a co-ordinated carbon footprint.
The study confirms that recycling is the most influential Donation programme across the Beverage Can and Plastic activity to reduce the carbon footprint of a metal beverage can.
During the year, more than 28,000 items were collected in the South American plants, including books, clothes, Naturally, a balance needs to be struck between the economic shoes and provisions.
These were then distributed to more than 15 and environmental benefits of recycling.
Recycling contributes to the charities in a consolidated show of collective social responsibility.
conservation of raw materials and is a viable operation as long as the resources saved by the recycling activity are greater than the Governance resources needed in the recycling operation itself and the emissions In recognition of its responsibility to actively promote and reinforce into the environment are kept to a minimum.
robust ethical behaviour within our business, Rexam has clearly defined its core values and behaviours that it expects all employees As a Group we actively promote recycling, especially when non to demonstrate.
Aluminium and steel, the materials used to make beverage cans, are infinitely recyclable.
This means We are fully committed to meeting all standards of corporate they can be melted down and endlessly reused with absolutely no governance in the countries in which we operate.
This commitment loss of quality, in what is known as closed loop recycling.
The metal extends to ensuring that we are able to demonstrate our compliance beverage can is the worlds most recycled drinks container with an and provide open and transparent reporting to all stakeholders and average global recycling rate of more than 60%.
Our approach to Corporate Governance is further expanded in the Corporate Governance Report.
We participate actively in the establishment of efficient recycling activities in markets where we are present, all the Scandinavian countries, Brazil, Russia and Austria being some examples.
Recycling is the most in uential activity to reduce the carbon footprint of a metal beverage can and Rexam is involved in numerous activities in all the regions it operates.
For example, we are actively involved in Every Can Counts, a UK partnership launched in 2008 between beverage can manufacturers, the recycling industry and leading UK waste management companies.
The aim is to encourage people to recycle by providing the facilities to recycle beverage cans while they are at work, college or out and about as a complement to kerbside collection systems.
Rexam Annual Report 2008 31 Business Review A summary of underlying business performance from continuing Group financial performance operations is set out below.
The financial review of our results is based on what we term the underlying business performance, as shown in the first column of the 2008 2007 table below, which excludes exceptional and other items.
We feel m m that the underlying figures aid comparison of the Groups financial Ongoing operations 4,562 3,566 performance.
Disposals 56 45 Sales 4,618 3,611 Underlying Exceptional business and other 1 1 performance items Total m m m Ongoing operations 463 349 2008: Disposals 3 5 Continuing operations: Underlying operating profit 466 354 Sales 4,618 4,618 Share of associates profit after tax 1 Operating profit 466 86 380 Underlying total net finance cost 139 109 Share of associates profit after tax 1 1 Underlying profit before tax 328 245 2 Total net finance cost 139 2 141 Underlying profit after tax 226 172 Profit before tax 328 88 240 Profit after tax continuing operations 226 55 171 Underlying earnings per share p 35.3 28.0 Attributable to: The following tables, showing sales and underlying operating profit, Rexam PLC 172 compare the ongoing operations on a consistent basis to Minority interests 1 demonstrate like for like trading performance.
This basis excludes 171 disposals and businesses held for sale described as Disposals and discontinued operations but includes the prior year acquisition Total basic earnings per share p 26.8 of OI Plastics as if acquired on 1 January 2007 by adding its Underlying earnings per share p 35.3 pre-acquisition results and Rostar, the Russian beverage can maker, Interim dividend per share p 8.7 from the date of its acquisition in January 2008.
The disposal group Proposed final dividend comprises the Petainer plastic bottle business based in Sweden and 3 per share p 12.3 the Czech Republic.
The tables also highlight organic change and currency fluctuations arising on translation.
Organic change is the 2007: year on year change on ongoing operations from businesses owned since the beginning of 2008.
Continuing operations: Sales 3,611 3,611 Analysis of sales movement Operating profit 354 17 371 Beverage Plastic 2 Total net finance cost 109 2 111 Total Cans Packaging m m m Profit before tax 245 15 260 Sales reported 2007 3,611 Profit after tax continuing operations 172 2 174 Disposals 45 Discontinued operations: Ongoing operations 2007 Profit for the year 66 reported 2008 3,566 2,686 880 Total profit for the year attributable Acquisition 2007 OI Plastics 222 222 to Rexam PLC 240 Currency fluctuations 375 257 118 Ongoing operations 2007 Total basic earnings per share p 39.0 pro forma basis 4,163 2,943 1,220 Underlying earnings per share p 28.0 Acquisition 2008 Rostar 121 121 Interim and final dividends Organic change in sales 278 225 53 per share p 20.0 Ongoing operations reported 2008 4,562 3,289 1,273 1 Underlying business performance is the primary performance measure used by management Disposals 56 who believe that the exclusion of exceptional and other items aids comparison of underlying Sales reported 2008 4,618 performance of continuing operations, which exclude the discontinued Glass business.
Exceptional items include the gains and losses on disposal of businesses, the restructuring and Organic sales growth, which excludes the impact of acquisitions, integration of businesses, major asset impairments and disposals, significant litigation and tax related claims and significant gains arising on reduction of retiree medical and pension disposals and currency, was 278m, an increase of 7% of which liabilities.
Other items comprise the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets 56m came from pass through of raw material cost increases customer contracts and relationships and technology and patents and fair value changes principally resin in the Plastic Packaging operations.
Price increases on certain financing derivative financial instruments.
contributed 70m and volume and mix gains added a further 2 Underlying total net finance cost comprises net interest expense of 132m 2007: 95m 152m, primarily from the European and South American Beverage and retirement benefit obligations net finance cost of 7m 2007: 14m.
Can operations, although there was some softness late in the year in 3 Subject to approval at AGM 2009 and payable on 2 July 2009. the Russian market.
Volumes in North America were down due to reduced demand for 12oz cans for carbonated soft drinks and the 32 Rexam Annual Report 2008 discontinuance of certain specialty can products, although growth The underlying operating profit for Plastic Packaging was flat in 24oz cans and the Rexam CapCan was strong.
The Plastic overall due mainly to a slowdown in businesses affected by the Packaging improvement was principally due to resin pass through macroeconomic environment and lower soft drink consumption in and a good performance in Healthcare.
North America which affected our Closures business.
Efficiency and synergy savings were not sufficient to offset the volume decline Analysis of underlying operating pro t movement and increase in non resin related costs.
Changes in resin costs did Beverage Plastic not affect profit significantly as around 80% of contracts are now Total Cans Packaging m m m covered by pass through arrangements together with some hedging of the remaining exposed resin costs.
The integration of the Underlying operating profit OI Plastics business is progressing well and we are on track to reported 2007 354 achieve the synergy benefits: the total integration cost is still estimated Disposals 5 to be 35m, comprising 20m for restructuring and 15m for Ongoing operations 2007 capital expenditure to support the business infrastructure which reported 2008 349 244 105 includes the installation of SAP.
Synergy benefits are anticipated Acquisition 2007 OI Plastics 36 36 to reach 25m in total by 2010.
Currency fluctuations 46 30 16 Ongoing operations 2007 In July 2008, a warehouse fire at one of our Plastic Packaging pro forma basis 431 274 157 Shanghai plants resulted in the tragic loss of three firefighters lives.
The financial cost of the fire was in the region of 5m.
Acquisition 2008 Rostar 21 21 Organic change in underlying Exchange rates operating profit 11 11 The exchange rates used to translate the consolidated income Ongoing operations reported 2008 463 306 157 statement and balance sheet into sterling are set out below.
Disposals 3 2008 2007 Underlying operating profit Average: reported 2008 466 Euro 1.26 1.46 Analysis of the organic change in underlying operating profit is set US dollar 1.86 2.00 out below.
Closing: Euro 1.04 1.37 Beverage Plastic Total Cans Packaging US dollar 1.48 1.99 m m m Price changes 126 61 65 Consolidated income statement Cost changes 155 84 71 The US dollar and the euro, the principal currencies that impacted Price and cost changes 29 23 6 our results during 2008, both strengthened significantly against Volume and mix changes 5 20 15 sterling, particularly in the second half of the year.
The net effect of currency translation caused sales, underlying operating profit Efficiency and other savings 35 14 21 and underlying profit before tax compared with 2007 to increase Organic change in underlying by 375m, 46m and 34m respectively as set out below.
operating profit 11 11 Underlying Underlying The improvement in underlying operating profit, after allowing for operating pro t the impact of acquisitions, disposals and currency, was 11m 3% Sales pro t before tax m m m which reflects volume growth, the recovery of cost increases through Euro 148 23 18 pricing, the non recurrence of the strike in the US Beverage Cans US dollar 174 18 12 business in 2007 and synergy benefits arising on recent higher Other currencies 53 5 4 margin acquisitions.
375 46 34 Within the European and South American Beverage Cans operations, price increases and pass through arrangements largely In addition to the translation exposure, the Group is also exposed addressed the effect of aluminium prices and other input cost to movements in exchange rates on certain of its transactions.
Volume growth in these regions, both in standard and are principally the US dollar euro and the US dollar Brazilian real specialty cans, was sufficient to offset the softness in North American movement on the European and South American Beverage Can volumes.
The closure of two 12oz beverage can plants, operations respectively.
These exposures are largely hedged and decommisioning a 12oz can manufacturing line, a number of therefore did not impact underlying operating profit in 2008. non core specialty lines and a reduction in administrative support Consolidated balance sheet functions were announced during the year to address the demand Most of the Groups borrowings are denominated in US dollars supply imbalance in the North American market, as described in and euros.
Year on year movements in exchange rates increased Exceptional items below.
net borrowings by 627m, of which around 500m related to the US dollar, and net equity by 467m.
Rexam Annual Report 2008 33 Business Review Underlying total net finance cost Exceptional and other items The exceptional and other items arising in 2008 in respect of 2008 2007 m m continuing operations are as follows: Net interest 132 95 Before tax Tax After tax Retirement benefit obligations net finance cost 7 14 m m m Underlying total net finance cost 139 109 Exceptional items: Integration and reorganisation The underlying total net finance cost increased by 30m compared of businesses 46 15 31 with the prior year, primarily due to the net impact of financing Retiree medical gain acquisitions, which increased average net borrowings, and changes including legal costs 4 1 3 in interest and foreign exchange rates, offset by a reduction in Prior year tax adjustment retirement benefit obligations net finance cost of 7m as discussed on exceptional items 44 in Retirement benefits below.
Total exceptional items included The average market interest rates for US dollar borrowings were in operating profit 42 18 24 down around 250 basis points and for euro borrowings were up Amortisation of certain acquired by about 50 basis points compared with the prior year.
However, intangible assets 44 14 30 the overall average interest rate charge during the period was Total exceptional and other items around 6%, which is similar to last year.
This average rate is likely included in operating profit 86 32 54 to increase going forward for the full year effect of the US private Fair value changes on financing placement and US bond issues made in June 2008, which together derivatives 2 1 1 raised US$775m, to refinance facilities maturing in March 2009.
Total exceptional and other items 88 33 55 Based on reported underlying operating profit, interest cover was 3.5 times compared with 3.7 times for 2007.
The reduction is due Exceptional items in part to the higher cost of refinancing in the current economic The total restructuring and plant closure cost in respect of the environment.
Interest cover is based on underlying operating profit integration of OI Plastics is estimated to be 21m: a 6m charge and underlying total net interest expense excluding charges in was recorded in 2007 and a further 15m was charged to respect of retirement benefit obligations.
exceptional items in 2008 reflecting the closure of three plants.
Tax During 2008 the Group announced its intention to reduce capacity The tax charge for the year was 102m 31% on underlying profit in its North American Beverage Can business by closing two 2007: 73m 30%.
Following the acquisition of OI Plastics in facilities, decommissioning a 12oz can line and repositioning its 2007, the geographic mix of the Groups business has changed specialty can and other product offering.
The business realignment and the tax charge reflects the mix of territories in which Rexam now will cost approximately 36m US$67m in total, the net cash cost operates, partially offset by the availability of tax incentives in certain of which will be 15m US$27m.
The charge to exceptional items jurisdictions.
In 2009 and beyond we anticipate a modest increase in 2008 is 31m US$58m.
Changes in the provision of retiree medical benefits, consequential Cash tax payments in the year were 62m compared with 42m to those effected in 2007, resulted in an exceptional gain of 4m, last year, a rate of 19% 2007: 17% of the underlying profit before including legal costs.
Payments in 2008 reflect higher profitability and changes in the Other items timing and amount of instalment payments in Russia and France.
It is Amortisation of acquired intangible assets expected that the cash tax paid in future years will remain lower than Intangible assets, such as technology patents and customer contracts, the underlying tax charge, at a rate of between 65% and 75% of the are required to be recognised on the acquisition of businesses and underlying tax charge.
Cash taxes benefit from structural efficiencies amortised over their useful life.
The directors consider that separate which do not wholly extend to the tax charged in the consolidated disclosure, within exceptional and other items, of the amortisation income statement.
of such acquired intangibles amounting to 44m before tax 2007: 22m aids comparison of organic growth in underlying profit.
34 Rexam Annual Report 2008 The retirement benefit obligations net finance cost is analysed Fair value changes on nancing derivatives as follows: The fair value of the derivatives arising on financing activities directly relates to changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
The 2008 2007 fair value will change as the transactions to which they relate mature, m m as new derivatives are transacted and due to the passage of time.
Defined benefit pension plans: The fair value change on financing derivatives for the year was a Expected return on plan assets 140 127 net loss of 2m 2007: 2m.
The impact of embedded derivatives Interest on plan liabilities 140 131 and derivatives arising on trading items such as commodities and Pension plans net finance cost 4 forward foreign exchange contracts is included within underlying Retiree medical interest on liabilities 7 10 operating profit.
Total net finance cost 7 14 Earnings per share The reduction in retirement benefit net finance cost in 2008 2008 2007 compared with 2007 can mainly be attributed to a higher expected Underlying earnings per share p 35.3 28.0 return on pension plan assets and lower interest on the reduction in Basic earnings per share p 26.8 39.0 retiree medical liabilities offset by higher interest on pension plan liabilities.
It is expected that the net finance cost in 2009 will Average number of shares in issue millions 642 615 increase substantially to around 35m.
This will be due mainly Year end number of shares in issue millions 643 643 to lower asset values at 31 December 2008 and lower expected weighted average returns on equities.
Underlying earnings per share improved 26% from 28.0p to 35.3p.
This is due to organic growth together with the contribution from the The total cash payments in respect of retirement benefits are OI Plastics and Rostar acquisitions partly offset by the higher average as follows: number of shares in issue following the 58 million share placement 2008 2007 in June 2007. m m The basic earnings per share, which includes exceptional and Defined benefit pension plans 53 47 other items and discontinued operations, were 26.8p per share Other pension plans 9 8 2007: 39.0p.
The reduction reflects the impact of exceptional and Retiree medical 9 11 other items in 2008 and the results, including the profit on disposal, Total cash payments 71 66 of the discontinued Glass operations in 2007.
Cash payments to defined benefit pension plans increased as a result Retirement bene ts of a higher rate of contribution to the UK plan, which include 22m Retirement benefit obligations net of tax on the balance sheet 2007: 21m to reduce its deficit, and further contributions to the as at 31 December 2008 were 170m, an increase compared US plan.
Based on current actuarial projections, it is expected that with 128m reported at 31 December 2007, principally due to cash contributions to defined benefit pension plans in 2009 will be exchange rate movements, lower equity asset values and returns, lower than those in 2008, at around 20m.
higher mortality assumptions in the UK, offset by higher discount rates which are used to value the liabilities in the defined benefit A detailed analysis of retirement benefits is set out in note 24 to the pension plans.
Changes to the actuarial value of retirement benefits at the balance sheet date are shown in the statement of recognised income and expense.
These changes increased the retirement benefit obligations before tax by 30m in 2008 as follows: m Defined benefit pension plans: Plan assets lower than expected equity returns 221 Plan liabilities principally higher discount rates and valuation experience gains offset by higher mortality 192 Retiree medical liabilities 1 Actuarial losses before tax 30 Tax 4 Actuarial losses after tax 26 Rexam Annual Report 2008 35 Business Review Cash ow Capital expenditure continuing operations Free cash flow from continuing operations for the year resulted in 2008 2007 an outflow of 128m compared with an inflow of 16m for 2007.
1 Capital expenditure gross m 389 294 This largely reflects the ongoing investment in capital expenditure to 2 Depreciation and amortisation m 178 136 fuel growth in strategic and emerging markets and an increase in Ratio times 2.2 2.2 working capital offset by the improvement in underlying operating profit.
The increase in working capital is mainly attributable to higher 1 Capital expenditure includes computer software that has been capitalised.
inventories and receivables, and lower payables.
The increase in 2 Amortisation excludes 44m 2007: 22m amortised on certain acquired intangible assets.
inventories is due in part to the dip in demand in the last quarter Gross capital expenditure by continuing operations was 389m, of the year, particularly in Russia where the supply chain is more 2.2 times depreciation and amortisation.
This level of expenditure complex.
These situations are expected to unwind in 2009.
Payables reflects a substantial commitment to investments in strategic and were impacted as suppliers increasingly require shorter contractual growth projects, some 263m 2007: 224m.
The principal payment terms in response to the current credit situation and were projects were in the Beverage Can business and in the European also affected by some hedging arrangements which required operations in particular, including new can plants in Denmark and settlement in 2008.
Russia, a third line in the wall to wall facility in Austria for Red Bull 2008 2007 and additional can lines in Spain and Egypt to support local market m m growth.
The North and South American Beverage Can businesses Continuing operations: continue to convert or recommission lines to produce specialty cans Underlying operating profit 466 354 to meet market and regional demand.
The Plastic Packaging 1 Depreciation and amortisation 178 136 operation has also continued to invest to support a range of products Retirement benefit obligations 46 42 in the dispensing systems and pharmaceutical markets.
The most Change in working capital 155 11 significant investment was for a new facility in France to support Restructuring costs 19 8 the lotion pump business.
Other movements 14 3 Going into 2009 there will be some further investment to finalise Cash generated 438 432 commitments on growth and strategic projects within the Beverage Capital expenditure net 383 288 Can operations.
This will include completion of the new plant in Net interest and tax paid 183 128 Denmark: additional lines, conversions and can end capacity within Free cash flow from continuing operations 128 16 the European operations: and line conversions in North and South Free cash flow from discontinued operations 8 America.
These projects and a range of smaller projects within Plastic Packaging, generally targeted at new product development Free cash flow 128 24 particularly in pharmaceutical markets, are expected to support Equity dividends 131 118 profit growth opportunities in 2009 and beyond.
Therefore, it is Business cash flow 259 94 anticipated that capital expenditure in 2009 will be within the range 2 Acquisitions 136 921 of 1.1 to 1.2 times depreciation and amortisation, dependant on the 3 Disposals 402 timing of projects.
At year end exchange rates, the 2008 depreciation Cash flow including borrowings acquired and amortisation charge would have been around 220m.
and disposed 395 613 Acquisitions Share capital changes 1 281 Net expenditure on acquisitions, including net borrowings assumed, Currency fluctuations 627 44 totalled 136m, as set out below.
Other non cash movements 18 14 4 Net borrowings at the beginning of the year 1,562 1,172 m 4 Net borrowings at the end of the year 2,601 1,562 Beverage Cans: Rostar 142 Plastic Packaging: OI Plastics repayment 8 1 Excludes amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets amounting to 44m 2007: 22m.
Payments in respect of prior year and other acquisitions 2 2 Includes net borrowings acquired of 12m 2007: net cash 1m.
136 3 Includes net borrowings disposed of nil 2007: 130m.
Rostar, the Russian beverage can maker, was acquired for 142m 4 Net borrowings comprises borrowings 2,859m 2007: 1,843m less cash and cash including net borrowings acquired in January 2008, following the equivalents 75m 2007: 113m, collateral deposits included in other receivables 42m receipt of regulatory approval.
The acquisition is consistent with our 2007: nil and certain financial derivative instruments 141m 2007: 168m.
Collateral deposits, which are interest bearing, relate to margin calls on aluminium commodity contracts.
strategy to expand in emerging markets.
A net asset adjustment in respect of the OI Plastics acquisition generated an 8m repayment to Rexam.
Disposals The process to sell our Petainer refillable plastic bottle operations in Sweden and the Czech Republic, which has been protracted by the global economic downturn, is continuing.
36 Rexam Annual Report 2008 Derivative financial instruments comprise instruments relating to net Balance sheet and borrowings borrowings cross currency and interest rate swaps and those related As at As at 31.12.07 to other business transactions forward commodity and forward 31.12.08 restated foreign exchange deals.
Total derivative financial instruments are set m m out below.
Goodwill and other intangible assets 2,949 2,216 Property, plant and equipment 1,982 1,310 As at As at 31.12.08 31.12.07 Retirement benefits net of tax 170 128 m m Other net assets liabilities 16 3 Cross currency swaps 126 166 4,777 3,395 Interest rate swaps 12 2 Foreign exchange forward contracts 3 Total equity, including minority interests 2,176 1,833 Derivative financial instruments included 1 Net borrowings 2,601 1,562 in net borrowings 141 168 4,777 3,395 Other derivative financial instruments 239 12 Total derivative financial instruments 98 156 2 Return on invested capital % 11.0 11.9 3 Interest cover times 3.5 3.7 The reduction in the value of cross currency swaps can be mainly 4 Gearing % 120 85 attributed to the impact of the strengthening of the US dollar offset by the effect of the stronger euro on the swaps related to the 750m 1 Net borrowings comprise borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, collateral deposits and subordinated bond.
The increase in interest rate swaps is due to a certain derivative financial instruments.
fall in euro interest rates.
The increased liability in respect of other 2 Underlying operating profit plus share of associates profit after tax divided by the average derivatives was due principally to the reduction, mainly in the second of opening and closing of each of net borrowings and shareholders equity after adding back half of 2008, in aluminium, resin and energy prices.
retirement benefit obligations net of tax.
For 2007, the opening assets and liabilities attributable to the discontinued Glass sector have been excluded.
At 31 December 2008, the Groups principal committed loan 3 Based on underlying operating profit divided by underlying total net interest expense.
and bank facilities totalled 3.3bn, including 370m relating to 4 Based on net borrowings divided by total equity including minority interests.
a medium term note which matures in March 2009.
Since the year end, we have secured 480m in two year bilateral bank facilities The level of net borrowings at 31 December 2008 reflects the to support the Groups liquidity going forward.
increase in working capital, continuing investment in capital projects and acquisitions and the significant impact of currency translation.
We have seen a significant increase in our reported debt arising The currency denomination of our net borrowings is as follows: from the mathematical effect of the significant weakening of sterling impacting the translated value of our euro and US dollar borrowings.
As at As at Sterling weakness has also had a small adverse impact on debt 31.12.08 31.12.07 m m facility headroom on our sterling denominated bank facilities, US dollar 2,063 1,293 although our liquidity remains strong with committed debt headroom at 0.7bn at the year end.
Euro 373 232 Sterling and other 165 37 Our gearing has increased, due partly to the translational impact Net borrowings 2,601 1,562 of currency debt referred to above, and our interest cover has fallen to levels that are outside our preferred target ranges, although still The principal committed borrowing facilities available to the Group manageable, and we were well within our debt covenants in 2008. at 31 December 2008 were 3.3bn, of which 2.3bn were denominated in US dollars and euros.
Net borrowings include interest accruals and certain financial derivatives as set out below.
As at As at 31.12.08 31.12.07 m m Net borrowings excluding derivative financial instruments 2,742 1,730 Derivative financial instruments 141 168 Net borrowings 2,601 1,562 Rexam Annual Report 2008 37
