business and financial review revenue profit % % 31 33 revenue grew from underlying operating 1 56.7m to 74m profit increased from 30.7m to 41m Ed Williams Managing Director In 2008, Rightmove extended its leadership position in online employees who made such a big contribution to the growth property advertising.
With the property industry focused on of our business but who also lost their jobs as a result of the the need for buyers, our ability to deliver enquiries at levels collapse of the UK property market.
comparable to 2007 has allowed us to be far more resilient than traditional print advertising.
The overall cost effectiveness Our 2008 results of our service, together with products which allow our 2008 was a record year for Rightmove.
Revenue increased customers to target specific potential home buyers with by 31% to 74m 2007: 56.7m and underlying operating offers and price reductions, contributed to revenue growth.
Despite the strength of our 2008 performance, the Although the second half of the year was tougher than housing market downturn and the credit crunch has the first, both revenue and profits in the second half of the been and will continue to be too pronounced to insulate year were only slightly lower than in the first half and were Rightmove.
However, we believe the underlying strength of substantially ahead of the second half of 2007. the business, and our ability to invest in marketing and Our results also reflect 0.7m of costs in relation to the product development in the tough times, will reward us with headcount reduction of 78 employees 23% of the workforce, a substantial share of the industrys marketing spend as the which will provide an estimated 5m of savings in 2009. housing market starts to return towards more normal levels of activity.
The UK property and property advertising sector As we start 2009, our objective is to communicate In the context of the 2008 housing market, these results unequivocally to home hunters that we remain the place to bring into focus the key advertising industry question: look for property and to the property industry that we are the To what extent is the downturn in classified newspaper place to advertise.
Though optimism is challenging amidst advertising cyclical or structural?
the gloomy economic news, we are confident of maintaining Regional newspaper group results in recent trading and cash flow at or ahead of 2007 levels and have the enormous reporting periods have pointed to greater than 50% reductions benefit of a strong financial position.
in property advertising revenue compared to the same periods Our 2008 results are the strongest possible evidence of a year earlier.
our belief that Rightmove will be the biggest beneficiary of We believe that around 20% of estate agent offices have the structural shift of advertising spend from traditional media left the industry since the start of the downturn in July 2008. to online.
In many, though by no means all cases, these were smaller We wish to thank all our customers for their loyalty at a businesses that always spent less on advertising.
Therefore time when the dramatic fall in number of housing transactions the majority of the overall decline in property advertising has led them to reduce staff levels and their other marketing spend has come from a reduction in newspaper spending spend to an extent not witnessed in living memory.
We also by agents who continue to trade and not as a result of wish to express our thanks to the many former Rightmove agents leaving the industry.
Before share-based payments, NI on share options under issue and capital reconstruction costs.
6 rightmove plc annual report 2008 Graham Zacharias Finance Director This scale of decline reflects the realities of the current What we do and the keys to success trading environment for estate agents and new homes developers.
We estimate, based on conversations with Rightmoves success in 2008 in adverse conditions arises estate agents, that the total number of housing transactions directly from what it is we do and how that differs from others.
in 2008 was around half the level seen in more normal market conditions and even further down on the peak level The most effective property advertising medium of activity.
Given that the start to 2008 was far better than By using the Rightmove.
co. uk website our advertisers reach the end, the current run rate may well be around a third of by far the largest audience of prospective home movers in that in a normal market.
the country and in turn home movers see more properties The overall decline in the number of agents, coupled with than anywhere else.
During a period of decline in circulation a sharp reduction in house building across the UK in 2008, for local and regional newspapers, activity on the Rightmove has inevitably resulted in shrinkage in our advertiser base.
website continued to increase, with page impressions up by This had an impact on revenue in the second half of 2008 8% to 5.3bn 2007: 4.9bn.
According to Hitwise, which and will inevitably impact 2009 as we experience the full monitors over a thousand property-related websites, year financial consequence of the disappearance of Rightmove has started 2009 with as many pages of these advertisers.
information being viewed as all other property websites Nonetheless, during 2008 we gained more than 2,200 put together.
individual estate agent and letting agent offices, with lettings Rightmove generates enquiries from prospective home representing an area of particularly rapid growth.
Setting buyers whether via phone, email or by other means that we aside the substantial contraction in the overall base of agents cannot directly track.
In the current trading environment in the market, the gains in agents far out-weighed the loss of buyer enquiries are the life-blood of agents and property agents who remain in business.
At the time of writing we have 24 of the top 25 new The key performance indicators that we monitor are: homes developers advertising with us.
We have witnessed a page impressions email enquiries properties displayed decline in the total number of new homes developments being marketed across the country.
One impact of extremely m % % down 400 6 4.5 tough trading conditions facing developers has been both a number of page number of emails down number of properties marked increase in their willingness to spend on all impressions in the year by far less than the displayed on Rightmove.
grew from 4.9bn 2007 decline in number of co. uk at 31 December Rightmoves online services during those months that they to 5.3bn 2008, up 8% agents and developers 2008 was 1,085,000 see as key sales months, coupled with decisions to stop in 2008 2007: 1,038,000 advertising through most or all media in other months such as December.
7 rightmove plc annual report 2008 rightmove.
co. uk th ranked 15 of all uk websites, no other property website is in the top 100 see more at see more at rightmove Source: Pages viewed, Hitwise, January 2009 Rightmoves ability to outperform newspapers in these one email enquiry every two seconds.
Our share of the home challenging times reflects: moving audience online has also increased dramatically with, our increasing audience at a time when newspapers on many days in January, more activity on the Rightmove are declining: website than on all the other 1,200 or so property websites the need for enquiries from home buyers as opposed put together property websites monitored by Hitwise.
to the overwhelming focus on winning the right to sell a We believe that the current state of the housing market house during the good times: gives us an opportunity to use our financial resources to measurability with all our customers seeking to reduce demonstrate to the home moving public and the property costs and yet make sales, measurability has been thrust industry alike Rightmoves pivotal role and reinforce our to the fore: market leading position.
the belated recognition that what sellers of homes expect from their agent is that they market their property in the Service and infrastructure places that they themselves look increasingly now the We have maintained the size of our customer service teams.
internet as opposed to the local paper as circulation As the burdens placed on us by the rapid growth in declines and online users come of age.
membership numbers eased we have been able to devote more time to talking with our customers and working with Long-term sustained investment them at an individual level to improve the quality of their The high level of site activity and enquiries is the result of advertising with us and hence its effectiveness.
our historic cash investment and the effort put into the In preparation for 2009 we have reshaped our sales development of the Rightmove.
co. uk website and the force into a more focused team of relationship managers marketing of it.
2008 has seen that investment sustained.
able to work with our customers to maximise the value We have extended our range of Rightmove Choice they get from Rightmove and offer them wider advice on products and widened their availability.
Now our lettings marketing effectiveness.
This is supported with a programme advertisers and overseas homes advertisers can benefit of local seminars.
from the increased response and branding our Choice Our online reports and tools give our customers effective products offer.
ways to target all their marketing activity.
This has been The site has also been redesigned to make it more visible demonstrated by the rapid growth of our email campaign to Google and thereby to increase our organic rankings service to new homes developers, allowing them to target across a range of search terms.
This investment is already people who have already registered an interest with us paying dividends and should continue to strengthen our regarding the price, type and location of property.
We have also taken the opportunity in 2008 to replace Our See More media campaign represents our biggest the majority of our IT platforms and hardware systems.
Indeed it may well represent The whole of the technology platform which powers our the biggest marketing investment into a single campaign Rightmove.
co. uk website, from very technical layers, the made by any property-related advertiser.
The campaign database, through to the business logic which handles the launched on Boxing Day with heavyweight TV advertising way in which users search for properties has been upgraded.
across Britain running through to the start of February.
Following on from the redesign of the Rightmove.
co. uk This has been accompanied by outdoor advertising in high interface which was launched in December 2007, there is profile city centre sites, advertising on video panels on the hardly any part of the technology that the public see and London underground and extensive online advertising.
use which dates back to before then.
A less obvious, large A consequence of this is that, the Rightmove.
co. uk website investment has been the complete replacement of our billing has generated record numbers of enquiries in January 2009. systems which have needed to handle increasing volumes Enquiry levels have doubled in comparison to a year ago and sophistication of product and pricing options.
peaking at 44,250 email enquiries in a single day, equating to 9 9 r righ ightmo tmov five e plc plc annual annual r repor eport t 2008 2008 more people visit rightmove.
co. uk: four times more visits to rightmove.
co. uk than any other uk property site see more at Source: Hitwise, January 2009 Focus Focus does not preclude innovation.
Earlier in 2008 We believe that the focus we have had on the core UK online Rightmove introduced its first Local Edition, a down-loadable property advertising market has been a vital ingredient of our magazine format, weekly online property paper.
Any investments or acquisitions which we might course of the year we have increased the number of have made that would have extended the scope of our Local Editions to nine and intend to extend this over time.
business into areas which are directly coupled to the level of The Local Edition gives estate agents and house builders housing activity would have been far more adversely affected the opportunity to follow tried and trusted advertising by the events of the last year.
formats, including display advertising, but for the publication During 2008 we took the decision to stop selling general to be produced ahead of the weekly newspaper and banner advertising around our AboutMyPlace mapping delivered to thousands of subscribers at virtually no cost.
The volume of web pages available to advertisers A tough market does not preclude areas of growth in continues to grow while generic online display advertising customers.
In addition to the increase in number of lettings spend declines.
Our own experience only serves to confirm agents on Rightmove, we now have relationships with far the challenges faced by any property website based on a more Housing Associations than a year ago.
free-to-list model with revenue derived from other advertising.
The completion of our major IT investment in replacing We continue with two business areas that are not our underlying technology will free up more time in 2009 for part of our core Rightmove.
co. uk website business: visible and commercially focused product development.
Holiday Lettings Limited and our Automated Valuation Indeed one of the key benefits of the investment we have business.
made in the infrastructure is to speed up development time Holiday Lettings Limited, which we acquired early in 2007 for new products, benefits we are already seeing in our has grown rapidly and ahead of expectations, albeit that this current projects.
is not reflected in the like-for-like statutory results due to the way in which the revenue recognition policy was applied.
Protecting shareholder value With the UK public seeking to economise on luxuries we believe the holiday rentals market will prove one of the most How the Board monitors performance resilient aspects of the travel industry.
An increased focus Our Board reviews performance at Board meetings and on since 2007 on UK properties should provide some protection a monthly basis through a detailed monthly management against the consequences of a weaker pound Sterling.
report, which covers all the key performance indicators Meanwhile, ownership of a holiday home is no longer a onefeatured in this report.
The primary method by which risks are way ticket to appreciating asset values, making the need for monitored and managed is by the monthly Executive Board, securing high occupancy rates by owners that much greater.
which reports to the main Board on such matters bi-annually Our Automated Valuation business has faced a market or as the business requires.
With the assistance of the Audit where the number of valuations carried out for mortgage Committee, the Board reviews the effectiveness of internal lending purposes fell dramatically.
However, we had started controls at least annually.
the year from a very low base so this did not lead to a decline in business.
Concerns about asset quality and risk Uncertainties, threats and risks have led to the growth of the use of automated valuations to Thus far the Rightmove business model has proved remarkably revalue properties for a variety of other applications.
During resilient in the face of an unprecedented down-turn affecting the year we have been working with four out of the top six the customers we serve.
Nonetheless the business is mortgage lenders.
We have also been selected by Experian inevitably exposed to the general uncertainty of the housing as their strategic partner, offering further evidence of the market and particularly to transaction volumes.
superiority of the Rightmove AVM product and technology.
These relationships should prove valuable as transaction volumes recover.
11 11 r righ ightmo tmov five e plc plc annual annual r repor eport t 2008 2008 visitors to rightmove.
co. uk stay longer: visitors spend an average of 12 minutes each visit to rightmove.
co. uk, % 50 longer than any other property site see more at Source: Comscore, January 2009 Rightmove, from its inception, has experienced a large Bad debt number of new entrants in terms of property websites, During the year a bad debt charge of 1.4m was incurred often exhibiting a range of business models and frequently 2007: 0.3m.
The largest single amount written off in respect involving the offer of free advertising to agents.
The new of any one customer was 44,000 in respect of an estate entrants who attracted the most attention over the last two agency group.
The bulk of the charge related to smaller years have failed to make any actual material impact in spite amounts owed by estate agents and developers who either of big claims at the start.
We cannot rule out the appearance left the site without paying or went into administration during of a completely new entrant or business model.
This adversely impacted margin during the year by believe that the tougher market conditions reinforce the view 1.8% and if adjusted for the margin would have been 57.2%.
that the long-standing competitor property portals, all owned by larger media groups, represent the most tangible source Taxation of competition.
The consolidated tax rate for the year ended 31 December Looking further ahead, Rightmoves success as the 2008 was 33% 2007: 31%.
The difference between this preferred alternative to local newspapers when property and the standard rate of tax at 28.5% relates chiefly to the advertising spend recovers will depend on our ability to reversal of the deferred tax asset on share options and develop and commercialise an appropriate range of products disallowable expenditure charges, notably share-based and services.
These may be enhanced advertising products payments expense.
co. uk website, other online advertising services such as our Local Edition or the extension of our Share-based payments IFRS 2 services from pure advertising into other aspects of marketing In accordance with IFRS 2, a non-cash charge of 2m such as our email campaigns for new homes developers.
2007: 2.3m is included in the income statement We believe there are limited risks relating to operational representing amortisation of the fair value of share options failures, to financial and legal exposures, to fraud or granted, including Sharesave options, since 2006. embezzlement or from onerous commercial obligations or liabilities.
The business has few tangible assets and the Net interest major intellectual assets are tied up in the design of our Net interest payable was 1.3m 2007: net interest receivable website and in our brand identity, recognition and reputation.
The Group has moved into a net interest payable position as a result of entering into a revolving loan facility in Financial position April 2008.
The loan bore interest at LIBOR plus 150 basis points since its inception.
Margin growth The Groups interest cover ratio at 31 December 2008 The underlying operating margin for the year increased from was 31:1, well above the minimum level of 4:1 specified in 54.2% to 55.4% as a consequence of strong revenue growth the related bank covenant.
and a more modest increase in overhead.
Earnings per share Year ended Year ended Year ended Basic earnings per ordinary share of 22.5p 2007: 15.2p 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 is based on profit after taxation and a weighted average Underlying operating of 113,405,224 shares in issue 2007: 123,023,728. margin % 55.4% 54.2% 52.1% Underlying basic earnings per ordinary share before share-based payments, NI on share options under issue Based upon operating profit before share-based payments, NI on share and capital reconstruction costs was 23.8p 2007: 18.7p.
options under issue, capital reconstruction costs and flotation costs.
13 13 13 r righ ightmo tmov five e plc plc annual annual r repor eport t 2008 2008 record level of email enquiries: 1.1 million email enquiries, more than double a year ago see more at Source: Rightmove data, January 2008 & January 2009 Balance sheet Current trading and outlook Total shareholders deficit amounted to 15.5m at 2009 has started with the Rightmove.
co. uk website 31 December 2008 2007: retained earnings of 12.4m.
experiencing high levels of site traffic and enquiries, including The Groups net liability position at 31 December 2008 has several of the busiest days ever in terms of email enquiries arisen entirely as a result of the draw down of the revolving generated to our advertisers.
We have seen an initial decrease loan facility of 39.7m and the application of the funds to in the rate of estate agents leaving the industry and more buy back shares during the year.
It is anticipated that 25m marketing activity from developers compared to late in 2008. of this facility will be converted into a five year term loan by We believe that the outlook for the UK residential housing April 2009.
This is explained in detail in Note 1 to the market as a whole will be driven by the wider economic financial statements.
The current levels of housing Trade and other receivables increased from 11.2m to transactions are unsustainably low, the equivalent of people 12.6m in part due to the strong growth in revenue but also on average never moving from the first home they buy for the as a result of 1m of marketing related prepayments.
Given the dramatic reduction in the cost Trade and other payables decreased from 14.7m to base of the property industry, we believe that relatively 12.4m principally due to a reduction in payroll related modest increases in transaction volumes even if only to the accruals and the payment during the year of capital levels seen early in 2008 will transform the viability of many reconstruction costs accrued as at 31 December 2007. of the most threatened estate agents and developers.
The number of developments available to be marketed is likely Cash flow and net debt to decline given the reduction in housing starts, though with Cash generated from operations was 38.7m 2007: 29.9m transaction levels so low this may be a gradual process.
and cash flow conversion remained high at 98% in line with So is the downturn in property advertising in traditional our historical record.
Net cash from operating activities media cyclical or structural?
was 11.5m lower at 27.2m 2007: 25.6m due to the There can be no doubt that the current situation payment of taxes of 10m and interest of 1.5m.
Capital represents a huge cyclical downturn.
Our results in 2008 and expenditure was lower than the previous year at 1m our start to 2009 suggest that online property portals are 2007: 1.8m as 2007 included 0.4m non-recurring spend also bringing about a major structural shift.
The ultimate in relation to the investment in the new finance billing system.
answer to the question will become clear as property A total of 45m was invested during 2008 in the advertising spend starts to increase again.
repurchase of our own shares 2007: 19.4m while a further Hence, our strategy is to remain the clear leader in the UK 10.4m was paid by way of dividends 2007: 6.2m.
online property advertising market, to continue to invest in our Net debt at 31 December 2008 was 16.9m 2007: net product and brand and to continue to prepare for the market cash of 11.8m.
In many ways we believe the opportunities to build The Boards priorities for the usage of cash are: investment on our market share of the industry spend on advertising will in the business: payment of the dividend: and the return of be considerable in the future as the trend to use traditional excess cash to shareholders via share buy backs.
We believe media in the UK property market fails to return.
that the future working capital and capital expenditure The Board is confident of meeting its expectations for requirements of the business will continue to be low and that the coming year.
the business will be in a position to return surplus capital to shareholders during 2009 through sustained dividends.
Ed Williams Graham Zacharias Managing Director Finance Director 15 15 r righ ightmo tmov five e plc plc annual annual r repor eport t 2008 2008
