The right equipment Ashtead provides the tools and support to help all types of customers achieve success from DIY enthusiasts to major multi-million pound construction projects.
Were there at the beginning when the ground is broken and we stay as long as we are needed.
Often we work alongside the main contractor on a large project for several years, providing the right equipment at each stage of the process and even facilitating t-out maintenance once the construction is complete.
Building on an already established relationship, Skanska turned to A-Plant, our UK business, to provide the equipment they and other contractors would need for the multi-million PFI redevelopment programmes for the Kings Mill and Mans eld Hospitals in Nottinghamshire and the Royal London and St Bartholomews Hospitals in London.
A-Plant will provide a broad range of equipment needs over the several years duration of the enormous modernisation of these hospitals, which are effectively being rebuilt while remaining operational.
at the right time These multi-year projects will run well into the next decade.
A-Plant will be on-site throughout, providing equipment for each major phase of construction.
As each phase begins, A-Plant first provides equipment for excavation and groundworks, supplying a range of excavators, small tools and specialist formwork and falsework for retaining concrete as the foundations are laid.
When the biggest construction equipment is in use, a key role for us can be to bring fuel directly to where it is required, meaning that there is no need for contractors to go off site to purchase fuel and therefore delay their work.
As each phase progresses, we accommodate the changing contractors needs, supplying for example, dumpers and powered access machines to ensure work can be carried out safely at high levels.
Once the external construction is complete and the internal t-out stage begins, we continue to supply a wide range of equipment, from heating or air conditioning units, depending on the season, and smaller tools through to dust suppression and extraction equipment.
in the right place On signi cant parts of major projects we often establish a dedicated on-site hire resource, replicating the functions of an A-Plant depot and providing the immediacy of service that only an on-site facility can offer.
We have our own staff on-site, including specialists who can advise on the most appropriate equipment, provide technical back-up, ensure that equipment is in peak condition, deal quickly with any maintenance issues, and advise on safety matters.
and providing a home from home.
At the heart of several of these projects is a Contractors Village of temporary site equipment supplied by A-Plant Accommodation.
Each unit is typically supplied to meet the customers precise colour, layout and security requirements.
Given its uniformity and proximity to the worksite, each village typically provides a highly effective and ef cient operational centre, enabling the customer to keep all their trade contractors of ces in one area.
When youre going to be on-site for several years, you need a good base from which to work.
Project lifecycle Ini tial set up of the job-site S ite clearance, excavation and ground working This phase involves the customer moving their In this phase the customer clears and consolidates staff on-site.
In this phase, the customer typically the sites and excavates as required to establish establishes a site of ce on-site, provides welfare the appropriate foundations.
The equipment we facilities for their workforce as well as site storage.
are called upon to supply in this phase includes: In this phase we offer equipment such as: Diggers, dumpers and other earthmoving Diggers and dumpers used for earth preparation, equipment to transport earth and spoil around removing top soil and putting down stone the job-site Excavators and rollers used in the construction Piling to support main construction structures of the temporary site area, hard standing Acrow equipment to support concrete for material storage and car parks foundations and other concrete structures Accommodation units to form the Trench shoring for deep drainage Contractors Village Rollers and other equipment used for the Temporary traf c management systems to reattening of land once the underground control the movement of traf c on and off site work is complete Portable generators and job-site power We also offer re-fuelling of heavy equipment distribution systems to ensure the ready whilst on-site and supply both fuel and availability of electrical power water bowsers Temporary lighting depending on season Smaller hand-held tools Steel storage units and fencing to help secure and On the larger sites, we offer to establish an manage the site including any security compound on-site depot at this phase enabling the lead contractor and his sub-contractors ready access to an immediate store of available equipment without having to incur the delay or delivery cost necessitated by off-site provision.
Co nstruction Fitout Once the site has been cleared and consolidated Once the basic fabric of the building is complete and the foundations have been prepared, the main and the roof is on, the t-out to make it suitable construction starts.
At this phase of the project, for its end occupier commences.
At this phase we again help the contractor do more by providing of the project, the heating and ventilation systems the right piece of equipment required for the task will be installed alongside all the other plumbing at hand.
This will typically include: and electrical systems.
Non-structural internal Acrow formwork and falsework to support walling and partitioning will be added and internal construction of any concrete structures for decoration will be completed.
Equipment used example central lift and maintenance shafts during t-out includes: Powered access platforms and booms as well A vast range of smaller tools and equipment used as telehandlers used to help lift and position to support almost every aspect of the t-out works construction workers and equipment up and Aluminium towers and smaller electric scissor lifts down the structure whilst it is being built to provide safe and secure high level internal access Survey equipment to con rm correct positioning Temporary heating and air-conditioning equipment of structures depending on the season to maintain working All types of dumpers, forklifts and concrete conditions in the incomplete building until the mixers are used during bricklaying and other relevant services are fully installed and commissioned wet trades involved in general construction Temporary job-site power as well as specialist Smaller hand-held tools heaters used to speed the drying-out of the building Forklifts and telehandlers to aid the movement and delivery of equipment and materials wherever needed This phase of the project typically involves the greatest number of specialist sub-contractors, all of whom will work under the control and direction of the master contractor.
We offer all the sub-contractors on-site the ability to obtain advice and assistance on the different types of equipment from our specialist staff.
When its nished well still be there to help We provide much more than construction equipment alone.
We supply ongoing maintenance equipment to any facility.
In addition, our specialist divisions can assist with cleaning up after a disaster, providing equipment for major events and even directing traf c. For example, our specialist Pump and Power business in the US provides equipment to get rid of excess water after a ood, whether it is weather related, the result of a burst water main or the water left behind once a major re has been extinguished.
We provide aerial man lifts, dehumidi ers and generators to supply the power required for lighting and ventilation, as well as interior remediation and restoration equipment.
You probably dont notice us, but we are often there providing the behind the scenes equipment without which many major events would never happen.
We rent a wide variety of equipment, such as lighting, power and accommodation units used at rock concerts, music festivals, sporting events and many other venues.
Our specialist traf c division, A-Plant Lux is the UK leader in providing traf c control systems on a rental basis.
We can provide a single set of traf c lights or a complex high speed traf c management system.
We monitor the equipment for the duration of the project and take it all away at the end.
So, whether the requirement is for a hand held machine tool or an on-site hire depot for a multi-million pound project, our customers look to us to make the process run smoothly, effectively and ef ciently.
Considerably less to worry about.
08 | Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Business and financial review Business and financial review Geoff Drabble Ian Robson Chief Executive Finance Director Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Business and financial review | 09 Overview A-Plant also performed well, bene ting from a clear sales Ashtead operates in the US principally under the name Sunbelt strategy which delivered strong growth together with and in the UK principally under the name A-Plant.
Ashtead is now infrastructure cost control.
As a result A-Plant delivered an the second largest equipment rental group in the world.
Sunbelt excellent 46% improvement in underlying operating pro t. is the third largest equipment rental company in the US, whilst We will continue to offer a broad range of plant, tools and A-Plant is the second largest equipment rental company in the specialty products to our customer base.
This strategy makes UK, in each case, measured by rental revenue.
us the clear market leader and delivers signi cant advantages for our larger customers.
We provide a wide range of rental equipment, from everyday machine tools to extensive pump and power systems used in We have continued to invest in the size, mix and age of our eet major disaster situations.
We are a service business and it is our in the US and UK with capital expenditure for the year being network, people and systems that set us apart in our markets.
Our rental eet has now reached an age and mix which At Group level, we are focused on the management of asset we consider optimal and we therefore expect signi cantly intensive businesses with the aim of delivering superior financial reduced gross capital expenditure of approximately 230m in returns.
In future years, we expect to continue to develop our the coming year.
As a result, we expect to generate signi cant existing networks and to consider both adding new higher return free cash ow in the coming year which, together with the product types and extending the geographical markets in which proceeds from the Technology sale, allows us to target net debt we operate.
to EBITDA leverage at the lower end of our 2 to 3 times range by April 2009.
We provide solutions in all manner of situations including the following: Our recent underlying pro forma financial performance is Non-residential construction markets providing all as follows: Growth over types of construction equipment 2005 6 2006 7 2007 8 last year Facilities management again providing all types of m m m % equipment for maintenance and repair Revenue 998 1,026 1,003 -2% Disaster relief providing pumps and power generation EBITDA 298 341 380 11% equipment in all types of application, ranging from assistance Operating pro t 120 161 198 23% at times of ooding due to weather e. g. hurricanes or a burst water supply In the year to 30 April 2008 we achieved growth of 11% in Major event management providing power generation, underlying EBITDA and 23% in underlying operating pro t lighting and other equipment at major sporting events, on revenues which were broadly at.
This re ected the merger music concerts and festivals and closure of a net 43 pro t centres to drive ef ciency following Traf c management providing portable traf c systems the NationsRent acquisition, signi cantly reduced low margin to facilitate major engineering projects or clean-up after new equipment sales previously undertaken by NationsRent, an accident and substantial cost savings from the closure of the former NationsRent head of ce and the merger of the two regional The year was a signi cant one in terms of the development operating structures, as well as good pro ts growth at A-Plant of the Group both in the US and the UK.
In our first full year of in the UK.
This strong financial performance is discussed ownership of NationsRent, our transformational US acquisition, further below.
we completed the final structural elements of the integration.
An integration of this scale can be a distraction and, therefore, Our markets Sunbelts delivery of 21% growth in underlying operating pro t The US over last years pro forma combined performance was Sunbelt, our US construction and industrial equipment rental particularly pleasing.
division, trades exclusively in the United States and operates 430 pro t centres grouped into 50 Districts and 12 Regions.
Utilisation in the US improved throughout the year, which Despite general concerns in the past year about the US economy, allowed us to grow the eet relative to last year during the fourth our experience on the ground is that the US non-residential quarter.
We therefore enter the new financial year with a larger, construction market, which constitutes the major end market recon gured eet, good levels of utilisation and the major for Sunbelt, continued to grow.
According to gures from distractions of integration behind us.
Our focus for the coming the US Department of Commerce, the value of non-residential year will be on driving organic revenue growth and deriving the construction grew by 11.6% in the year to April 2008. full bene t from our now much larger nationwide pro t centre This growth, however, includes signi cant in ationary impacts footprint.
in the cost of building materials such as steel, timber and 10 | Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Business and financial review Business and financial review Continued US rental penetration Actual concrete.
According to Maximus Advisers, the volume of private Forecast non-residential structures completed, a better indicator of 50% private sector rental equipment demand, rose approximately 5% over the past year.
40% In contrast, as has been well publicised, the US housing construction 25% market was in recession in the past year with a reported 21% decline in value built.
However, housing construction involves little equipment and constitutes only around 10% of Sunbelts 5% revenues.
Accordingly Sunbelt has been largely unaffected by the US housing issues and instead delivered record margins and pro ts.
90 00 06 10 The US Department of Commerce divides non-residential Non-residential construction RMI construction into the following categories: Value bn at current prices New work Lodging Communication Total Of ce Power 85 Commercial Highway and street 83 78 Healthcare Sewage and waste disposal 74 73 72 Educational Water supply Conservation and Religious development Public safety Manufacturing Amusement and recreation Transportation Within these categories, of ce, public safety, transportation, power and manufacturing were reported as showing particularly strong growth rates in the past year.
As is usual when construction is strong, it is the privately funded side which grew faster last year 15.4% compared to 7.0% growth in publicly funded non-residential construction according to gures from the US Department of Commerce.
07 08 09 10 11 12 Actual Estimate Forecast Forecast Forecast Forecast Moving forward, however, the public sector or institutional element of the market, which through the economic cycle tends to represent around 50% of the total and includes categories such as schools, hospitals and transportation, is expected to continue to grow.
This will be driven signi cantly by the requirement for infrastructure following the signi cant population growth in the US in recent years up from 280 million in 2000 to 303 million currently according to the US census bureau, and with one of the fastest annual growth rates amongst developed economies at 0.88% per annum for the US compared 1 to 0.28% in the UK and 0.36% on average in Western Europe.
Whilst the commercial element is more likely to be affected by a prolonged credit crunch and overall US economic development, industrial and manufacturing sectors remain strong aided by the weak US dollar which has made US based manufacturing competitive in global markets.
1 Source: CIA World Factbook 26 46 27 46 27 47 30 48 32 51 32 54 Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Business and financial review | 11 Also, we are a late cycle business in that we only derive revenues Like us, United Rentals, RSC and Hertz are publicly listed once the construction phase of any project has begun.
Beyond the top four, the market in which Sunbelt need to be planned, designed and funded before the construction operates is characterised by a large number of small competitors.
contract can be let and it then takes time for the property to be According to the 2007 survey of the larger companies in the built.
Therefore, we expect to continue to bene t in the coming industry conducted by RER Magazine, the rental revenues of the financial year from projects planned and funded prior to last 100 largest rental companies in North America grew 4.3% to summer, when the credit crunch and resulting economic $13.9bn.
These larger top 100 companies therefore represented uncertainty first became apparent.
41% of the total rental market in 2007.
The ongoing development of the rental market for construction Future market trends equipment in the US has been a key driver of demand for our We expect that Sunbelts development in coming years will services.
According to a survey conducted for the American be driven by: Rental Association by Global Insight, an economic consultancy Increases in the size of the market, driven by growth in rm, the US equipment rental industry excluding the party non-residential construction and increased outsourcing and event rental market in which Sunbelt does not participate to the rental sector of their equipment needs by contractors grew by 6.5% in 2007 to $34.3bn.
In the past five years the The opportunity which exists for us and the other big survey shows that the US equipment rental market has grown four providers to continue to gain market share from the at a compound average rate of 9% per annum.
smaller competitors over whom we enjoy signi cant operational advantages.
This growth is in part driven by increased rental penetration or outsourcing of construction equipment in the US.
We anticipate that increased concerns over health and safety Rental penetration is generally assessed as the proportion issues in the future will continue to lead contractors to increase their reliance on the use of outsourced equipment.
This is of manufactured product sold in the US by equipment because use of an outsourced specialist provides the contractor manufacturers and dealers to the rental sector who use with the ability to rent exactly the right piece of equipment for it to supply the end user on a generally short-term, ad-hoc the task at hand, as well as the assurance that the equipment rental basis.
The chart opposite shows the development will be of recent manufacture and maintained by an experienced, in rental penetration between 1990 and 2010, as reported specialist workforce.
by external commentators on our industry.
We believe that this increased trend to rental in the US has The UK the potential to continue for many years and consequently Our UK business trades under the A-Plant name and rents a to support increased demand for our services.
This view is based similar range of equipment to Sunbelt, to a similar pro le of not only on the rental penetration in the more mature UK market general industrial and construction orientated customers.
which is estimated at around 80%, but also by the fact that A-Plant operates 192 pro t centres and serves a more mature one product type in the US, aerial work platforms, also exhibits market where rental penetration is estimated at 80%.
Aerial work platforms are a more recently developed product than other types of construction Market commentators expect the market to be largely stable equipment.
Consequently, as demand grew, its manufacturers in future years with growth driven by growth in GDP, together had no established dealer distribution network but instead saw with the need for substantial infrastructure renewal in the the rental industry as the best means to distribute their product.
UK sewers, water, roads, as well as increased spending in areas such as nuclear power station decommissioning and There are four large national equipment rental companies in the replacement, and the 2012 Olympics.
The forecast market US as shown in the table below: development is shown in the chart opposite.
Number of US rental Approximate In the UK we enjoyed good market conditions generally in Name US stores revenues market share the past year, supported by major projects, such as Crossrail, $bn the Olympics and utility infrastructure spending.
This excellent United Rentals 600 2.3 7% pipeline of work across the UK in a broad range of market RSC 452 1.5 4% segments will, we believe, offset any potential slowdown Sunbelt Rentals 430 1.4 4% in the development of high pro le commercial of ce space, Hertz Equipment Rental Co 248 1.1 4% giving us con dence in the UKs medium-term outlook.
12 | Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Business and financial review Business and financial review Continued Sunbelt eet composition as at 30 April 2008 50% General plant A-Plant is one of the top three equipment rental businesses in the 34% Aerial work UK with its key peers being shown in the table below: 3% platforms and telehandlers 5% Number Approximate 8% Tools 8% Name of stores Revenue market share 5% Pump & power m 3% Scaffolding Speedy Hire 488 466 13% 50% A-Plant 192 215 6% Hewden Stuart 100 200 6% 34% HSS 300 160 4% Future market trends We expect that A-Plants development in coming years will be driven by: Market share gains from the large number of smaller A-Plant eet composition as at 30 April 2008 54% General plant competitors as health and safety concerns continue to drive 13% Aerial work the customer base to use the larger, more professional and platforms and 4% telehandlers better quality rental providers 5% 5% 11% Portable site Stable construction markets which are likely to grow slightly accommodation 8% faster than the rate of UK GDP because of the need for 8% Tools 5% Acrow infrastructure renewal 54% 5% Power generation Investment in higher return product areas, such as our purchase 11% 4% Traf c of Lux Traf c in 2006 management 13% Our strategy Ashtead aims to be a leader in the global equipment rental business by delivering strong returns for our investors through the exploitation of growth opportunities and by being world class at what we do.
We aim to achieve these objectives by generating strong organic growth combined with growth through acquisition, as well as delivering high levels of customer satisfaction.
To facilitate continuing development in a cyclical industry, we maintain a exible business model that can make the most of periods of economic growth while also withstanding periods of economic downturn.
We believe that the Groups key strengths lie in its ability to manage and incentivise its staff to deliver strong returns on investment from a capital asset base comprising large numbers of individual assets, and in the computer systems it has developed to facilitate this.
These skills were first applied successfully in the UK through A-Plant and then in the US, where Sunbelt has now grown to be four times larger than A-Plant in a substantially larger market.
We constantly review our strategy and the makeup of the business to ensure it is delivering on our stated objectives.
At times it may be appropriate for the Group to change its portfolio of product types and the geographical markets in which it applies its key strengths.
The review process through 2007 8 resulted in the decision to divest the Ashtead Technology business which is discussed below.
Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Business and financial review | 13 The exibility inherent in our business model allows us to focus Our business model on generating free cash ow.
When the economy is expanding, The Group focuses on equipment rental.
During 2007 8 we utilise this free cash ow to increase investment in our rental approximately 94% of our revenue was derived from equipment eet to support revenue, EBITDA and earnings growth and reduce rental and rental-related services, with the balance coming from the age of our rental eet.
In a less favourable economic sales of new equipment, parts and associated goods, such as environment, we reduce the rate at which we invest in new equipment accessories.
The Group believes that this focused and equipment and increase the age of our rental eet, which dedicated approach improves the effectiveness of its rental sales consequently increases free cash ow.
Our eet age and mix are force by encouraging them to build and reinforce relationships currently at optimal levels, giving us exibility to utilise our free with customers and to concentrate on strong, whole-life returns cash ow in ways other than investing in eet fide-ageing.
from our rental eet, rather than on short-term returns from sales of equipment.
Our rental eets Our eet mix is broadly similar to that of our large peers.
However, Our operating model is key to the way we deliver returns and we differentiate our business both by emphasising smaller encompasses the following elements: equipment types which we believe offer the potential for higher Our local management teams are highly incentivised to returns and in the manner in which we incentivise our staff.
produce superior financial returns and high quality standards.
We continue to develop the management teams to meet the With strong market conditions for the majority of the year, demands of this changing industry.
126.0m of rental equipment capital expenditure was spent Our sales forces are incentivised to target higher return rental on growth including for reinvestment in connection with the opportunities, as well as a high volume of contracts overall.
NationsRent eet recon guration whilst 168.8m was invested We believe that our sales force commission plans are amongst in replacement of existing eet.
The growth proportion is the best in the industry.
estimated on the basis of the assumption that maintenance In the US we achieve scale through a clustered market capital expenditure in any period is equal to the original cost of approach of grouping our rental locations into clusters of three equipment sold.
Investment at A-Plant was high as we invested to 15 locations in each of our developed markets throughout to fide-age and grow the eet in good market conditions.
Sunbelt has developed such clustered markets in 37 major cities including Washington DC, Dallas, Houston, Sunbelts eet age at 30 April 2008 was 34 months on a net Charlotte, Atlanta, Orlando and Seattle.
This approach allows book value basis comprising 38 months for aerial work platforms us to provide a comprehensive product offering and convenient service to our customers wherever their job-sites may be which have a longer life and 30 months for the remainder of within these markets.
The cost of Sunbelts eet by asset type is summarised In the smaller geography of the UK, our strategy is focused on in the chart opposite.
having suf cient pro t centres to allow us to offer a full range of equipment on a nationwide basis.
We continue to invest in It is the needs of our customers that drive the composition of our migrating our network towards larger locations which are able equipment eet with the size, age and mix of our equipment rental to address all the needs of our customers in the major markets.
eet driven by our diversi ed customer base.
The equipment we We provide a wide range of equipment within our rental eets to provide to each customer is equally diverse and we are often maximise the extent to which we can ful l our customers needs.
involved in supplying various types of different equipment over a We also aim to offer a full service solution for our customers.
number of years at each distinct stage of a projects development.
Our product range includes specialist equipment types such as pump and power, scaffolding and traf c management systems The breadth of our eet mix means that rental opportunities exist which involve providing service expertise as well as equipment.
not only in new build construction, but also in a wide range of other We invest heavily in our computerised point of sale and service applications including industrial, events and facilities management.
We use these systems not only to help us manage Now that we have a nationwide network, a particular focus is to our business to deliver strong financial returns, but also to meet extend our penetration of larger national and regional customers the needs of our customers.
We deployed some of the first where certain of our competitors currently hold a greater market extranets in the industry in both the US and UK to provide share.
These larger rental opportunities are, however, tendered qualifying customers with complete information on the regularly and we are investing in people and systems to ensure we equipment they have on rent and the status of their account.
are well placed to gain new business in this area of opportunity for More recently we have deployed PDAs to capture and record us now we are able to offer the requisite coverage.
the time of delivery and the customers signature electronically, allowing us to systematically monitor and report on on-time A-Plants eet is also young and well-maintained like that of deliveries.
We also use electronic tracking systems to monitor Sunbelt, with an average age at 30 April 2008 on a net book value and secure the location and usage of large equipment.
The cost of A-Plants eet is analysed by asset category in the chart opposite.
14 | Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Business and financial review Business and financial review Continued Group return on investment % Return on Investment One of the key performance indicators we use to monitor our businesses at all levels is return on investment.
Overall for the Group as a whole it is critical that, averaged across the economic 1 cycle, we deliver RoI well ahead of our cost of capital WACC.
In particular, we drive RoI by the incentivisation of our people to deliver superior returns.
Through our monthly paid pro t share programmes, all our staff have the opportunity to enhance their WACC earnings based on the returns delivered by the pro t centre in which they work.
Although RoI was reduced by the acquisition in August 2006 of the lower margin NationsRent business, substantial progress has since been made in rebuilding RoI to previous levels.
The adjacent chart also shows that through the last cycle since our scal year ended April 2004, the Group has earned an average RoI of 12.2% well ahead of our cost of capital.
Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr 04 04 04 05 05 05 05 06 06 06 06 07 07 07 07 08 08 The Group strives to maximise its return on investment through a combination of measures.
In addition to our monthly pro t-share programme, we encourage effective Sunbelt 14% Commercial management of invested capital by: construction maintaining a concentration of higher-return often 5% Government & specialised equipment within the overall rental institutional 14% 9% Industrial, equipment eet: manufacturing & 5% promoting the transfer of equipment to locations where 34% agriculture maximum utilisation rates and returns can be obtained: 9% Infrastructure 9% 12% Non-construction monitoring the amount of invested capital at each of our services pro t centres: and 9% 5% Residential empowering regional and local managers to adapt pricing construction 12% 12% 12% Small contractor policies in response to local demand in order to maximise 5% DIY the overall return achieved from our investment in our 34% Speciality trade rental eet.
contractors As mentioned above, the way in which our business lags the economy by 12-18 months allows us to plan ahead and adjust A-Plant 42% Commercial construction our business model in line with economic forecasts.
3% Government & institutional 12% 8% Industrial, 7% manufacturing & agriculture 5% 42% 10% Infrastructure 17% Non-construction services 13% 1% Residential construction 10% 7% Small contractor 8% DIY 3% 12% Speciality trade contractors 1.
R eturn on investment is fide ned as underlying operating pro t divided by the weighted average net operating assets, including goodwill.
Debt and deferred tax are excluded.
6.9 7.7 9.2 10.7 11.0 11.9 12.8 13.8 14.7 15.4 14.1 13.2 12.9 12.9 13.1 13.6 14.0 Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Business and financial review | 15 Our customers However, the Groups geographical scale and diversi ed Our business is highly diverse.
Our customers range in size customer base assist in mitigating the adverse impact of these and scale from multinational businesses, through strong local factors on the Groups performance through: contractors to individual do-it-yourselfers.
In the year to April reducing the impact of localised economic uctuations on our 2008, we dealt with over 800,000 customers.
In Sunbelt we overall financial performance: wrote 1.9m rental contracts with an average value of $630 per reducing our dependence on any particular customer or group contract and issued 2.8m invoices.
Our UK business, A-Plant, of customers: and though smaller is almost as diverse.
It wrote 0.5m rental enabling us to meet the needs of larger customers who have a contracts and issued 1.2m in invoices in the year to April 2008. wide range of equipment needs.
In the UK, we have focused in recent years, on building deeper relationships with our larger customers which number 150 and Our suppliers accounted for 45% of our 2007 8 revenues.
Like other large participants in the industry, the Group purchases large amounts of equipment, parts and other items from its The Groups diversi ed customer base includes construction, suppliers.
The Groups capital expenditure on rental equipment industrial and homeowner customers, as well as government for 2007 8 was 295m 2007: 256m.
We believe that this level entities and specialist contractors and is analysed by Standard of capital expenditure enables us to negotiate favourable pricing, Industry Classi cation in the tables opposite.
warranty and other terms with our suppliers which provide us with a competitive advantage over smaller operators.
We have dealt with many of our customers for many years.
Our experience is that we gain a large amount of repeat business.
Across our rental eet, we generally seek to carry equipment Our operating methods and focus on customer service aim to from one or two manufacturers in each product range and to support and enhance this.
We guarantee our service standards limit the number of model types of each product.
We believe in both our businesses and voluntarily accept financial penalties that having a standardised eet results in lower costs because if we fail to meet our commitments to our customers.
We believe we obtain greater discounts by purchasing spare parts in bulk that our focus on customer service and these guarantees help and reduce maintenance costs through more focused, and distinguish our businesses from competitors and assist us in therefore reduced, training requirements for our workshop staff.
We are also able to share spare parts between pro t centres which helps to minimise the risk of over stocking.
As a large portion of the Groups customer base comes from the commercial construction and industrial sectors, the Group is We purchase equipment from vendors with strong reputations dependent on levels of commercial construction or industrial for product quality and reliability and maintain close activity.
The factors which in uence this activity include: relationships with these vendors to ensure good after purchase the strength of the US and UK economies over the long-term, service and support.
However, we believe the Group has including the level of government spending: suf cient alternative sources of supply for the equipment it the level of interest rates: and purchases in each of its product categories.
demand within business that drives the need for commercial construction or industrial equipment.
16 | Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Business and financial review Business and financial review Continued Employee turnover A-Plant Our people Sunbelt We are a service business and we differentiate ourselves by the 41% strength of our service offering.
Central to our service offering are our people.
We now have 33% a strong Ashtead team in excess of 9,000.
The nature of our 32% 31% business requires skilled, entrepreneurial individuals working 29% 29% within a highly devolved structure.
We achieve this through 26% 25% a dedication to training and an industry leading reward and recognition scheme.
The rental industry generally suffers from high staff turnover, particularly within certain job 05 06 07 08 categories and within the first year of employment.
We have made generally good progress in improving our staff retention EBITDA margin Existing Group in recent years as shown in the adjacent chart although there before was an increase in employee turnover at Sunbelt last year NationsRent 38% following the NationsRent acquisition.
We expect that this Pro forma 35% including will prove to be temporary and that Sunbelt will resume its NationsRent 33% improving path in the coming year.
Actual Group post-acquisition 30% Both businesses have extensive programmes in place to ensure the: recruitment of appropriate personnel to ful l vacancies caused by promotion, turnover and growth ongoing training and development of employees at all levels throughout the organisation 05 06 07 08 alignment of our employees with the Companys objectives, particularly in relation to customer service Operating pro t margin Existing Group appraisal, review and reward of our employees.
before NationsRent 20% These processes are subject to periodic review and development Pro forma especially in response to changing business needs and market including NationsRent conditions.
17% Actual Group 16% post-acquisition We motivate and reward our people through our local pro t share programmes.
These are based at the pro t centre level and apply to all personnel at the pro t centre, irrespective of 12% length of service.
They are generally paid monthly which gives immediate returns for good performance.
Payment of pro t share at any pro t centre is based exclusively on that stores 05 06 07 08 performance and is dependent on the level of store return on assets.
Senior management is remunerated separately using similar criteria while the sales force is incentivised based on sales volume and a broad measure of return on investment determined by reference to equipment type and discount level.
We invest heavily in training and in the past year continued to focus our efforts particularly on the staff who joined the Group on 31 August 2006 with the NationsRent acquisition.
Sunbelt trained over 15,000 staff whilst A-Plant trained over 3,000 staff.
As a result, underlying operating pro t increased to 197.7m, an increase of 37% at constant exchange rates and 31% at actual rates.
Underlying pre-tax pro t grew by 51% to 122.9m.
Underlying basic earnings per share rose 44% to 14.8p.
These results demonstrate the bene ts of the margin improvement and integration activities undertaken since the NationsRent acquisition.
Both our EBITDA and our operating margins now exceed those we achieved prior to the acquisition, as shown in the charts opposite.
In the discussion on the business performance that follows, we show not only the comparison with the reported underlying performance being before exceptional items, remeasurements and amortisation of intangible assets in the year to 30 April 2007 but also with a pro forma combination of Sunbelt with NationsRent acquired August 2006 and of A-Plant with Lux Traf c acquired October 2006.
18 | Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Business and financial review Business and financial review Continued Physical utilisation 2006 7 Sunbelt 2007 8 2008 2007 Growth 2008 9 $m $m Revenue 75% As reported 1,528.1 1,307.9 17% 70% NationsRent 230.7 65% Pro forma combined 1,528.1 1,538.6 -1% 60% Underlying operating pro t As reported 330.9 253.1 31% 55% NationsRent 19.2 50% May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr Pro forma combined 330.9 272.3 21% Pro forma margin 21.7% 17.7% Sunbelt average eet size $m 2006 7 Sunbelts performance for the year following the transformational 2007 8 acquisition of NationsRent in August 2006 was excellent.
2,381 2,326 The focus remained throughout the year on establishing a cost 2,291 2,270 ef cient infrastructure for pro table future growth.
The success 2,252 2,249 of this work is demonstrated by the operating pro t of $330.9m, an 2,195 increase of 21% on a pro forma basis.
Pro t margins rose from 17.7% to 21.7%, better than those previously enjoyed by Sunbelt alone.
2,134 These improvements were achieved by above expectation cost reductions, with 2007 8 operating costs excluding depreciation Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 $82m lower than 2006 7 costs despite signi cant in ationary pressure in certain key cost areas such as fuel.
Total revenue remained broadly at at $1.5bn due to our curtailment of the low margin sales of new equipment previously undertaken by NationsRent whilst rental and rental related revenues grew 2% to $1.4bn on a pro forma basis.
Within this there were major regional variations, with areas of weakness such as the well publicised challenges in Florida being more than offset by good growth elsewhere.
The 2% pro forma total rental and rental related revenue growth was achieved with a combined eet that was, on average, 1% larger than last year measured across the year as a whole.
However, the eet was 1% smaller on average for the first three quarters of the year, as we focused on improving physical utilisation which for the full year averaged 68%.
In the fourth quarter, physical utilisation was 64% 2007: 62% whilst the average eet size grew 6%.
We also gained an increased share of larger, longer-running projects which will provide good momentum into the new financial year.
With our enlarged national footprint, we are increasingly targeting larger regional and national accounts where the pro le of business is different from our historical mix.
Whilst this work tends to be at lower rates, rental periods are longer.
This bene ts margins by improving physical utilisation and reducing transactional costs.
We intend to continue this strategy of rebalancing our customer mix.
Whilst the current period of economic uncertainty will affect certain sectors of the market in the short term, particularly private Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Business and financial review | 19 commercial investment, other areas such as institutional Physical utilisation 2006 7 2007 8 expenditure and industrial markets are likely to remain more 2008 9 robust.
We are a late cycle business with only 5% market share and 75% continue to perform well.
These factors, together with self-help 70% available in a number of the acquired pro t centres, contribute to our optimism regarding Sunbelts performance in the coming year.
65% 60% A-Plant 2008 2007 Growth 55% m m 50% May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr Revenue As reported 214.8 189.9 13% Lux Traf c 9.5 A-Plant average eet size m 2006 7 Pro forma combined 214.8 199.4 8% 2007 8 Underlying operating pro t 360 357 As reported 30.2 20.1 50% 337 Lux Traf c 0.6 325 324 324 Pro forma combined 30.2 20.7 46% 320 313 Pro forma margin 14.1% 10.4% A-Plant performed strongly throughout the year with market share gains generating organic like for like revenue growth of 8%.
This growth was achieved by focusing on the value added products and services required by our customers.
We are now the market leader Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 in providing a combined plant and tool product offering which has proven particularly attractive to our larger customers.
This growth was supported by 8% growth in average eet size and a speci c programme of investment in fide-ageing which has resulted in a eet age of 23 months at 30 April 2008, down from 29 months a year ago.
Whilst the focus on major contractors can have a negative impact on our pricing yield, it also provides a number of other opportunities in terms of improved physical utilisation 71% for the year compared to 69% in 2006 7 and reduced infrastructure cost.
Our initiative in April 2007 to move to fewer, larger depots has clearly delivered results, with a 46% increase in A-Plants underlying operating pro t to 30.2m.
Margins improved signi cantly from 10.4% in 2006 7 to 14.1% in 2007 8.
In the fourth quarter the average eet size grew 12% and we enjoyed average physical utilisation of 74% 2007: 71%.
Underlying operating pro t grew 42% to 8.4m.
We therefore enter the coming year with strong momentum.
Whilst economically there are now areas of dif culty in the UK, notably the residential market and new commercial of ces, the overall picture for our served market remains healthy.
Infrastructure and utility work remains good and we are well positioned to bene t from major projects such as the Olympics, Crossrail, M25 widening and changes to the energy infrastructure.
These factors, together with the opportunity to drive further market share gains from A-Plants current single digit market share, give us con dence in the prospects for the year ahead.
20 | Ashtead Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Business and financial review Business and financial review Continued Taxation Ashtead Technology 2008 2007 Growth The effective tax rate on underlying pre-tax pro ts for the year m m was 35% 2007: 35% and this is expected to remain at around Revenue 26.5 21.6 23% 35% in coming years.
In addition, there was a 1.6m exceptional Operating pro t 10.6 6.2 72% tax charge to write down the UK deferred tax asset to re ect Margin 40.0% 28.7% the reduction in the rate of UK corporation tax from 30% to 28% effective 1 April 2008.
At constant exchange rates The tax charge again comprised mostly deferred tax, with cash In good markets, aided by a very strong oil price, Ashtead tax payments only amounting to approximately 5% of pro ts, Technology continued to deliver excellent revenue and due to available tax losses and the accelerated tax depreciation pro t growth.
available due to the capital intensive nature of the business.
Following the introduction of a like kind exchange programme On 23 June, we announced the sale of Ashtead Technology at Sunbelt effective from 1 May 2008 and with the bene t to Phoenix Equity Partners for 95.6m.
Our strategic review of US bonus depreciation as part of the economic stimulus concluded that Ashtead Technology was a non-core, niche measures introduced earlier this year, the cash tax rate is business serving different markets and customers to the rest of expected to remain in single digits in 2008 9 and to continue the Group.
The Board believes that the disposal price achieved to be well below the effective 35% long term accounting tax represents good value for shareholders.
The disposal proceeds rate for several more years.
will be applied to reduce debt.
Earnings per share Exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangibles Basic earnings per share for the year were 14.2p 2007: 1.5p and Following substantial exceptional charges, fair value 14.1p 2007: 1.5p on a fully diluted basis.
Underlying earnings per remeasurements and amortisation last year of 117.9m, share grew 44% to 14.8p 2007: 10.3p whilst, on a cash tax basis, mostly in connection with the NationsRent acquisition and underlying earnings per share were 21.4p 2007: 15.8p.
its integration with Sunbelt, this year there is only a small 2.6m charge relating to the ongoing amortisation of acquired Underlying earnings per share at constant exchange rates were intangible assets.
45% above the 11.3p delivered in 2005 6, immediately prior to the NationsRent acquisition giving compound annual growth of Net nancing costs 20% per annum at constant exchange rates 14% per annum at Net nancing costs, before exceptional costs and fair value actual exchange rates over the past two years, notwithstanding remeasurements, increased from 69.1m to 74.8m, re ecting the enlarged share capital following the NationsRent acquisition.
principally higher average debt levels following the NationsRent acquisition.
The average interest rate payable at 30 April 2008 Dividends on all of our debt facilities including the impact of amortisation The Board is proposing a final dividend of 1.675p 2007: 1.1p of deferred debt raising costs was 6.5%.
making 2.5p for the year 2007: 1.65p, an increase of 52%.
Pro t before taxation If approved by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General There was a pro t before taxation of 109.7m compared with Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 26 September 2008 a loss of 42.7m in 2007.
Underlying pro t before tax, including to shareholders on record as of 5 September 2008.
Technology, grew 51% to 122.9m compared to last years 81.4m.
Current trading and outlook Current trading is in line with our expectations, with both Sunbelt and A-Plant delivering improved year on year performance in May.
We continue to enjoy high levels of utilisation and expect to bene t further from the momentum established in the Group.
Therefore, despite the current economic uncertainty, the Board anticipates the Group continuing to trade in line with its expectations in the coming year.
