BUSINESS REVIEW: INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION control the movement of products in the In 2008 Rotork saw a change in leadership process, and on the worlds largest natural for only the 4th time in its history of over gas pipeline where they control the ow of CONTENTS 50 years.
From its beginnings in 1957, hydrocarbons in their system.
Rotork has been associated with quality BUSINESS STRATEGY and innovative solutions to customer Rotork aims to increase shareholder value requirements, and from the very early each year by focusing on valve actuation days has been a truly international business and associated activities, principally with products that are used in a wide wherever there is a need to control the variety of industries and applications.
movement of uids or gases.
As world Technological leadership has also been 14 INTRODUCTION market leader, our aim is to provide high instrumental in the growth of its products 17 ROTORK CONTROLS quality, advanced, innovative products in the safety critical emergency shut-down 18 ROTORK FLUID SYSTEMS and services that constitute superior market with customers looking for Rotork 19 ROTORK GEARS solutions to customers requirements 20 FINANCIAL REVIEW to provide them with high quality solutions.
in these focused technical areas.
We 22 KPIs Rotork is often trusted solely in introducing support these operations around the 24 RISKS significant technology change into what are world through our extensive and 25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY often quite conservative market areas.
continually expanding network of Rotork today is a truly global business ofces and manufacturing plants.
with direct operations in 29 countries, We operate an asset-light business model 14 manufacturing plants and over 1,700 which is highly cash generative.
Add to these facilities over 300 also seek to deliver quality margins, sales outlets in a further 47 countries and consistent year on year growth in revenues, Rotorks extensive international coverage profit and core dividends through organic within the business becomes clear.
operations have grown, so has the range of products within the Groups portfolio.
With The Group provides products and a the addition of new locations this has working environment where health & safety enabled Rotork to supply into increasingly is paramount for the benefit and protection diverse applications and industries.
Rotork of our employees and customers.
We supplies actuators, systems and associated develop and train our people to deliver products wherever there is a need to our strategy and satisfy our customers control the ow of liquids or gases through requirements while maintaining high pipes or channels, as well as into other ethical and safety standards across the specialist applications.
Rotork actuators are Group and acting as a responsible used for example in a sugar factory to international corporate entity.
BUSINESS STRUCTURE ROTORK P. L. C. ROTORK MANAGEMENT BOARD ROTORK CONTROLS ROTORK FLUID SYSTEMS ROTORK GEARS ROTORK SITE SERVICES ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2008 14
