bUSIneSS reVIew mANy Of SIgS brANdS Are reCOgNISed ThrOUghOUT TheIr reSPeCTIve mArkeT SeCTOrS AS The LeAdINg SUPPLIer Of SPeCIALIST PrOdUCTS ANd ServICeS.
SIGS bUSINESS mOdEL GloSSary of termS SIG is the market leader in most of the specialist markets in which it trades.
lIke for lIke is defined as the business excluding the impact SIG is positioned as a leading player in the respective specialist market, or seeks of acquisitions made since 1 January 2007. to grow its market position through targeted development initiatives.
UnderlyInG is before the amortisation of acquired intangibles, impairment charges, gains and losses on derivative Specialist markets are characterised by the need to hold a broad and financial instruments and restructuring costs.
comprehensive range of stock, supported by technical advice and extensive tradInG caSh is defined as cash flow from operations before pension service and delivery capability.
conVerSIon movements divided by underlying operating profit.
SIGs leading position in specialist markets has enabled the Groups sales growth to outperform the general construction output index in recent years, both on an organic basis and including acquisitions.
Specialist markets provide opportunity for superior growth in their tendency This Business Review has been prepared by the Board solely for the members to be more fragmented in nature and the requirement for technical product of SIG plc.
It is intended to provide Shareholders with a summary of the and application knowledge which provide entry barriers to the general development, performance and financial position of the Group for 2008.
SIGs strategy in fragmented markets is to build scale provides details of the main trends and factors underlying the years results and and market share whilst generating superior purchasing power and achieving which are likely to affect future performance and describes the Groups business economies of scale in back office activities thereby delivering superior returns.
and its key objectives, strategies, values and resources, together with the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
A cautionary comment relating to forward looking The supply of specialist products requires a proactive sales approach rather statements is provided on page 25. than a passive retail approach together with a more collaborative process of supply chain management.
INTROdUCTION TO SIG SIG plc is a leading supplier of specialist products to professionals in the building, SIGS mARkET SECTORS construction and related industries, with 807 trading sites throughout the UK and Over the last two decades, SIG has continuously expanded the range of products Ireland and Mainland Europe and employs 13,300 people at 31 December 2008. it sells to specialist contracting companies and professional trades.
SIG now sells products into four distinct market sectors across a number of different countries.
Founded in 1957 in Sheffield, UK, SIG has grown from a single site insulation The principal countries from which SIG trades are: distribution business into a multi-national specialist supplier operating in four different market sectors.
The Company was listed on the London Stock Exchange Insulation Specialist and Building Construction in May 1989 and is listed within the Support Services Sector.
Environments Exteriors Interiors Products United Kingdom On 13 March 2009, the share price closed at 1.175.
At this date there were 135,765,220 shares in issue, giving a market capitalisation at that date of 160m.
Ireland Germany and Austria SIGS ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE France SIGs operations are managed on a country-by-country basis.
Within each Poland country there is dedicated divisional management focusing on each market sector.
This is critical to the success of the business, ensuring that focus is provided to the Benelux specific requirements of the customer and the supply chain required to service Czech Republic, Slovakia the customer.
Back office functions such as HR, IT, finance, property and fleet and Hungary management are provided on a country-by-country basis and are shared across During 2008, SIG acquired an international supplier of air handling products business units in each country where it is appropriate and economic to do so.
which, in addition to locations within SIGs current geographic footprint, extends the Groups sales into Turkey, Romania and Bulgaria.
SIG also has a small presence The Parent Company of the Group, SIG plc, oversees and supports the in Luxembourg and Dubai arising out of recent acquisitions.
The operations in these strategic development of each business via the activities of the Group Board, five countries amount to less than 1% of Group sales and have not therefore the Corporate Development Department and the Group Finance Department.
been included in the table above.
06 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS FOCUS, SPECIALISATION AND SERVICE ChrIS dAvIeS ChIef exeCUTIve gAreTh dAvIeS fINANCe dIreCTOr INTROdUCTION TO SIG CONTINUEd SIGS PROdUCTS Insulation and building environments exteriors Interiors Specialist construction products Thermal insulation Flat roofing Suspended ceilings Mechanical engineering fixings and accessories Roofing felts glass, polyester fire protection Partitioning and torch-ons fixings and fastenings Acoustic insulation Cleanroom technology products Bitumen groundwork products dry lining doors and doorsets Roof lights and domes Shoring equipment Solar reflective paints refrigeration and cold storage Category lighting Geotextiles Slating and tiling flooring dry lining Reinforcement products Concrete tiles Ground stabilisation products Installation of insulation fire protection Clay tiles Temporary fencing and scaffolding high temperature insulation Insulation Promenade tiles masonry components Air tightness testing Architectural glass Slates natural and man-made Construction chemicals heating and ventilation products Shingles Toughened and laminated glass Sheeting and cladding Safety helmets Industrial lining Raised access floors Fire cement sheeting Protective clothing Pipe insulation Column encasements Mastic asphalt Safety glasses Roofing insulation Office acoustic screens Profiled metal sheeting Safety boots Waterproofing Noise control Insulated panels ear plugs Air handling and air treatment Office furniture and storage products rainwater goods gloves Air conditioning fixing products Roofline products Soffits dust respirators Temporary protection products Facias Tools floor coverings Barge boards washroom systems ventilation building Plastics UPVC windows and doors Plastic cladding SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 07 bUSIneSS reVIew contInUed SPeCIALIST mArkeTS PrOvIde The OPPOrTUNITy fOr SUPerIOr grOwTh IN TheIr TeNdeNCy TO be mOre frAgmeNTed IN NATUre.
The COre SIg bUSINeSS OfferINg: supply specialist contractors with specialist products in four key markets insulation and building environments exteriors interiors specialist construction products 08 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS FOCUS, SPECIALISATION AND SERVICE INTROdUCTION TO SIG CONTINUEd providing tecHnical advice and product expertise SIGS ACTIVITIES SIGs customer base values the comprehensive technical knowledge that SIGs SIG is primarily a distributor handling and supplying specialist products sales staff have of each products specific application to ensure that their suitability manufactured by other companies.
In markets where the supply chain for purpose and that legal and safety standards are met in buildings and industry.
requires bespoke products to be made and supplied direct to the end Where particularly complex queries arise, SIG is able to call upon advice from its user, SIGs route to market is by manufacturing products for the specialist supplier base.
This is an important value-added element of the service offered contractors to fit.
SIG currently manufactures partition systems and doorsets by SIG.
No other European company has the depth of experience and expertise in its UK Interiors division.
SIG fabricates some custom products in all of its that SIG has in its product fields.
Fabrication involves adding value by cutting, reshaping or attaching two or more core products together.
The largest fabrication activities are the enabling contractors to maximise eFFicient use oF labour cutting and shaping of industrial insulation, the cutting and processing of glass SIGs ability to deliver product at short notice enables contractors to flex products and the assembly of composite roofing panels.
their work schedule depending upon the daily needs of the construction site.
This part of the service offering is highly valued by SIGs customer base and SIGs contracting activity is focused on the UK, where it installs loft and cavity ensures SIG maintains its critical role in the supply chain.
wall insulation in residential properties and where customer demands dictate it installs certain interior products.
providing credit terms to tHe contractors SIGs typical customer is relatively small to medium sized.
SIG provides credit SIG operates under a wide variety of trading names in the respective markets to enable a contractor generally to fit goods before they are paid for to ensure and countries in which it has trading sites.
Many of these brands are widely continuity of the supply chain.
SIG has very well established and rigorous credit recognised throughout their respective market sectors or countries as the control procedures that limits its risk exposure whilst having regard to the needs leading supplier of specialist products and services to the construction trade.
SIGS ROLE IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN These activities have enabled SIG to build businesses that are able to differentiate The products that SIG supplies are specialist in nature and are provided themselves from mainstream competitors.
to specialist contracting companies and professional trades, both for new construction and for Repairs, Maintenance and Improvement RMI.
Whilst mARkETS SUPPLIEd bY SIG general jobbing builders may purchase some items from SIG, they are more SIG is well diversified, serving a wide range of industries and markets.
The following broadly served through the general builders merchant supply chain.
table provides an indicative estimate, based upon SIGs analysis of sector information, of the breakdown of the 2008 Group sales into the different end markets: SIG provides a crucial role in the specialist building products supply chain by: New Total build RMI providing access to a broad and diverse customer base % of % of % of Group sub-group sub-group SIG provides a diverse range of specialist products from manufacturers to support specialist contractors.
Manufacturers deliver products in bulk to SIGs Non-residential 55% 57% 43% trading sites throughout each country of operation.
SIG then focuses upon Residential 35% 46% 54% delivering a package range of products in job specific quantities on a time critical Industry non-construction 10% 56% 44% basis to a broad and diverse customer base as required by the construction cycle.
SIG provides an efficient channel by which manufacturers can access thousands Source: SIG estimates.
The non-residential market is SIGs largest market segment.
This includes both providing immediate availabilitY oF product close to site location private and public expenditure on schools, hospitals, prisons, warehouses, leisure Through SIGs 807 trading sites, contractors are able to obtain product in rapid complexes, retail developments, sports stadia, airports and offices.
timeframes to meet the demands of a fast moving construction site.
The majority of construction sites do not have a large area to store product safely and securely Residential is SIGs second largest market segment.
In this market SIG is more and so the ability to source product quickly overcomes the problems caused by heavily weighted to the essential repairs and maintenance market which is less such a space constraint.
sensitive to the economic fluctuations which can impact the new-build sector and provides an underlying market in periods of economic downturn.
Having tHe most extensive deliverY Fleet in tHe industrY SIG delivers over 70% of its goods sold to the construction site.
SIG has The smallest market for SIG is industry non-construction.
SIG predominantly a wide range of delivery vehicles, including a number of mechanical offload supplies industrial insulation to this market and includes, for example, power and crane facilities to deliver the product to exactly where it is needed.
stations and process industries where heat is a major part of the production process.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 bUSIneSS reVIew contInUed INTROdUCTION TO SIG CONTINUEd dEmANd FOR SIGS PROdUCTS Demand for the products sold by SIG is influenced by a wide range of factors.
Overall economic GDP growth drives construction activity in line with the economic cycle.
As the economy grows and contracts, construction activity reflects this trend.
New build is driven by the economic cycle whilst RMI activity is more constant in nature and in certain markets can be counter cyclical offering a more constant level of activity.
The current economic downturn is inevitably affecting the short term demand for SIGs products.
However, the medium to long term prospects for SIGs market sectors are excellent.
The current low levels of residential and private non-residential building activity across certain parts of Europe are not sustainable when set against demographic growth trends.
Together with the fact that SIG enjoys leading positions in the majority of its markets and geographies and is active in a number of emergent Central European markets, will ensure that the Group is in a prime position to benefit from the upturn in market demand over the medium term.
Demand for parts of the SIG product range are influenced by other specific factors as follows: business Sectorspecific market drivers Insulation and Demand for products to reduce energy consumption in both new and existing residential and non-residential buildings to reduce the building environments impact of high energy costs and to reduce carbon dioxide CO emissions.
2 Demand for insulation products will be driven by regulation in addition to environmental and economic factors.
Public sector and Private Finance Initiatives PFI.
Insulation usage in new construction is affected by the Building Regulations in operation in each country.
Over time, it is expected that Governments, businesses and the public will increasingly focus on reducing energy consumption more vigorously than in the past and that as a result, insulation demand will continue to rise.
Accelerated government expenditure on infrastructure projects and residential developments, some of which will be funded under Private Finance Initiatives, will help support demand for insulation products in the current economic climate.
exteriors A regular and essential RMI requirement for roofs subject to increasingly variable and severe weather conditions.
Demand for new products to reduce building exterior maintenance costs.
Growth of specialist distribution as the main supply route.
The age profile of roofs across the UK and Europe gives rise to an ongoing RMI requirement.
This provides a core product demand.
Certain products are used extensively for both new build and repair and maintenance in commercial property and demand over time is expected to increase as people look for low-maintenance products and energy efficient options.
Recent reductions in new housing starts, particularly in the UK, will create a shortage of housing in these regions, exacerbated by an increasing population.
In the UK and Ireland there is also an oversupply of multiple occupancy buildings such as city centre flats and an undersupply of detached single family buildings, which by their nature require more roofing product per person.
Interiors Rising standards of internal fit out and the growing importance of acoustic and fire safety standards.
Increased demand for integrated solutions.
Government expenditure to improve the internal environments of schools and hospitals and other public buildings.
SIG has experienced a trend towards higher quality internal working environments, for example, higher value glass partitions in non-residential buildings and higher quality doors to meet fire and acoustic regulations.
Fire and acoustic regulations are set to become more stringent in the next few years.
This will favour the larger suppliers with a depth of technical expertise, such as SIG.
New interiors are often required following a change of use or a change of occupancy within existing non-residential buildings, requiring refitting and removal of partitions, wall storage and ceiling systems.
Specialist Construction Government and utility investment in major infrastructure projects.
Products Requirement for value engineered solutions on construction projects.
Just-in-time approach to project management.
Complex major construction projects require specialist application and performance knowledge.
This is provided by SIGs specialist businesses in this area.
Over recent years, methods of construction have changed, leading to a requirement for new innovative specialist products which SIG is ideally placed to supply.
10 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS FOCUS, SPECIALISATION AND SERVICE SIGS STRATEGY 2. mARkET dEmANd GROWTH The Groups core strategy is to continue the growth and development of The wider European market into which SIG already supplies is huge.
Taking all SIG as a leading European specialist supplier to the building and construction the Mainland European countries together except Russia, there is a population industries, in order to create growth in long term shareholder value.
The market size for the supply of building and construction products is estimated to be c. 750bn per annum.
SIG is well placed to exploit its product In light of current macro economic conditions and the associated reduction in and market knowledge to take a larger share of this market place.
demand for construction related products, SIG has reacted quickly to align the cost base of its businesses with a reduced level of demand.
The actions taken SIG believes that the market demand growth for insulation products in have been designed to maintain competitive capabilities and position in order particular will outstrip the demand for other building products as the world to service customers, outperform competition and to take full advantage of attempts to address the issues caused by climate change and increasing energy an upturn in market demand.
SIG is ideally placed to serve this additional demand.
In order to reduce the Groups net debt, cash generation and cost saving have 3.
PIPELINE OF dEVELOPmENT INITIATIVES been a key focus during 2008.
This has been driven by a number of initiatives: In support of SIGs long term growth objectives, SIG employs an active business development and portfolio management strategy.
This involves identifying attractive strict management of working capital, through the issue of stringent growth opportunities for the Group where SIGs key skills and capabilities match working capital targets to all business units, primarily in relation to with those necessary in developing attractive new market opportunities.
This inventory and trade receivables: includes a targeted acquisition strategy as well as organic growth initiatives.
an increased drive for process efficiency through the adoption of best In light of the current challenging market environment the Group curtailed practice principles: its acquisition expenditure at 30 June 2008, with the exception of one small acquisition in the Czech Republic in September 2008, in order to focus upon the deferral of non-essential capital expenditure: maximising cash generation.
further cross business unit resource sharing and cost saving initiatives: and The Group retains its good knowledge of its market place and possible future acquisition opportunities across Europe.
The Board will be very careful procurement, logistics and property reviews.
in its considerations regarding the most appropriate time to recommence this part of the Groups strategy.
SIGs long term growth plan is focused around five key growth strategies which are as follows: In the meantime, the Group continues to develop and exploit the synergistic benefits that its historic acquisition programme has provided.
These benefits geographical development into attractive new markets: include maximising cross business trading, selling new products to existing Group customers, selling existing products to new Group customers and market demand growth: the sharing of resources to enhance current cash flow and profitability.
pipeline of development initiatives: wider product range: and Further details of SIGs 2008 acquisition programme are provided on consolidate and exploit existing market leading positions.
Throughout 2008, SIG worked hard to grow its business despite a backdrop 4.
WIdER PROdUCT RANGE of challenging market conditions in the second half of the year.
Details of the Extending the range of specialist products and services which SIG offers growth strategies in action during 2008 are set out below: improves customer service and market penetration.
Once SIG has identified a new product offering, consideration is then given to widening the supply of this 1.
GEOGRAPHICAL dEVELOPmENT INTO ATTRACTIVE NEW mARkETS product through the existing trading site network.
A recent example of this is in SIG is continually evaluating the construction market prospects of all countries the UK Interiors division where washroom systems and temporary protection within Europe to assess where the best growth prospects lie.
SIG analyses the products are being marketed to existing interior contractor customers that supply chain structure of each market and evaluates the future potential for SIG previously purchased these items from outside the Group.
to enter the market as a specialist supplier within its chosen four market sectors.
In the first half of 2008, SIG purchased a specialist insulation and interiors business in Hungary and an international supplier of air handling products which, in addition to locations within SIGs current geographic footprint, has small scale operations in Turkey, Romania and Bulgaria.
Acquisitions completed in 2007 also extended the Groups footprint into the Czech Republic and Slovakia.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 11 bUSIneSS reVIew contInUed The TALeNT mANAgemeNT PrOCeSS hAS beeN exTeNded ACrOSS The grOUP ANd wIThIN OPerATINg COmPANIeS TO mArry The ASPIrATIONS Of TALeNTed PeOPLe wITh fUTUre bUSINeSS reqUIremeNTS ANd exPeCTATIONS.
SIGS STRATEGY CONTINUEd FIVE YEAR HISTORY TRAdING SITES 5.
CONSOLIdATE ANd ExPLOIT ExISTING mARkET LEAdING POSITIONS SIGs strategy is to develop its distribution footprint to achieve further penetration 807 in core markets.
SIG continually evaluates its existing trading site network and trading trading sites as at 31 December 2008 format structure to take advantage of synergistic opportunities within the Group.
Examples of actions taken during 2008 include sharing of trading sites across 2008 807 different trading brands, sharing of transport and inventory across multiple trading 2007 779 sites and combining purchasing capabilities across different business streams.
2006 618 In light of a reduction in market volumes across a number of SIGs end markets, SIG has reviewed rigorously the appropriate structure of its trading site networks 2005 496 and has quickly resized it to align to the latest forecast of market demand.
This has 2004 412 resulted in the closure of 80 trading sites during 2008.
SIG has ensured that it has retained its most profitable and successful trading sites across each of its businesses to ensure that it is well positioned to benefit from any future increases in market demand.
The change in the number of the Groups trading sites over the last two years is shown below: UK and Mainland Ireland Europe Total 2006 422 196 618 Net openings 9 4 13 Acquired 30 118 148 2007 461 318 779 Net closures openings 64 27 37 Acquired 36 29 65 2008 433 374 807 12 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS FOCUS, SPECIALISATION AND SERVICE SIGS STRATEGY CONTINUEd The like for like sales reduction in the UK and Ireland in 2008 reflects the kEY LONG TERm ObJECTIVES marked reduction in market demand in the second half of the year, particularly SIG is committed to the following key long term objectives: in those areas of the business exposed to residential construction.
Management believes that despite this reduction, most businesses have either held or grown create long term growth in shareholder value through a progressive their market share.
dividend policy and capital growth: The like for like sales growth in Mainland Europe is very encouraging in light of develop and grow by applying the Groups core principles of Focus, a mixed macro economic backdrop across the region.
The geographical spread Specialisation and Service: of the business provides the Group with diversity and an ability to manage risk.
expand the Group and its activities as a leading specialist supplier 2.
UNdERLYING OPERATING PROFIT mARGIN to professional trades in the construction and related industries: The underlying operating profit margin is defined as the ratio of underlying operating profit to sales.
Underlying operating profit is defined as operating supplement organic growth with targeted acquisition and development profit before the amortisation of acquired intangibles, impairment charges initiatives: and and restructuring costs.
be an employer of choice and provide a rewarding and fulfilling environment SIG works to improve its underlying operating profit margin by managing its for its people.
selling prices in the local markets in which it operates and by controlling the cost base through operational efficiencies.
SIG has experienced a fall in its underlying dEVELOPmENT OF OUR PEOPLE operating profit margin in 2008 as a result of its costs rising against a backdrop SIG is committed to ensuring that all employees and management know of sales volume pressures in certain markets.
what is expected of them in their roles and that they receive the necessary training and development to be highly competent in what they do.
In the UK, Cost inflation was experienced during 2008 in relation to staff costs and fuel.
an e-learning Induction Training Programme was launched during the year and The majority of operating costs in the business relate to people, property and the range of NVQs offered was extended.
As well as acquisition of product transport and in light of the current macro economic environment, SIG has taken knowledge, a great deal of emphasis is placed on on-the-job training and during swift action to align these operating costs with the underlying market demand the year, several coaching skills programmes were run across the Group to for its products.
further improve the effectiveness of training.
SIG currently experiences lower underlying operating profit margins in The talent management process has been extended across the Group and Mainland Europe than it does in the UK and Ireland and the mix of sales between within operating companies to marry the aspirations of talented people with these two regions has an influence on the overall Group underlying operating future business requirements and expectations.
This has led to continued profit margin: investment in the Executive Development Programme run in conjunction with Sheffield Hallam University and a further 36 high potential individuals attending 2006 2007 2008 the prestigious Personal Development Awards.
We continue to invest in graduate programmes across the Group and in 2008 piloted an international UK and Ireland 8.0% 8.0% 6.7% undergraduate placement programme which will be extended further in 2009.
Mainland Europe 4.6% 4.9% 4.9% Group after Parent costs 6.5% 6.5% 5.6% kEY PERFORmANCE INdICATORS The Group uses the following key performance indicators to evaluate the success Continuing operations only for 2006. of its business: 3.
WORkING CAPITAL TO SALES Working capital to sales is defined as the ratio of working capital including provisions 1.
LIkE FOR LIkE SALES GROWTH to annualised sales i. e. after adjusting for acquisitions and disposals in the current Like for like sales growth is defined as the percentage growth in the sales of and prior year on a constant currency basis.
the Group excluding the impact of current year and prior year acquisitions and disposals.
Given the significant exchange rate changes during the last two years, The ability of the Group to manage its working capital in relation to the value of the percentage presented below is on a constant currency basis to provide a sales made by each business is essential to ensure that the Group generates cash realistic understanding as to underlying performance.
Cash generation is important to enable the Group to pay its taxes and, particularly in the current environment, to ensure that the Group The measure reflects the underlying sales growth in the business which typically complies with its debt covenants.
arises from increased sales volumes to both new and existing customers, product price inflation and selling new products through the existing infrastructure.
The growth 2006 2007 2008 is supported by investment in new brownfield trading site openings and trading site relocations into larger premises with additional stockholding capability.
Maintaining Working capital to sales 10.5% 10.2% 10.7% positive like for like growth in every business is a key target by which every business is measured and is a key component of being able to drive profit growth.
Like for like sales growth rates on a constant currency basis are set out below: 2006 2007 2008 UK and Ireland 4.4% 9.7% 3.4% Mainland Europe 13.2% 12.3% 4.2% Group 7.1% 10.5% 0.8% SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 13 bUSIneSS reVIew contInUed SIgS greATer exPOSUre TO The NON-reSIdeNTIAL bUILdINg SeCTOrS IN The Uk ANd IreLANd ALLIed TO AN exCeLLeNT PerfOrmANCe IN mAINLANd eUrOPe, Served TO mITIgATe SOme Of The wOrST effeCTS Of The dOwNTUrN IN 2008.
TRAdING PERFORmANCE as a result of these changes, the Groups total number of locations at the 2008 was characterised by the onset of the most turbulent economic conditions end of December increased by 28 during 2008 to 807 2007: 779 : in recent memory, in which unprecedented developments in financial markets across the world have increasingly impacted a number of key industrial sectors, consolidation of our position in Central and Eastern Europe with establishment with the construction industry becoming one of the most affected.
Against this of our first insulation and interiors market presence in Hungary: unfolding adverse trading background, the diversity of the Groups countries of operation and market sectors and our focus on specialisation in the markets and strengthened our position in the air handling market through the acquisition of products in which we trade, helped to provide some shelter from the worst Air Trade Centre, a Dutch-based multinational operation with subsidiaries both effects of the deteriorating operating environment.
With dramatic falls in particular in SIGs existing countries of operation and in the new markets of Romania, being experienced in the residential new-build sector in the UK and Ireland as the Hungary, Bulgaria and Turkey: year progressed, SIGs greater exposure to the non-residential building sectors in this region allied to an excellent performance in Mainland Europe, where sales acquired five bolt-on businesses which strengthen our position in the UK specialist are now approaching almost half of Group revenue, served to mitigate some insulation market: and of the worst effects of the downturn in 2008. extended organically and by acquisition our product range for the interior Following the record performance in sales and profits in 2007, the Group fit out of non-residential buildings and by acquisition our range for the external continued to grow sales in 2008, developing and expanding its product portfolio, roofing and cladding of industrial and non-residential buildings.
market coverage and geographical spread in specialist products and markets related to the building, construction and key industrial sectors, at the same time TRAdING HIGHLIGHTS taking exceptional benefit from foreign exchange gains on the translation of Uk ANd IRELANd 55% OF TOTAL SALES overseas earnings denominated in Euros.
Product price inflation, driven principally Total sales increased by 145.6m 9.6% to 1,669.4m 2007: 1,523.8m by manufacturers escalating raw material and energy costs and, on UK imports, the weakness of Sterling, varied between countries and product groups but Like for like sales decreased by 32.2m 2.2% averaged close to 2% across the year for the Group as a whole.
Against this background, total Group turnover in 2008 was 3,054m, an increase of 24.4% In the UK only, like for like sales decreased by 19.1m 1.4% on prior year, although underlying profit before tax was 2.0% lower at 137.3m as a result of the more challenging trading conditions.
Underlying operating profit decreased by 10.1m 8.4% to 111.2m 2007: 121.3m In response to reducing levels of demand for the Groups products and services in some sectors and where the expectation was that demand would The underlying operating profit margin was 1.3% lower at 6.7% 2007: 8.0% remain at best at a very subdued level for a prolonged period, the Company moved decisively to implement a broad range of initiatives on a business by 49 trading sites were added in the year organically and by acquisition, with business basis to reduce costs and improve the working capital position of the 77 closures, taking the total at 31 December 2008 to 433 31 December 2007: 461 Group as far as possible.
Meanwhile, the Group continued to allocate appropriate additional resources to core operations which continued to exhibit near term Overall construction activity in the UK weakened in 2008 compared to 2007, sales and profit potential, notably in insulation and air handling which are both principally due to a sharp decline in the residential building sector, where year on central to the strategically key development sector of improving the energy year new housing starts and completions fell steeply and discretionary residential performance of buildings.
RMI also reduced significantly as a consequence of the worsening economic situation, falling house prices and lack of mortgage finance availability.
In contrast, The main changes to our operating network in 2008 were as follows: the non-residential construction market showed greater resilience, in particular the publicly and PFI-funded sectors encompassing such programmes as the acquired a total of 25 businesses, together adding annualised sales of 190m Building Schools for the Future and NHS hospital development projects, although and 65 trading sites: towards the end of the year private sector non-residential markets such as office building and refurbishment, retail and leisure development also began to slow organic changes to the Groups trading site network comprised 43 new openings markedly.
Whilst the impact of the economic downturn differed in its intensity and 80 closures or mergers, a net reduction of 37 locations: and timing in SIGs various end market sectors in the UK and whilst some sectors remained relatively stable through the first half of the year, the general picture was one of erosion of demand as the year developed.
14 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS FOCUS, SPECIALISATION AND SERVICE TRAdING HIGHLIGHTS CONTINUEd The number of trading sites decreased by 25 to 253 at the end of December 2008.
Uk ANd IRELANd 55% OF TOTAL SALES CONTINUEd In Ireland, private sector residential construction had begun to decline in the The Interiors division had a solid year, with sales increasing by 21.1% in total Spring of 2007 and continued to regress steeply throughout 2008 due to a and 2.3% like for like.
Its various operations supply specialist products such as combination of a surfeit of unsold finished properties on the market and a range suspended ceilings, commercial floor coverings and bespoke manufactured of macro economic issues similar to those experienced in the UK.
Other market partitioning and door sets for the fit out of the interior space of all types of segments held up better, though the non-residential interiors market became non-residential building, from offices, shops and hotels to schools, hospitals steadily more affected as the year progressed.
Sales of Insulation and related products in the UK and Ireland increased by 9.2% In Ireland, sales and profits in the Interiors division were down, though not as in total, 2.6% like for like, notwithstanding the overall reduction in construction steeply as in other divisions such as insulation and roofing, due to the fact that activity.
In the UK, this was partly due to the higher levels of thermal performance the non-residential new build and refurbishment market was less badly hit by required by the 2006 changes to Building Regulations Part L feeding through the recession than the housing market.
In the UK, the commercial sector held into increased quantities of insulation being installed in new buildings.
In Ireland, up well in the first half of the year but tailed down in the second half as existing the severely reduced level of construction activity resulted in much lower demand projects reached completion and many private sector companies began to delay for insulation, in common with all other types of building materials.
or shelve plans for investment in new building works due to the deepening economic uncertainty.
SIG Insulations, our UK distribution business, also benefited to some extent from the Carbon Emissions Reduction Target CERT scheme, a three-year arrangement By contrast, public sector investment in construction steadily gathered pace under which the Government obliges the six UK power generation companies during the year, with schools and hospital projects in particular helping to offset to fund CO and therefore energy-saving programmes in existing homes and some of the reduction in the commercial sector.
2 which came into effect in April 2008.
The main beneficiary, however, was our Miller Pattison subsidiary, whose main activity is the installation of insulation in The Group acquired four small niche interiors businesses during the course of the the walls and lofts of houses which at the time they were built had little or no year, broadening its offering and consolidating its position as the leading supplier insulation fitted.
The CERT scheme provided a strong boost for Miller Pattisons of specialist products to the UK interiors market.
services and the Group invested in additional machinery and staff to keep pace with demand.
The number of trading sites decreased by 6 to 49 at the end of December 2008.
As well as thermal and acoustic insulation for buildings, SIG is the leading The Specialist Construction Products division supplies a wide range of specialist UK supplier of specialist insulation materials for a broad range of industrial construction products to building contractors, including brickwork accessories, process applications, ranging from power generation and petrochemical plant access equipment, groundwork preparation products, power tools, fixings and through to pharmaceutical and food processing and demand for industrial personal protection equipment.
The range was extended during the year by the insulation from such industries as these remained robust during 2008. acquisition of Kem Edwards, a distributor of mechanical and electrical fixing items which are complementary to the divisions existing range.
Sales in the year were The Company strengthened its position in the UK insulation market with up 7.2% in total, down 8.9% like for like.
The parts of the business worst hit by five bolt-on acquisitions of specialist niche businesses which extended its product the downturn were those most exposed to residential construction, although range and market coverage.
sales of primary products also weakened as fewer new non-residential projects got underway.
This division has largely been driven by small bolt-on acquisitions The number of trading sites increased by 8 to 83 at the end of December 2008. and in the face of reducing market demand the opportunity was taken in the second half of 2008 to reconfigure the operating structure, reducing the The exteriors division, which is heavily exposed to the residential housing number of trading sites to improve efficiency.
market, found trading conditions increasingly challenging through the year, delivering sales of 1.6% up on prior year in total though down 8.6% on a The number of trading sites decreased by 5 to 48 at the end of December 2008. like for like basis.
mAINLANd EUROPE 45% OF TOTAL SALES In Ireland, where new residential construction fell away sharply, sales volumes Total sales in Sterling increased by 452.8m 48.6% to 1,384.2m were significantly down on 2007 and as a consequence SIG Ireland reconfigured 2007: 931.4m, helped by a strengthening Euro its roofing trading site network, concentrating storage and logistics in a reduced number of locations while maintaining sales coverage in the field.
Like for like sales on a constant currency basis increased by 4.2% In the UK, performance was boosted by the acquisition of Steadman, a specialist Sales increased on a like for like basis in local currency in each country fabricator of roofing and cladding panels for industrial and agricultural buildings.
of operation, as well as on a total basis In the existing roofing business trading became steadily tougher as the year progressed.
The divisions sales were to some extent protected by having less Underlying operating profit increased by 22.0m 48.1% to 67.9m than a quarter of core roofing product sales made into the new-build housing 2007: 45.9m sector and by having a significant proportion of its RMI sales being for emergency repair purposes.
However, sales of both traditional roofing products and roofline Underlying operating profit margin was maintained at 4.9% 2007: 4.9% and building plastics going into the home improvement market were adversely affected by a general reduction in consumer discretionary spending.
As in Ireland, Further expansion of geographic coverage, with a total of 56 net trading sites with little prospect of market recovery in the immediate future, steps were taken added during the year, including a total of 9 in Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria and to rationalise the UK roofing trading site network and concentrate resources in Turkey combined, all of which are new countries for SIG, taking the total to fewer locations while maintaining full sales coverage in the market.
374 at 31 December 2008 31 December 2007: 318 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15 bUSIneSS reVIew contInUed AgAINST A bACkdrOP Of PrOfOUNd ChANgeS IN OUr OPerATINg eNvIrONmeNT IN 2008, SIg CONTINUed TO OUTPerfOrm LOCAL CONdITIONS ANd deLIver CredITAbLe reSULTS.
TRAdING HIGHLIGHTS CONTINUEd SIGs core Insulation and Interiors operations traded extremely well, with total mAINLANd EUROPE 45% OF TOTAL SALES CONTINUEd sales in local currency up 11.2% on 2007.
Like for like sales in Euros were Overall, SIGs European countries of operation were much less affected by 11.0% ahead.
These divisions trade mainly outside the housing sector, principally the turmoil in financial markets than was experienced in the UK and Ireland.
in the non-residential and process industrial insulation markets which remained Generally speaking, although there was some increasing weakness in residential robust throughout 2008.
Both divisions benefited from product price inflation construction and RMI in a number of countries, this was not on the same scale averaging up to 3% and like Larivire experienced organic sales growth from of intensity as in the UK and Ireland and demand in our other core markets of trading sites opened in the previous two years as well as from another nine sites non-residential construction and industrial insulation remained generally solid opened in 2008. throughout the year.
Including one small bolt-on insulation acquisition, the number of trading sites In germany and Austria 41% of sales in Mainland Europe total sales increased by 22 to 164 at the end of December 2008 31 December 2007: 142. were 23.3% ahead of prior year in Sterling, up 5.8% in local currency and 1.4% like for like in local currency.
Overall construction activity in the region In Poland and Central europe 15% of sales in Mainland Europe, total sales showed slight growth over 2007, although the residential market weakened in Sterling increased by 49%, including the two acquisitions made in Hungary further from what was already a low base.
There was some price deflation and the Czech Republic during the year.
in the second half of the year in pitched roofing products, though overall the pricing environment was neutral to positive.
This region offers the prospect of above average sales and profit growth in the medium term, hence SIGs decision in 2007 to extend its presence from Our well-established Insulation and Interiors business made further good progress Poland to neighbouring countries.
In the short term, however, these developing in 2008, with like for like sales and profits ahead in local currency.
The product markets are prone to volatility in demand and pricing and 2008 saw some range and market coverage were enhanced by two small acquisitions and the reduction in both sales volume and product prices.
Nonetheless, good progress Companys offering of own label goods was further extended.
Our newer was made in establishing a Central European management base in Prague to operations in the German roofing market, which SIG entered in 2006, were cover the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary and this sub-region traded augmented by a bolt-on acquisition.
The new division continued to develop profitably and ahead of expectations.
internal synergies and improve its effectiveness but found trading very challenging in a market which was down in volume as well as price.
The core business in Poland traded well in a weak market, with like for like sales in local currency up 3.9% against prior year.
There was substantial price deflation The number of trading sites increased by 7 to 89 at the end of December 2008 in some product groups as material shortages in 2007 gave way to more plentiful 31 December 2007: 82. supply, with violent swings in the Zloty exchange rate during the year having a destabilising influence on both pricing and market sentiment.
In france 35% of sales in Mainland Europe total sales in Sterling grew 79.4% versus prior year, up 53.8% in local currency and 11.0% like for like The number of trading sites increased by 14 to 97 at the end of December 2008 in local currency.
The substantial increase in the overall sales figure reflects 31 December 2007: 83. the fact that the Group had the benefit of a full years trading in 2008 from the Larivire roofing distribution business acquired midway through 2007.
Sales in benelux 6% of total sales in Mainland Europe grew strongly, up 36.8% Larivire outperformed the general roofing market, growing annual sales in total in Sterling, up 17.3% in local currency and up 9.4% like for like in local versus prior year not all of which were under SIG ownership by 3% in the currency.
As in a number of SIGs other European operations the core business residential construction market down by around 15% and despite substantial in Benelux is focused on Insulation and Interiors and both divisions are performing price deflation in zinc, a key French roofing product.
Growth stemmed principally well against the background of generally stable market conditions in which slightly from the positive sales development of trading sites opened in the previous weaker volume was compensated by price inflation of around 3%.
two years as part of Larivires strategic development programme and from the further 16 trading sites opened in 2008.
At the same time, a review of the The number of trading sites increased by 1 to 12 at the end of December 2008 trading site network in light of the deteriorating residential construction market 31 December 2007: 11. resulted in the closure of four existing sites at the end of the year.
Sales in Air Trade Centre, the European wide air conditioning and air handling business acquired in March 2008, amounted to 3% of total sales in Mainland Europe.
This business provides SIG with a platform for growth and was successfully integrated into the Group in 2008.
16 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS FOCUS, SPECIALISATION AND SERVICE ACQUISITIONS mARGINS Entering 2008, SIG had a strong pipeline of acquisition opportunities, many Gross profit margin decreased from 26.8% to 26.5%.
Foreign currency of which were in very advanced stages and all of which were consistent with movements accounted for 0.2% of the reduction, i. e. the lower margins in the Groups development strategy of strengthening its presence and position in Mainland Europe now account for proportionally more of the Groups overall established regions and market sectors.
Maintaining a highly selective and progressively gross margin and lower gross margins in the 2007 acquisitions accounting for the more cautious approach, the Group completed a total of 25 transactions in 2008 other 0.1% reduction.
On a like for like constant currency basis the Groups for a total consideration including assumed debt of 130.5m, delivering annualised gross margin was unchanged.
sales of 190m and sales in 2008 of 156m.
Underlying operating costs as a percentage of sales increased from 20.3% to In the context of the worsening economic climate the acquisition programme was 20.9% as cost inflation outpaced growth in sales.
The Group experienced cost curtailed, with a single small bolt-on deal concluded in the second half of the year.
inflation particularly in respect of staff costs and fuel during 2008.
A combination of reduced gross margin and increased costs gave rise to a lower underlying COST SAVING ACTIONS operating margin of 5.6% 2007: 6.5%.
As explained in the trading review As the trading environment deteriorated in certain countries and markets during section, the Group has taken actions in 2008 and early in 2009 to ensure 2008, management took steps to realign the operating cost base in those markets the cost base is appropriate in the short to medium term.
where medium term demand was expected to remain subdued whilst also keeping market developments under close watch in order to be able to promptly implement OPERATING PROFIT additional pre-prepared contingency measures should these become appropriate.
Underlying total operating profit increased by 6.5% or 10.4m to 169.8m.
Tougher trading conditions in the second half of 2008 resulted in like for like These measures were set out in the Groups Interim Management Statement underlying operating profit falling by 8.2% or 12.1m in 2008 to 135.4m.
of 19 November 2008 and Trading Statement of 13 January 2009 and in Operating profit decreased by 24.8% or 35.2m to 107.0m reflecting a aggregate involved a reduction in the number of employees of the Group of number of Other items that are described on page 18.
1,020 7% of the total and the closure of 80 trading sites.
While the larger part of these related to the Groups operations in the UK and Ireland, selective steps FINANCE COSTS were also taken in a number of the Groups European businesses.
Net finance costs before gains and losses on derivative financial instruments and financing items relating to our defined benefit pension schemes i. e. net borrowing Taken on a business-by-business basis, those steps were intended to realign costs increased by 13.7m to 32.6m in 2008.
The net borrowing cost as a resources to current and anticipated trading levels whilst not compromising percentage of average debt in issue during the year reduced from 5.7% to 5.5%.
SIGs ability to provide excellent service and value to its customers.
Net borrowing costs benefited from our continued efforts to manage our SUmmARY OF TRAdING PERFORmANCE working capital, which reduced the daily amount of debt outstanding with our 2008 was a year of profound changes in our operating environment, with banks.
Further details are provided in the cash flow and financial position section more of our countries of operation and market sectors gradually succumbing on pages 19 and 20. to the effects on construction markets of the worsening economic and financial conditions.
Against this backdrop, SIGs various operating subsidiaries continued Further details of SIGs interest rate policies are provided in the interest rate risk to make the most of the opportunities available to them, to outperform local section on page 23. conditions and to deliver creditable results.
Net finance income relating to our defined benefit pension schemes amounted to The management and staff right across the Groups operations are ready to 0.1m in 2008 2007: net finance charge of 0.4m.
Further details are provided deal with what are set to be still more challenging trading conditions in 2009, in Note 29c to the Accounts on pages 105 to 108. to continue to provide excellent service and value to our customers, to strengthen our position in our different markets and to be ready to take full advantage of the Fair value losses on certain financing derivatives gave rise to finance costs in upturn when it eventually comes.
the Other items column of the Consolidated Income Statement of 41.4m 2007: finance income of 1.4m.
Significant foreign exchange movements during FINANCIAL REVIEW the year resulted in a number of the Groups treasury hedging arrangements REVENUE which seek to obtain economic hedges becoming ineffective.
These arrangements Sales increased by 24.4% or 599m to 3,054m 2007: 2,455m.
On a involved the Group seeking to eliminate the risk of paying tax on foreign exchange constant currency basis, like for like sales fell by 0.8% but due to the significant movements in relation to both foreign currency borrowings hedging the net weakening of Sterling during the year actually rose by 6.5% in Sterling.
The Group assets of overseas subsidiaries and on other foreign exchange denominated experienced robust demand for its products in the first half of 2008, with like borrowings to obtain lower interest rate costs.
These were achieved through for like sales growth of 2.5% on a constant currency basis.
The deterioration forward foreign exchange contracts with a relationship bank.
in the macro economic backdrop in the second half of 2008 affected the demand for SIGs products, with SIG experiencing a like for like reduction Foreign exchange losses on these contracts exceeded the Groups UK taxable in sales of 3.8% on a constant currency basis.
profits available for offset in the current year, giving rise to exceptional losses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
In December 2008, the Group decided to reduce its foreign currency exposure by the conversion of 198m of debt into Sterling and the close out of associated derivative financial instruments.
Going forward, the Group will seek to structure its treasury arrangements such that if Sterling appreciates against the Euro then some of these losses may become recoverable.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 17 bUSIneSS reVIew contInUed FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUEd TAxATION PROFIT bEFORE TAx The income tax charge on underlying profits amounts to 40.2m 2007: 41.9m Underlying profit before tax decreased by 2.0% or 2.8m to 137.3m which represents an underlying effective rate of 29.3% 2007: 29.9%.
Profit before tax, decreased by 91.2m to 33.1m payments amounted to 27.8m, significantly below the 40.2m income tax 2007: 124.3m.
charge on underlying profits primarily as a result of the foreign exchange rate losses on derivative financial instruments and restructuring costs reducing UK OTHER ITEmS taxable profits.
In 2009, the Group anticipates a similar tax rate to 2008 and Amounts included in Other items which in total amounted to 104.2m would again anticipate cash tax payments to be below the income tax charge 2007: 15.8m before tax are as follows: as a result of the foreign exchange rate losses on derivative financial instruments noted above reducing UK taxable profits.
The accounting policies section on page 69 and Note 12 to the Accounts on page 87 provide The effective income tax charge on total profit before tax of 33.1m is 79.5% details of what is included within intangible assets and over what periods the 2007: 29.9%.
This is a result of not obtaining or not recognising tax relief in assets are amortised: respect of the goodwill impairment charge and losses on derivative financial instruments.
impairment charge of 14.2m a review of the carrying value of goodwill EARNINGS PER SHARE EPS in relation to SIGs Irish business which has experienced a significant reduction Underlying basic EPS amounted to 71.4p 2007: 74.8p, which represents in demand as a result of falls in construction activity in the last 18 months, a decrease of 4.5%.
Basic EPS amounted to 4.7p 2007: 66.3p, which takes has concluded that the assets should be impaired when aligned with our into account amortisation of acquired intangibles, impairment charges, short to medium term view of profitability in respect of the business unit: gains and losses on derivative financial instruments and restructuring costs.
The weighted average number of shares in issue in the period rose by 5.2 million restructuring costs of 22.2m the Group has taken a number of actions to to 135.3 million 2007: 130.1 million.
This increase was primarily due to the reduce operating costs.
These one-off actions have resulted in redundancy, issue of 11,363,637 ordinary shares under a share placing that completed onerous lease and asset write off costs: and on 30 May 2007. losses on derivative financial instruments of 41.4m 2007: gain of 1.4m.
dIVIdENdS The finance costs section above explains this item.
The Board has recently reviewed SIGs near term dividend policy in response to the ongoing global financial crisis and challenging trading conditions.
The Board FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION has decided that it is in the best interests of Shareholders not to pay a final dividend Overseas earnings streams are translated at the average rate of exchange for the in 2008.
The Board remains committed to a progressive dividend policy and SIG year with balance sheets at closing rates.
The table below sets out the principal will resume dividend payments when markets stabilise and it believes it is prudent exchange rates used: to do so taking into account the Groups earnings, cash flow and balance sheet position.
The cash cost of dividend payments in the financial year ended Average rate Closing rate 31 December 2008 was 36.5m 2007: 28.4m.
2008 2007 2008 2007 ACQUISITIONS Euro 1.250 1.458 1.030 1.362 As part of the Groups development strategy, a number of targeted acquisitions Polish Zloty 4.384 5.500 4.260 4.880 were made in the year, principally in the first half.
The table below provides an overview of the acquisition activity over the last two years: Czech Koruna 31.229 39.732 27.445 36.185 Slovak Koruna 38.944 48.482 31.159 45.751 2008 2007 Hungarian Forint 312.660 N A 275.000 N A Number of transactions 25 27 Fluctuations in exchange rates have and will continue to give rise to translation Annualised sales 190m 440m differences on overseas earnings streams when translated into Sterling.
Additional trading sites 65 148 The movement in average exchange rates compared to 2007 had a significant Acquisition consideration including assumed effect on total overseas earnings streams.
Total sales increased by 226m and net debt and contingent consideration 131m 323m profit before tax was increased by 7m as a result.
Further details of SIGs foreign Transactions by geographic segment exchange policies are detailed in the Foreign currency risk section on page 24.
UK and Ireland 17 18 Mainland Europe 8 9 25 27 The 2008 acquisition programme has enabled SIG to reach new customers, extend its product offering to existing and new customers and to further improve its standards of service to all customers thereby continuing the process of strengthening the Group going forward.
In light of the current challenging market environment, the Group has put its acquisition programme on hold in order to focus upon maximising cash generation.
In the meantime, the Group continues to develop and exploit the synergistic benefits that its historic acquisition programme has provided.
18 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS FOCUS, SPECIALISATION AND SERVICE FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUEd CASH FLOW ANd FINANCIAL POSITION SHAREHOLdERS FUNdS SIG has benefited from another good year of generating cash from operating Shareholders funds increased by 43.4m to 617.0m 2007: 573.6m.
The following table explains the movement in SIGs net debt: The increase comprised the following elements: 2008 2007 m m m Cash flow from operating activities 156.0 160.3 Profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the Company 6.3 Interest and tax 63.4 54.1 Dividends paid 36.5 Maintenance capital expenditure 42.6 30.3 Exchange differences on assets and liabilities after tax 81.8 Movements attributable to share options 0.3 Free cash flow available for investment 50.0 75.9 Actuarial loss on pension schemes net of deferred tax 7.6 Acquisition investment including loan notes issued to vendors 123.2 317.1 Recognition of option in relation to minority interest 2.0 Investment capital expenditure 10.3 30.3 New share capital issued under employee share schemes 1.1 Dividends including minority dividends 37.2 29.2 Increase in Shareholders funds 43.4 Proceeds from issue of share capital 1.1 148.1 Foreign exchange losses 154.3 43.3 PENSION SCHEmES Other items including fair value movements 5.7 4.2 With effect from 1 January 2008, the UKs four defined benefit pension schemes were merged into a single main scheme, with a significant reduction in associated Movement in net debt 268.2 200.1 administration costs.
In addition to one UK defined benefit scheme, SIG has Opening net debt 428.9 228.8 four book reserved schemes in Mainland Europe and a variety of defined contribution schemes.
Together the UK defined benefit scheme and the four Closing net debt 697.1 428.9 book reserved schemes are referred to as defined benefit pension schemes.
Maintenance capital expenditure is considered as equivalent to depreciation, with the balance being considered investment capital expenditure.
Capital expenditure shown SIG contributed 10.2m 2007: 5.5m into its five 2007: eight defined benefit above includes finance leases drawn down in each year.
pension schemes during the year, which included 7.2m as a special contribution The acquisition investment figure excludes contingent consideration of 7.3m into the main defined benefit scheme in January 2008.
The total charge in respect 2007: 5.7m, which has been recognised as a liability in the Accounts but is yet of defined benefit pension schemes to the Consolidated Income Statement was to give rise to a cash flow.
1.7m 2007: 2.3m : of this total 1.8m 2007: 1.9m was charged to operating expenses and 0.1m was credited to net finance income 2007: 0.4m charged Key points to note are: to net finance costs.
included within Cash flow from operating activities is an increase in working The overall gross defined benefit pension schemes liability increased during the capital of 33.4m, which principally relates to reduction in the amounts owed year by 3.4m to 19.1m.
This can be broken down as follows: to our suppliers at the end of the year: Increase as trading conditions became more challenging in the second half of decrease in pension 2008, the Group reduced investment in new vehicles and new trading sites.
scheme liability Net capital expenditure amounted to 31.9m in the first half of the year and m was reduced to 21.0m in the second half of the year.
For the year as a whole Increase in mortality assumption from 27.5 to 28.5 years the net capital expenditure to depreciation ratio amounted to 1.24 times in the main scheme 2.4 2007: 1.77 times after excluding hire equipment of 7.0m.
Moving into 2009, capex plans have been cut further in order to conserve cash and we Experience gains and losses in all schemes 7.9 would anticipate capex being approximately half the level of 2008: and Change in financial assumptions in all schemes 16.1 Cash contributions to the schemes above the profit and loss charge 8.5 as a result of the devaluation of Sterling versus SIGs foreign currencies during Exchange difference 1.3 2008, the Groups reported Sterling debt position suffered an exchange loss of 154.3m during the year.
The principal currency to which the Group has Increase in pension scheme liability 3.4 exposure is the Euro and this moved from 1.362 at the start of the year to 1.030 at the end of the year.
In December 2008, the Group decided to There have been a number of changes in financial assumptions, the key items being an increase in the discount rate used to value the pension scheme liabilities from 5.7% reduce its foreign currency exposure by the conversion of 198m debt into to 6.2% and changes in the assumptions relating to the settlement of liabilities.
It is important to note that if exchange rates continue at this level, then the reported 2009 foreign currency denominated profits will also benefit This is principally due to a special contribution to the main scheme of 7.2m made from this devaluation of Sterling.
in January 2008 on the advice of the actuary following on from the last pension scheme valuation undertaken as at 31 December 2007.
The Group continues to monitor the life expectancy assumptions used to value its pension scheme liabilities.
For the main pension scheme, the life expectancy for a male employee beyond the normal retirement age of 60 is 28.5 years 2007: 27.5 years, which is considered appropriate for a scheme of this nature.
The cost of the Groups defined contribution schemes increased by 16.7% 0.7m to 4.9m.
Details of the pension schemes operated by SIG are set out in Note 29c to the Accounts on pages 105 to 108.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 19 bUSIneSS reVIew contInUed The TrAdINg CASh CONverSION rATIO Of 97% IS A SIgNIfICANT ImPrOvemeNT ON The 48% TrAdINg CASh CONverSION rATIO IN The fIrST hALf Of The yeAr.
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUEd REVENUE bY mARkET 2008 CASH FLOW ANd FINANCIAL POSITION CONTINUEd The Groups cash flow from operating activities amounted to 156.0m specialist construction insulation and 2007: 160.3m.
This represents a trading cash conversion ratio of 97% products building 2007: 103% and is a significant improvement on the 48% trading cash environments 284m conversion ratio at 30 June 2008.
Trading cash conversion is defined as cash 1,112m 9.3% flow from operating activities before pension movements divided by underlying 36.4% operating profit and is a key measure that will continue to be a matter of high interiors focus in 2009.
809m 26.5% The key working capital ratios underlying the trading cash conversion are set out below on a like for like constant currency basis: 2008 2007 exteriors Inventory days 39 41 849m Trade receivable days 43 47 27.8% Trade payable days 28 37 During the second half of the year, SIGs working capital targets were successful in reducing inventory and trade receivables across the Group.
A reduction in purchases towards the end of the year, together with an increase in the amounts owed to the Group by suppliers under the terms of rebate arrangements compared to 31 December 2007 resulted in a nine-day reduction in the trade payable days at the end of the year.
The Groups bad debt charge amounted to 0.6% of sales 2007: 0.5% of sales.
The Group is very mindful of the risk of bad debts increasing as the economy weakens, construction activity reduces and as the Groups customer base is at risk of having credit withdrawn by banks.
The Groups credit control policies and procedures are regularly reviewed and a number of the Groups businesses have credit insurance to protect them from bad debts rising above prescribed aggregate loss levels.
20 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS FOCUS, SPECIALISATION AND SERVICE FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUEd RESOURCES dEbT COVENANTS EmPLOYEES The Companys debt facilities contain a number of covenants attached to The commitment, drive and enthusiasm of all SIGs employees are its greatest SIGs committed debt facilities.
The key covenants are leverage and interest asset and SIGs ability to meet the demands of its customers, suppliers and cover and are tested at 30 June and 31 December.
Shareholders is dependent upon their efforts.
Throughout SIG, regardless of country or sector, we believe our people are recognised as the best in their The leverage covenant is a requirement to maintain a ratio of net debt particular field.
SIGs policy and strategy towards its employees is detailed further to Annualised EBITDA of less than 3.5 times.
Annualised EBITDA is defined as in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 39.
Training, coaching and the operating profit before amortisation of acquired intangibles, impairment charges, opportunity for personal career advancement within the Company are important depreciation and restructuring costs, plus interest receivable and adjusted to features of how SIG seeks to recruit, retain and develop skilled staff.
annualise the EBITDA of acquisitions made during the previous twelve months.
bRANd STRENGTH The interest cover covenant is a requirement to maintain a ratio of the previous SIG operates under a wide range of trading names in the respective markets twelve months underlying operating profit to underlying net finance costs and countries in which it has trading sites.
excluding pension scheme finance income and costs of greater than 3.0 times.
Many of these brands, including the original company name, Sheffield Insulations, The ratio for each of the debt covenants is set out below: are widely recognised throughout their respective market sectors or countries as the leading supplier, offering very focused products and services to customers.
year ended Year ended 31 december 31 December SIG believes that the strength and market awareness of its brands are important assets.
Leverage covenant 2008 2007 Annualised EBITDA 227.0m 210.2m COmPETITIVE POSITION Net debt 697.1m 428.9m SIG aims to occupy leading positions as a specialist supplier in each of its main markets of insulation and building environments, exteriors, interiors and specialist Leverage ratio 3.07x 2.04x construction products.
A position of market leadership has been achieved in a number of specific markets.
Operations in the other countries and market sectors year ended Year ended are continuing to develop their position.
31 december 31 December Interest cover covenant 2008 2007 INVENTORY Underlying operating profit 169.8m 159.4m Immediate availability of a wide range of specialist materials is vital to the Underlying net finance costs 32.6m 18.9m customers served by SIG.
Interest cover ratio 5.2x 8.4x Materials are often required within hours on an emergency basis.
For example, Excluding pension scheme finance income and costs.
when a roof leak occurs and immediate repairs are necessary to prevent damage to the building and its contents, or in a chemical processing plant where a pipeline The Company is in compliance with its financial covenants in all respects and has becomes dangerously overheated due to a breakdown of the insulation.
not requested or gained any waivers thereof.
In both of these examples, customers have an unplanned, emergency need for CAPITAL STRUCTURE specific and specialist products in order to prevent substantial damage and costs.
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to stakeholders A fundamental feature of SIGs position in the supply chain is having these through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of products, in depth, in strategically located trading sites to ensure customer the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in Note 18, requirements can be met.
cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed TRAdING SITES in Note 25.
SIG has an extensive network of trading sites as demonstrated in the chart on page 12.
These are an important resource and an important feature of the SIG OUTLOOk business model in each country of operation, as they enable the local market The Directors view of the outlook and prospects for the Group are set out in surrounding each trading site to be serviced on an  basis.
the Chairmans Statement on page 5.
For customers conducting work on a regional or national basis in each country, SIG can provide a full national service using locally held inventory, thus avoiding the time and cost penalties of shipping products over large distances.
FLEET dELIVERY CAPAbILITY SIG uses a mix of own delivery vehicles and external hire to deliver goods to customers.
This enables availability and service to customers to be maximised whilst ensuring that the cost base is flexible to cope with periods of higher or lower daily demand.
The direct ownership of a large proportion of the fleet and the management of this resource on a local basis is an important feature of the speed, flexibility and responsiveness that SIG offers to customers.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 21 bUSIneSS reVIew contInUed PRINCIPAL RISkS ANd UNCERTAINTIES malfunction, damage, fire or power loss.
There can be no certainty that recovery There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could have a plans and contingency plans will be effective in the event that they need to be material impact on SIGs long term performance.
SIGs IT systems are not interdependent and there are dedicated system of risk management installed in all parts of its business and quickly support staff directly employed, together with external support service introduces this into new acquisitions.
The processes are described in detail providers, to monitor the IT systems.
on pages 49 and 50 of the Corporate Governance Report.
COmmERCIAL RELATIONSHIPS LEVELS OF mARkET dEmANd IN THE bUILdING ANd CONSTRUCTION SIG is exposed to changes in relationships with both customers and suppliers.
mARkETS IN WHICH SIG OPERATES Failure to negotiate competitive terms of business with its suppliers or failure Approximately 90% of SIGs sales are made to the building, construction to satisfy the needs of its customers could harm the Groups business.
It is a and civil engineering industries.
key task for the operational management in each country and business unit to maintain and develop their relationships with customers and suppliers.
These industries are driven by private and Government expenditure and include major new construction projects e. g. airports, hospitals, schools and sports CREdIT RISk complexes, new residential housing developments and a wide range of SIG, by the nature of its position in the supply chain, buys products from highly renovation, upgrading and repair work on existing buildings.
reputable suppliers in bulk and sells the products to a wide variety of professional contractors on credit terms.
There is a risk that customers do not pay as the SIG is exposed to changes in the level of activity and therefore demand typical customer does not have many assets.
SIG has therefore developed well from these industries.
Government policy and expenditure plans, private proven credit control guidelines and procedures that are designed to minimise investor decisions, the general economic climate and both business and its credit risk whilst trying to maximise sales potential.
For the year ended to a lesser extent consumer confidence are all factors which can influence the 31 December 2008 bad debt expense amounted to 0.6% of sales level of building activity and therefore the demand for many of SIGs products.
Approximately 10% of SIGs sales are made into specific industrial applications, CREdIT INSURERS especially where there are temperature critical processes and the use of highly A number of the Groups suppliers insure their credit exposure to SIG with specialist insulation is an important part of the process plant itself.
These industries a small number of credit insurers.
Likewise SIG also insures its credit exposure include power generation, oil and gas processing, chemical, pharmaceutical and in relation to a number of its customers.
These credit insurers could withdraw cold storage facilities.
their cover on SIG or its customers which would affect the trading relationship between SIG, its suppliers or its customers and potentially the profitability of SIG.
SIG is exposed to activity levels and therefore demand for some of its products, within these diverse industries.
These industries would, in turn, be affected by RESTRUCTURING OF SIG the general economic climate, energy demand and energy costs and business Since 1 July 2008 the Group has actively taken steps to align its cost base in those investment decisions in major industries such as power generation and petrochemicals.
markets where short to medium term demand was expected to remain subdued.
There is a risk that the restructuring plans may not achieve their goals and may COmPETITORS cost more than anticipated.
SIG has a mix of both direct specialist competition and some overlap with more general suppliers such as general builders merchants in all its markets and countries.
GOVERNmENT LEGISLATION As a distributor handling and supplying products manufactured by other companies, SIG operates in a number of countries across Europe, each with their own laws SIG is itself dependent upon other companies for in excess of 90% of the products and regulations, encompassing environmental, legal, health and safety, employment that it sells.
Some of SIGs competitors may be funded in such a way that they and tax matters.
Changes in these laws and regulations could impact on SIGs are willing to accept lower financial returns than SIG or have a greater breadth ability to conduct its business, or make such conduct of business more costly.
of resources than SIG in particular market sectors.
Competition with these companies could adversely affect SIGs profitability and or, financial condition.
SIG is committed to complying with all local legal requirements and the clear devolution of responsibility to local operating management, together with the However, the majority of products that are sold by SIG are relatively bulky and employment of competent advisers.
Changes to legislation are monitored locally inexpensive in relation to their mass and the cost of transport.
This means that and appropriate actions taken to ensure they are incorporated into the Companys the risk faced by SIG of price disruption and possible cross border or international business policies and procedures.
trading having a detrimental impact on prices in any particular country is low.
Similarly, the risk posed by internet-based trading dependent upon parcel-carrier TRANSPORT ANd FUEL PRICES service is mitigated by the bulky nature of most of the products sold by SIG and In excess of 70% of SIGs sales are delivered to customers.
Prolonged disruption the fact that specialist handling and delivery services are an important feature of to road transport systems or the availability of vehicle fuel would result in reduced the service provided by SIG to many customers.
sales in any country in which this may occur.
In addition, a significant increase in fuel prices can affect profitability.
INFORmATION TECHNOLOGY IT SIG uses a range of computer systems to provide order processing, inventory control and financial management within each country.
Outages and interruptions could affect SIGs ability to conduct day-to-day operations.
Any lengthy failure or disruption to the IT system in any business unit or country would result in loss of sales and delays to cash flow.
Interruption to SIGs IT systems could be caused by a number of factors, including as a result of human error or malfeasance, 22 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS FOCUS, SPECIALISATION AND SERVICE PRINCIPAL RISkS ANd UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUEd TREASURY RISk mANAGEmENT PROdUCT AVAILAbILITY ANd PROdUCT PRICES TREASURY RISk The availability and market prices of products that the Group supplies can change.
SIG enters into derivative financial instruments principally foreign currency and These changes can adversely affect the Groups sales and operating profits.
interest rate swaps to hedge certain currency risks arising from SIGs operations and to hedge interest expenses arising from SIGs sources of finance.
SIGs If product demand outstrips supply, be it due to demand rising or supply falling, financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise borrowings, cash and there could be a negative impact on the Groups ability to service its customers liquid resources and various items such as trade receivables and trade payables needs.
The factories that produce fibrous insulation products take a number that arise directly from its operations.
of years to build and so if demand exceeds the production capacity, product shortages could result.
The Group keeps in regular contact with its suppliers SIGs finance and treasury policies set out the Companys approach to managing to ensure that it protects its position regarding product availability and product treasury risk.
These policies are approved by the Board on a regular basis.
The Group also sources its products from a number of manufacturers Company policy that no trading in financial instruments or speculative transactions in order to reduce its reliance upon any one manufacturer.
To minimise the credit risk associated with derivative financial instruments, SIG only enters derivative financial instruments with its principal The Group negotiates purchase prices with its suppliers.
The ability of SIG to UK banks.
secure satisfactory terms of trade in these negotiations is key to its ability to supply the products to its customers at competitive prices.
Rising product prices are SIG manages its financial liabilities using derivative financial instruments where advantageous for SIG as the Groups standard gross margin is achieved on appropriate to ensure that it has appropriate maturity profiles in relation to a higher selling price resulting in improved overhead recovery, thus providing its borrowings and appropriate levels of protection against interest rate and a higher underlying operating profit margin.
Rising prices may also provide SIG exchange rate fluctuations.
with the opportunity to benefit from inventory gains whereby inventory is bought at the lower price and sold on at the higher price.
Conversely, falling product SIG finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits, Shareholders prices are disadvantageous for SIG.
In recent years, product price inflation equity, bank, private placement and other borrowings.
SIG uses derivative financial across the basket of SIG products has been positive rather than negative.
instruments to create the desired currency and interest rate profile, so managing SIGs exposure to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations.
A small proportion There is an additional risk that disruption in the supply chain, for example due of SIGs assets are funded using fixed rate finance lease contracts.
At 31 December 2008 to the insolvency of a supplier, industrial action or adverse weather conditions, outstanding liabilities in respect of such contracts amounted to 12.6m 2007: 9.7m.
This could lead to SIG being unable to fulfil certain commitments and this could lead to a material adverse effect on SIGs reputation, The Groups financial liabilities including derivative financial assets at business, results of operations and overall financial condition.
31 December 2008 of 768.8m 2007: 518.1m can be analysed as follows: IdENTIFICATION ANd INTEGRATION OF ACQUISITIONS 151.3m 2007: 226.3m has a maturity profile of greater than five years: The Groups long term growth strategy is partly dependent upon the identification of appropriate acquisition opportunities at appropriate prices 393.7m 2007: 505.7m is denominated in foreign currencies, held to and the successful integration of acquisitions into the Group.
Failure to identify, partially hedge the assets of our overseas businesses: acquire and integrate new acquisitions could adversely affect the growth of the Groups business in the long term.
443.1m 2007: 379.1m carries a fixed rate of interest: and SIG commits dedicated resources to the research of new markets, the origination 749.2m 2007: 503.5m is borrowed on an unsecured basis.
of appropriate acquisition targets and the execution of appropriate due diligence and the contract negotiation process.
Post acquisition, SIG constantly evaluates Details of derivative financial instruments are shown in Note 18 to the Accounts the management structures of its businesses to ensure that appropriate management on pages 93 to 95. time can be dedicated to new businesses.
INTEREST RATES LOSS OF kEY mANAGEmENT OR PERSONNEL The Companys interest costs in respect of its borrowings will increase in The Groups businesses are highly reliant on the continued services of its the event of rising interest rates.
To reduce this risk the Company has a policy Senior Management, including its Executive Directors and other key personnel.
of fixing between 60% and 85% of its net debt via the purchase of appropriate These individuals possess sales and marketing, technical, manufacturing, financial derivative financial instruments.
At 31 December 2008, 64% of the Groups and administrative skills that are important to the continued successful operation net debt is fixed.
SIG is also reliant on the ability to recruit and retain skilled and experienced labour available within the industry at an operational level.
Failure to retain such individuals, or the failure to attract and retain strong management and technical staff in the future, could have an adverse effect upon the Groups business, results of its operations and financial condition.
PROdUCT dEFECT CLAImS High product quality is an important reason why customers buy products from SIG.
The inadvertent supply of defective or inferior products by SIG to its customers could have an adverse impact on the Companys reputation and standing, thereby harming the Companys business and financial results.
The Group takes care to source products selectively to ensure any possible risk associated with product quality issues is minimised.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23 bUSIneSS reVIew contInUed SIg IS CONfIdeNT ThAT ITS reSTrUCTUrINg ACTIONS wILL eNAbLe IT TO INCreASe reTUrN ON CAPITAL wheN bUILdINg ANd CONSTrUCTION ACTIvITy UPTUrNS.
TREASURY RISk mANAGEmENT CONTINUEd SIG seeks to mitigate foreign currency risk in general by combining financial LIQUIdITY RISk ANd FINANCIAL FACILITIES liabilities and derivatives in currencies that partially hedge the net investment Liquidity risk is the risk that SIG is unable to meet its financial obligations as they values.
At 31 December 2008, SIG had gross foreign currency borrowings fall due.
In the longer term, a substantial variation in operating performance and amounting to 393m, PLN1m, CZK247m and HUF133m.
cash generation may not be covered within the level of the Companys available debt facilities, which may have a material adverse effect on the Groups business.
Gearing, being net debt divided by net assets, increased during the year from 75% to 113% as a result of investment in property, plant and equipment, In order to mitigate the risk of not being able to meet its financial obligations, working capital and acquisitions but more significantly it increased as a result of SIG seeks a balance between certainty of funding and a flexible, cost-effective foreign exchange losses arising on the retranslation into Sterling of SIGs foreign borrowing structure, using a mixture of sources of funding in order to reduce currency debt, which amounted to 154.3m in 2008. the risk of being over reliant upon any one provider.
The key sources of finance are private placement note providers, being mainly US-based pension funds The net after tax effect on the Consolidated Balance Sheet of currency transaction and principal bankers, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Barclays Bank plc and translation differences relating to our overseas subsidiaries in 2008 was a gain and Lloyds TSB Bank plc.
The last private placement transaction completed of 37.8m 2007: gain of 16.4m.
This significant gain arose principally as a result on 1 November 2006 increased the certainty of the Groups debt funding, of the 32% year on year depreciation of Sterling versus the Euro 1.030 at being provided on a committed 7, 10 and 12 year basis.
31 December 2008 versus 1.362 at 31 December 2007, thus increasing the carrying value of SIGs net investments in its Euro denominated businesses.
There is a risk that funding will not be made available to the Group or that the cost of accessing and servicing the funding may be prohibitive.
The underwritten dEbT COVENANTS placing and open offer and firm placing raises 325m of equity for the Group, SIGs debt facilities provided by its private placement note holders and its reduces the Groups indebtedness and increases the Groups ability to raise and three relationship banks in the UK contain covenants.
The key covenants are service appropriate debt funding.
leverage and interest cover and are tested at 30 June and 31 December each year.
The leverage covenant is a requirement to maintain a ratio of net debt As at 31 December 2008, SIG had undrawn UK committed borrowing facilities to Annualised EBITDA of less than 3.5 times.
The interest cover covenant is from its debt providers of 79.6m 2007: 96.2m.
a requirement to maintain a ratio of previous twelve-month underlying operating profit to underlying net finance costs excluding pension scheme finance income The year end maturity profile and value of undrawn committed borrowing and costs of greater than 3.0 times.
facilities are set out in Note 19 to the Accounts on pages 95 to 97.
SIG must manage its business and its capital structure so that it meets its debt FOREIGN CURRENCY RISk covenants, thus ensuring it can meet its liabilities as they fall due.
SIG has a number of overseas businesses whose revenues and costs are denominated in the currencies in which the operations are located.
49% of SIGs GAINS ANd LOSSES ON dERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUmENTS 2008 revenues were in foreign currencies, being primarily Euros, Polish Zloty, The Group has a number of treasury hedging arrangements that attempt to Czech Koruna, Slovak Koruna and Hungarian Forint.
The vast majority of SIGs eliminate foreign exchange, interest rate and associated tax risks under the terms sales and purchases are not cross-border.
When cross-border transactions occur of SIGs Treasury Policy.
Where these hedges are deemed imperfect or where it is SIGs policy to eliminate currency exposure at that time through forward exceptional gains and losses arise, then these are included within Other items currency contracts, if the exposure is considered to be material.
in the middle column of the Consolidated Income Statement.
Further details are set out on in the Finance costs section on page 17.
SIG faces a translation risk in respect of the local currencies of its primary foreign operations, being Euro, Polish Zloty, Czech Koruna and Hungarian Forint profits.
From 1 January 2009 SIG is no longer exposed to the Slovak Koruna as Slovakia has converted its national currency to the Euro.
SIG also faces a translation risk from the US Dollar in respect of its private placement borrowings.
The Consolidated Balance Sheet of the Group is inherently at risk from movements in the Sterling value of its net investments in foreign businesses and the Sterling value of its foreign currency net debt.
24 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS FOCUS, SPECIALISATION AND SERVICE OTHER MATTERS In forming their conclusions over the adoption of the going concern basis, SHAREHOLDER RETURN the Directors have considered the possibility of the relevant resolutions at the SIG has delivered a 10.9% return on capital employed 2007: 15.2%, which Extraordinary General Meeting not being approved and on the basis of the compares favourably to SIGs estimated weighted average cost of capital of 5.4% available evidence have considered this possibility to be remote.
The reduction in the return on capital employed compared to the prior year primarily reflects the reduced operating profits in the UK and Ireland Having considered all the factors above impacting the Groups businesses, in light of the challenging trading environment.
The reduced weighted average including downside sensitivities, the Directors are satisfied that the Group will cost of capital reflects a lower ten year UK gilt yield, together with the fact that be able to operate within the terms and conditions of the Group financing debt, being cheaper than the cost of equity, now funds a bigger proportion of facilities for the foreseeable future.
The Group has 50.0m of banking facilities SIGs total capital employed than it did twelve months ago.
expiring in June 2009 and 28.8m expiring in July 2009, with a further 184.1m of facilities expiring between May and July 2010.
SIG is mindful of this reduction in return and is confident that the restructuring actions it has taken and its ongoing actions will enable it to increase return on The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group capital when building and construction activity upturns.
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing As at 13 March 2009, SIGs share price closed at 1.175 per share, representing the Groups 2008 Accounts.
a market capitalisation of 160m at that date.
The total dividend for the year of 8.3p 2007: 26.7p provides Shareholders with a yield on this date of 7.1%.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT SIG monitors relative Total Shareholder Return TSR for assessing relative This Business Review has been prepared to provide the Companys Shareholders financial performance.
As at 31 December 2008 the Companys share price was with a fair review of the business of the Group and a description of the principal 1.785 per share.
When dividends are included this gives a TSR loss of 36% over risks and uncertainties facing it.
It may not be relied upon by anyone, including a fiveyear performance period.
A performance graph has been included on page 56 the Companys Shareholders, for any other purpose.
where the Groups TSR is compared with the FTSE Support Services Index which produced a TSR of 2% over the same fiveyear period.
This Business Review and other sections of this Report contain forward looking statements that are subject to risk factors including the economic and business GOING CONCERN BASIS circumstances occurring from time to time in countries and markets in which In determining whether the Groups 2008 Accounts can be prepared on a the Group operates and risk factors associated with the building and construction going concern basis, the Directors considered all factors likely to affect its future sectors.
By their nature, forward looking statements involve a number of risks, development, performance and its financial position, including cash flows, liquidity uncertainties and future assumptions because they relate to events and or depend position and borrowing facilities and the risks and uncertainties relating to its on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and could cause actual business activities.
These are set out in the Chairmans Statement and Business results and outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by Review on pages 4 to 25 and in the Notes to the Group Accounts.
No assurance can be given that the forward looking statements in this Business Review will be realised.
Statements about The key factors considered by the Directors were as follows: the Directors expectations, beliefs, hopes, plans, intentions and strategies are inherently subject to change and they are based on expectations and assumptions the implications of the challenging economic environment and weakening as to future events, circumstances and other factors which are in some cases levels of market demand in the building and construction markets on the outside the Companys control.
Actual results could differ materially from the Groups revenues and profits.
The Group prepares forecasts and projections Companys current expectations.
of revenues, profits and cash flows on a regular basis.
Whilst this is essential for targeting performance and identifying areas of focus for management It is believed that the expectations set out in these forward looking statements to improve performance and mitigate the possible adverse impact of are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which a deteriorating economic outlook, these also provide projections of could cause actual results or trends to differ materially, including but not limited to, working capital requirements: changes in risks associated with the level of market demand, fluctuations in product pricing and changes in exchange and interest rates.
the impact of the competitive environment within which the Groups businesses operate: The forward looking statements should be read in particular in the context of the specific risk factors for the Company identified on pages 22 to 24 of the availability and market prices of the goods that the Group sells: this Business Review.
The Companys Shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward looking statements.
This Business Review has not the credit risk associated with the Groups trade receivable balances: been audited or otherwise independently verified.
The information contained in this Business Review has been prepared on the basis of the knowledge and the potential actions that could be taken in the event that revenues are worse information available to Directors at the date of its preparation and the Company than expected, to ensure that operating profit and cash flows are protected: and does not undertake any obligation to update or revise this Business Review during the financial year ahead.
the committed finance facilities available to the Group.
The Group has access to a variety of bilateral banking facilities to meet daytoday working capital requirements, which at the year end had undrawn facilities of 79.6m.
At the Extraordinary General Meeting on 9 April 2009, agreement is to be sought from Shareholders to raise 325m net of expenses under a proposed placing and open offer and firm placing.
This will significantly reduce the possibility that the CHRIS DAVIES GARETH DAVIES Group has to renegotiate any banking facilities in the next twelve months.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE FINANCE DIRECTOR SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 25
