16 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Business review: John Crane Markets John Crane is a world-leading provider John Crane sustains the effective operation of customers rotating of products and services for the major equipment and other machinery with products that include mechanical process industries, these include the seals, seal support systems, engineered bearings, power transmission oil and gas, chemical, pharmaceutical, pulp and paper, and mining sectors.
couplings and specialist filtration systems.
John Crane also helps maintain oil and gas productivity through the provision of down-hole We help to enhance customer productivity by providing advanced pumping hardware.
All this technology is supported by a global sales technology mechanical products and service network that provides performance enhancing services.
backed by an exceptional global service Using expertise developed from decades of experience, service teams in network.
more than 50 countries maintain and support customer assets Employees 6,400 throughout their economic lifetime.
Principal operating regions John Crane is experiencing strong demand for its products and services, Paul Cox John Crane is a global business with particularly in the oil, gas and petrochemical sector, which is its largest President a presence in more than 50 countries.
John Cranes robust business model stems largely from the Customers aftermarket, which represents two-thirds of revenue.
At this stage in the John Crane serves oil & gas companies, refineries, pump and Contribution to 2008 Group sales# capital investment cycle, the growth is in the sale of original equipment compressor manufacturers, chemical 27% for new production facilities.
This will provide aftermarket opportunities and other process industries.
Its main Contribution to 2008 Group headline in the future, which are expected to generate attractive margins.
Global customers include BP, Chevron, China operating profit# Petroleum, ConocoPhillips, capital spending in the energy sector is projected to continue growing in 25% ExxonMobil, Gazprom, Qatargas, Saudi the long term in response to increasing energy demand.
Aramco, Shell, Total, Dresser, Elliot, Competitors Flowserve, GE Nuovo Pignone, ITT, For rotating technologies in oil & gas, John Crane already has a global presence, with local service centres in Mitsubishi, Siemens, Solar Turbines, John Cranes main competitors are, more than 50 countries and hardware installed throughout the supply Sulzer, York, BASF, Bayer, Dow, Koch Flowserve and EagleBurgmann Industries and Lyondell.
chain: for example, liquefied natural gas LNG produced in Qatar and Industries mechanical seals, #Based on revised operating structure for 2008 09 Kingsbury, Osborne Engineering & ultimately drawn from the UK gas grid by consumers will have passed see page 72 Waukesha engineered bearings, Pall, through John Crane seals and other technology at every point in its Percentage relates to headline operating profit Hydac and Boll filtration systems, before corporate costs journey.
It is building on this platform in two ways.
Thomas, Turboflex and Kopflex couplings.
For equipment in First, it is increasing its technological footprint by adding new product upstream energy John Cranes principal competitors include lines.
These products typically also have a similar customer profile and Weatherford, Norris, UPCO, Cameron have strong aftermarkets.
Second, there are approximately 850,000 wells around the world and many of these require oil and gas reserves to be brought to the surface Sales by sector % using artificial lift.
John Crane is broadening into upstream energy 4 services which address a segment of this 700m per annum market and leverage John Cranes strong global service and support 51 23 infrastructure.
Over the past 12 months there have been significant developments in both these areas.
The markets for these products are experiencing Petrochemical significant growth resulting from the increasing consumption of oil.
This Chem Pharma 6 growth is coming in both International and Domestic markets.
In Commercial & refrigeration addition, we are also experiencing strong growth in the gas markets, as Industrial, pulp and paper, mining artificial lift systems are being used to fide-water gas wells.
17 Other energy Sales performance m 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 17 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Performance John Crane invested 2.4m Helping ensure the 2008 2007 Reported Underlying in a world-leading high m m growth growth worlds oil and gas pressure seal testing facility Sales 626 532 18% 8% at its manufacturing site in keeps flowing Headline operating profit 96 75 27% 12% Slough, UK.
One of the most Headline operating margin 15.3% 14.1% advanced of its kind in the Statutory operating profit 39 1 world, the facility can test high specification mechanical seals John Crane grew reported sales by 18% and headline operating profit by under near-field conditions at 27%.
Sales benefited from currency translation 20m and from pressures of up to 800 bar.
acquisitions 30m giving underlying sales growth of 8%.
Similarly, Using a new remote web-link headline operating profit benefited from currency translation 4m and the facility enables customers from acquisitions 7m leaving an underlying growth rate of 12%.
to witness their seals being Margins increased by 120 basis points to 15.3%.
This strong growth has tested in real-time from been driven by high levels of investment by the petrochemical industry, wherever they are in the world.
reflecting the strong global demand for oil and gas.
The facility is also being used by The growth in the petrochemical sector has increased original the John Crane R&D team to equipment orders to record levels.
To help meet these requirements help develop new technologies, John Crane has invested over 5m worldwide to increase manufacturing such as high-pressure seals capacity by over 20%.
that are increasingly requested The provision of maintenance and repair services to customers through by customers.
the aftermarket represents two-thirds of John Cranes sales.
The sale of original equipment for new production facilities creates subsequent aftermarket service opportunities that are delivered via John Cranes network of service centres, and the business has continued to build its global service base.
Local service centres are now sited in 52 countries worldwide.
This capability allows us to provide a range of added value services including repair, root cause analysis, alignment and condition monitoring, all designed to improve the performance of our customers rotating equipment and reduce downtime.
Current developments are focused on key growth markets.
For example, in Saudi Arabia, we have a new service centre in Jubail and are building a new service, sales, training and manufacturing facility in Dammam.
The Dammam facility features an upgraded gas seals test capability and adds significant service capacity in an area where extensive investment is planned by the petrochemical industry over the next 10 years.
Production capacity has been increased by the creation of a new 5,600 square metre, 60 person manufacturing facility in Mexico.
This factory provides machining of seal parts, seal welding and assembly in support of the markets throughout the Americas.
The increased capacity takes advantage of the low cost base and availability of skilled machinists in the Mexico City area, and is well positioned for future expansion.
Another growth opportunity is China where we expect to complete a new facility in Tianjin by the end of 2009.
This will support further growth and enable the relocation and consolidation of two existing businesses to a single site.
This new facility will accommodate sophisticated manufacturing including assembly, testing and enhanced product development, as well as providing a sales and service centre for the vast domestic Chinese market.
Major oil companies are making significant investments to develop the Canadian oil sands in northern Alberta and Saskatchewan, where the oil reserves are thought to equal those of Saudi Arabia.
John Crane continues to add manufacturing capacity and support capabilities throughout its Canadian operations, particularly in Edmonton, to service the construction and maintenance of the refineries that bring this oil to market.
18 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Business review: John Crane continued Business developments Outlook Our customers are increasingly demanding larger and higher pressure Looking ahead, sustained growth in demand for oil and gas is likely to gas seals so we have invested in dry gas seal facilities in Slough, UK and continue to drive investment by petrochemical companies and original Morton Grove, USA to support our customers objectives.
At the same equipment manufacturers into new technology and facilities.
The time one of the worlds most advanced high-pressure test rigs has come addition of adjacent technologies to the portfolio will also support onstream.
In pursuit of its policy to increase its technological footprint, John Crane Investment in equipment for new facilities not only provides short term completed a number of bolt-on acquisitions.
The acquisition of Sartorius growth, but provides the foundation for long term aftermarket business.
Bearing Technology in November 2007 expands John Cranes offering With over 60% of our business derived from the aftermarket, and new into the area of rotating bearings for turbo machinery, while the equipment having an installed life of over 30 years, we are well placed acquisition of Indufil in March 2008 adds specialist filtration systems.
for continued growth in this area.
The bearing business is a leading provider of engineered bearings for high performance rotating equipment for the oil and gas industry based in Goettingen, Germany.
The acquisition cost of 13m was satisfied in cash.
Indufil was acquired for 71m and had sales of 25m in the financial year ending 31 December 2007.
It designs and manufactures filtration systems for rotating equipment in the oil and gas, chemical and power sectors.
Both businesses serve similar customers to John Crane with a strong aftermarket for their products, a combination which fits well with John Cranes business model.
The acquisition of CDI Energy Services in March 2007 expanded John Cranes upstream energy services capability.
This was boosted in December 2007 with the acquisition of FiberComposite Company Inc Fiberod for 46m.
In calendar year 2007, Fiberod reported sales of 12m.
It is the worlds leading manufacturer of fibreglass sucker rods, complementing the CDI service offering.
As a sign of our solid commitment to both the Japanese and the wider Asia Pacific markets, in December 2007 we increased our shareholding in John Crane Japan, a venture with Starlite Co Limited, to become the majority shareholder.
The increased shareholding and operational control gives John Crane a greater presence in what is the second largest market after the United States.
Our new majority shareholding will help us accelerate the levels of growth and investment in new technologies which we are able to make in Japan The implementation of a new ERP system is underway across Europe with 10 markets now successfully online.
The project will be rolled out across Europe and then into the Middle East and Asia.
Investment to date has been 17m out of a total project cost of 22.5m.
The project is due for completion in June 2010 after which it should generate annual cost savings of 9.5m.
During the second half, we began a restructuring programme to create a global John Crane business by merging the two existing regional businesses.
Through the creation of a global operations platform, we can provide better capacity and rapid delivery of products and services.
We will also improve our service centre support capabilities and provide distributed global account management teams for greater co-ordination around the world.
Going forward, the product line will be managed globally which will enhance service delivery to customers.
The project is expected to cost 24m and deliver annual savings of 26m once complete.
This initiative comes at a time when John Crane is strong and performing well, an ideal time to build for greater success.
