22 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Business review: Smiths Interconnect Markets Smiths Interconnect is an electronic The two largest markets for Smiths Interconnect are defence and components and sub-systems wireless telecommunications.
business providing signal, power and microwave solutions that are Typical military applications for Smiths Interconnect technology include application specific and incorporate unmanned aerial systems UAS, next-generation ground vehicles, innovative technologies to help our customers achieve ultimate communications systems, surveillance systems and self-protection system performance.
Its rugged connectors and radio frequency products are We design and manufacture deployed in the most extreme environments, such as keeping military specialised electronic and radio personnel and systems connected in areas of conflict.
frequency products that connect, protect and control critical systems In the evolving field of mobile telecommunications, Smiths Interconnect for the global wireless supplies niche microwave components used in the base stations and telecommunications, aerospace, Ralph Phillips defence, space and medical markets.
cell sites as well as protection solutions to safeguard the high value President infrastructure from the effects of lightning strikes and power surges and Employees 3,100 maintain network integrity.
Principal operating regions Contribution to 2008 Group sales# Other applications for Smiths Interconnect products include medical Smiths Interconnect operates globally 11% and has locations in the US, Mexico, equipment such as MRI scanners, space and satellites, commercial Costa Rica, Ireland, UK, France, Contribution to 2008 Group headline aerospace and mass transit.
Germany, Italy, Tunisia, India, China operating profit# and Australia.
13% Smiths Interconnect comprises four focused technology areas: Customers Competitors Connectors provides application-specific, high-reliability electrical Smiths Interconnect supplies to Smiths Interconnect operates in multiple levels of the supply chain and interconnect solutions from highly integrated assemblies to microa fragmented market with many its blue chip customers include primes small and medium-sized competitors.
and service providers, OEMs and In Connectors, the competitors include system suppliers, and sub-system Amphenol, Deutsch, Radiall and Microwave Components provides passive microwave products used manufacturers.
Microwave Components within the building blocks that generate, transmit, receive and process customers are Raytheon, competes with, amongst others, Finmeccanica, BAE Systems, high frequency signals for communication systems.
Anaren, Spectrum Control and AAI Textron, Northrop Grumman, parts of M A-Com and Dover.
Ericsson, Motorola, Sprint Nextel, ZTE, Microwave Sub-Systems provides microwave and millimetre-wave The competitors of Microwave GE Medical and Alstom.
Sub-Systems include Cobham, EMS sub-assemblies, antennas and systems solutions for both defence #Based on revised operating structure for 2008 09 Teledyne and L3.
Protection competes and commercial applications.
see page 72 with Huber & Suhner, Dehn and parts Percentage relates to headline operating profit of SL Industries.
Protection provides signal and power integrity components that protect before corporate costs high value electrical systems from surges caused by power spikes and Sales by sector % lightning strikes.
17 Performance Smiths Interconnect delivered strong underlying sales and profit growth.
49 Sales growth was driven primarily by three technology areas: Protection, 6 Microwave Sub-Systems and Connectors.
The performance of the Protection technology group was enhanced by Mil aero sales of lightning and surge protection solutions supplied to major US 4G wireless broadband providers for mobile internet access.
It benefited Wireless 28 from sales of protection solutions to medical and telecommunications Medical customers.
The division has also made key wins in the defence sector Other for protection of ground mobile communication systems.
Microwave Sub-Systems saw strong sales growth through several US military programmes including the three-frequency band data link Sales performance m MDAS which supports multiple unmanned aircraft systems.
Positions on three new satellite communications programmes for US forces were 300 also secured: one is a shipboard communications programme and the 250 other two are Satellite Communications On The Move SOTM programmes and Warfighter Information Network-Tactical WIN T, the 200 US army system for reliable, secure and seamless high bandwidth mobile communications in areas of conflict.
150 100 50 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 23 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 The Connector group delivered good sales growth but profit was held The advanced Mobile Keeping soldiers back by a slowdown in Italy.
Key wins were secured on several major Directional Antenna System defence programmes and our connectors were selected as the high connected and MDAS is a sophisticated, multireliability standard for future NASA space applications.
Major product band communication system orders were also received for medical MRI scanners, civil aerospace and protected in that facilitates communications rail traction.
extreme with Unmanned Aerial Vehicles The Microwave Components group delivered a small underlying UAVs.
Designed and built by environments increase in sales as a result of a lower than expected demand from Smiths Interconnect business Chinese and North American telecom operators.
However, we have Tecom Industries, MDAS is seen continued strong demand for filters used to combat improvised a rugged, portable antenna, explosive devices and other components for a variety of applications which is typically mounted including commercial satellite programmes.
Smiths Interconnect successfully expanded its global capacity, UAVs are commonly used particularly in lower manufacturing cost environments.
During the year in reconnaissance missions operations were opened in Tunisia and India while we continued to build to scout an area for threats our operating base in China, Mexico and Costa Rica.
Over the last year, when the environment is too the proportion of Smiths Interconnect products manufactured in low dangerous for it to be patrolled.
cost countries has more than doubled.
The MDAS system enables Business developments tracking and communications Over the course of the past six months Smiths Interconnect has acquired with multiple UAVs relaying real Shanghai-based Allrizon Tongguang and Brisbane-based Triasx Pty Ltd. time pictures and video to the These strengthen our position in the growing Asian market.
Allrizon soldier and command forces.
offers first-class technology, providing new channels to market and enhanced relationships with the rapidly growing Chinese telecoms manufacturers.
In the 2007 calendar year, Allrizon posted sales of 5.3m.
Triasx has in-depth knowledge of the telecommunications radio frequency market and an excellent R&D capability.
Its strong filter capabilities complement our existing products, particularly those from Allrizon, while the Triasx interference testing devices fit well with our existing Summitek test and measurement business.
In the year to 30 June 2008, Triasx reported sales of 12.5m.
Outlook There are good opportunities for Smiths Interconnect to grow organically particularly in developing markets and scope exists to improve the portfolio and extend its geographic reach through bolt-on acquisitions.
Military communications is anticipated to be an area of continued investment by governments and the further roll-out of wireless networks is expected with the highest growth in developing markets.
Smiths Interconnects markets remain robust and are set for continued growth.
