19 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Business review: Smiths Medical Markets Smiths Medical is a leading supplier Healthcare spending continues to increase worldwide, driven by of specialist medical devices and demographics aging populations and increasing prosperity, equipment for global markets.
The overall world market for devices and equipment In medication delivery, our devices of the type supplied by Smiths Medical is estimated to be worth 3.5 help to treat cancer patients, deliver billion and is growing consistently.
Smiths Medical has a global reach in insulin to diabetics and provide relief to those in pain.
Our vital care products the design, production and distribution of medical device products, with reduce hospital acquired infections, sales and marketing activities in over 100 countries.
Its product ranges manage patients airways before, serve three main markets medication delivery, vital care and safety.
during and after surgery, maintain body temperature and assist Medication delivery reproduction through IVF therapy.
Our safety products keep health workers Smiths Medical designs and manufactures drug delivery systems that safe by helping to prevent needlestick relieve acute and chronic pain CADD and Medfusion, chemotherapy Srini Seshadri injuries and reduce cross infections.
delivery systems to treat cancer patients CADD and patient-friendly President Employees pumps to deliver insulin to diabetics Cozmore.
The global market for 8,400 medication delivery products is estimated to be worth 1.5 billion and Principal operating regions Contribution to 2008 Group sales# growing at around 4-7% per annum.
This growth is due to the increase Manufacturing is concentrated 31% in Mexico, the US, the UK, Italy and in treatment of chronic conditions, integrating medication delivery Germany.
We sell to over 100 markets Contribution to 2008 Group headline devices with hospital IT systems, and the move to treating patients worldwide with the US being our operating profit# outside hospitals.
We are a leader in ambulatory infusion, with a strong largest single market with 49% 34% of sales.
position in hospital infusion particularly in the syringe pump market.
Competitors Customers The competitive landscape for Vital care We estimate that around threeMedical is complex as we compete Smiths Medicals products manage patient airways during and after quarters of our end customers are with different businesses across hospitals with the remainder surgery Portex, aid patients with breathing difficulties Portex, the wide range of product areas.
comprising the alternate care market Our competitors include Covidien, Pneupac, help to maintain body temperature Level 1, monitor vital such as home care, clinics and other Teleflex Arrow, B Braun, Becton signs such as blood pressure and heart rate BCI, Medex and assist surgery centres.
We have a direct sales Dickinson, Hospira, Cardinal Alaris, presence in 20 countries with reproduction through IVF therapy Wallace.
The market for vital care Vital Signs, Medtronic among many distribution arrangements in many others.
In many of these examples, products is showing annual growth of around 2-4%, partly due to a others.
we only compete with a small steady increase in the incidence of chronic respiratory diseases and #Based on revised operating structure for 2008 09 portion of their medical businesses see page 72 obesity.
Demand is increasing for single use devices such as Portex so comparison between peers Percentage relates to headline operating profit is complex.
The market is expected to continue before corporate costs growing as the number of operations and intensive care beds both increase.
This market is currently worth about 1.5 billion a year.
We are Sales by sector % a market leader in airway products.
Safety devices 23 Smiths Medical makes effective safety devices that prevent needlestick 36 injuries and reduce cross infections.
These cover a range of functions including drawing blood samples Jelco administering injections and vaccinations Jelco and delivering intravenous drugs Deltec.
The global market for safety products is estimated to be worth 500m and growing at 3-5% per annum.
Smiths Medical is one of the worlds leading Medication delivery suppliers of safety needles and catheters.
Vital care In the US, Smiths Medical is benefiting from the move towards treatment Safety devices 41 of illnesses in their chronic, rather than acute stages.
A number of airway management products and ambulatory pumps already address this trend such as the CADD ambulatory infusion pump range and the Portex Acapella respiratory therapy system and it is becoming a focus Sales performance m for our vital care products.
750 The advantages of using safety devices are well understood in the US, and there is now greater recognition of the contribution safety devices 600 make to improving the safety and productivity of healthcare employees.
In other geographic markets, conversion to safety products is in its 450 infancy, with opportunities for rapid future growth.
Safety products are also being introduced into other areas of healthcare, such as dentistry.
300 150 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 20 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Business review: Smiths Medical continued On a geographic basis, our largest market is the US which accounts for Performance 49% of sales, and has experienced a 2.6% fall in sales as a result of the 2008 2007 Reported Underlying m m growth growth supply chain disruption and product recall issues.
In Europe, sales have grown by 2.4%.
We have seen double digit growth, albeit from a low base, Sales 703 691 2% 0% in emerging markets served via our distributors, particularly in Latin Headline operating profit 128 127 0% 2% America, and Saudi Arabia.
Last years investment in new infrastructure Headline operating margin 18.2% 18.4% for Greater China contributed to a 30% growth in sales in that territory.
Statutory operating profit 106 106 In the US, a number of significant twoor three-year contracts were At reported exchange rates, Smiths Medicals sales grew 2% while agreed across the product portfolio during the period.
These include a headline operating profit remained in line with last year.
Excluding the three-year Group Purchasing Organisation GPO contract with Premier impact of currency translation, the underlying growth in profit was 2% Purchasing Partners, to supply PORT-A-CATH implantable access on flat sales.
Operating profit margins reduced slightly by 20 basis points.
systems to Premiers 1,700 hospitals and almost 50,000 other Performance has been severely affected by three product recalls and by healthcare sites across the US.
A new three-year agreement has also supply chain disruption caused by several long-term initiatives.
The been signed with MedAssets for five categories of anaesthesia products simultaneous relocation of manufacturing to lower cost regions, the and a contract has been secured with Amerinet, for respiratory products.
integration of the Medex acquisition, and the implementation of a new We secured major GPO contracts with HPG and Broadlane for syringe ERP system have all posed operational challenges over the past two pumps.
In addition, we signed a number of agreements from across the years.
These factors combined to disrupt deliveries which in turn have portfolio with Cardinal Health which includes a ground-breaking had an adverse impact on relationships with major customers.
A 24- initiative for the co-branding of Smiths EDGE safety needles.
Over the month performance improvement programme has begun and a new past year, these and other GPO contracts totalling $32m have been global operations team recruited to address these issues.
customer orders peaked in June 2007 but, as a result of the There is an ongoing focus on margin improvement through cost control performance improvement initiatives, have since fallen by 90% back to and efficiencies.
The manufacturing rationalisation programme has normal levels.
Our immediate priority is the rebuilding of relationships resulted in site closures at Hythe, UK: and Duluth, Georgia, USA.
Over with customers and the delivery of the performance improvement the past two years, the proportion of all employees working in low-cost programme.
countries has increased from 24% in July 2006 to 35%.
Of our direct While overall underlying sales growth was flat, Medication Delivery grew manufacturing employees, 62% are now working in Mexico, compared by 3.4% but was offset by declines in Vital Care of 1% and Safety Devices with 44% in July 2006. of 2.9%.
The implementation of an ERP system was restarted in June 2008 after Medication Delivery benefited from good growth in its infusion product a period of stabilisation since the project was halted in 2007.
The Benelux range, particularly outside the US.
Its performance in the US was held markets successfully went live in August 2008 such that more than 50% back temporarily ahead of the launch of CADD Solis which began in of global sites are now operating on the new system.
The project, due for April.
The access franchise, which includes some new product launches completion in March 2010, will improve the quality of management such as POWER ports and Gripper Micro, grew well.
Cozmore, which information and support inventory reductions, global sourcing and serves the diabetes market, delivered strong growth outside the US but deliver savings.
The total budget is 32m, of which 18m has been spent sales were held back in the US by a product recall caused by a faulty to date.
Once complete, the project is expected to deliver annual cost motor from a supplier.
The pain management franchise grew well saving of 15m.
outside the US but supply chain problems and restructuring in the US Business developments constrained overall growth.
We have announced a restructuring programme that will merge the two Vital Cares performance was affected by supply chain disruption and by existing operational units in the US.
This will create a more efficient a product recall in temperature management.
The airway franchise organisational structure and a single route to market, giving a more grew well in spite of supply chain problems and the assisted coherent customer-facing organisation.
The project is expected to cost reproduction area also delivered strong growth reflecting the growing 4m and, once complete, generate annualised savings of 2m.
However, these performances were offset by declines in temperature management, caused by a product recall and aggressive competitor pricing: and declines in pressure monitoring caused by supply chain disruption.
The performance of Safety Devices was affected by declines in our peripheral intravenous catheter franchise.
These declines were caused largely by disruption to production schedules as a result of a problem with resin from a supplier.
The problem was quickly identified and no faulty products entered the supply chain, but supplies to our customers were interrupted.
Sales of safety needles also fell within the US market but saw growth outside the US.
The decline in US sales was caused by the conclusion of some large OEM contracts during the year.
21 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Research and development Total R&D investment has risen by 6%, and as a proportion of sales has increased from 3.5% to 3.7%.
Looking forward, we expect this commitment to increase further.
We are now focusing our investment more tightly on product areas and segments which will deliver higher growth.
For example, the largest increase benefited Medication Delivery where our R&D investment in infusion pumps is typically much higher at around 7% of sales.
In contrast, our R&D investment in Safety remained constant at 1.5% of sales which is in line with many of competitors.
However, we have invested in automated machinery to drive capacity.
In summary, we have increased the number of new product launches by about 50% in the current year.
We have increased the rate of product launches with an improved new product development process.
Over the past year, we have launched several new products.
CADD-Solis, a next generation ambulatory pump system, replaces a 10 year old platform and features error detection software and data connectivity to hospital IT systems.
We also launched the Saf-T Closed Blood Collection System Devices, the duallumen implantable access systems P. A. S. PORT T2 POWER P. A. C. and PORT-A-CATH II POWER P. A.
C, the Theraheat heated humidification system and the GRIPPER Micro Safety Needle.
A full range of EDGE safety needles was also launched, together with the latest closed blood sampling product, Hemodraw, which is already winning market share in the US.
Since the year end, we have launched SmartX, a wireless blood pressure monitoring system: UniPerc, a tracheostomy tube for patients with large necks: SACETT, which helps Smiths Medicals revolutionary Revolutionising to reduce hospital acquired infections and two lower cost intubation CADD-Solis portable devices for the Chinese market.
portable medication delivery system eases patients pain enabling Outlook medication them to stay mobile whilst The key priority for Smiths Medical is to improve customer service and delivery undergoing treatment.
implement the performance improvement programme.
The division will CADD-Solis is a clinically focus on growth in developing markets and globally through the launch and technologically advanced of new products.
The performance improvement programme will system that administers pain support a return to sales growth in line with its end markets.
The focus relief medication, including in the short term will be on margin improvement through restructuring narcotics, to post-surgery, and operating efficiencies.
A planned review of portfolio profitability may trauma, cancer and labour lead to the rationalisation of certain product lines and a short term patients.
Its innovative safety impact on revenue growth.
software allows hospitals to input their own standardised pain management protocols for their patients, helping to prevent accidental overdoses.
CADD-Solis was developed in cooperation with expert clinicians and the University Health Network in Toronto.
