24 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Business review: Flex-Tek Markets Flex-Tek provides engineered Flex-Tek designs and manufactures engineered components which heat components that heat and move fluids and move fluids and gases for aerospace, consumer products and for the aerospace, medical, industrial, construction applications.
Its products include proprietary hose and construction and domestic markets.
tubing technology, engineered thermal systems and heating elements.
Our flexible hosing and rigid tubing is deployed on commercial aircraft Flex-Tek manufactures specialised high-performance tubing for the civil as well as in motorsport for fuel and and military aerospace industry and supplies most major aircraft and hydraulic applications.
In the home our technology can be found in domestic engine manufacturers.
Flex-Teks customers also include leading equipment including vacuum cleaners domestic appliance manufacturers and the US construction industry.
In and HVAC systems support.
addition, it supports specialised original equipment manufacturers Employees OEMs with a wide range of solutions for equipment used to treat sleep 2,400 disorders, semi-conductor manufacture, and temperature control in Tedd Smith Principal operating regions extrusion and large commercial heating and ventilation.
President Flex-Tek conducts a majority of business in the US but also has Demand is normally a function of overall economic growth, the air manufacturing in the UK, France, Malaysia, India, China and Mexico.
transport market, and the strength of the US construction industry.
Competitors Customers Smiths Tubular Systems Aerospace Flex-Tek goes to market via three distinct technology areas: Flex-Tek serves mainly domestic competitors include Parker-Hannifin appliance manufacturers and the and Eaton as well as outsourced Smiths Tubular Systems Aerospace US construction industry.
Its large capacity from its key customers.
Meeting the aircraft industrys need for rigid and flexible hydraulic and customers include Whirlpool, Trane, Flexible Solutions competes globally Pratt & Whitney, Carrier, Boeing, fuel hose, STS Aerospace delivers high performance airframe fluid with a number of smaller privately Electrolux, Respironics, GE Aerospace, owned businesses which manufacture management systems that are also deployed in the world of motorsport.
Airbus, Panasonic, Hoover and Dyson.
Heat Solutions #Based on revised operating structure for 2008 09 domestic appliance and specialty Flexible Solutions see page 72 heating element competitors include Focusing on flexible hose assemblies for a range of domestic appliance Percentage relates to headline operating profit Emerson, Watlow and Chromalox.
before corporate costs manufacturers, the Flexible Solutions group makes both high and low Whilst the construction related Contribution to 2008 Group sales# products competitors are comprised pressure hose assemblies for OEMs.
It also supplies ducting for 9% of Hitachi, Atco, Omega-Flex, purposes ranging from chemical transfer to grain handling.
Contribution to 2008 Group headline operating profit# Heat Solutions 6% Comprising specialised heating elements and thermal systems, HVAC ducting and gas delivery tubing, the Heat Solutions groups products serve customers that manufacture tumble dryers, HVAC equipment and specialized OEM customers described above.
Ducting and gas delivery Sales by sector % tubing is largely supplied to the construction industry via distributors.
Performance 21 26 Flex-Tek experienced declines in sales and profit as a result of the recession in the US residential construction markets and household appliances market.
However, these declines were offset in part by the 3 strong growth in sales of components and services to the aerospace Housing market and by the benefit from the acquisition of Fast Heat in January.
Appliances Smiths Tubular Systems Aerospace delivered strong growth in sales Aerospace and profit.
This technology group benefited from the high demand for 25 Medical 25 fluid distribution components and services for commercial and military General industry aircraft.
For example, Flex-Tek secured an $18m contract for the provision of flexible and rigid fuel and hydraulic hoses on the Boeing 787 Dreamliner.
Through a combination of price rises to offset raw material cost increases and a focus on cost management, we were able to Sales performance m improve margins.
300 Flexible Solutions experienced declines in sales and profit as a result of 250 continued pressure in the household appliance and general industrial sectors.
The domestic appliance market has fallen by some 6% over the 200 past year while the general industrial market is tied to GDP.
150 100 50 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 25 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 The Heat Solutions group supplies heating components for tumble dryers and HVAC ducting and related equipment to the US construction market, primarily to the residential sector.
The recession in the US construction market saw a 30% decline year-on-year in building permits and a 28% fall in housing starts.
Similarly, the US electric dryer appliance market declined by around 6%.
Against this background, sales and profit fell although the impact on profit was partly mitigated through careful cost management.
At the beginning of the year, the group completed a reorganisation and consolidation of manufacturing in Tennessee which has cut costs and improved customer service.
Business developments In January 2008, to extend Flex-Teks range of specialty heating solutions, Smiths acquired Fast Heat for $18m.
Now integrated into the Heat Solutions group, this business manufactures heating elements and controls used for plastic injection moulding and packaging equipment employed in the manufacture of medical products and semiconductors.
Flex-Tek is broadening its global footprint particularly in Asia, where its existing plant in Malaysia continues to expand.
Over the past year it has added new manufacturing facilities in Bangalore, India, the Clark Freeport Zone, Philippines, and Changzhou, China.
The facilities in India and Philippines are aimed at better serving its aerospace customers, following increased demand due to the growth of air traffic in Asia.
The facility in Changzhou is focused on the growing HVAC and household appliance market in China.
In the competitive world Racing ahead in As part of the Group restructuring, Flex-Tek has also announced a of motorsport, Flex-Teks programme to reorganise its operations to drive efficiency world motorsport advanced technology is helping improvements.
The programme will cost 5m in total and once complete the winning teams to achieve will deliver annualised savings of 7m.
FlexTeks highly specialised tubing, Outlook which provides fuel to engines Flex-Tek is facing continued uncertainty in the US residential and hydraulic control for construction and household appliance markets.
It will continue to landing gear and reverse rationalise its portfolio of sites and reduce costs in order to deliver future engine thrusters on aircraft value when these markets improve.
The growth opportunities in including the Boeing 787 aerospace and developing markets will also be a focus.
Dreamliner, is also deployed on the winning cars in high performance motorsport.
Our highly engineered components manufactured at our facility in Laconia, New Hampshire, USA, and Paris, France are designed for fuel and braking in these very demanding applications and are used by the major F1 and NASCAR teams.
