13 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Business review: Smiths Detection Markets Smiths Detection is a world leading Homeland security is a top priority in western countries, with 11% per designer and manufacturer of sensors annum market growth expected.
The worldwide market for Smiths that detect and identify explosives, Detection products and services is estimated to be worth 3.5 billion.
weapons, chemical agents, biohazards, narcotics and contraband.
Smiths Detections products serve the transportation, critical Our technology helps customers in infrastructure, ports and borders, military and emergency responder the global transportation, ports and borders, critical infrastructure, military markets.
The Group also adapts technology developed for these markets and emergency responder markets.
for carefully selected industrial applications in life sciences, food quality We have the most comprehensive and safety.
range of detection technologies in the world, including trace detection, The transportation sector, which includes airports, is the largest millimetre-wave, infra-red, biological detection and diagnostics.
The airport security market is expected Stephen Phipson Employees to grow in response to: President 2,300 projected growth in air traffic: Principal operating regions Our eight manufacturing centres new security threats: and are concentrated in North America, Contribution to 2008 Group sales# Germany, France and the UK.
We sell 22% customer pressure for faster throughput at checkpoints and an to over 100 markets around the world Contribution to 2008 Group headline either through a sales and marketing improved passenger experience.
operating profit# company or a third party distributor.
22% The critical infrastructure market is diversified with varying growth rates Customers Competitors in the different segments.
Smiths Detection focuses on three key areas: Our technology is deployed at nearly Data published by IMS Research 80% of the worlds commercial airports.
mass transit, sports and events and government and military facilities.
shows that, in the combined Some 85% of sales are influenced by Smiths Detection has a growing involvement in helping protect a number Transportation, Critical infrastructure more than 100 governments and their and Ports & Borders sectors, Smiths of important metro systems in both the US and Europe.
agencies, including homeland security Detection has a 29% market share, authorities, customs authorities, with GE Security 15.5%, L3 Security & The ports and borders market is a rapidly expanding sector driven by emergency responders and the military.
Detection Systems 12.5%, Rapiscan These include the US Department of government objectives of enhancing security screening and protecting Systems 8.5% and Nuctech 8% the Defense, US Transportation Security tax revenues.
Customers require mobile and fixed units capable of main competitors.
In the Military and Administration TSA, UK Ministry of Emergency responder markets not Defence, and airport operators such detecting explosives, weapons, radioactive materials, narcotics and included in this data, the main as BAA in the UK.
competitors are General Dynamics, #Based on revised operating structure for 2008 09 Bruker, Environics and Canberra.
see page 72 The military market for UK and US technology is restricted by export Percentage relates to headline operating profit The World Market for Explosives, Weapons & before corporate costs Contraband Detection Equipment 2007 Edition controls, and these two governments form a large part of the market which is characterised by tendering opportunities for large individual Sales by sector % contracts that typically run for several years.
Smiths Detection intends 8 to develop new business by expanding systems integration activity, offering improved functionality in protective shelters and introducing 11 new technologies through government funded partnerships.
38 The emergency responder market is smaller than the others, with US Transportation 5 sales accounting for more than 50% of global demand.
This market is Ports & borders characterised by more localised purchasing decisions and steadier Military growth.
15 Emergency responders A possible future market is with biological detection and its application Critical infrastructure to veterinary diagnostics.
Smiths Detections expertise in producing Non-security 23 rugged portable sensor equipment has enabled the development of a field-based device which can detect a range of animal infections such as foot-and-mouth and avian flu.
It could also be developed for clinical applications.
Sales performance m The markets served by Smiths Detection are particularly influenced by 600 specific events and the perception of the threat of terrorist activity or 500 other security issues.
This perception itself has been and is likely to remain variable.
400 300 200 100 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 14 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Business review: Smiths Detection continued In transportation, we have benefited from the introduction of a new Performance generation of airport checkpoint explosive detection systems.
Unlike 2008 2007 Reported Underlying m m growth growth conventional X-ray systems, this equipment captures multiple views of carry-on bags in a single sweep.
The system also includes powerful Sales 509 438 16% 12% software that helps the system operator detect potential threats and it Headline operating profit 86 79 9% 2% can easily be upgraded to meet future threats.
Smiths Detection has Headline operating margin 16.8% 18.0% won substantial contracts in the UK and US for this new equipment Statutory operating profit 85 65 which is helping airports to speed up passenger security checks.
To support future demand, a new 4,000 square metre high-tech production Reported sales grew by 16% and headline operating profit increased by plant was completed in Wiesbaden, Germany, in July.
Currency translation benefited sales by 17m and headline Wiesbaden produced a record 5,000 X-ray scanning units during operating profit by 5m.
On an underlying basis, excluding the impact of the year.
currency translation, sales grew by 12% and headline operating profit increased by 2%.
The key drivers of growth were contract wins for airport Our results also benefited from strong demand in the ports and borders checkpoint explosive detection systems, for cargo screening systems segment for advanced, high-energy cargo screening solutions to inspect and for JCAD, the advanced chemical point detector.
Headline operating inbound and outbound shipping containers and trucks.
Deliveries to the margin declined from 18.0% to 16.8% reflecting the impact of currency Russian authorities from the St Petersburg facility were completed in transaction and the timing and mix of new contracts compared to last December, while a major order from US Customs and Border Protection year.
We also incurred additional costs associated with the scaling-up of is now being fulfilled.
our manufacturing to meet the strong customer demand for new In the military segment, the recently developed JCAD programme has products.
The year-on-year impact of adverse currency transaction begun to roll-out with further orders received from the US Department amounted to some 9m which, if excluded, would give an underlying of Defense.
Orders totalling $52.3m were received during the year.
The operating profit margin of 18%.
JCAD is an advanced chemical point detector designed to help safeguard The year had a very strong start with underlying sales growth of 21% troops by automatically detecting, identifying and quantifying both compared with 6% in the second half.
This is a result of winning some chemical warfare agents and toxic industrial chemicals.
We have begun particularly large contracts in the first half of the year and some delays to expand production in the US with an extension of our facility at to contracts at the year end.
It demonstrates the increasingly volatile Edgewood.
Construction began in 2008 and is expected to be completed nature of the order flow of this government contracting business.
In by January 2009. addition, the strong growth in Detection, coupled with the increasing size The implementation of a new ERP system began during the second half and changing payment terms of the new contracts, has raised its following 18 months of planning and preparation.
This single system will working capital requirements.
replace 14 legacy business software systems and provide a common information platform to support data-driven decision making.
Nine sites in the military and emergency responder area went live with the new system in May 2008.
The project is expected to conclude by the end of calendar year 2009.
Investment to date has been 15m, with a total budget of 22m.
We anticipate that once complete the project will generate efficiencies in working capital of 11m and annual cost savings of 8m.
15 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Research and development Smiths leadership in the sector is maintained by ongoing product innovation developed by in-house R&D, government-funded research and through partnerships and licences.
Company-funded R&D increased by 10% to some 29m or 5.6% of sales 2007: 5.9% of sales.
This includes 8m of capitalised projects.
Smiths Detection actively seeks customer and government support for R&D which totalled 9m in the period 2007: 7m.
Total R&D spend was 38m 2007: 33m or 7% of sales.
Key R&D projects X-ray screening continues to be a focus for our investment.
This has supported the development of a new generation of cargo screening which will be launched in the coming year.
We have also continued to invest in the development of our airport checkpoint explosive detection systems particularly to address new threats.
We have continued to invest heavily in chemical and trace detection.
In September 2008, we launched two new handheld detectors for the military and emergency responder markets.
High-Performance Radioisotope Identifier HPRID is our first portable handheld radiation detector which can be used for highly enriched uranium, plutonium and other radioactive substances.
We also launched the Multi-Mode Threat Detector MMTD, a portable device that detects a range of explosives including the materials most commonly used in homemade bombs.
Smiths Detection is developing technology that detects weapons, explosives and other potentially dangerous items concealed under layers Our investment in R&D New technology of clothing without physical contact.
The new system is based on continues to drive advances patented millimetre-wave technology and creates video images that enhances cargo in cargo screening.
The HCV reveal a far wider range of concealed weapons and hazards than is series of high-energy screening scanning possible with traditional people screening technologies.
With trials and equipment identifies both testing underway, the system will offer a fast and efficient way of contraband and security scanning people as they enter airport checkpoints, high profile buildings hazards hidden in trucks and or other facilities that require protection.
The HCV Passthru, recently sold in the US, features Diagnostics has also been an area of focus with the development of a advanced high throughput portable biological detection system that enables veterinarians to carry technology which can scan out on-site diagnosis of animal diseases such as foot-and-mouth and 200 trucks per hour, enabling avian flu.
The technology is now being developed for clinical applications customers to implement 100% such as the detection and identification of MRSA, sepsis or other medical cargo screening processes.
The new Datasets Management Outlook System DMS enables customs Looking ahead, the sector is set for continued growth and Smiths officers to analyse images and Detection should benefit from its leadership position and the roll-out of information taken at the new technologies.
We are well-positioned for future growth although containers departure point the increasing size of contracts coupled with the irregular timing of remotely, allowing them to clear government contracting particularly where there are elections may the container before its arrival cause variability in the pattern of contract wins and working capital in the destination country.
requirements from period to period.
