10 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Business review Our strategy of concentrating on our two business segments, investing for growth and improving our customer value proposition has led to another year of good organic sales growth in 2008.
This sales growth came from all geographic regions, helped further by the acquisition of Flexicon and favourable exchange rate movements.
We have implemented a number of strategic selling initiatives over the past several years and have gained good traction in the marketplace for these products and services.
Clearly market conditions will be challenging for the near-term, but despite these headwinds, there remains good long-term growth potential for both the Spirax-Sarco steam business and Watson-Marlow.
We will continue to make the necessary investments in new product development, people development, geographic expansion and complementary acquisitions to generate continued profitable growth.
M. E. Vernon, Chief Executive Market overview The Company serves a very broad range of industries and this is one of the reasons the Group has a generally resilient business model.
We maintain large positions in foods, beverages and brewing, oil refining, pharmaceuticals and fine chemicals process industries.
We also maintain a large position in hospitals and commercial buildings in supplying products for sterilisation, space heating, hot water generation and laundering.
However, no single industry represents more than 10% of sales, and no single customer accounts for more than 1% of sales in a word, our industry base is well spread.
"Beverages and Oil re ning and Foods Pharmaceuticals Public buildings brewing petrochemical "" no single industry is greater than 10% of sales... Rubber and Pulp and Hospitals and Bulk fine Dairies Biotechnologies Textiles plastics paper clinics chemicals... and no single customer greater than 1%. """
Electronics and Sugar Mining and metal Ship building Printing Water treatment semiconductors processing processing At a glance Chairman's statement Business review Board of Directors Directors' report Financial statements Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 11 Business drivers - creating growth Our business is well spread geographically across the The Groups prime financial objective is to provide product range and over a diverse range of industries.
The enhanced value to shareholders through consistent following factors all have an influence on the underlying growth in earnings per share and dividends per share.
The Spirax Sarco and Watson-Marlow businesses are anchored on the philosophy of understanding the detail Global economic growth of the customers processes and being able to apply the Industrial production and investment products, and to design pre-packaged solutions, in order Capacity utilisation to give process efficiency, energy saving or regulatory compliance benefits.
We are clear that by investing in sales Energy costs and marketing resources, in new product development, Regulatory legislation e. g. emissions, hygienic standards, in improving manufacturing efficiencies, in training our plant safety people and in acquisitions, we expect to continue to grow Customer outsourcing design and maintenance sales, profits and dividends in the long term.
Technology changes People Expanded peristaltic pump applications We create customer value through the application of our Capital projects knowledge and through understanding the challenges facing the customer.
Strategy Consequently, we are committed to our people, with The Group remains focused on the development of its training and development being a major element of our two market-leading businesses.
The Spirax Sarco steam success.
Staff and our customers are exposed to our business aims to be the steam users first choice provider training and development tools worldwide - we have of a broad range of products, engineered packages 38 training centres around the world and extensive and services for the effective use and control of steam technical training material available on our websites.
Watson-Marlow aims to 'Skilled and Motivated People' is one of our recently strengthen its position as the worlds leading manufacturer redefined key strategic goals.
Already, this has led to of innovative peristaltic pumping solutions by providing investment such as a greater human resources capability customers with problem-solving knowledge and superior being employed to raise our people management and value for life.
The position of our two businesses as world development skills, through to an occupational health leaders is founded on our long-held strategy of investing company being contracted to operate on our Cheltenham for growth both organically and by complementary sites.
There is more we can and will do to continuously acquisitions.
Both the Spirax Sarco and Watson-Marlow improve in this key area.
businesses supply a very broad base of customers in a wide range of industries and concentrate on assisting customers achieve process efficiency and energy savings through our highly trained technical sales forces.
Case study: Spain Service and design capabilities lead to increased investment Delta Compresion S. r. l. who manufacture compression systems for refuelling stations, wanted solutions for the automation of their equipment.
Our know-how in gas applications found solutions using our range of standard products.
We also developed and designed new products speci cally for their needs and to meet changing requirements as the business expanded.
We worked very closely with them to create the right solution for their business, including producing ball valves for high pressure and high temperature gas applications.
The trust in our knowledge, pre and post-service and the performance of our products, met the requirements of Delta Compresion and has contributed to Delta being seen as one of the most reliable suppliers and largest manufacturers of compressed natural gas.
12 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Trends Current environment The industrial and commercial steam-using market We achieved record sales and profits in 2008.
Conditions is highly fragmented and, although Spirax Sarco is in our markets were generally favourable around the the market leader, we still have significant growth world but deteriorated as the year progressed.
Additionally, we are widening our range weakened during 2008, particularly in the latter months, of products, engineered packages and site services against nearly all currencies, although it was stronger that enables us to expand our market potential.
Our against the Korean won and South African rand, and we technically expert direct sales force also allows us to benefited from both translation and net transaction gains.
leverage our brands into new products and applications.
Like other industrial businesses, we are concerned This increases the amount of plant spend that we can about the abrupt decline in world economic activity capture in small-scale capital projects and maintenance and industrial production and remain vigilant as to its activities which are at the heart of our business.
During impact on our markets.
Whilst conditions vary from the year, we increased the number of trained sales market to market, taken as a whole we have seen a and service engineers across the world, allowing us to weakening in demand starting late summer across generate revenue growth from our range of products, virtually all geographic regions, although, as expected, engineered packages and services that incorporate we have seen more difficult conditions in North America our specialist technical expertise and our assurance and Europe.
Early in the year oil prices were very high of performance.
There remains good growth potential, which resulted in increased customer interest in energy whether in the emerging economies of Asia and South saving investments.
Although todays much lower price America or in the large and more mature markets of of oil is dampening some of this demand, we see our Western Europe and North America, as we apply tailored energy saving initiatives and, perhaps more importantly, market development strategies.
the companion emissions reductions that are achieved Our Watson-Marlow business is the world leader in through improved system efficiency continuing to be of value to our customers.
providing and applying peristaltic pumps for industrial use.
One of our major tasks is to educate customers We are planning for tough market conditions in 2009 about the intrinsic advantages of peristaltic pumps and are taking sensible steps to address an uncertain so that they will increasingly be used to solve difficult demand outlook.
As part of our cost containment efforts pumping problems.
The product range is being we are reducing our global workforce and are taking an progressively widened and developed, making use of expected pre-tax charge of around 7 million in 2009 to improved electronics and materials to broaden the cover severance costs.
We expect annualised benefits addressable market by taking business from other pump of approximately 8 million, over half of which we types.
All these factors make peristaltics one of the anticipate to be realised in 2009, largely in the second fastest growing sectors of the global pumping market.
half, and to be fully realised in 2010.
The business model As we widen the possible applications for our pumps, and strong technical selling approach has historically so we are seeing increasing opportunities, including enabled the Group to be resilient through the cycles.
hygienic applications in pharmaceuticals, biotechnology However, given the nature of the current environment, and the food industries.
The acquisition of Flexicon A S we are taking stronger actions as a prudent precaution.
in Denmark in February 2008, augmented our presence These cost containment steps will allow us to continue in the important pharmaceutical and biotechnology to make other necessary investments in new product markets, and expanded our ability to deliver a wider range development and geographic expansion for the of filling solutions.
long-term growth of our business.
At a glance Chairman's statement Business review Board of Directors Directors' report Financial statements Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 13 Major developments During 2008, we increased our investments in research and development and reorganised our main product development group in Cheltenham to generate a stronger flow of new products and shorten the time to market.
We have also increased our investments in new product development at Watson-Marlow.
We have a number of exciting new product development programmes underway in both the steam business and Watson-Marlow.
In December 2008 we purchased, for 3 million, a five-acre site and industrial buildings adjacent to our Mark Vernon, CEO of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc recieves the keys from main factory in Cheltenham.
We are in the process of Mike Hawtin, Managing Director of ADC Krone.
starting to consolidate our other two factory sites in Cheltenham onto the new site.
Refurbishment of the existing buildings and some new construction, followed by a progressive relocation of production, are expected to be completed within 18 months and yield annual cost savings in excess of 1 million.
The two vacated sites will then be sold.
Capital expenditure in 2009 is again expected to be high at around 40 million, due in particular to the investments in China, Falmouth and Cheltenham.
The favourable movements in exchange rates, if maintained, will also contribute to higher values of capital investment on translation into sterling.
During the year, we made three small acquisitions in support of our long-term growth strategies and added people into our direct selling organisation to support further geographic expansion in developing markets.
The 'ADC Krone' site directly opposite our existing Runnings Road site Environmental strategy The Group recognises its high level of responsibility to the environment.
Clearly, our own decisions and actions have an environmental impact and, like most companies, we are taking steps to both measure and manage this, with the goal of reducing it.
However, the solutions we provide to the many industries we serve most often help them to reduce their energy consumption per unit of manufacture, meaning we can significantly influence the environmental impact of our customers too.
Consequently, our environmental strategy is centred around a promise to: Provide Real Opportunities to Manage, Improve and Sustain our Environment.
This applies to our own processes and actions to ensure we are making best use of all resources to reduce unnecessary waste, whilst maintaining a broad range of quality and environmentally friendly products, services and solutions.
Importantly, it is also about us providing solutions to industry to improve their processes through our global network of outstanding local people and suppliers.
This is more than words: we have 80 years of experience in saving our customers energy and water, thus making us well placed to understand the environmental challenges facing our customers and to advise them accordingly.
14 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc during 2008 we reorganised our main product development efforts to generate a stronger flow of new products New products During 2008 both our steam business and Watson-Marlow launched exciting new products and package systems.
These products further support our core competence of enabling our customers to achieve greater levels of safety, energy efficiency, and process control.
In addition, our increase in investment in research and development in 2008, and its reorganisation will lead to an even stronger flow of new products, as well as shorten their time to market.
SP200 Positioner Hydra-flow Flexicon FPC50 Watson-Marlow The SP200 is a new generation of Hydra-flow draws on over twenty non-contact feedback electroyears of experience, creating a An automatic liquid filling, plugging pneumatic valve positioner that new generation of low-cost vortex and crimp capping system which provides superb accuracy and easy flow meters specifically designed eliminates the need for human operation.
for commercial HVAC, agriculture, interface in small batch filling and semiconductor water flow operations.
BT6-B PSG Spirax SafeBloc The BT6-B is a high specification, The Pure Steam Generator PSG This innovative, patented design hygienic steam trap for use in the employs the vast steam engineering incorporates two isolation valves and pharmaceutical and biotechnology experience of Spirax Sarco and a bleed port in a compact assembly.
The design has been applies it to the demanding bioIt has ANSI or EN standard face to optimised to ensure that the sterility pharmaceutical sector.
The unit face dimensions enabling it to replace of critical applications is maintained encompasses Spirax Sarco's system an existing single isolation valve.
engineering development to enable No other commercially available the production of steam at its product provides double block and highest purity.
bleed isolation in such an integrated, compact unit.
