qxp:Layout 1 27 3 09 21:59 Page 10 Directors report: Business review Chief Executives review The next phase of growth With world-class development assets, an extensive exploration portfolio and a strong balance sheet, the Group is exceptionally well positioned for major production growth from 2010 onwards.
2008 was our best year ever, when unprecedented success with the drill bit matched significant progress towards the development of two major new oil provinces.
Aidan Heavey, Chief Executive Officer Record results and solid production Our reserves replacement ratio was 582%, averaging over Tullow has delivered record results for 2008 driven by a 200% per annum for the last three years.
Through our strong operational performance, higher oil and gas pricing, exploration and appraisal strategy we are realising the and profitable portfolio management offset by exploration true potential of our portfolio and as we continue to execute write-offs and impairments.
Whilst production decreased successful drilling campaigns, we expect to further enhance as anticipated by 9% to 66,600 boepd, average price and replenish our reserves and resources base.
The Jubilee realisations increased by 17% for oil and by 40% for gas.
field has resource potential of up to 1.8 billion barrels of oil.
Basic earnings increased by 335% to 30.9 pence per share.
This, together with the rest of the Groups Ghanaian acreage offers substantial upside, including the recently announced Our best exploration year ever Tweneboa discovery, which adds further resource potential In Ghana, exceptional drilling results led to a large extension of up to 1.4 billion barrels of oil equivalent.
of the Jubilee field and the opening of new deepwater plays.
In Uganda, we have exceeded the commercial threshold for On track for Jubilee first oil in 2010 development through a series of world-class discoveries, Phase 1 of the Jubilee field development in Ghana is on with more to come in this region from a strong portfolio of track for first oil in 2010, just three years after the initial high quality drilling prospects.
Tullow, as unit operator, has selected all major contractors and development drilling and facilities Major resource potential construction are under way.
The Jubilee partners have all Exceptional exploration and appraisal success with 17 sanctioned Phase 1 development and final government discoveries from 22 wells led to a 274 million barrel increase approval is pending resolution of the gas development plan.
in our reserves and resources.
This resulted in a revised total We have built a strong operating team in-country and will of 825 million barrels of reserves and resources at year end.
continue to strengthen this in 2009 to support the 10 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts
