12 13 Business review Richard Longdon Paul Taylor Chief Executive Finance Director GROWTH IN ASIA PACIFIC REVENUE With our financial strength, well developed direct sales and support organisation as well as a clear 38% product roadmap, AVEVA is very well positioned for continued growth in this exciting market.
GROWTH IN AMERICAS REVENUE RICHARD LONGDON, CHIEF EXECUTIVE 32% GROWTH IN WEMEA REVENUE 21% GROWTH IN CES REVENUE 43% global provider AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2008 Directors report 12 13 Our business and capacity constraints.
Such trends are forcing AVEVA is also working closely with twelve AVEVA is a global provider of engineering software order books to extend beyond those traditionally educational institutions, including the prestigious headquartered in Cambridge.
It has over 30 ofces seen whilst customers look to increase efficiency and Seoul University to promote and support the future around the world giving direct representation in capacity.
Details of segmental drivers, performance use of AVEVA products.
and future outlook are covered below.
In Korea we have also been promoting the new AVEVA delivers world leading technologies which Global performance AVEVA Product Lifecycle Management PLM products support the efficient design and operation of complex Geographic performance to the Marine customers and there is a very high engineering projects in the Oil and Gas, Power, Marine, AVEVA is addressing a progressively more diverse level of interest in this new technology from many Paper and Pulp, Chemical and Mining industries.
and global customer base as customers increasingly of the industry leaders.
These demanding industries, that once used drawing want to use engineering IT tools throughout their boards and plastic models, now depend on AVEVAs globally dispersed organisation and network of In Japan the business recovered from a at period integrated engineering software to drive every phase partners.
We expect this to be a sustainable driver with orders from the resurgent Japanese shipbuilders of a projects engineering workow.
From initial design of growth going forward as our unique tools allow and the buoyant chemical engineering business.
and specication, through 3D engineering layout engineers to work effectively together without to procurement, materials management and project geographic boundaries.
In China, AVEVA has gained recognition as one of control, AVEVAs software combines technical excellence the strongest players in the engineering software with unrivalled data integrity all within a framework ASIA PACIFIC Revenue: 50.8 million market, both in the Marine and in Process plant of applications exible enough to meet the diverse 2007 36.9 million industries.
Our Plant business did outstandingly requirements of all its users.
The Groups continual 2007 08 proved to be another excellent year for AVEVA well, with further penetration into the Nuclear progression has spanned five decades, during which in the Asia Pacic region.
As President of the region, Power sector, as well as signing strategic alliances time AVEVA has unveiled a number of leading-edge Peter Finch has continued to build a strong team with National oil operators China Offshore Oil innovations in its industry, formed partnerships capable of driving forward the AVEVA business both Engineering Company COOEC.
with major technology suppliers in specialist elds, into the rapidly expanding Marine market and the and acquired a number of companies that have booming Power and Oil and Gas markets.
Last year In the ASEAN countries AVEVA has continued to make complemented its core solutions.
was another highly successful year for the entire progress in newer territories such as Vietnam, Indonesia region, with a 38% increase in revenue and a 63% and Thailand with a new team based in Kuala Lumpur.
Our customer relationships, which have evolved over increase in contribution.
To manage and support many years, remain a key component to AVEVAs success this increase in business and to prepare the Company AMERICAS Revenue: 17.8 million and are as strong as ever.
We will continue to work for further expected growth in the coming years across 2007 13.5 million closely with all of our customers as this important the region, we added 55 new staff in the year spread The Americas market was a mixture of steady trading interaction helps AVEVA to shape its product across 11 ofces.
in the USA, very good progress in South America and roadmap for the future.
During the year we have Korea was one of our top performing regions with a made considerable changes to the management team, Our strategy is to remain a world class provider number of high value orders taken during the year.
with a very successful Head of Sales from AVEVAs of technologies in our core markets, attract new One of the most important orders was from Hanjin South East Asian region now heading the North customers and maintain and grow our existing Heavy Industries and Construction.
Hanjin will use American sales force.
Customer service is a critically customer base through new enhanced technologies.
AVEVA Marine products, including AVEVA NET, as important part of the AVEVA offering in the Americas part of their $720 million investment in a new and is now managed by a very experienced product Our current markets remain very buoyant driven by shipyard in Subic Bay, Philippines.
AVEVA Marine and industry specialist based in the Wilmington ofce.
high commodity prices, increased end-user demand is now the system of choice in most Korean shipyards.
of engineering IT solutions... AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2008 Directors report 14 15 Business review continued Global performance continued St Petersburg.
In September we celebrated the Geographic performance continued opening of a new ofce in Moscow, which will allow AMERICAS Revenue: 17.8 million for further enlargement of the team and will provide 2007 13.5 million continued high quality training facilities which have been Our customer service capability has been enhanced in high demand throughout the year.
during the year, although hiring trained staff has proven difficult in the very buoyant global labour In Italy we hosted some very successful customer market for engineers.
meetings and the team in Genoa have done an excellent job in building the AVEVA profile in a The new AVEVA office in Mexico is running hitherto under-exploited market with many new smoothly and we will continue our expansion customer successes.
into the rapidly growing South American market during 2008.
In Brazil we were very pleased to In the rapidly expanding Turkish shipbuilding market, win a long-term contract as the chosen design concentrated around Tuzla Bay, AVEVA has had a systems provider to the Brazilian National Oil number of new customers taking on the AVEVA company, Petrobras.
There is considerable investment going into many of the shipyards close to Istanbul Strengthening the sales and support teams, along and implementing AVEVA Marine products is seen with further support for our AVEVA products in the as key to the ongoing modernisation of both the Americas, has resulted in some important strategic design and manufacturing capability in Turkey.
customer wins including Chevron, where AVEVA NET will be used to manage information from multiple Most of the longstanding AVEVA customers are locations and project partners on the Nigerian enjoying full order books and have expanded their Agbami project.
Most notable among these was Alstom Power, an AVEVA customer for In the USA, AVEVA has been working closely over 25 years, who signed a new licence for in collaboration with universities, colleges extended use of AVEVA product.
and industry to address the shortfall of trained engineers.
WEMEA Revenue: 26.3 million 2007 21.7 million CES Revenue: 32.7 million AVEVAs most established customer base lies within the 2007 22.8 million Western European, Middle East and African market, AVEVAs CES region spans both Central and Southern but there are also new opportunities emerging within Europe and also includes North Africa, Eastern Europe the Marine market and the Middle East.
The whole region performed very well throughout the year, with the number of new Investing in people has been a key theme across customer wins doubling that of the previous year.
the region during the last year, with improved management structure, along with new sales and The subsidiary company formed in Russia had a very support staff across the region.
We established a good year and increased its presence in this important stronger presence in the AVEVA Chestereld ofce, market.
During the year we have strengthened AVEVA Norway in Stavanger and Oslo, as well as the sales and support teams in both Moscow and having increased our footprint in the Middle East.
continued growth across all our AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2008 Directors report 14 15 INCREASE IN REVENUE RECURRING REVENUE 34% 66.1m With all customers very busy in the Oil and Gas Marine customers are relentless in their drive for Version 12 of AVEVA Plant and AVEVA Marine offer business across the region, we had significant increased capacity through greater yard efficiency the very latest in functionality and are both built on expansion of licences in many of the longer and new facilities.
In addition the latest LNG and proven AVEVA database technology.
Both products established engineering contractors, such FPSO vessels are extremely complex and again, as were launched at the end of the calendar year.
as AMEC and Aker Solutions.
the design complexity increases, so should the use Beyond the 12 series are a number of further of AVEVA products.
enhancements, including new modules which we In the UK, we were delighted to win the highly expect will appeal to existing customers and enhance competitive order for Babcock Marine, where AVEVA The Power industry remains strong with many new our competitive position in winning new customers.
Marine will be used on the Royal Navy CVF Aircraft conventional fossil fuelled power stations currently Carrier project amongst other major projects being built.
The Nuclear industry is also gathering pace As well as the very substantial investment in a new underway at Babcock.
With orders from VT with several new build reactors planned or started.
version of the products which play to our traditional Shipbuilding, Babcock and Harland and Wolff, AVEVA already has a strong presence in the Chinese market, we have continued to invest heavily in the the UK design centres of excellence are well placed Nuclear design institute market.
Through the AVEVA link AVEVA NET technology platform which has also seen to win design contracts from the Asian shipbuilding with AREVA and many other Nuclear specialists around major new functionality released during the year.
market, where AVEVA Marine is becoming the the world we expect to see increased activity levels.
With the rising levels of interest in AVEVA NET, the industry standard.
investment will be stepped up in the coming years.
Mining, Paper and Pulp and our other sectors have In the Middle East we had successes in the Oil and remained positive and continue to see a solid intake The global development team has done an Gas industry with Petrofac, and a significant order of orders.
excellent job in producing a set of world leading from Abu Dhabi Ship Building, who will use AVEVA applications, whilst at the same time integrating Marine for both commercial and military new build Technology and products a large number of new staff and introducing new programmes, as well as ret work.
AVEVA has launched several major new products and working methods.
The new releases are the Industry performance culmination of the largest development project ever Organisation AVEVAs main industries are Oil and Gas, Power carried out in the Group.
As a part of the continual With 730 people in the business at the year end and and Marine but also include Paper and Pulp, progression policy, which allows customers to make 148 new joiners, structuring our teams for future Chemical, Pharmaceutical, Environmental, the best use of the latest technology without growth has been an important area for investment Mining and Food Processing.
The three main making their years of investment in the use of over the last year.
We will continue to build on the sectors account for close to 90% of the business AVEVA products redundant, version 12 of the Plant staff development programmes put in place by and all are experiencing continued high levels and Marine products is a simple upgrade for existing the Human Resources team, such as graduate of activity driven by robust underlying customers.
The introduction of new releases has recruitment, management development and growth drivers.
therefore not hampered sales or created order central induction courses.
The delivery and content of the new In the Oil and Gas sector, companies have versions has been detailed as a part of the AVEVA Thanks to its industry reputation as a highly successful been increasingly looking at recovering oil in roadmap for some years, and customer pilots to business, the Company has found the recruitment challenging environments, such as ultra deep trial the new products have been very favourable.
of new staff easier than many other companies in water, which require greater design complexity.
Our aim is to provide customers with the best a highly competitive market for all disciplines.
This has been driving an increase of our available technology, whilst always maintaining product usage this year and we expect upward compatibility and offering the choice demand to continue.
to upgrade to the new version during a long-term project.
main markets and geographies... AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2008 Directors report 16 17 Business review continued ASIA PACIFIC % GROUP REVENUE WEMEA % GROUP REVENUE 40% 21% AMERICAS % GROUP REVENUE CES % GROUP REVENUE 14% 25% opportunities in new and old AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2008 Directors report 16 17 We continue to provide our customers with innovative solutions that allow them to deliver their projects as fast and efficiently as possible.
Prospects Initial fees grew by 55% to 52.9 million performance.
Operating costs for 2008 included AVEVA has the products and the organisational 2007 34.2 million and continued to be driven a charge for reduction in goodwill of 0.4 million capability to continue to benefit from the very by the high levels of growth in Asia and sustained 2007 1.1 million.
IFRS prescribes that, where buoyant market conditions for its design products.
levels of industry growth where our customers see the tax charge has been reduced due to the utilisation At the same time, the Company is in a very strong value in making longer term commitments.
of previously unrecognised pre-acquisition tax losses, position to establish itself as an important player the carrying value of goodwill should be reduced by in the emerging AVEVA NET and Product Lifecycle Revenue generated from services remained buoyed by a charge to operating expenses of the same amount.
World class products, new customer wins and the growth driven by licence coupled with unique domain experience and sales of our AVEVA NET product, which generates higher Adjusted profit before tax increased by 70% to knowledge, have enabled us to engage with levels of product customisation.
Service revenue for the 47.9 million 2007 28.1 million, which is customers at the highest level, meeting the period amounted to 8.6 million 2007 8.1 million.
before amortisation of intangibles, share-based needs of the industry today and positioning payments and adjustment to goodwill totalling ourselves to address the future requirements Details of the Groups revenue recognition policy 3.0 million 2007 3.4 million.
of our customers around the world.
are set out in note 4 a to the financial statements.
Headcount With our financial strength, well developed direct Gross margin, operating expenses and profit Total headcount at 31 March 2008 amounted to 730 sales and support organisation as well as a clear from operations 2007 582, an increase of 148 heads.
Total staff product roadmap, AVEVA is very well positioned Gross margins and operating margins continued costs for the year were 48.2 million compared for continued growth in this exciting market.
to improve and reect the nature of the business, with 38.3 million in 2007, an increase of 26%.
where a predominant amount of cost of sales relates Key performance indicators to Research and Development costs which have already Taxation The Groups key financial and non-financial been expensed and the large proportion of sales The headline tax rate is lower than the UK standard rate performance indicators are total revenue, adjusted relates to standard product.
However sustainable due to a number of one-off credits.
These include tax profit before tax, headcount and adjusted earnings growth is about investing in the future and as such credits related to Research and Development, the per share.
These are discussed in more detail below.
we continue to invest high levels in Research and benefit of tax losses generated from acquisitions Development and 2008 was no exception with which have now been exhausted and previously Revenue expenditure on new and enhancing existing unrecognised deferred tax assets.
After adjusting for We have continued to see high levels of demand technologies increased by 21% to 21.3 million these items the effective rate is 28%, which is broadly across all our business segments delivering sales 2007 17.6 million.
in line with the UK standard rate and expected to be growth of 34% to 127.6 million 2007 94.9 million.
nearer the headline rate in the future.
Operating costs amounted to 54.6 million The mix of revenue between initial fees and annual 2007 43.6 million, an increase of 25%.
Earnings per share fees remained broadly in line with previous periods.
Continued growth in headcount within sales, Adjusted basic earnings per share which is before Recurring revenue, which reected continued high business development and administration functions amortisation of intangibles, adjustment to goodwill levels of renewals and growth in rental fees and to support the growth in the business over the last and share-based payments increased by 74% to 55.22p annual fees which remain an intrinsic part of the year accounted for a material proportion of this.
Basic earnings per share was 50.80p initial licence fee, increased by 25% to 66.1 million Performance-based rewards were again a major 2007 26.59p an increase of 91%.
factor in the increase in costs and now reect believe that adjusted basic earnings per share a large variable element linked to the Groups provides a more meaningful measurement of performance of the underlying business.
economies driving growth... AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2008 Directors report 18 19 Business review continued AVEVAs success has been built on the quality and reputation of its products and services, which rely almost entirely on the quality of the people delivering these.
PAUL TAYLOR, FINANCE DIRECTOR Dividends The Board feels that in the current climate of bank FULL YEAR DIVIDEND PER SHARE The Board of Directors are recommending an increased credit it is appropriate for the business to maintain final dividend of 5.0p 2007 2.94p and when taken a strong cash position.
together with the interim payment the dividend for the full year amounts to 6.65p 2007 4.18p a 59% Treasury policy increase over the prior year.
Subject to approval at The Group treasury policy aims to ensure that 6.65p the Annual General Meeting the final dividend will the capital held is not put at risk and the treasury be paid on the 1 August 2008 to shareholders on function is managed under policies and procedures the register on 27 June 2008. approved by the Board.
These policies are designed to reduce the financial risk arising from the Groups Balance sheet normal trading activities, which primarily relate to AVEVAs strong trading over recent years has continued credit, interest, liquidity and currency risk.
NET CASH to strengthen our balance sheet.
Total assets have increased to 163.2 million up from 113.8 million The Group is, and is expected to continue to be, in 2007, most of which relates to the increase in cash cash positive and currently holds net deposits.
In addition to the movement The objective with these deposits is to maintain a in cash we saw trade and other receivables increase balance between generating competitive interest 82.8m to 43.2 million from 36.5 million in 2007 which rates and allowing accessibility.
This generally means represents a substantial reduction as a proportion of that deposits are held for periods up to three months.
revenue highlighting both the quality of revenue booked During the year the Group had a bank overdraft and a reduction in debtor days.
Current liabilities facility of 3.0 million in the UK and approximately increased to 53.8 million from 40.3 million in 2007 2.2 million SEK 30 million in Sweden, both of most of which relates to increases in deferred income which are aimed at managing short-term GROSS PROFIT MARGIN to 20.0 million 2007 15.4 million driven by fluctuations in cash.
the strength in recurring revenue, and increase in accruals to 18.9 million 2007 13.5 million.
The Group has a net funding requirement in Retirement benefit obligations have reduced from Sterling, due to the majority of Research and 4.9 million in 2007 to 1.6 million in 2008 as a Development costs being incurred in the UK.
77% result of recent cash injections to the UK dened The revenue of the Group is predominantly in benefit scheme and an updated pension valuation.
foreign currency, with approximately 30% in US dollar and 30% in Euro.
The overseas entities incur Cash ows costs in their local functional currency, which acts Cash generated from operating activities before as a partial net hedge.
Any cash ows which cannot tax in the period amounted to 54.6 million be offset against each other will result in a net 2007 26.8 million and culminated in an currency exposure and where possible these OPERATING MARGIN increase in cash and cash equivalents of 100% to exposures will be hedged.
These hedges aim 82.8 million 2007 41.3 million.
The high to minimise the adverse effect of exchange level of cash conversion reflects the quality of rate movements, without eliminating all earnings and improved cash collection procedures.
34% highly skilled and disciplines and geographies AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2008 Directors report 21% 18 19 INVESTMENT IN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT m 21.3 17.6 13.9 10.4 6.9 04 05 06 07 08 Review of principal risks and uncertainties associated with a sale at the end of a period.
managements attention, failure to retain key AVEVA has delivered good growth in revenue, profit Timing of closure of these can materially affect personnel of the acquired business, failure to and cash over recent years, but as with any organisation revenue and profit.
The increasing recurring nature realise the benets anticipated to result from the there are a number of potential risks and uncertainties of our business helps mitigate this to some extent.
acquisition, system integration and risks associated which could have a material impact on the Groups with unanticipated events or liabilities.
Where possible the Group Foreign exchange risk seeks to mitigate these risks through its system Exposure to foreign currency gains and losses can Research and Development of internal controls but this can only provide be material to the Group, with approximately 75% The Group makes substantial investments in Research reasonable and not absolute assurance against of the Groups revenue denominated in a foreign and Development in enhancing existing products material losses.
The principal risks and uncertainties currency, of which our two largest are US dollar and and introducing new products.
If new products or faced by the Group are as follows: Euro.
The Group enters into forward foreign currency enhancements are introduced which do not meet contracts to manage the currency risk where material.
customer requirements or competitors introduce a Protection of the Groups intellectual property rights The overseas subsidiaries trade in their own currencies rival product which better meets the requirements The Groups success has been built upon the and that also acts as a natural hedge against currency of the market, this may have a material impact on knowledge developed in its intellectual property movements.
The Group is also exposed to foreign the long term revenue and profit.
rights and protection of this remains critical.
currency translation risk on the translation of The Group uses third party technology to encrypt, its net investment overseas into Sterling.
International operations protect and restrict access to its products.
Access The Group operates internationally and is required limitations and rights are also dened within the Employees to comply with local laws and regulations and tax terms of the contract and the Group seeks to ensure AVEVAs success has been built on the quality and legislation of overseas countries.
Significant that its intellectual property rights are appropriately reputation of its products and services, which rely changes in these laws and regulations or failure protected by law wherever possible.
almost entirely on the quality of the people delivering to comply with them could lead to additional them.
Maintaining and growing this pool of highly liabilities and penalties.
The Group endeavours Dependency on key markets skilled and motivated individuals across all disciplines to comply with local laws and regulations by AVEVA generates a substantial amount of its income and geographies remains key to our ongoing success.
employing qualied personnel and through from customers whose main business is derived from The Group endeavours to ensure that employees are the use of local professional advisers.
capital projects driven by growth in the Oil and Gas, motivated by their work and there are regular appraisals, Power and Marine markets.
Whilst the global with staff encouraged to develop their skills.
complexity of these projects affords some protection against short-term issues, future success is dependent Identication and successful integration on growth within these markets.
of acquisitions Richard Longdon The Group expects to continue to review acquisition Chief Executive Timing of contract signing targets as part of its strategy.
Market conditions As with most software companies, timings of may lead to increased competition for targets, contractual signing and delivery is key to recognising resulting in higher acquisition prices or fewer revenue.
With the majority of costs being people, prospects which will deliver lower value.
The sales at the end of the year tend to generate very integration of any acquisitions also involves a Paul Taylor high margins since there are few costs specically number of unique risks, including diversion of Finance Director motivated people across all remain key to our success... AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2008 Directors report
