02 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 ANNUAL BUSINESS REVIEW ABOUT OUR BUSINESS HOW WE WORK With 30 years of experience, Victrex works with end users and processors in a variety of Victrex is a global manufacturer markets such as electronics, industrial and transport.
of innovative, high performance End users specify VICTREX PEEK to reduce systems costs, improve part performance, exploit greater design freedom and create a polymers, including VICTREX PEEK differentiated application.
VICTREX PEEK is one of Invibio is Victrexs biomaterials business, providing specialised solutions for medical device manufacturers.
the highest quality thermoplastic materials in the world, offering a OUR PRODUCTS VICTREX PEEK has a unique combination of chemical, wear, unique combination of properties electrical, hydrolysis and temperature resistance, as well as to help processors and end users excellent dimensional, mechanical and chemical stability combined with inherent purity and low flammability.
reach new levels of cost savings, As part of the Groups commitment to ongoing product performance and product development, Victrex is focused on bringing customers new material solutions.
Victrex has a wide range of products in its differentiation.
portfolio from high flow and high purity grades to films and coatings, and Invibio provides a range of biocompatible PEEK based polymers.
OUR BRANDS TM VICTREX PEEK polymer is a linear, Invibio is the provider of APTIV films are produced from VICOTE Coatings, based on aromatic, semi-crystalline polymer biocompatible PEEK based VICTREX PEEK polymer and VICTREX PEEK, offer exceptional widely regarded as one of the polymers to medical device provide all of the properties of scratch and wear resistance, highest performing thermoplastics manufacturers.
Invibio offers an VICTREX PEEK in a flexible high temperature performance, in the world.
It is highly versatile unparalleled combination of format.
APTIV films are the most strength and durability.
and is used by our customers in the research and technology, versatile and high performing Eco-friendly VICOTE Coatings design and manufacture of high technical support, medical device thermoplastic films available and were developed to fill the performance applications to enable market expertise and a network have a proven track record of performance gap found in improved part performance, higher of industry resources to help success in demanding applications many existing coating design freedom and system cost clients develop the best possible in a broad range of industries technologies today.
solutions, and to bring those and markets.
The VICTREX PEEK polymer product family includes several different types of polyaryletherketones, as well as a wide range of blends and compounds to meet a variety of THE WORLDS LEADING performance criteria.
MANUFACTURER OF POLYKETONES Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 03 OUR OPERATIONS The Groups headquarters are based in the United Kingdom along with its expanding manufacturing, research and customer support facilities, such as the recently opened Applied Technology Centre.
This is complemented by a growing international profile that includes a network of sales, distribution and technical centres serving more than 30 countries worldwide.
Our team of dedicated market development, sales and technical support professionals work closely with customers around the world offering continued assistance in new application development, product performance data and processing support.
SERVING MORE THAN 30 COUNTRIES WORLDWIDE OUR PRODUCT PROPERTIES Sales by market Inherent purity Extremely low levels of organic, inorganic and ionic impurities Industrial36% Exceptional hydrolysis resistance Transport28% At elevated temperatures and pressures when Electronics24% continually conditioned in steam or water Medical9% High strength to weight ratio Other3% Stronger and lighter than many metals and alloys and performs in tough environments Electrical performance Over a wide frequency and temperature range whether conductive or non-conductive Sales by region Exceptional wear resistance Over wide ranges of pressure, velocity, temperature and counterfacial roughness Europe50% Exceptional chemical resistance USA32% To most chemicals, solvents and sterilisation Asia-Pacific18% processes in aggressive environments Fire, smoke and toxicity performance No flame retardant additives and generates extremely low smoke and toxic gas emissions Temperature performance Retains a high degree of mechanical properties based on sales volume for year ended 30 September 2008 in extremely high and low temperatures
