bUSiNESS rEViEW fOCUSEd ON PrOfiTabLE grOWTH WH Smith PLC, one of the UKs leading retail groups, is made up of two businesses Travel and High Street.
Our Travel shops sell a tailored selection of Newspapers, Magazines, Books and Confectionery for people on the move and our High Street shops sell a wide range of Newspapers, Magazines, Stationery, Books and Entertainment products.
WHSmiths outlets are frequently first choice for people on the high street and we are a trusted convenience retailer for customers at travel locations.
We have an extensive store portfolio operating from 449 Travel units and 557 High Street stores, with market-leading positions in Books, Magazines and Stationery.
Overall, WHSmith employs approximately 18,000 staff across the UK.
WHSmith also reaches customers via WHSmith Direct www.
co. uk serving customers on the internet 24 hours a day.
WH Smith PLC is listed on the London Stock Exchange SMWH and is part of the FTSE 250 Index.
More information about the business is available at www.
WHSmith intends to build on its position as the UKs most popular WH SmiTH PLC: COrPOraTE ObJECTiVES WHSmith intends to build on its position as the UKs stationer, bookseller and newsagent most popular stationer, bookseller and newsagent by continuing to grow its strongly performing Travel by continuing to grow its strongly business and execute its High Street plan.
performing Travel business and 1 We aim to improve the Companys profitability and cash flow generation, delivering sustainable returns and execute its High Street plan.
We believe that a concentration on these factors will be reflected in a kaTE SWaNN, grOUP CHiEf ExECUTiVE total shareholder return that compares well with our peer group of equivalent listed companies.
We invest where we believe we will achieve a return on investment above our cost of capital.
While external economic and other factors might affect us in the shortterm, most of the markets we are focused on are growth sectors, which we believe will deliver sustainable returns.
Travel is focused on delivering value to shareholders through organic growth in its existing outlets, securing new contracts, trialling new formats and through new business development.
The division has been performing 1 strongly, with trading profits growing by 14 per cent this year to 41m.
In July 2004, we announced plans to improve the performance of our High Street business.
The High Street plan concentrates on rebuilding authority in core categories, optimising margins, controlling costs and ensuring we deliver the retail basics.
High Street has made significant progress in the delivery of its plan.
1 In the year to 31 August 2008, trading profits grew by seven per cent to 47m.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 We aim to act responsibly towards all our stakeholders, Travel has a separate operating structure and including customers, suppliers, business partners, management team from High Street, reflecting the employees and the communities in which we operate.
distinct operational and strategic challenges of the two Our annual Corporate Responsibility Report is available businesses.
Travel stores are in higher footfall locations at www.
co. uk cr, with a summary of our than High Street stores, resulting in higher average approach on page 20 of this report.
They are less affected by the Christmas trading period, although increased passenger traffic during the summer holiday season, particularly in airports, contributes to a summer peak in sales.
We aim to improve the Companys 1 markets in which Travel operates profitability and cash flow Travel operates in airports, railways, motorway service areas and hospitals in the UK, selling a range of generation, delivering sustainable Newspapers, Magazines, Books, Food, Drink and Confectionery products for customers on the move.
returns and increasing dividends growth drivers to shareholders.
The Travel business offers opportunities for expansion in each of its four channels and continues to win new contracts in hospitals, airports, railway stations and WHSmiTH TraVEL motorway service areas.
Long-term forecasts predict Nature of business that passenger numbers will keep rising and so we The Travel business trades under the same brand as expect to see further opportunities to grow our sales.
the High Street stores and operates 449 units in airports, Following rapid progress to establish a presence in the railway stations, motorway service areas and hospitals motorway service area and hospital markets, Travel across the UK.
Travels stores sell a more tailored range plans to open further units in these channels during of products than High Street stores, to cater for people the coming year.
The business is also developing other on the move.
Travels typical customer has less time to Travel store formats such as specialist Book stores browse than the High Street customer and is more and results are encouraging.
interested in reading materials for a journey and quick purchases of food, drink and confectionery.
Consequently, Competitive position there is a limited demand for entertainment and Travel operates stores in high footfall locations that are stationery products and the stock and format of each highly dependent on commuter and travelling customer Travel store reflects this.
A trend of increasing passenger numbers in railway stations and airports has led to increased footfall Due to their location and convenience nature Travel units in Travel stores, contributing positively to financial results.
are, on average, significantly smaller than those in the High Street portfolio.
At 31 August 2008, Travel operated That said, the economic climate, geopolitical events, from a total of 0.4m square feet of selling space, with war and acts of terrorism, such as the London bombings units ranging in size from 90 square feet to more than on 7 July 2005 have, from time to time, contributed to a 6,000 square feet.
Of the 449 Travel units, 125 are in reduction in commuter and travelling customer traffic.
London and regional airports, 34 are in London railway Closure of routes, both planned and unplanned, as well stations including Underground stations, 80 are in as other factors affecting passenger traffic, can also provincial railway stations, 104 are in motorway service affect operating results.
areas and 88 are in hospitals: 17 units are in locations Travel faces competition in its product categories such as bus stations and workplaces.
We also operate primarily from other convenience retailers in rail and from one non-UK location, Paris.
from category-specific stores in airports.
The growth of either retail format may take market share from Travel and have a negative impact on sales and profit.
1 Profit from trading operations is stated before allocation of central costs, exceptional items, interest and taxation and after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WH Smith PLC bUSiNESS rEViEW fOCUSEd ON PrOfiTabLE grOWTH Competitive strengths Making improvements to trading efficiency Travel has significant competitive strengths.
The Board Measures include the introduction of: believes it is well placed to deliver strong cash Sales-based replenishment generation and long-term earnings growth to create shareholder value through its: Extended opening hours and increased flexibility of staff hours Widely recognised and respected brand Improved buying and supplier terms Prime locations within railway stations, airports motorway service areas and hospitals Securing new contracts and trialling new formats High levels of customer footfall Initiatives include: Market-leading positions in its categories, allowing Negotiations for new contracts in all channels it to operate with scale Growth of specialist Stationery and Book stores Purchasing and sourcing scale, driving value for in airports and railway stations the customer Further development of opportunities in the Experienced senior management team motorway service area market Strong relationships with landlords at travel locations Growth in the under-developed hospital channel Wide reach across the travel retail sector Travel: risks and uncertainties WHSmiths management team has identified the following factors as major potential risks to the successful performance of the business.
Some, such as IT failures, Travel remains focused on require specific, identified actions to mitigate their effect.
Others, such as the impact of competition, are increasing average transaction addressed through strategic planning and operational value, making improvements to management processes.
trading efficiency, securing new 1 Disruptions in travel Travel operates in high footfall locations, which are very contracts and trialling new formats.
dependent on commuter and travelling customer traffic.
In the past, geopolitical events, wars and acts of terrorism such as the attacks of 11 September 2001 and 7 July 2005 have contributed to decreased levels of customer traffic.
Travel: objectives and strategy Closures in travel routes, both planned and unplanned, Travel remains focused on increasing average may have a material effect on the business if passengers transaction value and conversion, making are diverted from key Travel stores.
improvements to trading efficiency, securing new contracts and trialling new formats.
2 Loss of tenancy contracts Travel has a presence in most of the UKs major airports Increasing average transaction value and conversion and railway stations.
There is no guarantee that licences Average transaction value increased through: will be renewed or that Travel will be able to bid Improved product ranges in higher margin categories successfully for new licences in new locations.
such as Confectionery, Snacking and Stationery 3 Change of control clauses Increased promotional activity and improvements in The majority of Travels airport and railway concession product mix agreements contain change of control clauses, giving More efficient use of space, due to improved queuing various rights to the grantor of the concession, such as systems and increased fixture densities termination of the contract, in the event of a successful takeover bid for WHSmith.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 4 Poor economic conditions or slowdown This year has been one of major expansion for Travel and As a UK retailer, Travel is sensitive to the economic we finish the year as a leading player in four key sales climate and can be affected by the general condition channels.
This follows our announcement in April of the of the UK retail and travel markets.
An outbreak of a acquisition of UNS Group Limited comprising 72 retail pandemic disease such as avian flu, an act of terrorism units and eight Caffe Nuovo coffee shops in 62 hospitals, or war could reduce the number of customers visiting and the acquisition of 23 airport units from Alpha Retail WHSmith outlets, causing a decline in revenue and profit.
We also reached a franchise agreement with RoadChef to open 29 CTN units, which will significantly 5 Competition in the retail industry enhance our coverage of the motorway network.
Travel operates in highly competitive markets and its failure to compete effectively, with convenience and category-specific retailers may affect revenues obtained through our stores.
This year has been one of major expansion for Travel and we 6 Failure or interruption of information technology systems In common with most retail businesses, Travel relies on a finish the year as a leading number of important IT systems.
Any system performance problems could seriously affect our ability to trade.
player in four key sales channels.
7 Reliance on the WHSmith brand The WHSmith brand is an important asset.
Failure to protect it, an event that materially damaged its airports reputation and or the failure to sustain its appeal to In our Airport units we delivered robust sales growth customers could have an adverse effect on revenues.
of three per cent like-for-like.
We continue to deliver performance ahead of passenger growth numbers and 8 Reliance on key personnel have consistently demonstrated our ability to do this.
The performance of the division depends on its ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain key We made further progress improving our product ranges, Head Office and store staff.
The retail sector is very for example, increasing the Books chart to the Top 100 competitive and the divisions people are frequently fiction titles in a further 100 stores and relaying the fiction targeted by other companies for recruitment.
backlist to focus on key authors such as John Grisham and Sophie Kinsella.
A new Scottish souvenir range has 9 Failure or interruption in product supply been successfully trialled in Edinburgh and Aberdeen Travel has agreements with key suppliers in the UK, and has now been extended to a further 17 units.
The interruption or loss of Customer service remains a key focus and we have supply of core category products from these suppliers made some notable enhancements.
Following the to our stores may affect our ability to trade.
successful trial of a new handheld till at Stansted, we rolled this out to Heathrow Terminal 5 to enable Travel: operational review 00 08 us to react quickly to the passenger peaks which Travel has delivered further good performance with often occur in airports.
profit up 14 per cent and like-for-like sales up one per cent, achieved as a result of increased sales In April, we announced the acquisition of 23 units combined with improved gross margin and tight cost in 11 airports from Alpha, further strengthening our control.
Gross margin improved over the period as a presence in this long-term growth sector.
The process result of good category mix management and further of integrating the new units into our business is well buying efficiencies.
As in High Street, costs were underway with systems and supply chains now integrated.
All units have been re-branded and a refit programme will start this autumn to improve the performance of these stores further.
We also made good progress on airport contracts.
We renewed four contracts for units at locations including Glasgow and Manchester.
We opened 43 new units during the year, including five at Edinburgh and three at Heathrow Terminal 3.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WH Smith PLC bUSiNESS rEViEW fOCUSEd ON PrOfiTabLE grOWTH Hospitals The year saw a step change in our representation in this Travel delivered another channel.
Following our acquisition of UNS in March, our hospital portfolio grew from eight units to 80 retail units strong performance with and eight coffee shops across 69 hospitals.
The sector is attractive for us, being both a growth sector and one where profit up 14 per cent.
retailing is relatively underdeveloped, giving us opportunities for both organic growth and further space growth.
We have opened one new unit since we acquired UNS rail and our target is to open, on average, around ten new In our Rail channel, like-for-like sales were flat.
We are making good progress with the As in Airports, customer service and range integration of the UNS units.
To date we have brought the improvements have been a focus in our Rail business.
store management under the Travel operations structure, We are trialling a number of initiatives such as kiosks integrated systems to maximise efficiency and started to offering foreign newspapers on demand in St Pancras supply products in some categories through our Travel International, catering for all nationalities.
We have also distribution centre.
A number of the units have already rolled-out lottery terminals to a further 93 rail stores.
been re-branded WHSmith and we will complete this process during the course of the year ahead.
We have been working hard developing small formats specifically designed for locations with lower or variable Travel: financial review 00 08 levels of passenger traffic and have been trialling one version of this with SSP in eight of their Pumpkin Cafes.
Growth LFL Sales We made further progress with contracts, renewing a m 2008 2007 % Growth % total of four contracts at locations including Oxford and Revenue 413 338 22% 1% Chester.
We opened six new units including one at Profit from Ebbsfleet and four at St Pancras International.
1 trading operations 41 36 14% motorway 1 Profit from trading operations is stated before allocation of central costs, exceptional items, interest and taxation and after directly Since our announcement in November 2006 of plans to attributable share-based payment and pension service charges.
open stores in motorway service areas, we have built a strong presence in this channel, bringing the WHSmith Travel delivered another strong performance with offer direct to the motorist.
sales growth of one per cent on a like-for-like basis.
In April, we reached an agreement with RoadChef to Excluding tobacco, like-for-like sales were up three per open 29 CTN units which will significantly enhance our cent.
Total sales in Travel were up 22 per cent driven by coverage of the motorway network.
We have currently new business development and our expansion into the opened 15 units with the remaining 14 expected to be 1 motorway service area and hospital markets.
Although it is still early days, we increased by 14 per cent to 41m 2007: 36m, as a are seeing encouraging results from the new units, and result of increased sales combined with improved motorists are clearly pleased to have the opportunity underlying gross margin and tight cost control.
to shop with a well-known high street brand.
Underlying gross margin increased through good category As part of the roll-out of the WHSmith format, we mix management and further buying improvements, have introduced the key strengths of the Travel offer resulting in more sales in higher margin categories such to broaden customer choice, for example, doubling as Confectionery and Books.
The Travel business now the size of key product ranges like Books and Magazines operates from 449 units, including motorway service area and adding new ranges like Stationery and Gifting.
At 31 August 2008, Travel operated from a total of 0.4m square feet excluding motorway service areas 2007: 0.2m square feet.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 8 WHSmiTH HigH STrEET Competitive position Nature of business High Streets competition comes primarily from other High Street operates 557 stores.
It is present in 85 per high street specialists, supermarkets and internet cent of the top 500 UK retailing locations and 95 per cent retailers.
Online retailers offer customers access to our of its stores are in prime locations with high customer product categories conveniently, while supermarkets give traffic.
With a presence on nearly every significant high customers access to our product categories as they carry street in the UK, the High Street store portfolio has out their regular food shopping.
extensive reach across the UK.
At 31 August 2008, High The growth of either retail format may take market share Street operated from a total of 3m square feet of selling away from High Street and have a negative effect on the space, with stores ranging in size from 777 square feet sales and profit generated by our High Street stores.
High Street sells a wide range of products, which are divided into four categories: News and Impulse including newspapers, magazines, confectionery and High Street has significant other impulse products, Stationery including greetings competitive strengths.
The Board cards, Books, Entertainment including music, video and multimedia games.
High Streets trading believes it is well placed to is relatively seasonal with peaks at Christmas, Easter and in September for the Back to School range.
deliver strong cash generation The online retail business is operated by High Street and long-term earnings growth and sells a range of Books, Magazines, Stationery, Gifts and Entertainment products through its website at to create shareholder value.
The online business has access to two million book titles and an average of approximately 250,000 visits to the site per week.
In the year to 31 August 2008, High Street had revenues Competitive strengths 1 of 939m and trading profit of 47m.
High Street has significant competitive strengths.
The Board believes it is well placed to deliver strong cash markets in which we operate generation and long-term earnings growth to create The British Retail Consortium BRC categorises our shareholder value through its: operations High Street and Travel in its Other NonWidely respected and recognised brand Food sector.
While this list is not exhaustive, Other NonFood includes products such as books, newspapers and Prime sites in key UK high street retail locations magazines, stationery, PC consumables, entertainment High customer footfall products, toys and games, DIY, gardening supplies, electrical appliances and sports and leisure equipment.
Market-leading positions in its target categories, allowing it to operate with scale growth drivers Purchasing and sourcing scale, driving value for High Streets performance is dependent upon overall the customer growth in consumer spending, growth in the non-food, non-clothing sector and High Streets ability to take Experienced senior management team share in its product markets.
Integrated, multi-channel offering, allowing customers The management team believes that, following the to shop in-store or online as well as having products current slowdown in consumer spending in our markets, delivered to home or store we should see a return to more normal levels of growth over the longer term.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WH Smith PLC bUSiNESS rEViEW fOCUSEd ON PrOfiTabLE grOWTH High Street: objectives and strategy 3 Controlling costs and retail basics WHSmith announced its plans for improving the Cost control measures include: performance of High Street in July 2004.
The plan Increased productivity across the business centres on three areas: rebuilding authority in core categories, optimising margins, controlling costs Improved flexibility of staff hours and retail basics.
Rationalisation of logistics through increased efficiency in distribution centres and reduced returns 1 Rebuilding authority in core categories Key changes include: Outsourcing and contract renegotiation in IT services to improve efficiency Re-engineering ranges to concentrate on more profitable categories.
This has contributed to a Better not-for-resale purchasing reduction in sales, but has had a beneficial effect on overall margins High Street: risks and uncertainties WHSmiths management team has identified the Introducing more price points, new ranges, improved following factors as major potential risks to the pricing and improved promotions across all categories successful performance of the business.
Some, such Increasing choice and availability through higher as IT failures require specific, identified actions to density fixtures and changes to the supply chain mitigate their effect.
Others, such as the impact of competition, are areas addressed through strategic Rebalancing space towards higher growth and more planning and operational management processes.
profitable product categories 1 Competition in the retail industry High Street operates in highly competitive markets and its failure to compete effectively may lower The High Street plan centres on revenues obtained through our stores.
three areas: rebuilding authority 2 Poor economic conditions or slowdown in core categories, optimising As a UK retailer, High Street is sensitive to the economic climate and can be affected by the general condition of margins, controlling costs the UK retail and travel markets.
An outbreak of a pandemic disease such as avian flu, an act of terrorism and retail basics.
or war could reduce the number of customers visiting WHSmith outlets, causing a decline in revenue and profit.
3 Inability to predict accurately or fulfil customer 2 Optimising margins preference or demand Margin optimisation measures include: The retail industry is subject to changing customer A positive shift in product mix by switching sales from tastes.
High Streets performance is dependent upon low-margin categories such as Entertainment to higher effectively predicting and quickly responding to changing margin categories such as Stationery and Books consumer demands.
It must also translate market trends into saleable merchandise.
An improved promotions and buying strategy A lower cost of goods sold, through improving supplier 4 Seasonal fluctuations in sales terms and improved sourcing High Street is exposed to seasonal demand for certain core categories.
Christmas and the Back to School A focus on reducing shrinkage period are critical trading periods and therefore may A reduction of the overall stock held and more effective be affected by depressed consumer footfall or spending, management of stock markdowns hitting sales and profit.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 0 5 Failure or interruption in product supply Cost control remains a core element of our plan.
In High Street has agreements with key suppliers in the October 2007, we set a target of cutting costs by 23m UK, Europe and the Far East.
The interruption or loss over three years.
For the full year we delivered savings of supply of core category products from these suppliers of 8m from areas of the business including logistics, to our stores may affect our ability to trade.
We have identified further savings of 10m to be made over the next 6 Failure or interruption of information three years.
technology systems In common with most retail businesses, High Street relies on a number of important IT systems.
Any system Margins rose significantly, largely performance problems could seriously affect our ability to trade.
due to our strategy to rebalance 7 Lack of new store growth opportunities the mix of the business to focus High Streets stores are already present in most of the major high street locations across the UK.
Our ability to on higher margin categories such grow through expansion of this portfolio may be limited.
8 Reliance on the WHSmith brand The WHSmith brand is an important asset.
Failure to protect it, an event that materially damaged its Some of these savings came from our ongoing reputation and or the failure to sustain its appeal to programme to increase efficiency in key business customers, could have an adverse impact on revenues.
functions, notably in information systems through further outsourcing and renegotiation of contracts, 9 Reliance on key personnel and in distribution, through better efficiency and The performance of the division depends on its ability reduced returns, as well as a programme of container to continue to attract, motivate and retain key Head consolidation which is also helping us to meet our Office and store staff.
The retail sector is very environmental targets on fuel efficiency.
In stores, our competitive and the divisions people are frequently staff flexibility programme continues, allowing us to targeted by other companies for recruitment.
We are also introducing new initiatives to help our stores run more efficiently, for High Street: operational review 00 08 example new scanning tools to speed up some elements The High Street business continues to focus on the of the stock control process.
Carrier bag use remains implementation of our plan to rebuild our position as a focus as we seek to reduce the number of single-use Britains most popular stationer, bookseller and bags we give out, cutting costs as well as reducing newsagent.
We are pleased to report that we are making plastic waste.
This year, we trialled the introduction of 1 good progress.
Profits for High Street are up seven per charges for single-use carrier bags, offering customers cent year on year, delivered through maintaining focus the opportunity to buy a reusable bag instead.
on rebuilding authority in our core categories, tightly controlling costs, optimising margins and delivering Margins rose significantly, largely due to the strategy the retailing basics.
mentioned above: to change the mix of products we sell by reducing the amount of focus on low-margin products From a sales perspective, the trading environment such as Entertainment, and rebalancing the mix of the continues to be tough.
Sales for the year were down business to focus on higher margin categories such as two per cent, but gross margins improved by around Books and Stationery.
We expect further mix changes to 190 basis points.
Both developments reflect our strategy be a key driver of overall profit growth in the years to to rebalance the mix of our business to concentrate on come, without relying on top-line sales growth in the short our core categories of Stationery, Books and News and or medium term.
The remaining improvement in gross Impulse, and to reduce our reliance on Entertainment.
margin came from better management of promotions, reduced markdowns and improved sourcing.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WH Smith PLC bUSiNESS rEViEW fOCUSEd ON PrOfiTabLE grOWTH Our Christmas promotional strategy sought to improve Operational improvements remain a priority.
In Books, gross margins while remaining price competitive.
In for example, improved in-store execution helped us Books, for example, execution continued to improve with achieve better pricing compliance during the key better availability and better pricing compliance in this Christmas season.
The introduction of fast track very competitive trading season.
We achieved high recalls is also enabling us to effectively recycle stock market shares in front list titles such as Russell Brands to improve availability.
My Booky Wook and Jamie Olivers Jamie at Home, We have made good progress with the integration of Post demonstrating the success of our initiatives and their Offices into our stores and now have 82 open, having relevance to our customers.
In Stationery, the Christmas completed the complex roll-out ahead of schedule.
seasonal categories performed well with strong The last Post Office to relocate was to our Liverpool performance particularly from Christmas wrap, diaries store on 10 July 2008.
Customer feedback has been and gifting.
We have invested in more customer research positive.
In particular customers have commented on this year and will do more for Christmas 2008 ranges.
the bright, modern environment, improved customer service and extended opening hours.
In April 2007, we announced a further agreement with Post Office Limited to open Bureau fide Change units in an additional 50 High Work to improve our ranges and Street stores: all these units are now open.
A recent agreement with DHL will enable us to bring delivery deliver effective promotions services to a much wider group of customers through continues to achieve encouraging the provision of an easy-to-use DHL service point in 400 stores.
These initiatives form part of our strategy results across our core categories.
to enhance our customer offer and use space more effectively in our stores.
High Street: financial review 00 08 We successfully managed the cost of goods sold by improving buying terms and improving sourcing.
We also Growth LFL Sales maintained our rigorous focus on product shrinkage m 2008 2007 % Growth % and markdown management.
In Stationery, for example, Revenue 939 961 2% 3% a clean stock position at the end of the Christmas period contributed to enhanced margins, with some clearance Profit from 1 stock successfully channelled through www.
trading operations 47 44 7% We continued with our strategy to rebuild our authority 1 Profit from trading operations is stated before allocation of central as a popular book specialist and to compete more costs, exceptional items, interest and taxation and after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges.
effectively with other high street specialists.
We saw further good market share performance versus the general high street.
High Street sales were down two per cent and on a likefor-like basis, down three per cent, reflecting our strategy Work to improve our ranges and deliver effective 1 to rebalance the mix of our business.
Profits increased promotions continues to achieve encouraging results by seven per cent to 47m 2007: 44m.
We continued across our core categories.
For example, in Stationery, to focus on rebuilding authority in our core categories, we have introduced a range of digital stationery products optimising margins, keeping a tight control of costs and to complement our core categories, including products like delivering the retail basics.
USB memory sticks as an alternative to traditional paper file storage.
In Books, our Read of the Week promotion Gross margin improved by around 190 basis points, driven with The Times had a good reception from our customers by rebalancing the mix of our business, low-cost sourcing, following its launch in the second half of the year.
better buying and improved markdown management.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Books sales were impacted in the second half of the OUTLOOk year by the anniversary of the release of Harry Potter We have delivered a strong profit performance across the and the Deathly Hallows last year.
However, gross Group in the year, with growth in profit demonstrating our margin was up, as we continued to implement our relative resilience in challenging trading conditions.
In strategy to rebuild our authority as a popular book Travel we have seen another good performance and have specialist.
Stationery like-for-like sales were flat, also made good progress with the initial integration of reflecting a stationery market that has been soft the acquisitions we made in the year.
In High Street we throughout the year.
Gross margin was up, driven have continued to deliver our strategy to rebuild our by intra-category mix, as well as improved seasonal authority in our core categories and have increased markdown management and increased Far East profit as we do this.
My thanks go to our staff without sourcing.
The limited market data we have shows whose efforts we could not have delivered these results.
that our share continues to be strong.
In the year ahead, we will continue to implement our News and Impulse saw an improvement in gross strategy.
We expect the consumer environment to margin in the year.
The magazine market continues remain challenging and this is likely to mean that to be challenging but our share in News and Magazines Christmas will be very competitive.
We have experience remained broadly stable, supported by successful of operating in this kind of trading environment and have promotions with major newspapers.
We will not chase sales at the we continued with our strategy to reduce steadily our expense of profit but will concentrate on profitable presence in this category and as we do this, we are activity, while consistently delivering a solid operational optimising profitability.
Like-for-like Entertainment performance and the retail basics.
sales were down 18 per cent which was in line with our strategy.
kate Swann group Chief Executive, WH Smith PLC High Street delivered 8m of cost savings during the 9 October 2008 period, in line with our targets.
Cost savings came from a number of areas of the business, including closure of off-site stock rooms, container consolidation and scanner efficiencies.
The High Street business now operates from 557 stores, occupying 3m square feet 2007: 3m square feet.
We opened nine new stores and closed three.
We also reached an agreement in April with Martin McColl to acquire seven high street stores, supporting our strategy to move into un-served catchments.
We have delivered a strong profit performance across the Group in the year, with growth in profit demonstrating our relative resilience in challenging trading conditions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WH Smith PLC
