annual report and accounts 2008 Business review operational Delivering on our strategy Our goal is to be the global business processor of choice.
We bring better service, cost savings 6 and an entrepreneurial culture to our customers.
Hence our motto Xchanging Cost for Profit.
Number of continents we service our customers in David Andrews Chief Executive Officer 46% Compound annual growth rate since our first contract in 2001 to 2008 showing strong growth rate In this section Sharing the global business processor responsive to our customers needs.
We vision with our customers want to be an exciting and rewarding place sharing the global business processor vision with our customers Our mission is the radical improvement to work for our employees in the seven Market outlook of business processing for our customers.
countries that we currently operate in.
And Delivering on our strategy In 2008, we delivered services to customers we look forward to welcoming Cambridge Growing existing platforms in over 38 countries.
This is set to increase employees on board who will become part Adding new platforms in 2009.
Our vision is to become their of the Xchanging Group in 2009.
Becoming the lean processor global business processor of choice.
Of course, 2009 is going to be a Managing a rapidly growing We believe that this is an expectation and increasingly global business challenging year economically and that our partners, customers and the Conclusion an exciting 2009 generally.
Nevertheless, we believe that market have of us.
It guides us in what we are in a growing market sector and Footnote we will do operationally and strategically that we have excellent prospects.
1 Source: IDC, Economic Crisis Response: Worldwide in 2009 and beyond.
and US Business Process Outsourcing Services Market outlook 2008 2012 Forecast: Market Opportunity by Key We recognise that it is our people that Horizontal Business Process Update, Doc #215861, Our customers represent some of the make it happen.
I would like to thank our December 2008.
Total spend for HR, procurement, larger Fortune 500 companies who and finance and accounting in the Americas, employees for the huge efforts in being want consistently high quality services EMEA and Asia Pacific.
20 Xchanging plc 5 XCH ar08 front section a. indd 4 31 03 2009 09:47:24 Business review operational annual report and accounts 2008 globally for the right price.
We believe will result in investment and running cost and procurement are going to take longer that there is pent-up demand.
We are confident to conclude, we will be aggressively instance, full year 2007 SG&A costs that these underlying drivers will result pursuing several during 2009.
At the same for 377 of the Fortune 500 companies in exciting opportunities for business time, we are mindful of the paramount totalled US$1.3 trillion as per available processing services.
importance of partnering with robust information on Factset.
IDC estimated companies, where it makes long-term We saw early indications of the accelerated that the global market for BPO will be economic sense for both of us.
This will market demand with a higher number of 1 us$68 billion by 2012.
The market is continue to be our measure.
new opportunities in 2008 than previously.
still only in early stages of development.
We see the trend continuing in 2009.
2008 has also proved the importance So, the global business processor vision Of particular note is the trend towards of maintaining a heavy emphasis on our is there for us to go after.
bigger and more complex partnering Outsourcing, Products and additional Furthermore, the economic downturn is opportunities with an international services to existing customers.
We continue likely to accelerate the demand for better, dimension.
We believe that this trend to see a healthy pipeline for these offerings cheaper business processing.
At the will play to our strengths.
As market conditions worsen, same time, with increased regulatory we expect companies to look to savings Although such major partnering requirements, pressure to be in compliance though the economies of scale that our opportunities in both processing Xchanging plc 21 5 XCH ar08 front section a. indd 5 31 03 2009 09:47:47 annual report and accounts 2008 Business review operational continued For our financial services customers, We expect the adoption of efficient electronic processing we significantly expanded the Central infrastructures to gather pace during 2009 and 2010.
Price Services CPS capabilities and We believe that Xchanging is uniquely positioned to become automated the existing valuation process.
the preferred processor globally for both brokers and carriers.
With CPS, we provide institutional investors with validated prices for a variety of financial instruments.
Leading insurance processor Xchangings insurance processor success platforms and solutions provide.
Our aim Growing existing platforms to date comes from working collaboratively here is to sell these offerings to grow at a 2008 has been an important year for with our customers.
In 2008, through level that the market allows and consistent investing in our insurance, banking working together with the London market, with our past performance.
and procurement platforms, as well as we achieved significant success in moving strengthening our technology infrastructure Delivering on our strategy from a paper-based to an electronic capabilities.
As a result, we have enhanced To realise our vision and mission we have processing platform.
The investment in our international capabilities in the UK, a simple three-pronged strategy: grow the Insurers Market Repository will simplify Continental Europe, India, the USA and existing platforms, add new platforms dealing with the London insurance market.
Delivering complex missionand be the lean processor.
Doing complex This new suite of electronic services will critical processing gives us an unparalleled processing for blue chip customers, we help in bringing new business to London position for further international growth understand what world-class performance and generate additional revenues for in 2009 and beyond.
It requires powerful economies Xchanging in 2009. of scale and processing precision.
Strong position in On the broking processing side, European Financial Services Therefore, at the heart of our strategy our contract in 2008 with Cooper Gay is the Xchanging Way for defining and Our early move into Germany, Italy and demonstrates the scale benefits envisaged France puts us in the vanguard of business measuring performance and achieving when we established the broking platform processing precision.
In 2009, we expect to see customers, we invested 17.6 million The Xchanging Way customers added to this platform, with during 2008 on being in compliance with We have invested in the Xchanging Way an emphasis on Europe, the USA and Asia.
the new German withholding tax laws as our standard operating methodology Abgeltungssteuer in the banking sector.
We expect the adoption of efficient for implementing and delivering business With our blue chip banking customer base, electronic processing infrastructures processing services globally.
During 2008, we are at the forefront of consolidation, to gather pace during 2009 and 2010. we put significant emphasis on embedding regulatory compliance and safer, leaner We believe that Xchanging is uniquely the Xchanging Way of doing business processing.
We have also made other positioned to become the preferred across all of our operations in seven additional investments into our securities processor globally for both brokers countries.
We will continue to develop processing platform.
and embed our Xchanging Way operating methodology to achieve the level of world-class performance that our customers expect.
In this annual report, we provide some case studies to illustrate performance management the Xchanging Way.
#1 #1 #1 Winner of Industry Leadership Winner of Outsourcer Top European procurement for Straight Through Processing ACORD Accomplishment provider, #2 globally ACORD Accomplishment Award 2008 Source: 2008 Black Book of Outsourcing Award 2008 22 Xchanging plc 5 XCH ar08 front section a. indd 6 31 03 2009 09:47:47 Business review operational annual report and accounts 2008 Global technology solution for carriers For QBE, in 2008 we successfully Growing existing concluded the first phase of a European roll out of Genius our global insurance platforms through software product.
We also entered into an enterprise license agreement with Allianz Global Corporate and Specialty for the outsourcing international implementation of Genius.
We have also signed Business Support Benefits of the outsourcing offering to our customers: contracts with new customers such as ACE reliab ility of a standardised platform economies of scale and completed work for existing customers flexibility of a service delivery model such as Lloyds.
Global procurement and technology hosting In January 2008, we acquired 100% of the share capital of Mercuris SA, a procurement outsourcer serving the financial markets and insurance industries.
Since 1 September 2008, Mercuris SA has been known as Xchanging Procurement Services France.
This acquisition provides a solid base from which to extend our European procurement services.
In 2009, we expect to expand our procurement services to Germany, Asia and the USA.
In 2008, we also entered into an agreement In late 2006, for the management of Birds Eyes utilities Xchangings modern global Xchanging established spend in the UK.
infrastructure with pricing an enterprise flexibility, expandability Partnership with In 2008, our Hosting services have expanded Aon to build a broker and economies of scale significantly to support the demand for processing platform.
benefit Cooper Gay in This platform, called complex technology infrastructures we meeting its current and Xchanging Broking operate for our customers.
We contracted future business needs.
Services XBS, with Northgate Arinso, the UK and Irelands connects the value chain from the broker Cooper Gay is a leading Our expertise in the leading supplier of HR solutions, for London insurance right through to the global independent mainframe and BACS processing services.
One of wholesale, reinsurance market made In 2008, we implemented a new Xchanging the the promised benefits and specialist retail technology trading infrastructure for the of the Partnership was broker.
It believed its business processor future growth strategy of choice.
Also, a future share of third London Metal Exchange.
required an innovative Xchangings for complex technology infrastructure and scalable service responsiveness to Delivering on our solutions is set to continue as part of delivery model for Cooper Gays service promise, we added sustainable process level requirements was mission-critical business processing services.
XBS key in forging this customer to the provides just that relationship.
In August 2008, Aon and Xchanging can unlock superior it entered into an agreement with value from the platform through Xchanging to outsource specific greater economies of scale.
Xchanging plc 23 5 XCH ar08 front section a. indd 7 31 03 2009 09:47:48 annual report and accounts 2008 Business review operational continued as a global BPO powerhouse.
Cambridges Cambridge will be an excellent fit, complementing Singapore, Malaysian and Japanese our existing capacity with US, India and Asia Pacific scale.
operations will further strengthen our Moreover, Cambridge will bring us IT depth, with advanced South East Asian market credibility and our capabilities and some leading-edge products.
ability to serve customers in the region.
In Australia, Cambridges strength in claims processing gives us the opportunity of further developing our global capabilities as a leading claims processor.
It also Adding new platforms us IT depth, with advanced capabilities gives us a base to work from, to meet In 2008, we deliberately turned our and some leading-edge products.
the local demands of several large global attention to increasing our reach to Integration of Cambridge is underway financial companies.
and will follow our standard approach.
At the same time, we have consolidated Enterprise Partnership with During 2009, we will focus our attention our position in Germany with the successful Allianz Global Investors on relationships with key Cambridge implementation of the partnership with In November 2007, we took operational customers and on production improvement.
control of Fondsdepot Bank FDB, our Critical mass in the USA Enterprise Partnership with Allianz Global Cambridge Solutions an excellent fit Cambridge will provide us with the Investors.
FDB provides retail investment In October 2008, we agreed to acquire a opportunity to accelerate in the Insurance account management services and controlling interest in Cambridge Solutions sector where we are aware of a latent provides a funds processing platform Limited Cambridge.
Cambridge is an demand for our services.
In 2009, we will for institutional customers.
international BPO and IT services provider move resources to the USA and recruit to listed in India.
It has more than 4,000 During 2008, we successfully completed build up our presence to meet this demand.
employees in the USA, India, South East the re-alignment phase of the partnership.
Our aim is to expand our London market Asia and Australia.
Cambridge provides The implementation now moves in to claims processing capabilities for customers BPO and IT services to the insurance, the streamlining phase.
This focuses on in the USA.
At the same time, during banking, manufacturing and production standardisation and bringing 2009, we will also start to develop our healthcare sectors.
Ahead of plan, relationships with Cambridges large we grew third party customer accounts Cambridge has been a supplier to American customers.
Open Architecture by 40% since change Xchanging since 2006.
It will be an Proven Asia Pacific credentials of control.
excellent fit, complementing our existing In India, Cambridges local listing will capacity with US, India and Asia Pacific Over 80% of investment account increase Xchangings visibility and enable scale.
Moreover, Cambridge will bring administration is performed in-house in us to take advantage of Indias position Germany.
Therefore, during 2009, we will be actively seeking back-office consolidation opportunities with asset managers to offer economies of scale to customers.
Chatham, UK Our open plan offices show our belief in transparency to our employees and to our customers.
24 XCHANGING PLC 5 XCH ar08 front section a. indd 8 31 03 2009 09:47:50 Business review operational annual report and accounts 2008 Xchangings and Cambridge's revenue million 2005 06 2007 08 Adding new platforms Xchanging Cambridge 557.8 468.2 through acquisitions 393.5 350.0 170.5 159.0 144.3 2005 05 06 2006 06 07 2007 07 08 2008 The acquisition of Cambridge Solutions Limited Xchanging for the years ended December 2005, 2006, is closely aligned to our strategy: 2007, 2008: Cambridge for the years ended March 2006, 2007, 2008 based on IFRS as adopted by adds international presence and market access Xchanging.
Based on GBP:Rs exchange rate of 1:79.6049. creates scale to drive lean processing brings IT depth On 3 October 2008, Xchangings geographic split Xchanging signed by revenue 2008 contracts to acquire uK 69.7% 75% of the fully diluted share capital of Cambridge Solutions continental europe 28.0% Limited.
We will consolidate the results from 1 January 2009, Rest of the world 2.3% being the date when we assumed operational control.
This is an exciting relationship with strategic advantages.
With Cambridge, we have invested in our future.
This acquisition is in clear alignment with our growth strategy.
It will give us the geographic breadth The acquisition will truly take to grow our platforms: Combined revenues by geography Xchanging forward in the large American Xchanging and Cambridge 2007 08 customers realisation of our ambition to be uK 56% strong Australian the global business processor.
business with North America 17% substantial processing Rest of the world 3% infrastructure IT development continental europe 20% scale in India, Singapore and As a combined group, The acquisition will australia 4% Malaysia.
we will have the scale truly take Xchanging Based on combination of Xchangings revenues for the for lean processing: forward in the We will have new year ended December 2007 and Cambridge's revenues operations in nine realisation of our platforms: for the year ended March 2008. countries ambition to be the claims processing c. 1,300 employees global business platforms in the in the USA, processor.
usa and australia c. 3,900 in Europe IT and processing and c. 3,400 in services platforms Asia Pacific.
Xchanging plc 25 5 XCH ar08 front section a. indd 9 31 03 2009 09:47:52 annual report and accounts 2008 Business review operational continued We are building the strength and depth of management team required to meet our vision to be the global business processor.
Becoming the lean processor Medium term, the acquisition of Cambridge With increased regulatory oversight and will provide further opportunities to create the rising cost of compliance, there is an scale advantage.
2009 will see a continuing even greater need for processing precision, emphasis on standard production.
We will coupled with the power of economies set up standard processing centres in the of scale.
This is exactly what the lean USA, India and Australia that will be processing element of our strategy linked with Xchangings existing capacity strives for.
Processing precision Managing a rapidly growing Xchanging has established a unique and increasingly global business approach for processing precision.
It goes We are building the strength and depth well beyond Six Sigma and is part of our of management team required to meet our continuing investment in the Xchanging vision to be the global business processor.
During 2008, we implemented a set We welcome Stewart McCulloch and of standard production methods across Matthias Sohler who joined the Xchanging our top 10 centres globally.
We also Management Board from 1 January 2009. commissioned a new technology Both previously held senior positions infrastructure to support complex outside of Xchanging, and bring a wealth processing.
Combining standard of industry and international experience.
Our communication hubs in Germany, India and the UK production, world-class technology In 2009, several of our existing senior The Xchanging Way is evident in all our offices.
and global scale, Xchanging is creating Our hubs show our global standardised approach.
members of management are re-locating a new blueprint for the business to the USA and to Asia Pacific to spearhead processing industry.
We will continue to add A winning formula for Global Balancing new members to the management team to We aim to balance workloads globally and represent geographic and cultural breadth.
meet the highest standard demanded by We said goodbye to Adele Browne and customers in the regulated industries we Mike Margetts who have been with the serve.
In 2008, we made significant strides Xchanging Group since its earliest days.
in sharing spare capacity and combining We wish them well for the future.
the advantages of local, nearshore and 89% As Nigel has highlighted in his Chairmans offshore processing.
During 2009, we Percentage of employees report, Adele leaves in March 2009. will continue to develop the concept in top 10 processing centres Thereafter, she will continue to provide of Global Balancing.
us with commercial consultancy on a part-time basis.
26 Xchanging plc 5 XCH ar08 front section a. indd 10 31 03 2009 09:47:56 Business review operational annual report and accounts 2008 Conclusion an exciting 2009 We do not under-estimate the scale Lean processing of change or difficulties that 2009 could bring.
Nevertheless, I am excited about in procurement Xchangings prospects.
We have a clear vision, mission and strategy that we are delivering on.
We now have the necessary global coverage and critical mass.
The market for our services remains active.
Benefits of lean processing: processing precision through standardised production We are well placed to deliver organic cost efficiencies through opt imised performance growth and seize opportunities to add maximised ca pacity usage new platforms.
At the same time, we will continue to work on improving our margin.
We begin our tenth year as a company with the ambition to be the global business processor of choice by our customers and a good place to work.
David Andrews Chief Executive Officer 2 March 2009 Xchanging is a Our process precision pioneer in optimising methodology is about radical and standardising improvement.
We formalise our force for change, bringing know-how into the better service to our customers Xchanging Way and helping us achieve lean our standardised processor status.
operating methodology to drive productivity and of 20 working days.
number of queries service improvement.
Follow-up queries from vendors reduced Xchanging from vendors led to from 520 per day Procurement Services non value added work to 52 per day.
provide order raising and responses from This naturally led to and invoice processing vendors being left in increased customer services to a number individual mail boxes.
Resources of blue chip freed up were In response, our customers.
re-deployed elsewhere process team put a in the business.
in one situation vendor query tracking our performance system in place to By working at measurement flagged optimise the process.
a detailed level, up invoice query cycle As a result, the our process teams times that needed to percentage of invoice contribute to lean be reduced.
Only 21% queries resolved within processing across of invoice queries were 20 working days Xchanging.
resolved within the increased from 21% customer requirement to 92%.
