Report of the Directors Business review The market worsened further from the beginning of April with selling prices coming under increased pressure and sales rates This has been a very challenging year for the Group.
In the context of this intensely difficult market, the Group has delivered Although the year started with relatively normal a satisfactory performance with 18,588 seasonal trends, the impact of interest rate rises completions 2007: 17,168 and profit from 1 operations before exceptional costs of and the liquidity squeeze affecting the availability 3 550.2m 2007: 513.3m restated.
As a and cost of mortgage finance led to a more difficult result of inventory write-downs of 208.4m 1 and other exceptional costs of 46.6m, the market place from September onwards.
Groups profit from operations was 295.2m 3 2007: 487.1m restated.
Housebuilding We completed 18,588 properties in the year, up from 17,168 in the prior year.
These completions delivered housebuilding total revenue of 3,414.2m 2007: 3,001.4m and a housebuilding profit from operations We build first time buyer homes, family homes and luxury apartments.
Main image: White Sand at Camber by Ward Homes.
Right: The Crescent at Torre Marine, Torquay.
1 Exceptional costs, comprising impairment of inventories, goodwill, intangible assets and restructuring costs were 255.0m of which 173.1m related to the housebuilding business and 81.9m to the commercial developments business 2007: 26.2m, of which 25.6m related to the housebuilding business and 0.6m to the commercial developments business.
Barratt Developments 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors | Business review 1 before exceptional costs of 530.0m 2007: sales: a 3.9% increase in the price of our issues impacting upon the US housing and 3 506.8m restated.
Of our total completions, social units, to 95,900: offset by an increase sub-prime markets.
From September onwards 14,803 were private sales 2007: 14,335, up in the proportion of social sales from 15.9% the market was affected by the collapse of 3.3%.
Sales of social housing units increased in the prior year to 20.4% this year.
The Northern Rock, the impact of five interest by 33.6% to 3,785 sales 2007: 2,833. increase of 3.9% in the average selling price rate rises and the credit crunch on the of private homes benefits from a change availability and cost of mortgages.
In the 2 On a like-for-like basis, total completions in our mix of sales, since despite a fall of third quarter we experienced an uplift in decreased by 13.8%.
Private completions approximately 5% in the underlying sales visitor numbers and sales rates compared were 18.4% lower whilst social completions prices and a 1.2% fall in the average size of to the first half.
However, this improvement were 10.1% higher.
Social housing sales unit sold, our overall average sales price has proved to be short-lived with a significant represented 20.4% of the Groups sales in benefited from a number of high value sales deterioration in the market from the the current year, versus 15.9% in the prior in premium London locations.
The decrease in completions on a  profit from operations 2 1 The average sales price for the year was like basis illustrates the challenging markets before exceptional costs was 530.0m 3 183,100, which was up by 6.0% on the prior that the sector is facing.
Over the course 2007: 506.8m restated giving a margin of 2 3 year and by 1.3% on a like-for-like basis.
The of the financial year, market conditions have 15.5% 2007: 16.9% restated.
The decrease 2 small increase on a like-for-like basis reflects progressively deteriorated.
The year started in operating margin can be explained by a 3.9% increase, from 197,600 to 205,400, with relatively normal seasonal trends in a number of factors.
Firstly, our underlying in the average selling price of our private July and August, despite the well publicised average selling prices have decreased by Key performance indicator 2008 2007 Movement Operational Residential completion numbers 18,588 17,168 8.3% Discussed in the section entitled Housebuilding on pages 8 to 11.
183,100 172,800 6.0% Discussed in the section Average sales price entitled Housebuilding Residential turnover divided by on pages 8 to 11. the number of completions 78,700 86,400 8.9% Discussed in the section Land bank plots entitled Land on page 11.
Number of residential plots owned and controlled 88% 88% Discussed in the section Customer recommendation levels 2 on a like-for-like entitled Quality and The percentage of customers who basis service on page 12. would recommend us to a friend 90% 62% 28% Discussed in the section Percentage of our workforce entitled Our people and that are fully CSCS carded expertise on page 12. and qualified 71% 78% 7% Discussed in the section Percentage of developments of Barratt Homes entitled Environment on built on brownfield land developments pages 13 to 14.
656 857 23.5% Discussed in the section Reportable injury incidence rate restated to include entitled Health and Rate per 100,000 people employed all Wilson Bowden safety on pages 14 to 15. reportable accidents Financial Above: Twelve unrivalled residences on Bishops Avenue, London.
Revenue 3,554.7m 3,046.1m 16.7% Discussed in the Group Finance Directors review 3 Profit from operations 295.2m 487.1m 39.4% on pages 16 to 19.
3 Profit before tax 137.3m 424.8m 67.7% 3 Earnings per share 25.0p 115.4p 78.3% Profit after tax divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 2 Like-for-like basis assumes that the acquisition of Wilson Bowden was completed on the first day of the comparative period.
Wilson Bowden achieved 6,052 completions, revenue of 1,422.1m, operating profit of 219.2m and a profit before tax of 191.7m in the twelve months ended 30 June 2007.
Prior to acquisition, Wilson Bowden achieved 4,401 completions, Barratt Developments revenue of 1,042.5m, operating profit of 165.3m including 22.7m of exceptional costs and profit before tax of 141.2m.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 3 The results for the year ended 30 June 2007 have been restated as explained in note 1 to the financial statements.
Report of the Directors | Business review Core strength around 5%, which has reduced margins by 4%, reflecting the pressure upon sales prices particularly during the last quarter.
In addition, Geographic and product diversity increased selling costs further reduced margins by 0.6%.
We have already referred to our cost-reduction programme and this along with mix changes has benefited the margin by 2.7%.
Land sales and other income also added 0.5% to the margin.
The Group is implementing the following further measures to reduce its costs.
We have in place a programme to reduce build costs by: changing specifications and improving build processes, renegotiating subcontractor rates, and reducing the cost of most major materials.
These measures are expected to deliver 40m of annual cost savings in 2008 9, of which 20m was achieved in the current financial year.
In addition, the operational integration of the Wilson Bowden acquisition has been completed with 33m of cost savings being achieved in the current financial year.
The Group remains on track to deliver approximately 60m of annualised cost savings in 2008 9 compared to the costs of the two organisations prior to acquisition.
During the year ended 30 June 2008, the Group has incurred 15.9m of restructuring and reorganisation costs.
These include redundancies made during the year, divisional office closures, reorganisations, and contract termination costs.
Our wide product range caters for first time buyers to families under At the beginning of July we announced the Barratt Homes, David Wilson Homes and Ward Homes brands.
that we would be closing two divisions and merging a further eight divisions into four.
The Chelworth at Swans Reach, Daresbury, Cheshire above top This has reduced the number of operating is a four bedroom David Wilson family home featuring a well equipped divisions within the business to 26, down from kitchen breakfast room, dining room for entertaining and a study.
35 at the end of last year and 44 at the time Barratt Homes carefully renovated and converted a derelict former of the acquisition of Wilson Bowden and has nurses home at Bloomsbury Terrace, London bottom left and created resulted in the loss of approximately 1,200 jobs.
54 superb apartments including 20 for key workers and first time buyers.
This reorganisation along with other cost savings across the business is expected Eton Court at Fareham, Hampshire bottom right is a gated development to deliver annualised savings of 40m.
We of 24 one and two bedroom apartments.
expect to deliver the majority of these cost savings in 2008 9.
The cost of these changes is anticipated to be 15m, of which most will be incurred in the first half of 2008 9.
Barratt Developments 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors | Business review We have in place a We are progressing with the process to price of 183,100.
The Group trades using divest the assets from the Wilson Bowden the Barratt Homes, David Wilson Homes programme to reduce Developments portfolio which have a potential and Ward Homes brands.
Barratt Homes build costs... renegotiating cash value of around 200m.
We hope to be is focussed upon urban regeneration, able to move the majority of these through to apartments and traditional houses whilst subcontractor rates, and completion over the next six to twelve months.
David Wilson Homes predominantly focusses reducing the cost of most upon family homes.
Ward Homes is a regional Land brand based in Kent.
The Group land bank consists of both owned and controlled plots, and plots where offers We operate throughout Great Britain and at Commercial developments have been accepted.
30 June 2008 we were selling from 585 sites Commercial developments delivered a 2007: 590 sites spread over 32 2007: 35 revenue of 140.5m 2007: 44.7m and a profit divisions.
The post year-end announcement 2008 Plots 2007 Plots 1 from operations before exceptional costs of regarding divisional closures and mergers Owned and controlled 78,700 86,400 20.2m 2007: 6.5m.
Exceptional costs in will reduce our number of operating divisions Offers accepted 13,700 23,300 the commercial developments segment were to 26, but will not reduce either our product Total 92,400 109,700 81.9m, consisting of full impairment of the range or our geographical reach.
goodwill and intangible assets created upon acquisition of 30.7m and impairment of The provision of affordable homes continues inventories of 51.2m.
The operating loss Land additions during the year were 922m to be a key component of our activities of the commercial developments segment 2007: 1,013m.
The Group has an extensive with the Group completing 3,785 homes for was 61.7m.
This performance reflected the owned and controlled land bank, which is housing association partners during the year increasingly difficult market conditions and sufficient to meet our requirements at current at an average selling price of 95,900.
We are the pressure upon yields in the commercial completion rates for 4.2 years 2007: 4.0 years one of the leading providers in the industry of property market.
and therefore almost all of the cash expenditure affordable homes for rent, shared ownership in 2008 9 on land will relate to contractual or low cost homes for sale.
We believe that During the year ended 30 June 2008, we commitments already entered into.
our strength in this area provides opportunities completed our 194,600 square feet Riverside for the Groups further growth especially in Exchange office development in Sheffield, During the year, the Group has impaired its light of Government policy.
which was pre-let to the Home Office.
inventories by 208.4m, further details of We continue to make excellent progress on which are provided in the Group Finance We continue to be committed to delivering our forward-sold 102,000 square feet office Directors review on pages 16 and 17.
After this affordable homes for first time buyers.
We have development in the centre of Manchester, impairment, our land bank has a carrying value continued to invest in our range of popular and 3 which we expect to complete in the autumn.
pioneering iPad homes and during the year have legally completed 312 homes 2007: 120 and With regard to our industrial portfolio, we At 30 June 2008, 98% of our supply for the at 30 June 2008 had planning permission for completed the sale of a 48,000 square feet next financial year had detailed planning over 700 homes not yet under construction.
unit let to Parcel Force at our Cambuslang permission.
In addition we have 10,900 acres We are building iPads on developments in site in Glasgow, and we also completed of strategic land which we carry at its current locations including Edinburgh, Leeds, Cardiff the sales of a 56,000 square feet unit to realisable value until the Group obtains all and Swansea, enabling as many people as Takeuchi and a 27,500 square feet unit necessary planning consents, so as to minimise possible to benefit from these innovative and to Vindon Scientific at our prestigious the Groups exposure to risk from this portfolio.
We have also supported development in Rochdale.
1,459 buyers throughout the country with our Core strengths own shared-equity products where we retain On the retail side, we are on target to complete Our core strengths of geographic and product a proportion of the home interest-free for a our redevelopment of Wrexham town centre diversity, quality and service, and people and specified period.
In addition, during the year during 2008 9, delivering 382,000 square feet expertise remain robust.
we completed 232 homes 2007: 133 under of prime retail space.
Here, we have 90% the English Partnerships First Time Buyer of lettings either secured or under offer.
In Geographic and product diversity Initiative at developments across the addition, as preferred developer, we continue The Group offers a wide product range, country including Leeds, Liverpool, Torquay to push forward with our town centre retail from first time buyer to luxury apartments and and Brentwood.
We have also participated and office regeneration schemes in readiness family homes with prices ranging from under in schemes to allow key workers to get to proceed when the market returns.
68,000 to 11 million, and an average selling onto the property ladder: for example at our Barratt Developments Annual Report and Accounts 2008 11 Report of the Directors | Business review Bloomsbury Terrace development in London throughout the organisation.
In the year ended the unprecedented lack of access to almost 40% of the units are available for key 30 June 2008, our overall customer satisfaction mortgages has meant that we, in common workers who can purchase a minimum of rating has improved to 81% 2007: 80% with all other housebuilders, have had to 2 35% of the property with English Partnerships on a like-for-like basis.
In addition, 88% reduce costs right across the organisation.
providing the remainder of the funds.
of customers responded that they would It is deeply regrettable that the challenging recommend us to a friend 2007: 88% on a market conditions have meant that we have 2 During the year we have made progress like-for-like basis, a satisfactory achievement had to look closely at our structure and as with a number of key regeneration schemes against a backdrop of considerable change a result have seen around 1,200 talented and sites.
in the business and the market.
As part of our people leave the Group.
commitment to customer service, we continue In London, we recently began building 63 to train and develop all of our employees to Despite the current economic environment, homes in one of Londons largest regeneration ensure the highest standards are met and we it is important that we continue to schemes, a new Docklands community of are further developing our customer service develop and invest in our people and their 2,700 homes around the Canada Water basin in IT systems to support this.
expertise to ensure the continued success Southwark.
As well as new homes, the project of our business.
will include a new library, civic plaza, leisure The quality of our product offerings has amenities and green space.
A key feature of the been recognised once again this year with Our Graduate Recruitment and Development development will be the use of 10% renewable our construction teams winning an industry Programme has been a success.
We also recently started work upon the leading 73 National House-Building Council 39 graduates participating in a two year first major residential element, comprising 250 NHBC Pride in the Job quality awards, multi-disciplinary programme of both on-job homes, of the 160m transformation of Dalston, an improvement on last years achievement and off-job modules.
All of the graduates Hackney.
This project will provide over 550 of 71 awards.
This excellent performance have completed volunteering activities in the homes plus shops, a library and a new Tube is a new record for the Group and is the local community, supporting our corporate station, and will include  largest number ever awarded to a single responsibility strategy.
measures such as green roofs and combined business.
In addition, in 2007, Barratt heat and power generation.
became the first housebuilder to win both We have embedded succession planning of the industrys most prestigious awards, processes across the business with bi-annual In the Midlands, we have been selected by for large housebuilders, for quality reviews in place.
Every individual identified Birmingham City Council to redevelop the workmanship with two of our site managers, on the succession plan with the potential to Shard End Crescent shopping parade into Jamie Bishop and Paul Robinson, winning progress in the next two years has a personal a state of the art urban village centre.
The Supreme Awards in the large builder and development plan.
This plan may involve 33m scheme will contain approximately multi-storey categories.
items such as attending our Leadership 2,000 square metres of retail, around 190 Development programme or having a coach new homes, a new community library and We were also named Homebuilder of the Year or mentor to promote development.
neighbourhood office, and a new vicarage.
at the Mail on Sunday British Homes Awards All of the facilities will be arranged around a and we won awards for the best housing We conducted our first Engagement Survey central square to create a safe, secure and project Great West Quarter, best small house in January 2008, which has enabled us to pleasant living environment.
eScape at Eden Village, Sittingbourne and ascertain how we can make our business were joint winner of the best affordable housing a better place to work and become an We have also started work upon a major development Tachbrook Triangle.
At the Your employer of choice.
We have also introduced riverside regeneration scheme in Tyneside, New Home Awards the best city development human resources key performance indicators at the former Stella South power station site was awarded for our The Zone development to enable us to measure the success of our at Blaydon.
This scheme will provide 275 in Bristol.
In the Hot Property Awards we people strategy more effectively and to enable new Barratt homes.
won platinum awards for the best waterside us to take appropriate action on staff turnover, development Bakers Mill, Sudbury, best retention, sickness, absence and capability.
Quality and service value for money development Forest Place, As a Group we are committed to offering the Walthamstow and best family homes Kings We have continued to make progress highest standards of customer service and to Meadow, Newmarket.
towards our target of a fully Construction operating in a transparent way.
Our customers Skills Certification Scheme CSCS carded are central to all of our business operations and Our people and expertise and qualified workforce, including our as such we continue to develop our service We recognise that one of our key strengths subcontractors, by 2010.
At present, 90% by listening to our customers, monitoring our as a Group is our people.
The extent 2007: 62% of our workforce, including performance and adopting best practice of the decline in the housing market and subcontractors, has achieved this target.
Barratt Developments 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors | Business review Environment Core strength During the year, we have made substantial progress in pursuing our environmental Quality, service and design agenda to enable us to respond to the challenge made by the Governments requirement for all new homes to be zero carbon by 2016.
We have completed building the Green House prototype home at the Business Research Establishments Innovation Park using an award winning design developed by architects Gaunt Francis.
The Minister for Housing, the Right Honourable Caroline Flint MP, officially opened this home in May 2008.
This is the first house to be built by a mainstream housebuilder that meets the highest level, code level six, of the Governments code for Sustainable Homes which will emit zero carbon on average over the course of a year.
The home includes innovative eco-friendly features such as heavyweight construction that mitigates peaks and troughs of temperature change within the house, an air source heat pump to convert the energy of air into heat supplying the house, solar hot water panels, automatic window shutters to prevent the house over-heating in the summer and Would recommend to a friend % photovoltaic panels to supply power.
The home is now the subject of rigorous scientific testing 05 80 over the next two years assessing every aspect 06 85 of its design, construction and materials.
We 07 88 intend to take the most successful aspects of 08 88 the design and apply them to future homes that we build.
2 2007 results are prepared on a like-for-like basis.
We are to develop Hanham Hall, near Bristol into the first large-scale zero carbon community in Britain, having won the first site of English Partnerships Carbon Challenge.
We are committed to the highest standards of customer service.
In the The community will comprise 200 homes and year ended 30 June 2008, 88% of customers responded that they would commercial space and is due to be completed recommend us to a friend, a satisfactory achievement against a backdrop in 2011.
All of the homes on the site will meet of considerable change in the business and the market.
the requirements for code level six of the We have won a series of national awards including Homebuilder of the Governments Code for Sustainable Homes, Year at the Mail on Sunday British Homes Awards, and at the Your New which will enable a family living there to reduce Home Awards, The Zone in Bristol won the best city development its carbon footprint by 60%.
The development main picture: the Vanquish at The Zone.
will also include many environmentally friendly features including a combined heat and Charlotte Salvage pictured above purchased the elegant and spacious power plant generating carbon neutral energy, Richmore at Manor Farm, North Hykeham, a few miles from RAF Waddington a sustainable urban drainage system and where she is based, with the help of our Forces Discount Scheme.
retention of existing hedgerows and trees.
We continue to look to include carbon saving measures on our developments, and 21 of our Barratt Developments Annual Report and Accounts 2008 13 Report of the Directors | Business review Core strength sites, where we registered legal completions in the year ended 30 June 2008, incorporated a renewable energy source on-site.
These Our people and expertise included solar panels, wind turbines and combined heat and power units.
Our peoples expertise ensures the continued success of our business.
We continue to build the majority of our We are the first major housebuilder to build a code level six house, the developments on brownfield sites, with 71% Green House.
The main picture shows the living area of the Green House.
2007: 78% of Barratt Homes developments of our developments in the year being built upon Our construction teams won an industry leading 73 NHBC Pride in the brownfield land, which significantly exceeds Job quality awards, and were awarded the prestigious NHBC Supreme the Governments target of 60%.
Awards for quality workmanship in the large builder and multi-storey categories NHBC Supreme Award winner Jamie Bishop below right.
The Group continues to make excellent progress We train and develop our employees to ensure the highest standards in accreditation of divisions to the environmental of customer service.
Allyson Wilkins below left came to work for Barratt standard ISO 14001.
We previously reported that having purchased a new home at Tudor Park, Wolverhampton.
all Barratt divisions had achieved accreditation and that we would target the eight David Wilson Homes divisions this year.
This has been achieved and all the Groups divisions are now accredited to the standard.
The Group has reviewed its overall objectives for environmental management and has set targets for improved on-site and office performance.
To assist the divisions, all of the Safety, Health and Environmental management team are undergoing accredited training to enable membership of the Institute of Environmental Management and Assessment IEMA.
Health and safety The Group considers health and safety to be of paramount importance for its employees, customers and the general public.
The Group is saddened to report the death of one person and serious illness of another at a completed development at Bedfont Lakes in West London in February 2008.
The primary cause appears to be carbon monoxide poisoning from a gas heating installation.
We continue to work closely with the authorities in their investigation and our thoughts remain with the families of those involved in the incident.
Notwithstanding this tragic event, we have continued to make good progress in the field of health and safety with a reduction in our reportable injury incidence rate to 656 per 100,000 persons employed, a reduction of 23.5% on the previous year the enlarged Barratt Developments 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors | Business review Group had a reportable injury incidence rate Principal risks of the Group include, but are not limited to: of 857 for 2006 7.
Risk Mitigation Market In addition, we have revitalised and reissued Response to changes in the macroeconomic The Executive Directors conduct a weekly meeting which reviews key trading climate including buyer confidence and indicators, including sales rates, visitor levels and levels of incentives and cash our Safety, Health and Environmental interest rates flow projections.
management system and have further Availability of mortgage finance for The Executive Directors monitor on a weekly basis the number of reservations strengthened our in-house team.
This has our purchasers that require mortgages.
The Group has a policy of giving mortgage providers complete transparency provided the focus to enable overall regarding house purchase prices alongside any discounts or other incentives improvements in our performance with in order that they have appropriate information upon which to base their lending decision.
all divisions achieving over 88% compliance Provision of high quality product and service The Group has a comprehensive approach to quality, service and customer following monitoring visits to developments.
to maintain brand quality and minimise care enshrined in the Forward through Quality initiative and customer care remedial costs code of practice.
The Group continues with certifying divisions Liquidity to the heath and safety standard OHSAS Availability of sufficient borrowing The Group actively maintains a mixture of long-term and medium-term facilities to enable the servicing of committed facilities that are designed to ensure that it has sufficient available 18001.
At 30 June 2008, 27 of the 32 liabilities as they fall due funds for operations.
housebuilding divisions and Wilson Bowden The Groups borrowings are typically cyclical throughout the financial year and as such the Group maintains sufficient headroom to cover these requirements.
Developments were certified to this level and On a normal operating basis the Group has a policy of maintaining headroom of 250m of available committed facilities.
we aim to have all remaining divisions certified The Group has in place a comprehensive detailed regular forecasting process by the end of 2008. encompassing profitability, working capital and cash flow that is fully embedded in the business.
These forecasts are further stress tested at a Group level to ensure that adequate headroom within our facilities and banking Corporate responsibility covenants is maintained.
As outlined in the sections above the Group Inability of the Group to refinance The Group has a policy that the maturity of its committed facilities and private its facilities as they fall due placement notes is at least three years on average.
has continued to make good progress on corporate responsibility throughout the year.
Land Securing sufficient land of appropriate size Each division produces a detailed site-by-site monthly analysis of the amount and quality to provide profitable growth of land currently owned, committed and identified.
These are consolidated The Groups 2008 Corporate Social subject to the available borrowing facilities upwards for regular review at Board level.
In addition, each operating division holds weekly land meetings.
Responsibility Report will contain further Every land acquisition is subject to a formal appraisal procedure and is details on our progress in corporate required to achieve an overall Group defined hurdle rate of return.
responsibility and will be found on the Groups Government regulation website, www.
co. uk, Delays obtaining required planning The Group has considerable in-house technical and planning expertise and technical consents devoted to achieving implementable planning consents.
Consequence of changes in The Group has adopted a low risk strategy to tax planning and potential tax legislation and actual changes in tax legislation are monitored by both our industry Group key risks experienced in-house finance teams and our external tax advisors.
The Groups financial and operational Construction performance is subject to a number of risks.
Failure to identify and achieve key The Groups weekly reporting identifies the number of properties at key stages construction milestones of construction.
Projected construction rates are evaluated as part of the The Board seeks to ensure that appropriate monthly forecasting cycle.
processes are put in place to manage, Excessive investment in work in progress The build status of all sites is reported weekly and compared to sales taken monitor and mitigate these risks which on each site.
are identified in the table on the right.
Failure to promptly identify cost overruns The total costs on every site in progress are evaluated once a quarter and reviewed by the divisional management teams.
Innovative design and construction The Group ensures that it is at the forefront of design and construction techniques The Group recognises that the management techniques are not employed by a combination of in-house technical departments, the employment of external of risk is fundamental to the achievement of consultants and an ongoing commitment to building experimental house types.
As such all tiers of management Health and safety The Group has a dedicated health and safety audit department which is independent of the management of the operating divisions.
are involved in this process.
Consideration of the impact of construction The Group regularly monitors a number of environmental impact indicators.
schemes upon the environment and social The results of this will appear in our Corporate Social Responsibility Report Details of the Groups management of liquidity surroundings later this year.
risk, market risk, credit risk and capital risk in People relation to financial instruments is provided Ability of the Group to attract and retain a The Group has a comprehensive Human Resources policy in place which sufficiently skilled and experienced workforce includes apprentice schemes, a Graduate Recruitment Programme, succession in note 27 to the financial statements.
planning, training schemes tailored to each discipline and the Group has set Adequate succession planning to retain itself the target of having a fully CSCS carded and qualified workforce by 2010. and develop key management skills Outlook Underfunding of the Groups obligations in An actuarial valuation is conducted every three years.
The Group reviews this and The Group Chief Executive has discussed the respect of the defined benefit pension scheme considers what additional contributions are necessary to make good this shortfall.
outlook for the business on page 7.
Barratt Developments Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15
