20 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 Report of the Directors i Share capital The directors present their report and the j Future developments audited financial statements for the Group for the year ended 31 October 2008.
A review of the investment activities for the year ended 31 October 2008 and the outlook for the coming financial Status year are given in the Managers Review on pages 5 to 16.
The Company is incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
It is an investment company a Investment objective and policy as defined in Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985 and The Companys objectives are to achieve long term asset operates as an investment trust in accordance with Section growth in excess of the FTSE All-Share Index and regular 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
It is dividend growth in excess of the increase in the Retail Prices required to seek HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approval of Index.
To achieve these objectives the Companys investment its status as an investment trust under the above-mentioned policy is to invest its assets in a portfolio primarily composed Section 842 every year, and this approval will continue to be of international equities.
The portfolio is broadly diversified sought.
HMRC approval of the Companys status as an by both geography and sector in order to reduce investment investment trust has been received in respect of the year risk.
The Manager has the flexibility to invest in any ended 31 October 2007 although this approval is subject to geographic region and has no set limits on individual there being no subsequent enquiries under Corporation Tax country or sector exposures, although the Board regularly Self Assessment.
The directors are of the opinion that the monitors the Companys investments and the Managers Company has continued to conduct its affairs in a manner investment activity.
The Manager primarily employs a bottom that will enable it to continue to gain such approval.
The up value based investment process to identify suitable Company has no employees.
opportunities and pays particular regard to cash generation and dividends.
ISAs While the Company will mainly invest in international equities, With effect from 6 April 2008: there is the flexibility to invest in debt securities, such as the annual Individual Savings Account ISA investment convertibles, corporate bonds or sovereign debt, if it is allowance has been increased to 7,200: and deemed that these will, at a particular time or for a particular all existing PEP accounts have automatically become Stocks period, enhance the performance of the Company in the and Shares ISAs and are subject to ISA rules and pursuit of its objectives.
The use of any derivative instruments regulations.
such as financial futures, options and currency hedges will only be for the purposes of efficient portfolio management.
The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs so that its investments fully qualify for a stocks and shares The Company will not invest more than 15% of its component of an ISA.
investment portfolio in any single investment on acquisition, nor will it invest more than 15% of its Business Review investment portfolio in any other UK listed investment The following review is designed to provide information trusts or investment companies.
primarily about the Companys business and results for the The Company will at times borrow money, both short and year ended 31 October 2008 and covers: long term, in order to enhance performance.
The draw a Investment objective and policy down of borrowings may be in currencies other than b Performance for the year and dividends Sterling, provided that the borrowings do not exceed the assets in that particular currency.
The gearing range is c Performance measurement and key performance indicators between 0% and 20% and gearing will not exceed 20% d Management arrangements of Net Asset Value at the time of draw down of the e Related party transactions relevant borrowings.
f Continued appointment of the Manager The Company achieves an appropriate spread of investment g Principal risks and uncertainties risk principally through a broadly diversified portfolio which h Bank facilities and gearing at 31 October 2008 contained over 200 individual The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 21 Report of the Directors continued investments.
At 31 October 2008 the largest single average discount premium for the Companys relevant investment was BP which accounted for 4.0% of total Association of Investment Companies AIC sector.
investments, while the top 25 holdings totalled 34.3% of The Board considers the use of share buy-backs to total investments.
Investment risk may be further reduced enhance shareholder value.
During the year 1,015,740 through the use of currency hedging, foreign borrowings shares were purchased.
The Company publishes a NAV and derivatives.
per share figure on a daily basis, through the official newswire of the London Stock Exchange.
This figure is Information regarding the Companys investment exposures calculated in accordance with the AIC formula and can be found on page 18, and performance attribution excludes current financial year revenue items.
This means against our composite benchmark is contained on page 17. that it is on a different basis to the NAV per ordinary Further information regarding investment risk and activity share calculated within the year end financial statements, throughout the year can be found in the Managers Review which does include current financial year revenue items.
Performance against the Companys peer group b Performance for the year and dividends In addition to comparison against the benchmarks and Total net assets at 31 October 2008 amounted to various indices, the Board also considers the performance 385,661,000 compared with 571,020,000 at 31 October of its AIC peer group at each Board meeting.
2007 and the net asset value per ordinary share decreased Total expense ratio TER from 500.1p to 340.8p.
The TER is a measure of the total expenses incurred by the Group net revenue return after taxation for the year was Company including those charged to capital, expressed as 14,473,000, an increase of 10.7% from the previous year.
a percentage of the average shareholders funds over the 2008 2007 % Change year.
The TER is defined here as the total annual pre tax operating expenses management fee and other Net assets as at 31 October 385.7m 571.0m -32.5 administration costs expressed as a percentage of average Revenue return for the year 14.5m 13.1m 10.7 shareholders funds over the year.
The TER before performance fees and borrowing costs but excluding the Dividend payable per share VAT reclaim, amounted to 0.47% 2007: 0.39% of the for the year 11.06p 10.24p 8.0 assets of the Company, and including performance fees The Board aims to achieve regular dividend growth in excess was 0.47% 2007: 0.71%.
The Board regularly monitors all of the increase in the Retail Prices Index.
For 2008 no performance fee was paid.
The final dividend, if approved by shareholders at the AGM, d Management arrangements will be paid on 27 February 2009 to shareholders on the Investment management, accounting, company secretarial register at 6 February 2009.
The Companys shares go and administrative services are provided to the Group by ex-dividend on 4 February 2009. wholly owned subsidiary companies of Henderson Global Investors Holdings plc Henderson.
Under the terms of c Performance measurement and key performance the management contract: indicators The basic annual management fee is 0.30% of gross assets In order to measure the success of the Company in meeting per annum.
its objectives and to evaluate the performance of the Manager, the directors take into account the following key The Manager is eligible for a fee based on the degree of performance indicators: outperformance, calculated on the basis of the average net asset value total return over a rolling three year period Performance measured against the Benchmark compared to a composite index representing in equal The Board reviews and compares, at each meeting, the proportions the FTSE All-Share Index and the FTSE World ex performance of the portfolio as well as the net asset value and share price for the Company and its benchmarks.
The payment of a performance fee in any year is subject to Discount to Net Asset Value NAV At each Board meeting, the Board monitors the level of an outperformance hurdle rate of 1.5% per annum.
the Companys discount premium to NAV and reviews the For the first 1% of outperformance in excess of the hurdle 22 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 Report of the Directors continued rate, a performance fee of 0.15% of average gross assets will Portfolio and market be paid, and in respect of each further 1% of Although the Company invests almost entirely in securities outperformance, a fee of a further 0.2% of average gross that are quoted on recognised markets, share prices may assets up to a maximum performance fee in any one year of move sharply.
The companies in which investments are 0.55% of average gross assets, so that the maximum total made may operate unsuccessfully, or fail entirely.
A fall in fee payable in any one year is 0.85% of average gross assets.
the market value of the Companys portfolio would have an adverse effect on shareholders funds.
The Board No performance fee will be paid in any year if either the reviews the portfolio each month and mitigates this risk Companys net asset value or its share price is lower at the through diversification of investments in the portfolio.
end of the financial year than at the end of the previous financial year.
Investment activity and performance An inappropriate investment strategy for example, in No performance fee will be paid if in any financial year terms of asset allocation or the level of gearing may result distributable income plus revenue reserves is lower than the in underperformance against the Companys benchmark gross dividends payable in the previous financial year.
index and the companies in its peer group.
The Board The notice period for termination of the management monitors investment performance at each Board meeting contract is six months.
and regularly reviews the extent of its borrowings.
All publications of the Companys NAV take account of any Tax and regulatory risks performance fee owing or potentially owing.
A breach of Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 could lead to a loss of investment trust During the year under review the Manager used certain status, resulting in capital gains realised within the services which were provided by or paid for by various portfolio being subject to corporation tax.
In return it placed business, which may have included UKLA Listing Rules could result in suspension of the transactions relating to the Company, with these brokers.
Companys shares, while a breach of the Companies Acts e Related party transactions 1985 and 2006 could lead to criminal proceedings, or Investment management, accounting, company secretarial financial or reputational damage.
The Company must also and administration services are provided to the Group by ensure compliance with the listing rules of the New wholly owned subsidiary companies of Henderson Global Zealand Stock Exchange.
The Manager has contracted to Investors Holdings plc Henderson.
Global custody provide investment, company secretarial, administration services are provided by BNP Paribas Securities Services.
and accounting services through qualified professionals.
These are the only related party transactions currently in The Board receives internal control reports produced by place.
There have been no material transactions with these the Manager on a quarterly basis, which confirmed related parties which have affected the financial position or regulatory compliance during the year.
performance of the Company in the financial year.
Financial f Continued appointment of the Manager By its nature as an investment trust, the Companys The Board reviews the performance of the Investment business activities are exposed to market risk including Manager Manager at each Board meeting.
In the opinion currency risk, interest rate risk and market price risk, of the Directors the continued appointment of the Manager liquidity risk, and credit and counterparty risk.
Details of on the terms agreed is in the interests of the Companys these risks and how they are managed are contained in shareholders as a whole.
The Manager has extensive Note 16 to the Financial Statements on pages 47 to 53. investment management resources and wide experience in Operational managing and administering investment companies.
Disruption to, or failure of, the Managers accounting, g Principal risks and uncertainties dealing or payment systems or the Custodians records The Board has drawn up a matrix of risks facing the Company could prevent the accurate reporting and monitoring of and has put in place a schedule of investment limits and the Companys financial position.
The Company is also restrictions, appropriate to the Companys investment exposed to the operational risk that one or more of its objective and policy, in order to mitigate these risks as far as suppliers may not provide the required level of service.
The principal risks which have been identified and Details of how the Board monitors the services provided the steps taken by the Board to mitigate these are as follows: by the Manager and its other suppliers, and the key
