Business review In September last year, as the outlook for financial markets darkened, our executive team met to reassess our vision for the company, not just for the turbulent times ahead but for the longer term.
Andrew Horton Chief executive differentiator.
A claim is a moment of truth in which client Our vision relationships can be strengthened or weakened, and we In last years annual report we described our vision to have invested heavily in claims expertise to maximise our build a premier risk-taking business measured by results value to our clients.
Similarly, relevant and practical risk and reputation.
Since then, public awareness of the risks management advice is a win-win for us and our clients.
run by all businesses has grown.
We thought it would be It reduces our cost of claims and, for our clients, beneficial to state clearly the risks we are willing to prevention is always better than cure.
We like clients assume and, within this context, to articulate our that take risk management seriously and we are glad to commitment even more strongly.
provide them with tools and resources to help them do so.
Accordingly, in September last year, as the outlook for For brokers, our focus is on making their lives easier and financial markets darkened, our executive team met helping them to enhance their service to clients.
To take to reassess our vision for the company, not just for the one example, in a recent survey among US commercial turbulent times ahead but for the longer term.
We agreed property insurance brokers conducted by confining that our revised vision should be to become, and be Research & Consulting, more than three quarters of recognised as, the highest performing specialist insurer.
respondents said that insurance policies that take For our investors, this means that we aim to achieve the months to arrive a common occurrence in the US highest total shareholder returns and return on equity market were either very or extremely frustrating to their over the insurance cycle in our sector.
We have engineered our US commercial property demanding objective that requires a coordinated effort underwriting systems to issue policies within 24 hours of from all parts of the group.
If we outperform for our binding in over 90% of cases.
investors it will only be because we have first met and At root, our biggest differentiator is our people.
We take exceeded the expectations of our clients and brokers.
extreme care to hire the right people at Beazley And that in turn will depend on putting the considerable individuals who are not only skilled at what they do, but talents of our people to the best possible use.
who can work well together in teams.
And we combine We have confidence that our vision is realistic because, the skills of our people in ways that are still uncommon in all the above respects, we are making good progress.
in the insurance industry, bringing underwriters and For example, we see claims service as an important claims experts together in integrated teams.
com US premiums written since 2005 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 Surplus business Admitted business Our revised vision is important for what it excludes In 2008 we concluded that the development of these as well as for what it includes.
We are not simply a relationships would benefit from a more structured risk-taking business: we are a specialist insurer.
The objectives of our broker relations As such, our primary focus is on the underwriting of programme are to make Beazley the easiest insurer for insurance risks.
We invest the premiums paid by our brokers to do business with, and the insurer that they clients carefully, seeking to mitigate our potential for have most confidence in recommending to their clients.
underwriting losses rather than aggravate it.
This As a Lloyds insurer our relationships with Lloyds brokers conservatism has been a feature of Beazleys investment are clearly critical to our long-term success.
The rationale management since the companys foundation 22 years for our international ofces whether in the US, Asia or, ago.
We may occasionally have foregone exceptional most recently, in Munich, Germany has been to gain profits on higher risk assets, but more importantly access to business that would not normally come to we have never posted a combined underwriting and London through Lloyds brokers.
For most of the lines of investment loss.
business in which we specialise, the Lloyds brand and Finally, we are a specialist insurer.
In our industry, the the expertise of Lloyds brokers are invaluable assets word specialist sometimes needs to be taken with a and we will play our part in maintaining and, wherever grain of salt as no insurer would willingly admit to being possible, increasing the lead that London enjoys over a generalist.
But we can claim more justication than other competing insurance and reinsurance centres.
We do not write all classes of business and in Risk appetite recent years our caution about certain lines notably The group has undertaken a thorough review of its financial institutions D&O has proved justied.
risk appetite in each of its lines of business.
Consistent Growing with our brokers with our stated strategy, we are seeking to capitalise on As a broker-focused insurer, our success depends on market dislocation and achieve growth in those lines of our ability to offer brokers products and services that business where underwriting terms and conditions are will enhance their perceived value in the eyes of clients.
In the near term, these include the This is something we have sought to do throughout our offshore energy, large US commercial property and history, but as our brokers own businesses have reinsurance accounts.
Furthermore, we expect that the become more complex, the task of optimising our rate improvements already being experienced in our value to brokers has also become more complex.
catastrophe exposed lines will extend to other specialist businesses during 2009.
Beazley Annual Report 2008 11 US $m Business review continued We are delighted to announce the acquisition of First The group will increase its catastrophe risk appetite for State, which specialises in US surplus lines commercial a probabilistic 1 in 250 year US event to $510m net property insurance.
This business is part of Hartford of reinsurance 2008: $340m.
We believe that this Financial Services Inc, and is well known to the group increase in the estimated probable maximum loss having been a reinsurance client of ours for many years.
represents an appropriate increase to the groups risk It is a business we have always admired and we believe appetite during times of attractive pricing conditions.
will be an excellent t with our existing US property US business teams.
Our locally underwritten US business increased Europe signicantly in 2008, growing to $269.1m from $175.2m Europe, including the UK, accounted for 180.6m, or the previous year and beating our full year target of 21% of our gross premiums, in 2008.
Of this, $170.3m was written for the account present many of the criteria that are attractive to us in of our US admitted insurance company, Beazley the United States: they are developed insurance and Insurance Company, Inc. while the remaining $98.8m reinsurance markets with significant demand for the was written on a non admitted basis for the account of products and expertise that we offer.
However, broker our Lloyds syndicates.
penetration in many continental European markets is The growth of our local US operations in 2008 played lower than in the US or UK, presenting a challenge to a key role in our cycle management strategy, giving us as a broker-focused insurer.
Accordingly, we have us access to smaller risks that are generally less price proceeded carefully in identifying niche opportunities sensitive than the large scale risks we typically where we can add substantial value.
To take one example, while we In October we opened our second ofce in continental insured 30 of the top 50 A&E design rms in 2008 Europe, in Munich, following the establishment of our as ranked by Engineering News-Record we also won Paris ofce in 2006.
Our objective in Munich is to more than 2,000 new, smaller scale A&E clients.
access high quality reinsurance business, not only from In addition to professional liability business, we also Germany but also from Austria and Switzerland, that underwrite a growing volume of management liability has not historically come to London.
We believe that and property business locally in the US.
In 2008 the our underwriting skills and emphasis on long-term client gross written premium breakdown was $165.7m in relationships more than 80% of our top 20 clients professional liability: $47.3m in management liability: have reinsured with Beazley for 15 years or more and $56.1m across our property portfolio.
will prove attractive in these markets.
com We expect to see premium rates continuing to increase Claims service in most of our business lines in 2009, a trend that is We have invested signicantly in high quality claims likely to be accentuated by a continuing ight to quality service across our lines of business in recent years.
When by clients from insurers perceived as offering less than insurance markets are highly competitive, as they were for impeccable security.
most of 2008, a reputation for excellent claims service is a means to strengthen client loyalty and retention.
Our Lloyds-based operations are well positioned in this environment but we also expect to see further growth We are unusual among Lloyds based insurers in having both organically and through the purchase of First State claims staff in the US as well as in the UK, as we believe in our US operations.
there is value in locating claims expertise closer to our clients.
We are delighted that Anthony Hobkinson has joined us Andrew Horton to lead our specialty lines claims team and build upon Chief executive the strong foundations that David Marock, our new chief 13 February 2009 operating officer, has established over the past three years.
Anthony brings with him more than 20 years experience as a senior lawyer helping insurance and reinsurance clients resolve complex claims.
He joins Beazley from CMS Cameron McKenna.
Outlook In order to meet the favourable opportunities presented by enhanced underwriting conditions, we propose to raise 150m of additional capital through a fully underwritten rights issue and placing.
The capital raised will be used mainly to profitably expand our existing underwriting operations.
As referred to above, part of the proceeds will also be used to acquire First State, thereby expanding our local presence in the US.
