Business Review However, funding for deals largely dried up by the INTRODUCTION first quarter of 2008 and a potential bid for Xstrata The Board has required the Manager to prepare this did not materialise.
Overall, in view of the higher Business Review in accordance with the requirements market volatility, investors preferred defensive of Section 234ZZB of the Companies Act 1985 and stocks and this was reflected in the outperformance it forms part of the Directors Report.
Its function is to of large companies over their small and mid-sized provide a balanced and comprehensive review of the counterparts.
Companys performance and development during the year and its position at the year end.
The review also In 2007, UK GDP grew at a rate of 3.0% compared to covers the principal risks and uncertainties faced by 2.9% in 2006.
However, in light of the credit market the Company and sets out key performance indicators crisis economic growth projections weakened and used to measure, monitor and manage the Companys prompted the Bank of England to cut interest rates business.
The law requires the Companys Auditors twice during the period to the current level of 5.25%.
to report on whether the information given in the These decisions reversed two previous rate increases, Directors Report and Business Review is consistent when policy makers were more concerned by the level with the financial statements.
The Auditors opinion of inflation, which stood at an above-target level of is included in their report on page 29.
MARKET BACKGROUND The outlook for stock prices remains uncertain in The UK stockmarket declined over the review period, view of the weak projections for global GDP growth, mainly due to the fallout of the turmoil in the subparticularly in the US.
Takeover activity continues to prime mortgage market and the resultant credit be supportive while the recent downturn in markets crunch.
Additionally, there were increasing fears has opened up selective buying opportunities.
The about an economic slowdown, especially over the FTSE All-Share Index is currently trading at a twelve latter half of the review period, as the housing market month forward price-to-earnings ratio, which is below and consumer-related sectors witnessed further signs its historical average.
However, stock valuations will of deceleration.
Nevertheless, takeover activity and depend on earnings growth remaining resilient.
strong commodity prices provided some support.
At the end of the review period to 31 March 2008 PORTFOLIO REVIEW the FTSE All-Share Index returned -7.7% on a total For the twelve months to the end of March 2008, return basis.
on a total return basis, the net asset value per share declined by 11.7%, the return on the FTSE All-Share At the sector level, investors stayed away from financial Index being a 7.7% negative.
Over a three year period stocks amid a severe liquidity squeeze in the banking the Companys net asset value has underperformed system, which led to the nationalisation of Northern the Index, rising by 26.7% against a benchmark return Rock.
Despite measures by the government to ease of 31.3% on a total return basis.
However, over the the credit market conditions, banking stocks fell on last three years as a whole the Company has achieved concerns of further write-downs and the consequent a total return of dividends received and share price stress on their capital structures.
Consumer firms such growth of 38.8% greater than any other of its AIC as Marks & Spencer and Next also suffered from the UK Growth and Income peer group.
While stocks with weakening in personal spending.
The cuts in the Bank higher dividend yield have generally performed well of England base rate were not passed on by the banks, over many decades, the last few years have witnessed leading to relatively higher borrowing costs.
This also a period where stocks with lower yields, such as in had an impact on property stocks, as generally tighter the mining sector, have done well.
Conversely, stocks lending conditions led to lower demand for homes.
such as banks and telecoms, which generate good dividends, have underperformed the benchmark.
On a positive note, energy shares benefited from rising In meeting our objective to provide growth in the oil prices amid projections for increased demand for dividends the Company pays, we have had to forego oil.
Metal prices also remained high on continued some of the capital appreciation seen in the market.
Asian demand and takeover activity further supported We believe that this approach will achieve the best mining shares.
Corporate mergers and acquisitions results in the long term.
continued, with Rio Tinto buying the US company Alcan and BHP Billiton making an offer for Rio Tinto.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2008 Page 11 Business Review The portfolio was managed during the year using Investors also welcomed its decision to keep the stake a multi-manager approach, with the Companys in its US joint venture, Verizone Wireless, considered assets split between two Fidelity portfolio managers.
to be an attractive asset.
The two portfolio managers were selected because The tobacco sector was again a major contributor to of their complementary investment styles.
Fidelity is returns, as its defensive qualities were rewarded in a stock-picking investment house and each portfolio an uncertain market environment.
Within the sector, manager constructs his portfolio using a bottom-up Imperial Tobacco announced robust growth in profits approach, where attractive companies are identified for the fiscal year 2007, underpinned by an improving first and the portfolio is constructed to reflect market share.
Aerospace & defence companies also these choices.
provided good returns, with BAE Systems benefiting As at 31 March 2008, the Companys key overweight from strong earnings growth in the first half of 2007. sector positions resulting from stock selection were in PURCHASES support services, tobacco and oil & gas producers.
The holdings in Royal Dutch Shell were increased as The Companys key underweight positions were in the company has good long term oil reserves and is mining, beverages and food producers.
benefiting from the continued strength in the oil price.
The porfolio managers also added to BAE Systems, At 31 March 2008 as the company continues to win major long term Portfolio Index government contracts in the aerospace sector.
Other %% key purchases included Anglo American, the mining FTSE 100 77.2 83.9 company, and AstraZeneca, in the pharmaceutical sector.
FTSE 250 19.7 13.2 SALES FTSE Small Cap 2.5 2.9 Holdings in Vodafone were trimmed after a period Other 0.6 0.0 of strong share price performance, although it remains 100.0 100.0 a core holding.
Similarly, the portfolio managers sold Size analysis of the UK equity portfolio shares in BT, as the company faces a competitive Index is the FTSE All-Share Index environment that will require higher capital spending.
Other holdings that were decreased included National Grid, BHP Billiton, HSBC and Royal Bank of Scotland.
The underweight position in the mining sector was the most significant detractor from portfolio returns, as takeover talks buoyed stocks such as Rio Tinto and PORTFOLIO AS AT 31 MARCH 2008 Xstrata, while higher metal prices provided further The full portfolio as at 31 March 2008 is detailed on support.
Meanwhile, our full weighting in the banking pages 48 and 49 and the distribution of assets as at sector proved detrimental, due to concerns about 31 March 2008 may be found on pages 17 and 18. substantial write-downs on their investments and slower lending growth.
GROWTH INCOME SPLIT The investment management fee and relevant finance The overweight position in building materials supplier costs are allocated between revenue and capital in Wolseley also proved detrimental, as the outlook for line with the Boards expectation of returns from the earnings suffered due to a weak US dollar and the Companys investments over the long term in the form downturn in the US housing market.
of revenue and capital respectively.
Since April 2000, the Company has allocated 70% of management fee Among media stocks, the holding in Yell Group, and debenture interest to capital and 30% to revenue a publisher of directories, also detracted from costs.
The Board keeps this policy under annual review performance: there are concerns that reduced and, having examined consensus forecasts of capital advertising revenues could inhibit its future return and dividend payments, sees no need to cash flows.
change the existing policy at this time.
On a positive note, the overweight position in mobile PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES telecommunications leader, Vodafone, contributed to The Board is ultimately responsible for control systems portfolio returns.
The companys cost-cutting initiatives risk but the day to day operation and monitoring is and market share gains in high-growth emerging delegated to the Manager.
economies have offset revenue erosion in Europe.
Page 12 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2008 Business Review Market risk considers this item and sets gearing parameters or limits The uncertainty over future equity market price from time to time.
The Manager follows these and can movements is an inherent part of the rationale for the invest part of the debenture funds in Fidelity Institutional Companys existence.
The Companys objectives and Cash Fund plc ICF and short term cash deposits to the means of attaining them are reviewed annually.
control the level of net gearing.
Additionally, the Board The Companys portfolio consists of a mix of assets and regularly reviews the cost of buying back debt against securities that may display high levels of volatility from the outlook for equity markets.
time to time in response to economic and other market forces.
The Board receives the Managers performance Income dividend risk report against this background on a monthly basis and The Company is subject to the risk that income reviews it at each Board meeting.
generation from its investments fails to meet the level of income required to meet its objectives.
Performance risk The Board sets risk parameters and performance The Board monitors this risk through the receipt of objectives and it delegates the investment management detailed monthly income forecasts and comparison of process to the Manager.
The achievement of the receipts against forecast.
These are contained within Companys performance objectives relative to the the Board papers.
The Board considers the level of market requires active management of the portfolio income at each meeting.
Strategy, asset allocation and stock selection decisions by the Manager might lead Share price risk to underperformance of the benchmark Index and There is a risk that the Companys prospects and NAV income targets.
may not be fully reflected in the share price from time to time.
Investment selection is delegated to the Manager.
The Manager manages the portfolio and the Board The share price is monitored on a daily basis.
The sets overall risk parameters, without specifying asset Board is empowered to repurchase shares within allocation, monitoring performance in that context.
The discount at which the shares trade to NAV can be influenced by share repurchases.
Performance information is provided to the Board The Company has in the last year repurchased shares on a monthly basis as part of the Board papers.
within parameters set by the Board and subject to Specific information provided includes benchmark shareholder authority.
and performance objectives, performance attribution, rolling three year performance, contributors and Control systems risk detractors, major overweights and underweights, In addition to delegating internal controls, the Board largest holdings, size and sector analysis, active also delegates a number of specific activities to the money and active holdings.
The Manager is Manager including: responsible for actively monitoring the portfolio selected in accordance with the asset allocationCustody and security of the Companys assets parameters and seeks to ensure that individual Financial controls stocks meet an acceptable risk-reward profile.
A Best practice standards in fund management review of performance risk and how it relates to operations the Companys objectives is undertaken annually.
Meeting regulatory requirements Gearing risk Consequently in respect of these activities the Company The Company has the ability to invest up to 200 million is dependent on the Managers control systems and of Debenture Stocks in the equity market.
The principal those of its Custodian and Registrars, both of which are gearing risk is that the level of gearing may have an monitored and managed by the Manager in the context adverse impact on performance.
Secondary risks relate of safeguarding the Companys assets and interests.
to whether the cost of gearing is too high and whether There is a risk that the Manager fails to ensure that these the length of gearing is appropriate.
controls are performed in a satisfactory manner.
Information related to gearing is provided to the Board on a monthly basis as part of the Board papers.
In order to manage the level of gearing the Board regularly The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2008 Page 13 Business Review A risk based programme of internal audits is carried at each meeting.
Indices and ratios as referred to in out by the Manager regularly to test the controls the KPI table which assist in managing performance environment.
An internal controls report providing an and compliance are regularly reviewed.
Expenses are assessment of these risks is prepared by the Manager reviewed at each Board meeting enabling the Board, and considered by the Audit Committee, and is amongst other things, to review costs and consider formally reported to and considered by the Board.
any expenditure outside that of its normal operations.
Apart from the KPIs set out above the Board also Other risks regularly reviews the performance of the Company The Company may be exposed to other business and against its peer group of eleven investment trusts with strategic risks in the future, including fiscal, legal or investment objectives, policies and benchmarks similar regulatory changes.
The Board also periodically reviews the investment of The principal risks and uncertainties section above the Companys cash positions in the ICF, to ensure includes descriptions of performance indicators and liquidity and concentration risks are adequately their monitoring and management which are key to the managed and that the ICF is assessed for suitability business of the Company.
Long term performance is against other similar investment options.
also monitored and the Long Term Record charts on pages 19 and 20 show this information.
There is an ongoing process for the Board to consider these other risks.
In addition, the composition of the Attribution Analysis Board is regularly reviewed to ensure the membership The attribution analysis below enables the offers sufficient knowledge and experience to assess contributions from various sources of income and anticipate these risks, as far as possible.
and cost to be determined.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Year to 31 March 2008 The key performance indicators KPIs used to % determine the progress and performance of the Company over time and which are comparable to those Change in NAV -11.7 reported by other investment trusts are set out below.
Change in FTSE All-Share Index -7.7 Relative Return -4.0 Year to 31 March 2008 2007 Contribution to Relative Return Year to 31 March 2008 1 UK Equities -2.7 Net asset value debt at par -11.7% 12.0% 1 Debenture Borrowings: Net asset value debt at market -12.3% 13.8% Net gearing -1.0 2 Share price -12.6% 17.4% Debenture interest -0.5 3 FTSE All-Share Index -7.7% 11.1% Share Buybacks 0.9 1 Discount to NAV debt at par 15.1% 13.7% Futures & options -0.3 1 Discount to NAV debt at market 10.1% 9.4% Charges -0.4 Revenue return per share 21.41p 18.13p Total -4.0 Actual gearing ratio 12.9% 14.3% All figures are calculated on a total return basis Sources: Fidelity and Datastream Total expense ratio 0.40% 0.42% Past performance is not a guide to future returns All figures are calculated on a total return basis Past performance is not a guide to future returns Investments were valued at 1,064,645,000 as at 1 Calculated in accordance with AIC guidelines 31 March 2008.
Shareholders funds amounted to 2 Calculated on a mid to mid basis 3 Source: Datastream 945,038,000 resulting in a net asset value per share of 474.74p.
Changes to investments are shown in Note 9 Notwithstanding that some KPIs are beyond its control to the financial statements on pages 38 and 39. they are measures of the Companys absolute and relative performance and the Board monitors them Page 14 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2008 Business Review SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT The Managers primary objective is to produce superior financial returns to investors.
It believes that high standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make good business sense and have the potential to protect and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, its investment process takes social, environmental and ethical issues into account when, in its view, these have a material impact on either investment risk or return.
The Manager recognises and supports the view that social, environmental and ethical best practice should be encouraged as long as the potential for financial return is not reduced.
It favours companies committed to high standards of CSR and to the principles of sustainable development.
The Manager does not set out to manage an ethical investment portfolio and does not screen out companies from its investment universe purely on the grounds of poor social, environmental or subjective ethical performance.
Instead it adopts a positive engagement approach whereby it discusses social, environmental and ethical matters with the management with the aim of improving procedures and attitudes.
The Manager believes that this is the most effective way to improve the attitude of business towards CSR and the Board endorses this approach.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2008 Page 15
