Business Review The Board has prepared this review on pages 10 to 23 in accordance with the Underlying earnings per ordinary requirements of Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 and it forms part of the share see page 20 Directors Report.
The law requires the Companys auditors to report on whether the 2008 7.8p information given in the Directors Report and Business Review is consistent with the 2007 10.4p financial statements.
The auditors opinion is included in their report on page 53.
2006 12.8p The purpose of this review is to provide shareholders with a snapshot summary setting Basic loss earnings per ordinary out the business objectives of the Company, the Boards strategy to achieve those share objectives, the risks faced, the regulatory environment and the key performance indictors 10.6 p 2008 KPIs used to measure performance.
2007 3.5p 4.9 p 2006 The Groups sole activity is asset Our strategy Executive Directors and the Executive management.
We are an active Committee Focus on performance to deliver client international investor but with a client satisfaction Messrs Grisay and Logan are the focus on the UK and Continental Europe.
Executive Directors of the Company.
Seek and develop distribution Our clients comprise a wide range of These Executive Directors, together with opportunities in key markets to deliver insurance, institutional and retail investors, Messrs Criticos, Mendez fide Vigo and organic growth across multiple jurisdictions, for whom we Ribeiro form the Executive Committee manage a diverse range of investments Focus on higher margin and specialist EXECOM.
EXECOM is accountable and including equities, fixed income and areas for new business responsible for implementing Board property.
The asset management industry strategy, proposing development of new Maintain diversity of revenues while is highly competitive and we have a range elements of strategy and for the day-toleveraging our scale of competitors, who differ by geography, day running of the business.
In addition to product and asset class.
While we Key risks see page 16 overseeing the implementation of the operate across multiple locations, with a strategy, EXECOM regularly reviews In addition to the normal risks facing the physical presence in twelve countries, our business issues and matters not reserved business relating to the market, interest organisational philosophy has two key for the Board as a whole.
The Committee rates, foreign currency and personnel, the parameters to seek to avoid duplication, has reserved lists to assist it in carrying Board has identified the following as the by, for example, managing each asset out its functions.
Examples of matters key risks facing the business: class from only one location, and to place reserved for EXECOM as delegated Continued deterioration in the world client service functions where appropriate authorities from the Board are: The economies in order to meet client requirements.
approval of day-to-day business issues Failure of the Groups operational linked to the strategy or the annual Our objective platforms budget and including the launch of new To deliver shareholder value.
Asset products: approval of contractual Weaknesses within the front office management is a service industry, so commitments: approval of expenditure: control processes seeking to excel in everything that clients and the management of any issue that Risk of poor historic investment expect from us is the key to building could have a potential legal or performance leading to loss of key shareholder value.
reputational impact on the Group.
investment mandates Increased levels of counterparty risk arising from current market conditions Alain Grisay David Logan Nick Criticos Fernando Ribeiro Cristobal Mendez fide Vigo Chief Executive Chief Financial Chief Executive, Head of Head of Distribution Officer F&C REIT Asset Advisory and and Business Management Strategic Development Relationships 10 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Our view of the market The financial crisis which began in 2007 with problems in the US remain a feature of the asset management industry as firms adjust sub-prime mortgage market gathered momentum in 2008, their cost bases to reflect lower revenues.
culminating in a near meltdown of the global banking system and We anticipate a marked deceleration in the rate of new fund the start of a world-wide recession in the fourth quarter.
These launches across the industry as investor appetite for complex events prompted interventions by governments and central banks products wanes and firms seek to reduce costs by rationalising on an unprecedented scale including the nationalisation and their existing product ranges, closing or merging those funds recapitalisation of major financial institutions, fiscal stimulus which are either subscale or unmarketable for the foreseeable measures and the injection of vast amounts of liquidity into the future.
For example, in the UK market some 38 per cent.
OEIC funds are now less than 30 million in size, a level broadly The fide-leveraging and fide-risking process has resulted in a high regarded as subscale.
degree of correlation across major asset classes with sharp One of the areas where we expect significant contraction declines in risk-assets.
possibly by as much as half is the hedge fund industry, an area Credit markets have experienced severe dislocation as liquidity which in recent years had enjoyed rapid growth in assets, evaporated and reliable pricing has disappeared within many products and participants.
2008 was the worst year on record for areas of the credit markets.
Spreads on investment grade credits average hedge fund returns and many funds have erected gates have widened significantly, while yields on government bonds in an attempt to stem the pace of outflows.
Disappointing returns have fallen as investors seek out safe havens.
coupled with concerns generated by alleged frauds in the industry are adding to severe pressure on historic fee levels and the The equity markets have been characterised by extreme levels of prospect of increased regulation and disclosure requirements.
volatility, with the VIX index, a measure of volatility, hitting a record high, and some of the sharpest declines in equity market levels Consolidation will be a major theme in the asset management seen in over a century.
The MSCI World Index was down over sector as banks and other financial institutions seek to restructure 40 per cent.
in US Dollar terms and the FTSE 100 Index posted a and those firms with weak business models or insufficient total return decline of more than 28 per cent.
The US diversification seek merger partners or are acquired.
In this stock market experienced its second worst year ever.
environment we see a shift in client and market sentiment away from small, niche managers in favour of those with sufficient scale.
Against a backdrop of significant capital losses and continued With our infrastructure and capacity to manage additional assets, uncertainty about the stability of the banking system, investor we are well placed to participate in this consolidation.
We anticipate continued weak retail investor sentiment during 2009 and high levels of market volatility As investors focus on the road to recovery and rebuilding their as negative economic and corporate data flows through and capital, we also expect a rehabilitation of traditional products and rights issues and other re-financings pre-occupy investor attention increased demand for income-generating funds, particularly during the first half of 2009. among retail investors.
The operating environment will remain extremely challenging for Across all client segments, we believe that investors will more asset managers, particularly for those firms that are heavily closely scrutinise the risk-management processes of asset exposed to equities and retail assets or those with highly geared managers.
Personnel and other expense reductions will UK Equity Market Performance UK Government Bond Market Performance FTSE 100 Index FTA Brit.
In particular, we see renewed attention on the extent to which institutional investors are engaging with companies on issues such as board effectiveness, remuneration and capital structures and exercising voting rights to protect and enhance shareholder value.
Assets under management by client category bn 57.0 Insurance Funds 58.9 28.6 Institutional Funds 27.3 4.8 Sub-Advisory 6.5 4.9 Investment Trusts 6.6 UK Retail 2.2 3.3 Mutual Funds International Wholesale 1.1 Mutual Funds 1.0 2008 2007 Assets under management by asset class bn 60.6 Fixed Interest 53.5 24.3 Equities 37.0 7.9 Property 5.3 Other Alternative 2.4 Investments 1.9 3.4 Money Market 5.9 2008 2007 All graphs at 31 December.
12 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Focus on performance to deliver client satisfaction We seek to define and deliver top quartile performance in everything we do.
Our strategy is grounded in our belief in a virtuous circle: delivering excellent performance will be validated by organic growth which will, in turn, translate into earnings growth and stock price performance.
2008 Key points 2009 Key priorities Key Performance Indicators Focus on helping clients rebuild their In line with the growth initiatives Corporate Health capital after market declines of 2008 identified in 2007, we strengthened our The Board considers a report on the property asset management Improve performance in certain areas Groups Operations and IT systems, capabilities by merging our existing Euro Global Credit and European Human Resources, and Audit, Risk and property business with REIT Asset Equities Compliance functions at each Board Management to create F&C REIT Meeting.
Rationalise product range to provide We enhanced our distribution and greater focus for investment teams Investment Performance client servicing footprint and registered On 1 January 2009 the Company Retain key investment personnel funds in new territories and on new amended its management structure to product platforms improve efficiency and strengthen We integrated our operational accountability.
With effect from that date processes on a single in-house the heads of both the Fixed Income and platform in order to deliver consistent Equities desk report directly to the Chief standards for all clients Executive.
As a result of these changes, the Board believe that the following KPIs We won the Gold Standard Award for are the most appropriate measure of the Fund Management for the third year in investment teams performance.
succession in recognition of excellence for our overall capabilities, client Percentage of Fixed Income assets above service, trust and value for money benchmark or peer group on an asset weighted basis 3 years 2008 38% Investment Performance Percentage of Equity assets above 2008 Key points 2008 Investment Performance awards benchmark or peer group on an asset included weighted basis 3 years Illiquidity in credit markets and extreme equity volatility presented a challenging Category winner Overall Group 2008 59% environment for active asset managers Award, Lipper Fund Awards UK 7.9 million performance fees earned Product of the Year F&C Diversified Growth Fund, European Pensions 62 per cent.
of equity assets ahead of Awards benchmark or peer group Category winner F&C HVB 46 per cent.
of fixed income assets Stiftungsfonds, Lipper Fund Awards ahead of benchmark or peer group Germany Strong out-performance in Global Category runner-up F&C Global Real Convertibles, High Yield Bonds, Estate Securities, Geld Magazine Emerging Market Debt, UK Small Cap Alternative Investment Awards Austria Equities, Quantative Equity Strategies, US Equities, US Small Cap Equities Category short-listed F&C Zircon and Indirect Real Estate Fund, EuroHedge Awards Satisfactory performance in Euro Government Bonds, UK Credit, UK Equities, Japanese Equities and Emerging Equities Eleven UK Retail funds achieved Standard & Poors ratings Two out of three single strategy hedge funds delivered positive returns with F&C Zircon returning 19 per cent.
during its first year 13 Business Review Seek and develop distribution opportunities in key markets to deliver organic growth Our business model is based on intermediaries and partnerships.
We are focused primarily on the UK and Continental Europe, however, we will increasingly seek to expand distribution into other regions.
Our priority is organic growth, however, we will take an opportunistic approach towards further acquisitions.
2008 Key points 2009 Key priorities Key Performance Indicators Institutional new business of Accelerate insitutional inflows Net sales in UK Retail 2.4 billion with new mandates won 2008 4 million Establish joint venture fund in the US, Canada, Germany, UK, The management company in China with Netherlands and Nordic region, Net sales in International Wholesale Hua Xia Bank despite being constrained by our 2008 225 million ownership uncertainty Access Middle Eastern market with the launch of a Sharia compliant fund Institutional new business Strong progress in winning new reo 2008 2.4 billion shareholder engagement mandates, with 12.3 billion new assets under engagement added during 2008 Record year for International Wholesale business with net sales of 225 million, up 102 per cent.
on 2007 Net sales in UK Retail were broadly flat in a market when many competitors saw substantial outflows Expanded our distribution footprint into Asia, opening an office in Hong Kong Executed new distribution agreements with a range of banks, intermediaries and product platforms 14 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Focus on higher margin and specialist areas We are targeting net new business in higher margin and specialist areas.
These include retail, alternatives and specialist institutional mandates yielding performance fees.
2008 Key points 2009 Key priorities Key Performance Indicators Average basis points earned on assets Average fee rate improved from Institutional product priorities vary under management 22.5 basis points to 22.9 basis points depending on the market but broadly fall into three themes: 2008 22.9 Average fee on institutional new 2007 22.5 business 30.0 per cent.
higher than Liability management solutions 2006 21.6 fees on outflows Diversification tools Diversified 2005 20.8 Increased scale and expertise in realGrowth, Global Convertibles, High estate asset management through the Yield Bonds, Emerging Market Debt, acquisition of REIT Asset Management Private Equity, Real-Estate and Fiduciary Management in The Launched F&C Zircon Fund, a Netherlands European long short systematic trading hedge fund Governance & Sustainable Investments screened funds, Launched F&C Active Return Fund, a overlays and climate change derivative strategy SICAV fund In the UK retail market we will focus on multi-manager funds in the broad IFA market and specialist fixed income funds in the discretionary segment In International Wholesale we will focus on solutions driven products Maintain diversity of earnings while leveraging scale We are a diversified business by client type, asset mix and geography.
This provides us with a robust business model across market cycles.
We benefit from scale in terms of research, infrastructure, distribution and access to the market.
2008 Key points 2009 Key priorities Key Performance Indicators Focus on client retention and Approximately 50 per cent.
of Operating Margin investment performance revenues earned from non-UK clients 2008 26.4% with 59 per cent.
of assets under Continue to consider opportunistic 2007 30.9% management denominated in nonacquisitions which carry minimal risk of 2006 36.5% sterling currencies disruption and allow us to leverage on 2005 44.1% our existing platform Closed year with 62 per cent.
of assets under management in fixed income, 25 per cent.
in money markets and 2 per cent.
in alternatives Acquisition of REIT Asset Management diversified property business and expanded capabilities beyond the UK and Ireland to Continental Europe and India Extended distribution activities into Chile, Canada, Hong Kong, Italy and Spain 15 Business Review Key risks Continued deterioration in the world economies Risk of poor historic investment performance leading to Further deterioration in the global economic environment is loss of key investment mandates likely to adversely impact F&Cs ability to attract and retain The challenges of volatile equity markets, illiquid credit clients and maintain staff morale.
Falling market levels and asset conditions and a general decline in investor sentiment have values have a direct impact on our revenues.
Despite this, there is a continuing and ongoing focus on performance and Failure of the Groups operational platforms the retention of key talent.
Failure in the operational platforms will, at least in the short term, adversely impact client service and the abiity to manage Increased levels of counterparty risk arising from current client assets.
market conditions There is an increased risk of counterparty default which could Following on from the in-sourcing of investment administration impact F&C and its clients.
To address this risk, increased services from Mellon in 2007, F&C has, during 2008, run a counterparty exposure reporting is in place and Group treasury programme to integrate the operational systems and exposure limits have been reduced.
The areas covered include Reconciliations, Corporate Actions and Trade Processing.
HiPortfolio, the previous in-house system, has been upgraded to version 3.5 and the first tranche of ex-Mellon portfolios transferred on to this platform at the end of January 2009.
Weaknesses within the front office control processes Ineffective front office control processes could lead to inaccurate investment decision making and client errors.
During 2008 considerable progress has been made in automating the pre and post trade checking of compliance with our clients mandates.
16 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Our trading performance and outlook Overall, assets under management at 31 December 2008 were Sub Advisory 98.6 billion, compared with 103.6 billion at the end of 2007.
Sub-advisory assets under management decreased to 4.8 billion 2007: 6.5 billion of which 13 per cent.
represents Portuguese Insurance mutual funds.
We continued to experience net outflows in subInsurance assets under management were 57.0 billion 2007: advisory funds as Portuguese investors migrated from money market 58.9 billion.
Net insurance outflows reduced to 4.4 billion mutual funds into banking products.
2007: 5.0 billion, representing a substantial proportion of all net outflows during the year.
While the underlying books of our Investment Trusts insurance clients remain open for business, the established trend 2008 was an important year for our investment trust business as of net outflows from our insurance clients in part reflects the the flagship Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust celebrated its maturity profile of their with-profits funds.
We therefore anticipate 140-year anniversary and continued to expand its private further outflows from this client category.
shareholder base through our Child Trust Fund and other savings schemes.
Institutional Following on from the successful rollover of Investors Capital Trust Institutional assets under management increased to 28.6 billion in 2007, we continued to innovate in the investment trust market 2007: 27.3 billion.
Net outflows of 5.2 billion during the year in 2008 with the launch of the F&C Managed Portfolio Trust.
This reflected the following factors: vehicle introduced an innovative, flexible share structure to the Inflows reduced to 2.4 billion 2007: 3.3 billion as market.
investment consultants put buy ratings on hold due to the uncertainty created by Friends Provident announcing that it With the exception of F&C Event Driven, a small listed fund of intended to divest its interest in F&C.
Furthermore, market hedge funds which voted to wind-up and return assets to volatility resulted in delays in funding newly won mandates.
shareholders, net outflows of 130 million principally related to a combination of share buybacks and changes in gearing levels by Outflows increased to 7.6 billion 2007: 6.1 billion, 50 per existing clients.
of which occurred in the fourth quarter.
These latter flows were largely represented by the maturity of a three-year fixed UK Retail term index-linked bond mandate for a European government After record net sales in 2007 and a significant deterioration in agency and the decision by a Dutch pension fund client to investor sentiment, net sales of UK Retail funds were flat in 2008. move to a fiduciary management model.
In contrast many of our peers experienced substantial outflows Average fee rates on institutional inflows were 30 per cent.
than those earned on mandates lost during the year.
We continued to make progress during the year establishing During 2008 we also won a number of new reo responsible distribution agreements with key adviser firms for our Lifestyle engagement overlay mandates representing new assets under range of risk-rated multi-manager funds and securing access to a engagement of 12.3 billion.
These mandates are not reflected in number of product platforms.
With 28 investment consultant buy-ratings, a record level for the International Wholesale business, and the uncertainty over Friends Providents We achieved strong progress growing SICAV fund sales with net shareholding in F&C being resolved, our focus is to engage with sales of 225 million, more than 100 per cent.
higher than the consultants to reactivate suspended buy-ratings.
We had particular success marketing income products in Germany.
We also benefited from measures taken to strengthen distribution, including the integration of wholesale and institutional distribution functions in a single team structure, gaining access to new platforms and the registration of funds in new territories.
17 Business Review Our financial performance Total return Accordingly, while we firmly believe that the strategic building We view share price total return as a key performance measure.
blocks of the three year plan, together with its focus on seeking Both the economic environment and other external influences organic growth opportunities in higher revenue margin and have adversely impacted the Companys share price and hence specialist products, remain relevant, the rate of delivery has been the share price total return during 2008. impacted by the market environment and the corporate uncertainty referred to above.
The wider impacts of the credit crunch and related economic turmoil are well documented.
They also have a direct impact on During 2008, our net revenues were some 13 per cent.
lower than our financial results.
Our revenues are correlated to our assets the prior year and our underlying profits were some 24 per cent.
under management, which in turn reflect market and foreign lower, despite falls in equity market levels of between 30 and currency appreciation or depreciation together with the levels of 40 per cent.
This financial resilience represents a direct net new business generated by the Group.
During 2008, the result of our previously articulated strategy of being a well FTSE 100 index, a key indicator of market appreciation, fell by diversified business.
in total return, and other major market indices also posted sharp declines.
These market movements Presentation of financial results directly impacted our revenues and profitability.
Additionally, our IFRS requires our Financial Statements to consolidate the results ability to gather new assets and hence generate revenues to Funds business on a line-by-line basis, of our Managed Pension replace outflows of assets was impacted by the corporate impacting both our Income Statement and Balance Sheet uncertainty arising from Friends Providents intention to divest its presentation.
That uncertainty has In addition, during 2008, we acquired a number of new prevailed throughout the year.
Finally, our share price fell by subsidiaries as a result of the merger of our real estate asset approximately 30 per cent.
in July 2008, after the forced sale of a management activities in the UK and Ireland with those of the stake representing approximately 60 per cent.
of our shares in REIT Asset Management Group REIT.
These new subsidiaries free float.
This sale resulted from the financial distress of the are also included in our Consolidated Financial Statements from underlying investor, the Dawnay Day group.
the date of their acquisition.
As a result of these and other factors, our total shareholder return for the year ended 31 December 2008 was 68.5 per cent.
In the Net revenue same period, average total shareholder return on the FTSE 250 Net revenue for the year was 229.9 million 2007: 264.5 million.
This included 7.9 million 2007: 20.8 million of performance fee income and 1.1 million 2007: 10.6 million of other nonStrategic background management fee income.
While new business of 3.9 billion was In our 2006 Report and Financial Statements, we set out details won during the year and a further 3.2 billion was added through of a three-year plan.
In last years Report and Financial the acquisition of REIT, this was more than offset by outflows of Statements we detailed the progress against the objectives 10.2 billion and net insurance outflows of 4.4 billion.
Under the plan, the focus for 2008 was to enhance combination of adverse market levels, offset by favourable our distribution and accelerate asset gathering, building upon exchange rates added a net 2.5 billion to assets under previous investments in our distribution resources and management, with much of that attributable to the strengthening product range.
Euro in the last quarter of the year.
We have made good progress in a number of areas anticipated in Net fund flows and related annualised revenues represent a key the plan.
However the extreme market conditions experienced performance indicator and are indicative of the growth of the during the year both impacted client demand and, as business.
Continuing the trend noted in prior years, our outflows discussed further below, resulted in a review of our cost base have tended to be in lower fee margin areas, such as insurance and resources.
and legacy institutional business, and our inflows have tended to be in higher fee margin areas, such as retail, international 18 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 wholesale and specialist institutional mandates.
These savings were obtained from further cutbacks in fee margin on our institutional inflows during 2008 was discretionary spending and staff costs.
To date, we have incurred approximately 30 per cent.
greater than the fee margin on our exceptional employment costs of some 4.8 million to realise institutional outflows in the same period.
these savings and further exceptional costs will be incurred during the first half of 2009.
During 2008, our performance fee income was 7.9 million, a reduction from the record 2007 level of 20.8 million.
Clearly this At 31 December 2007 our headcount on a full-time equivalent reduction principally reflects our investment performance in those basis was 917: by 31 December 2008, this had reduced to 873, mandates in which we can earn a performance fee.
However, it is net of 60 personnel added on the REIT acquisition, and by the also impacted by other factors, such as the contractual basis of end of February, our headcount had fallen by a further 42.
In calculation of the performance fees in such mandates.
In 2007, addition, the profile of our variable remuneration has altered in line we also earned some 10.6 million of other income.
As many of with market conditions and total variable remuneration for 2008 is the sources of that income were one-off in nature, other income some 33 per cent.
lower than 2007. for 2008 has fallen to 1.1 million.
As previously set out, during 2008 Friends Provident announced its intention to divest its 52 per cent.
The Revenue margin Company subsequently appointed legal, commercial and Our revenue margin, measured as our net management fee corporate finance advisors to assist in identifying a solution which income divided by average assets under management, has would both allow Friends Provident to meet its objective and allow increased from 22.5 basis points in 2007 to 22.9 basis points in the Company to continue with or accelerate the execution of its 2008.
This measure shows progress against our target of own strategy.
Advisory and related costs incurred during 2008 delivering net new business in higher margin products.
total 4.4 million and these amounts have been classified as exceptional expenses and excluded from the calculation of Operating expenses underlying earnings.
Operating expenses, excluding amortisation and impairment of During the prior year, we created a provision for amounts of VAT intangible assets, exceptional operating costs, corporate advisory and interest which may be payable to investment trust clients.
We fees and the impact of foreign currency hedges of future income, have reviewed the amount of that provision during 2008 and were 170.9 million 2007: 183.8 million.
During periods of continue to believe that it is appropriate and adequate.
adverse market conditions, cost control remains critical to the Accordingly, no similar charge has been incurred during 2008. continued success and viability of an asset management business.
Accordingly, management has implemented a number Operating margin of cost control initiatives, which we believe appropriate in light of As a consequence of the changes in our net revenue and market conditions.
expense base, discussed above, and particularly the reduction in In August, we indicated that we would reduce our spending from performance fee income, our operating margin for the year fell planned levels by 12 million per annum.
The identified savings from 30.9 per cent.
for 2008. represented a combination of reduced discretionary expenditure, lower investment in the business and reductions in headcount.
On 17 December 2008, we stated that we would further reduce our actual annualised cost base by an additional 15 million per This advertisement is intended for Financial Advisers only.
084579922 99 First class Example of promotional activity.
The F&C fixed income fund range With over 55 billion of fixed income assets under management, managed by a credit team of 24 investment professionals, F&C is one of the largest fixed income managers in the City.
Our size at F&C means we can provide dedicated support teams for our fund managers to draw upon in terms of investment strategy, analytical research, risk modelling and dealing something not available with many smaller players.
We have a suite of corporate bond funds spanning the credit universe, including an ethical option.
To find out more call 0845799 22 99 or visit www.
com Our people are our strength Expect excellence This advertisement is for financial advisers only.
Prospective investors should consult the Simplified Prospectus and will find the past performance record of the Funds as prescribed by the FSA at www.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
As a result of market fluctuations, investments and the income from them can fall as well as rise and investors may not get back the amount originally invested.
Issued and approved by F&C Fund Management Limited.
F&C Fund Management Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA FRN:121940.
Registered in England and Wales, No.
Registered address and Head Office: Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2NY.
F&C Asset Management plc is the listed holding company of the F&C Group.
F&C Fund Management Limited is a member of the F&C Group of companies and a subsidiary of F&C Asset Management plc.
19 Business Review Impairment of intangible assets As the forward currency contracts protect 2009 Sterling cashflows, the unrealised losses have been excluded from the Under IFRS when an acquisition is made, there is a requirement calculation of 2008s underlying earnings.
On maturity of the to recognise separately the fair value attributed to intangible contracts, the final gain or loss will be included in underlying assets, in our case, management contracts.
The excess of earnings and matched against the hedged revenue streams.
consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired represents the business value and infrastructure and is recognised as Underlying earnings goodwill.
During the year, additional management contract intangible assets of 71.3 million and goodwill of 56.0 million The Board utilises underlying earnings per share as one of its key were recognised as a result of the acquisition of REIT.
metrics in assessing financial performance.
The table below sets out the reconciliation between underlying earnings and statutory Management contracts are then separated by client type and are earnings.
Underlying earnings per share for the year ended amortised over their estimated useful lives and an amortisation 31 December 2008 were 7.8 pence 2007: 10.4 pence.
The charge of 48.9 million 2007: 42.4 million was incurred in the reduction principally reflects the reduced performance fee and year.
Where an indicator of impairment occurs, the Group is then other income discussed earlier in this report.
required to review the carrying value of these contracts.
Historically, outflows of assets at significantly greater rates than Reconciliation of Earnings per share pence 2008 2007 originally forecast have been viewed as the sole indicator of Basic Basic impairment.
However, during 2008, management determined that Loss earnings per Ordinary Share 10.64 3.54 the significant falls in equity market levels and consequent Amortisation of intangibles, net of tax 6.95 5.25 reduction in management fee revenues arising from management Impairment of intangibles, net of tax 7.00 contracts represented an indicator of impairment and conducted Loss on partial disposal of property business, an impairment review across a variety of intangible asset net of tax 0.83 categories.
As a result of this review, an impairment charge of Unrealised losses on forward currency 48.3 million was incurred.
This charge is non-cash in nature and contracts, net of tax 1.79 does not impact the Groups underlying operating results or Other exceptional costs, net of tax 1.85 1.58 financial position.
Underlying earnings per Ordinary Share 7.78 10.37 We are also required to conduct an annual impairment review of the carrying value of goodwill.
This review demonstrated that there was no impairment and hence no requirement to write Dividends down goodwill.
In 2007 we reiterated our dividend policy, which is to achieve at least 150 per cent.
cover on underlying earnings and, where Foreign exchange hedging possible, to grow the dividend.
As set out above, our underlying A significant portion of the Groups assets under management earnings for the year were 7.8p per share.
An interim dividend of and its revenues are denominated in Euros.
During 2008, after a 2.0p per share was paid during the year.
After considering the sharp strengthening of the Euro, the Company entered into a results for the year, the Board has declared an unchanged final number of forward currency contracts to partially hedge Eurodividend of 4.0p per share.
This dividend, together with the denominated cash flows for the remainder of 2008 and beyond.
interim dividend, will result in a total dividend for the year of 6.0p While these contracts will mitigate the Companys future exposure per share.
Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will to a significant fall in the Euro, accounting standards require that be paid on 28 May 2009 to shareholders on the register at they are revalued at year end exchange rates.
As a result of the extreme market conditions and results in a cost of some 12.3 million being recognised in the the impact of corporate uncertainty, this has resulted in a 2008 2008 Income Statement in respect of forward currency contracts dividend cover which is lower than our 150 per cent.
The which mature in 2009 and beyond.
As we currently hold Board will review future dividend levels in light of financial results significant Euro-denominated assets in our overseas subsidiaries, and the general economic environment and outlook.
an offsetting gain on revaluation of Euro-denominated assets of some 15.1 million excluding gains arising on intangible assets is recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Accordingly, there has been no significant impact on the Companys net assets.
20 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Cash resources The Company has gross debt of 295 million.
This comprises 260 million of subordinated loan notes and 35 million of vendor loan notes issued in connection with the acquisition of REIT.
The Company also has cash resources of 223 million.
A significant part of that cash is held in our regulated subsidiaries against their capital requirements and is accordingly not available for corporate purposes.
The subordinated loan notes are not repayable until 2016 and, at the Companys option, may be extended until 2026.
These subordinated loan notes do not include any financial covenants but allow interest on these notes to be deferred in circumstances where no ordinary dividend is paid.
As asset management should generally be a cash generative business, we should not require significant cash for working capital purposes beyond our regulatory capital requirement.
Acquisition of REIT Asset Management On 3 September 2008, the Group completed the merger of our property asset management activities with REIT to form F&C REIT.
As a result of this transaction, the Company controls 70 per cent.
of the merged property business and acquired its interest for a consideration comprising 25 million of cash, 35 million of loan notes and 30 per cent.
of the existing F&C property asset management business.
of F&C REIT is owned by the vendors of REIT, two of whom continue to occupy key management roles in the business.
They also have the opportunity to increase their ownership by a further 10 per cent.
through the achievement of stretching financial targets over the next six years.
For accounting purposes, the value of the option provided by the earn-out mechanism to increase their ownership is treated as a share-based payment expense and included in the Income Statement.
During 2008, this cost was 1.4 million and, consistent with our previous treatment of share scheme costs of a capital nature associated with acquisitions, has been excluded from the calculation of underlying earnings.
21 Business Review Our strategic approach and commitment to Corporate Responsibility CR CR strategy Marketplace The Company has two overarching strategic ambitions: F&C will use the influence of its clients assets to engage with companies on all relevant CR To enable our clients to respond effectively to changing matters where this will improve business dynamics in the world economy through our products performance.
F&C intends to increase the and through influencing companies to improve number of milestones achieved being an business performance.
instance in which a company improves its To ensure that we meet the highest practicable standards of policies, procedures or practices following engagement and corporate responsibility in our own operations.
where F&Cs participation has been a major factor to 300 by 2010.
We have defined four key categories supporting our strategic F&C will issue voting instructions in line with its Corporate ambitions: Marketplace, Environment, Workplace and Community.
Governance Operational Guidelines on 100% of global resolutions We are committed to monitoring and reporting on progress that it is mandated to on behalf of clients and will publish its against the targets set within each category, both internally on voting history.
F&C will contact 100% of companies following an a quarterly basis and externally at least annually.
F&Cs abstention or vote against mangement.
Corporate Responsibility policies are guided by a number of broadly accepted international standards and benchmarks.
Environment Wherever practicable, we seek external validation of our progress F&C is targeting carbon neutrality internally and is and publish these results.
committed to helping our clients and suppliers cut carbon emissions.
Over the next three years F&C F&C considers the following key external measures to validate our will obtain 100 per cent.
of its energy usage from relative Corporate Responsibility performance.
renewable sources, where such markets exist.
External 2007 Existing 2010 F&C will source 100 per cent.
of its paper used from chlorine free Validation Position Position Target recycled supplies, reduce like for like waste to landfill by 20 per BITC Corporate cent.
and increase its own recycling by 20 per cent.
Responsibility Index Silver status Gold status Platinum status F&C will actively embark on an internal education programme on EIRIS FTSE4Good Inclusion Inclusion Inclusion the effect that water and other waste management has on the environment.
UN Global Compact CCP Member Inclusion Member F&C, through its marketplace engagement activity, will widen its Carbon Disclosure Project Member Member Member influence to the companies in which it invests.
Principles for Responsible Founding Founding Founding Investment Signatory Signatory Signatory Workplace F&C is committed to ensuring good practices in managing its own workplace issues.
F&C identifies its key stakeholders as shareholders, clients, F&C will undertake an Employee Survey and employees, suppliers, government and non-government will, by 2009, target top decile employee organisations, the wider community, other asset management participation levels.
companies and companies in which we invest.
We engage widely with stakeholder groups through regular dialogue that is tailored F&C always seeks to employ the best person for each job and to meet the requirements of each stakeholder group.
does not discriminate on grounds of gender, race, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, age or physical disability.
F&C will CR categories supporting the strategic ambitions educate 100 per cent.
of employees on the importance of F&C has established key performance indicators KPIs for each of recognising and embracing diversity in the workplace and the the CR categories detailed below, details of which can be found community as a whole.
on the Corporate Responsibility section of the Companys F&C encourages share ownership and will continue to operate website.
A summary of our objectives in each area is set all-employee share schemes.
22 22 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Some of our 2008 charity events Community In January, a group of F&C volunteers F&C intends to, over the next three years, travelled to Hanworth introduce financial support and wherever practicable offer time off work to support Park, Hounslow to help employees involved in Charitable Activities.
out Trees for Cities, an independent charity F&C will target, by 2010, 75 per cent.
of all working with local employees dedicating at least one working day per year to a communities on tree-planting and landscaping Charitable or community programme.
of employees, participating in the Give as You Earn scheme and will match employee contributions up to a set monthly level.
CR commitment The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards Jennifer Read took of governance and corporate citizenship.
We recognise that in part in the London addition to our responsibilities to clients and shareholders we Triathlon on 9th August also have responsibilities to employees, suppliers, the with two friends.
They environment, the companies in which we invest and the wider raised 600 for B-eat, community in which we operate.
How is Corporate Responsibility implemented by F&C?
The Board is ultimately responsible for CR within the Group.
Development of F&Cs policies on CR and their implementation throughout the Group are co-ordinated by the CR Committee chaired by David Logan.
In September Graham Brooks took part in a 130 km charity cycle Alain Grisay ride down the east 6 April 2009 coast of Ireland along with 400 others.
The aim was to raise funds for the homeless in Dublin, particularly those recovering and in rehabilitation from drug abuse.
David Logan 6 April 2009 Derek Mclean walked the Hadrians Wall long distance footpath 84 miles and raised a total of over 5,000 for Christian Aid.
Our people are our strength 23 24 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Company Directors 25
