Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report growth.
The Board of Directors recognises that together with the audited financial statements of the investing in equities is a long term process and that Company for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The the Companys returns to shareholders will vary from Company was incorporated in England and Wales as a year to year.
Unlike equivalent open-ended investment public limited company on 16 August 1991 under the vehicles, the investment trust structure offers investors name of Legistshelfco No.
112 PLC with the registered a portfolio which may be geared.
The Board takes the number 2638812.
The name was changed to Fidelity view that long term returns can be enhanced by the European Values PLC in September 1991. use of gearing.
BUSINESS REVIEW Investment policy This section of the Directors Report provides a review of The Company invests principally in continental European the Companys business and describes the principal risks securities with a view to achieving long term capital and uncertainties it faces.
The portfolio is selected by the Manager on the basis of its assessment of the Business of the Company fundamental value available in individual situations.
The Company carries on business as an investment trust Whilst the Companys overall exposure to individual and was approved as such by HM Revenue & Customs countries and industry sectors is monitored, the portfolio under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes is not structured primarily on a country or industrial Act 1988 ICTA for the accounting period ended 31 weightings basis, although certain investment restrictions December 2006.
HM Revenue & Customs has granted apply in an attempt to diversify risk.
provisional approval for the accounting period ended 31 December 2007, although this approval may be subject A maximum of 20% of gross assets may be invested to review should there be any subsequent enquiry under in companies of countries which are not included in Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The Directors are of the benchmark Index the FTSE World Europe ex UK the opinion that, since that date, the Company has Index of which a maximum of 5% of gross assets may conducted its affairs in a manner which will satisfy the be invested in other companies of non-European conditions for continued approval as an investment trust countries which have some European exposure or under that Section.
The geographical and sector breakdown of the portfolio compared with the Index may be found The Company is registered as an investment company at pages 9 and 10.
A maximum of 10% of the Companys as defined in Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 gross assets may be invested in the aggregate of: and operates as such.
It is not a close company and a securities not listed on a recognised stock exchange has no employees.
b holdings in which the interest of the Company amounts to 20% or more of the equity capital of any Objective, strategy and principal activity one listed company.
The Companys objective is to achieve long term capital growth from the stockmarkets of continental A maximum of 5% of the Companys gross assets Europe.
The Company aims to achieve this with an may be held in unquoted securities in aggregate at actively managed portfolio of investments, consisting any one time.
primarily of continental European securities.
As part of this strategy the Board has delegated the management The maximum level of gross gearing is an amount of the portfolio and other services.
The principal activity of twice the adjusted capital and reserves pursuant is to pursue the objective through operating as an to the Companys Articles of Association.
In normal investment trust company.
Both the objective and circumstances a gearing level of below 20% of principal activity have remained unchanged throughout net assets will be maintained.
Details of the levels the year ended 31 December 2008. of gearing at the year end may be found on page 2.
The Board has reviewed the summary of the years The Board reserves the right to lend stock and or assets activities and is in agreement with the indications of of up to 10% of the Companys assets.
The Board also likely future developments and the factors likely to affect reserves the right to hedge the portfolio.
The Board these which are given in the Chairmans Statement on has not used this right during the life of the Company.
pages 3 to 5 and in the Managers Review on pages 6 and 7.
A maximum of 15% of the Companys total assets may be invested in the securities of other investment The Board believes that individuals and institutions companies including listed investment trusts which choose to invest in the Company because the stock themselves do not have stated investment policies to selection approach adopted by the Portfolio Manager invest no more than 15% of their total assets in other is considered to be well suited to achieving its objective.
As at 31 December 2008 Although there has been income received by way of there were no such holdings in the Companys portfolio dividend payments the emphasis is placed on capital 2007: 0.2% of the Companys total assets.
Page 16 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2008 Directors Report The current investment approach is detailed in the the Companys benchmark Index of 24.6% on a total Managers Review on pages 6 and 7. return basis.
The full portfolio as at 31 December 2008 is detailed KPIs on pages 51 and 52.
The key performance indicators KPIs used to determine the progress and performance of the Fidelitys investment management philosophy, Company over time and which are comparable to those style and process reported by other investment trusts are set out below.
The portfolio is primarily built on a stock by stock The first three KPIs, namely NAV, share price and basis following the Portfolio Managers assessment benchmark, are concerned with change, whereas of the fundamental value available in individual the remaining KPIs deal with absolute amounts.
securities, with geographical weightings largely the result of stock selection, rather than macro-economic Year ended Three years considerations.
The charts and graphs provided in this 31 Dec ended 31 2008 2007 Dec 2008 annual report should therefore be read with this in mind.
%% % The portfolios geographical weightings may vary significantly from the weightings within its benchmark 1 NAV -17.5 13.4 9.9 Index and the concentration on the identification of 2 Share price -25.9 12.0 -9.9 fundamental value in individual stocks within continental Europe may result in investments made against prevalent FTSE World Europe trends and local conventions.
The value investor seeks ex UK Index -24.6 15.1 3.7 to be amongst the first of his peers to recognise the Discount to NAV 16.4 6.9 n a potential in individual stocks and hence returns are only properly assessed on the basis of long term results.
The Actual gearing ratio nil 1.0 n a Portfolio Manager invests in securities of companies 3 Total expense ratio 0.89 1.06 n a which are considered by the Portfolio Manager to have fundamental value.
Securities of interest may fall under All figures are calculated on a total return basis ie, cum income 1 the following categories: Calculated in accordance with AIC guidelines 2 Calculated on a bid to bid basis with income reinvestedan industry anomaly: 3 Excludes the performance fee charged to capital a turnaround or recovery situation within a certain company: Source: Fidelity, Datastream and Fundamental Data as at 31 December 2008unrecognised growth relative to the price Past performance is not a guide to future returns of the shares: an undervalued asset situation: the potential for some merger and The Summary of Performance graphs on pages 12 acquisition activity.
and 13 indicate the relative historical performance of the Company against its benchmark Index since launch Corporate activism and the discount to NAV over that period.
Some of The Board believes that the Company should, where the Companys KPIs are considered to be beyond the appropriate, take an active interest in the affairs of the Boards control, however they are measures of the companies in which it invests and that it should exercise Companys absolute and relative performance and the its voting rights at their general meetings.
Unless there Board monitors them regularly.
Indices and ratios which are any particularly controversial issues which are then assist in managing performance and compliance are also referred to the Board it delegates the responsibility for reviewed, including the total expense ratio.
Expenses are corporate activism and shareholder voting to Fidelity.
considered regularly at Board meetings and this enables These activities are reviewed annually.
the Board, amongst other things, to review costs and consider any expenditure outside that of its normal Premium discount management: enhancing operations.
In addition to the KPIs set out above the shareholder value Board regularly reviews the Companys performance The Board seeks authority from shareholders each year against its peer group of five investment trusts: Foreign to issue new shares at a premium or repurchase shares & Colonial Eurotrust PLC, JPMorgan European for cancellation at a discount to the net asset value.
It will Investment Trust plc, JPMorgan European Fledgeling only use these authorities to enhance the net asset value Investment Trust plc, Gartmore European Investment and to protect or improve the premium discount rating Trust PLC and TR European Growth Trust PLC.
Details of share repurchases may be found on pages 19 and 20 and the Chairmans Statement The principal risks and uncertainties section below provides further information on page 3. includes descriptions of other performance indicators, their monitoring and management which are key to the Performance business of the Company.
Long term performance is also Over the period the net asset value of the Company monitored and the Summary of Performance charts on decreased by 17.5% compared with the decrease by pages 12 and 13 show this information.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2008 Page 17 Directors Report are core to the Companys continued success.
Other Attribution analysis factors affected by market forces, such as exchange and The attribution analysis table which follows enables bond rates, contribute to risks which have to be taken as contributions from various sources of income and costs part of the Companys normal business.
Analysis of change in NAV Risks to which the Company is exposed and which form during the year pence per share part of the market risks category are included in Note 18 to the financial statements on pages 46 to 50 together Starting NAV 1 January 2008 1,449.76 with summaries of the policies for managing these risks.
These comprise: market price risk: foreign currency risk: Impact of : interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Index -618.89 The Company has fixed term, fixed rate loan facilities in Stock selection 68.25 place, the first of which is due for repayment in 2010.
Exchange rate 262.79 At the present time, cash is being held against these loans to reduce the level of net gearing to around zero.
Gearing -2.21 However, should good opportunities for investment Share purchases 12.79 arise, these funds are readily available.
In addition a revolving credit facility currently nil drawn down and Charges -9.58 a day to day overdraft facility can be used if required.
VAT reclaim on investment The impact of limited finance from counterparties management fees plus interest 13.24 including suppliers has not impacted the Company to date, however there are alternative suppliers available Cash 7.46 in the market place should the need arise.
Closing NAV 31 December 2008 1,183.61 The Company relies on a number of main counterparties, Sources: Fidelity and Datastream namely the Manager, Registrar, Custodian and Auditor.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns The Manager is the member of a privately owned group of companies on which a regular report is Investments were valued at 657,544,000 as at 31 December 2008.
Shareholders funds amounted to provided to the Board.
The Manager, Registrar and Custodian are subject to regular audits by Fidelitys 649,981,000 resulting in a net asset value per share of 1,183.61p.
Changes to investments are shown in internal controls team and the counterparties own internal controls reports are received by the Board Note 9 to the financial statements on pages 41 and 42. and any concerns investigated.
Principal risks and uncertainties Due to the current economic climate, shareholders will 2.
Performance risk The achievement of the Companys performance have greater concerns about the way their investments are managed.
The Board confirms that there is an objective relative to the market requires the application of risk.
Strategy, asset allocation and stock selection ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks which fall under the general might lead to under-performance of the benchmark Index and target.
Management of the risks set out above headings of strategic, operational and management.
With the assistance of Fidelitys internal audit team the is carried out by the Board which, at each Board meeting, considers the asset allocation of the portfolio and the risk Board has constructed a risk matrix which identifies the key risks to the Company under these broad headings.
associated with particular countries and industry sectors within the parameters of the investment objective.
The The Board reviews and agrees policies, which have remained unchanged since the beginning of the Portfolio Manager is responsible for actively monitoring the portfolio selected in accordance with the asset accounting period, for managing risks and summaries of these are set out below.
allocation parameters and seeks to ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk reward profile.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board in 3.
Investment management and income risks accordance with the FRCs Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Risks dividends In addition to the risk of the mis-management of are identified, introduced and graded and this process, together with the policies and procedures for the funds by poor investment decisions, there is also a risk involved in income.
The Companys objective mitigation of risks, and are updated and reviewed twice a year in the form of a comprehensive internal controls is capital growth and as explained in the Chairmans Statement on pages 3 and 4, the Portfolio Manager report considered by the Audit Committee.
is not constrained in any way to determine the level of income.
The Board monitors this risk through the 1.
Market risks The Portfolio Managers success or failure to protect and receipt of detailed income reports and forecasts which are considered at each meeting.
increase the Companys assets against this background Page 18 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2008
