Directors Report & Business Review The Directors present their Report, Business Review share buybacks.
The Company is subject to the UK and the financial statements of the Company for Listing Authoritys Listing Rules, UK company law, the year ended 30 September 2008.
The financial financial reporting standards, taxation law and its statements are set out on pages 32 to 50. own articles of association, amendments to which must be approved by shareholders via a special Results and dividends resolution.
The Company has a secondary listing on The Companys net asset value NAV per share the New Zealand Stock Exchange.
The Companys on a total return basis fell by 33.2% in the year listing on the Deutsche Brse was cancelled with ended 30 September 2008, compared to a fall of effect from 18 August 2008.
19.7% for the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index total return, sterling adjusted the Index.
The Investment trust taxation status Managers Review on pages 4 to 6, which forms The Company is subject to corporation tax on its part of this Business Review, contains a discussion net revenue profits but is exempt from corporation of the background to this performance.
tax on capital gains, provided it complies at all times The net assets of the Company as at with Section 842 of the Income and Corporation 30 September 2008 were 292,378,000 and Taxes Act 1988 Section 842. dividends paid in respect of the year are set out Compliance with these rules qualifies the below: Company as an investment trust, and this status is granted annually in retrospect by HM Revenue Results and dividends and Customs subject to there being no subsequent for the year ended 30 September 2008 enquiry under corporation tax self-assessment.
The 000s 000s Company has qualified as an investment trust in respect of all relevant years up to and including the Revenue return attributable to equity shareholders 7,264 year ended 30 September 2007, and continues to conduct its affairs in compliance with Section 842.
Dividends paid in the year: Whilst these tax rules are similar to regulations Final dividend of 1.7p per share 874 covering competing open-ended investment companies and unit trusts, the Companys structure Special dividend of 6.6p per share 3,395 as a closed-ended investment trust provides it with 4,269 the flexibility to borrow money to invest and take a longer-term view of markets.
Amount transferred to the revenue reserve 2,995 Accounting and going concern Paid on 20 December 2007 to shareholders on the register at 16 November 2007.
The financial statements, starting on page The special dividend declared of 2.9p per share 32, comply with current UK financial reporting and the recommended final dividend of 12.0p standards, supplemented by the revised statement per share are payable on 22 December 2008 to of recommended practice for investment trust shareholders on the register of members on companies SORP.
The principal accounting 14 November 2008. policies of the Company are set out in note 2 on the accounts.
The auditors opinion on the financial Principal activity and status statements appears on page 31.
The Directors The Company is an investment company as believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt defined by Section 833 of the Companies Act the going concern basis in preparing the accounts 2006 CA2006.
As such, it analyses its profits as the Company has adequate resources to between income, which is available for distribution continue in operation for the foreseeable future by way of dividends, and capital, which it is and its assets consist mainly of securities that are prohibited from distributing other than by way of readily realisable.
Report and Accounts 2008 17 Directors Report & Business Review continued Investment objective and policy No more than 10% of the total assets of the The Companys investment objective is to achieve Company may be invested in other listed investment long-term capital growth through a diversified companies including investment trusts except in portfolio of Continental European securities.
The such other investment companies which themselves Board believes that investment in the diverse and have stated that they will invest no more than increasingly accessible markets of this region 15% of their total assets in other listed investment provides opportunities for capital growth over companies, in which case the limit is 15%.
At the same time it considers the Compliance with the investment policy is structure of the Company as a UK listed investment monitored by the Board.
It will not be changed trust, with a fixed capital and an independent Board materially without prior shareholder approval.
of Directors, to be well suited to investors seeking longer-term returns.
Capital structure and buyback policy The Company employs a bottom-up stock As at 30 September 2008 there were 48,781,641 selection approach, overlaid by the identification ordinary shares of 25p each in issue.
All ordinary of strong themes with investments drawn from shares rank equally for dividends and distributions and across the capitalisation scale.
Investments are carry one vote each.
Details of the capital structure focused on those companies that either offer can be found in note 16 on the accounts.
The revenue undervalued organic growth, or are set to benefit profits of the Company including accumulated from restructuring, cost cutting and other profitability revenue reserves are available for distribution by way improvements.
Small companies are identified which of dividends to the holders of the ordinary shares.
have market leading or innovative positions within Upon a winding-up, after meeting the liabilities of the their market place.
Small capitalisation companies Company, the surplus assets would be paid to the can be relatively volatile, whether financially or holders of ordinary shares and distributed among operationally or in terms of management or market such holders rateably.
position, and are highly geared to growth.
Subject to approvals granted annually by its The Board recognises that investment in some shareholders, the Company may purchase its own European countries can be riskier than in others.
shares and issue new shares.
The Directors consider Investment risks are diversified through holding a it advantageous to shareholders for the Company wide range of securities in different countries and to have the authority to make purchases of its own industrial sectors.
At the end of September 2008, shares as and when it considers the timing to be the portfolio was made up of 69 stocks with market favourable, depending on market conditions and capitalisations ranging from 20m to 105bn.
the Boards judgement of its likely effectiveness No more than 10% of the value of the portfolio in increasing NAV per share and or reducing the in aggregate may be held in securities in those discount.
The level of discount varies from time to countries which are not included in the FTSE All time according to a number of factors, including World Europe Index.
market sentiment and supply and demand for the The Board has the authority to hedge its exposure Companys shares.
The Board regularly monitors to movements in the rate of exchange of currencies, the management of share repurchases which are principally the euro, in which the Companys investments conducted by the Manager within the limits of the are denominated, against sterling, its reporting currency.
During the year However, it is not generally the Boards practice to do under review 2,986,263 shares were purchased, this and the portfolio is not currently hedged.
representing 5.8% of the issued share capital at 30 No investments in unquoted stocks can be made September 2007.
The purchases were made at prices without the prior approval of the Board.
There are no ranging from 588.3p to 831.8p per share.
Since the unquoted investments at present.
The level of gearing year end, the Company has purchased a further within the portfolio is agreed by the Board and should 348,435 shares for cancellation at prices ranging from not exceed 20% in normal market conditions.
18 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC Borrowings Within that overall policy the Board agrees with the The Company has the ability to utilise short-term Manager an operational limit on gearing from time borrowings by way of loans and overdrafts subject to time and reviews this at each Board meeting.
to the limits set out in the Companys investment Investment management resources the objective and policy.
The Company maintains a quality of the management team employed by multi-currency credit facility with The Royal Bank the Manager is a crucial factor in delivering good of Scotland which enables it to borrow in euros or performance and loss of key staff could adversely other European currencies, although in practice affect investment returns.
The Manager has borrowings and any short-term cash deposits are training and development programmes in place held in euros.
for its employees and develops its recruitment and remuneration packages in order to retain key staff.
Principal risks Regulatory failure to comply with regulations The specific key risks faced by the Company, together could result in the Company losing its listing with our mitigation approach, include the following: and or being subject to corporation tax on its Market the Companys assets consist of quoted capital gains.
The Board reviews regular reports equity securities and it is therefore exposed to from the Manager on the controls in place to movements in the price of individual securities ensure compliance by the Company with rules and the market generally.
The large number of and regulations.
The Board also receives regular investments held and the geographic and sector investment listings and income forecasts as part diversity of the portfolio enable the Company to of its monitoring of compliance with the provisions spread its risks with regard to individual companies of Section 842. and sectors, but a significant fall in European equity Internal controls inadequate financial controls markets would have an adverse impact on the value could result in misappropriation of assets, loss of of the Companys investment portfolio.
income and debtor receipts and mis-reporting of Investment strategy inappropriate investment NAVs.
The Board regularly reviews the Managers strategy or ineffective implementation of statements on its internal controls and procedures this strategy could result in poor returns for and subjects the books and records of the shareholders and a widening of the discount Company to an annual audit.
of the share price to the NAV per share.
The Counterparties the Company is exposed to Board periodically reviews the investment potential failures by counterparties: more details strategy and regularly monitors the Companys are included on page 49. investment portfolio and the investment selection, performance and operations of the Manager.
The financial risks are set out in more detail in note Currency the Companys assets are denominated 24 on the accounts.
The Corporate Governance in European currencies, principally the euro, but are Statement, on pages 28 and 29, includes a summary valued in sterling in accordance with the Companys of the risk management arrangements in place and accounting policies.
Any weakening of the euro the process for identifying, evaluating and managing against sterling will adversely affect performance of significant risks.
those assets when measured in sterling.
Although the Board has the authority to hedge this currency The Board risk it does not routinely do so.
The Board of non-executive Directors, whose Gearing Borrowing money for investment appointment is approved by shareholders, is charged gearing increases the negative impact on with ensuring that the Company complies with its the Companys asset value if the value of those objectives and the various rules and regulations.
The Boards policy Further information on the role and powers of the is that the level of gearing of the Company should Board is contained in the Corporate Governance not exceed 20% in normal market conditions.
Report and Accounts 2008 19 Directors Report & Business Review continued Directors Director indemnification and insurance Information on the individual Directors of the On 14 December 2006, the Company entered into Company, all of whom are resident in the UK is set a deed poll providing the Directors with indemnities out on page 16. against liability to third parties arising in connection There were no contracts of significance to which with any negligence, default, breach of duty or the Company was a party and in which a Director is, breach of trust by the Directors such indemnities or was, materially interested during the year.
being qualifying third party indemnities, as permitted under the CA2006.
This deed poll is available Directors remuneration and shareholdings for inspection at the Companys registered office The Directors Remuneration Report, which can be during normal business hours and at the AGM.
The found on page 25, provides detailed information on Company has insurance in place which indemnifies the remuneration of the Directors.
Shareholders will the Directors against certain liabilities arising in be asked to approve the Directors Remuneration carrying out their duties.
Report at the annual general meeting AGM.
The Directors remuneration is not conditional upon the Investment management resolution being passed.
In common with most investment trusts, the The beneficial interests of the Directors in the Company does not have any employees, and the ordinary shares of the Company were as follows: Board has appointed F&C Management Limited F&C or the Manager to manage the investment portfolio on a day-to-day basis, as well as to carry Directors interests out administrative, accounting, company secretarial and marketing activities on behalf of the Company.
At 30 September 2008 2007 This appointment is governed by a management Mr D C P McDougall 10,000 10,000 agreement, which is terminable upon three months notice given by either party.
Further details of the Mr W D Eason 10,000 10,000 management agreement are set out in note 4 on Mr R Kanza 10,000 10,000 the accounts.
The Companys investments are managed by Mr M B Moule 2,000 nil the Manager in accordance with the investment There have been no changes in any of the objective and policy described on page 18.
Directors interests in shares detailed above since Investment selection and monitoring is undertaken the Companys year end.
by the fund manager, Peter Jarvis, who specialises in No Director held any interest, beneficial or Continental European companies, with support from otherwise, in the issued shares of the Company analysts and research teams.
Assessing the quality other than stated above.
of management through meetings with potential and existing investee companies is a key input into the Directors re-election investment process.
Extensive work is carried out All Directors held office throughout the year under in analysing potential investments for their market review.
Having served over nine years, Mr McDougall positioning and competitive advantage, financial and Mr Kanza will stand for re-election at the AGM.
strength and cash flow characteristics.
Various Mr Moule will retire by rotation.
valuation benchmarks are used to assess the Each of these Directors has made a valuable and potential attractiveness of investment opportunities effective contribution to your Company and the and to set price targets for the individual stocks.
The Board therefore recommends that you vote in favour Board reviews the composition and performance of of their re-election.
the portfolio at each Board meeting.
The Board has reviewed and endorsed the Managers approach to environmental, social and 20 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC governance issues and its voting policy, which it fees, are set out in note 4 on the accounts.
No exercises on behalf of the Company.
The Managers performance related fee provision has been made stated belief is that good governance creates value in respect of the year ended 30 September 2008 and it takes an interest in corporate governance 2007: nil.
It votes all of its shares across all markets whenever possible, and Key performance indicators engages with companies on corporate governance The Board uses the following key performance matters to encourage good practice.
This includes indicators KPIs to help assess progress against engagement on significant social and environmental the Companys objectives: issues where these may impact shareholder value.
NAV per share total return compared to the Index.
It is the Companys general policy not to vote where NAV per share compared to other investment to do so may hinder the Managers investment trusts specialising in Continental Europe.
decisions because of share blocking procedures Share price discount to NAV per share.
often adopted in Continental Europe.
The Manager is a subsidiary of F&C Asset Management plc FCAM, a leading European The tables below, the ten year record on pages investment group with over 90bn under management.
51 and 52 and the Chairmans statement on pages Friends Provident plc FP, which owns 52% of 2 and 3 show how the Company has performed FCAM, announced on 31 January 2008 that, as wealth against these KPIs.
management no longer forms part of its strategy, it would work with FCAMs board and management Discount team to review its shareholding.
On 31 October 2008 FCAM announced that its management had conducted At 30 September % a wide-ranging process to assist FP in its review and 2008 13.6 that FP had announced its intention to distribute its entire shareholding in FCAM to its shareholders.
The 2007 9.5 FCAM board is continuing to explore opportunities and 2006 9.1 remains in discussions with interested parties, which may or may not lead to an offer for FCAM.
The Board 2005 10.4 is closely monitoring developments.
F&C offers a range of savings plans through which 2004 13.9 individuals may invest in the Company.
Source: F&C Management Limited JPMorgan Chase is appointed to act as custodian of the Companys assets.
Operational matters with the Total expense ratio custodian are carried out by the Manager in accordance with the provisions of the management agreement.
% At 30 September Management fees 2008 0.7 The Manager receives a quarterly management fee, 2007 0.7 payable in arrears, equal to 0.125% of the funds under management at each quarter end.
In addition, 2006 0.7 the Manager is eligible for a performance-related 2005 0.8 management fee payable at the rate of 0.05% per 1% of annual outperformance by the NAV per share 2004 0.7 of target performance, defined as a margin of 1.5% as a percentage of average total assets.
Further details, including provisions Source: F&C Management Limited.
relating to any underperformance and limits on Report and Accounts 2008 21 Directors Report & Business Review continued Managers evaluation and re-appointment Independent auditors The Managers performance is monitored by the  LLP have indicated their Board and the remuneration and re-appointment willingness to continue in office as auditors to of the Manager is assessed annually.
This review the Company and resolutions to re-appoint them takes into consideration the Companys investment and to authorise the Directors to determine their record over short and long-term periods and the remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
performance, competence and resources of the So far as each Director is aware, there is no Manager, both as a management company and relevant audit information of which the Companys with regard to the fund management team in place.
The Directors believe that they It also includes consideration of the other services have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken provided by F&C.
as Directors in order to make themselves aware of In light of the long-term investment performance any relevant audit information and to establish that of the Manager and the quality and efficiency of the the auditors are aware of this information.
overall service provided, it is the opinion of the Board that the continuing appointment of the Manager on Annual general meeting the terms agreed is in the interests of shareholders The AGM will be held on Wednesday 17 December as a whole.
2008 at 11 a. m. at Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2.
The Notice of Annual General Outlook Meeting the Notice appears on pages 53 to 58, The outlook for the Company is reported in the and includes a map of the venue.
Peter Jarvis will Managers Review on page 6. give a presentation covering progress in the year to date and his views on the market for 2009.
There will GENERAL INFORMATION be an opportunity to ask questions during the AGM Voting rights and shareholders will be able to meet the Directors At 4 November 2008 the Company had 48,433,206 and Mr Jarvis more informally over refreshments ordinary shares in issue with a total of 48,433,206 following the meeting.
In addition to the ordinary voting rights.
As at that date the Company had business of the meeting, the resolutions numbered received notification of the following holdings of 9 to 11 are proposed as special business and are voting rights in accordance with the FSAs Disclosure explained below.
and Transparency Rules: Authority to allot shares resolution 9 Resolution 9 is similar in content to the authority Voting rights and power given to the Directors at previous Ordinary shares AGMs.
By law, directors are not permitted to of 25p each % allot new shares or to grant rights over shares 1607 Capital Partners 5.7 unless authorised to do so by shareholders.
In addition, directors require specific authority from Legal & General 4.7 shareholders before allotting new shares or Barclays 4.1 granting rights over shares for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion The percentages are calculated by applying the holdings notified to the Company to the aggregate voting rights in respect of the issued ordinary to their holdings.
Resolution 9 gives the Directors, share capital as at 4 November 2008. for the period until the conclusion of the AGM in Individual savings accounts ISAs 2009, the necessary authority to allot securities The Companys shares are qualifying investments up to an aggregate nominal amount of 605,415 for ISAs, and the Board intends that the Company 2,421,660 ordinary shares.
This is equivalent to will continue to conduct its affairs so as to satisfy the approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share requirements to remain so.
capital of the Company at the date of this report.
It 22 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC also empowers the Directors to allot such securities Amendments to the articles of association for cash, otherwise than to existing shareholders on resolution 11 a pro-rata basis.
This authority and power provides Over the past two years company law in the United the Directors with a degree of flexibility to increase Kingdom has undergone major reform through the assets of the Company by the issue of new the coming into force of parts of the CA2006.
shares should any favourable opportunities arise to Accordingly, the Board considers it prudent the advantage of shareholders.
to replace the Companys existing articles of The Directors can, if necessary, use this association with new articles which take account of authority to satisfy demand from participants in these developments the New Articles.
the various F&C savings plans when they believe The CA2006 is being brought into force in it is advantageous to plan participants and the stages, which began in January 2007, with full Companys shareholders to do so.
At Under no circumstances would the Directors use this years AGM, the Company proposes to adopt the authority and power to dilute the interests of provisions which reflect changes in the law brought existing shareholders by issuing shares at a price about by the CA2006 in respect of, amongst other which is less than the NAV attributable to the shares things, electronic communications, notice periods at the time of issue.
for meetings, proxy voting and directors conflicts of interest.
Authority for the Company to purchase its own A copy of the New Articles will be available for shares resolution 10 inspection at the registered office of the Company Resolution 10 authorises the Company to purchase and at Royal London House, 22-25 Finsbury Square up to a maximum of 7,260,137 ordinary shares London EC2A 1DX during normal business hours equivalent to approximately 14.99% of the issued on any weekday public holidays excepted from share capital in the market at a minimum price of 25p the date of the Notice until the conclusion of the per share and a maximum price per share exclusive AGM and on the date of the AGM at the Companys of expenses of 5% above the average of the middle registered office from 10.45 a. m. until the conclusion market quotations for an ordinary share as derived of the meeting.
from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List A summary of the material changes proposed for the five business days immediately before the to be brought about by the adoption of the New date of purchase.
The Directors would continue to Articles is set out in the appendix to the Notice.
use this authority with the objective of enhancing shareholder value.
Purchases would only be made, Form of proxy within guidelines established from time to time by the Registered shareholders will find enclosed a form of Board, through the market for cash at prices below proxy for use at the AGM.
Please complete, sign and the prevailing NAV per ordinary share which would return the form of proxy in the envelope provided as have the effect of increasing the NAV per ordinary soon as possible in accordance with the instructions share for the remaining shareholders.
Any ordinary thereon, whether or not you intend to be present at shares that are purchased would be cancelled.
This will not preclude you from attending The authority will continue until the expiry of 18 the AGM and voting in person if you wish to do so.
months from the date of the passing of the resolution A proxy appointment should be submitted so as to unless it is varied, revoked or renewed prior to that be received not later than 48 hours before the time by the Company in general meeting by special appointed for holding the AGM.
The Board intends to seek a renewal of such authority at subsequent AGMs.
Form of direction Participants in the various F&C savings plans will find enclosed a form of direction.
Please complete and sign the form of direction as soon as possible in Report and Accounts 2008 23 Directors Report & Business Review continued accordance with the instructions thereon and ensure Recommendation that the form is returned in the enclosed envelope to Your Board considers that the resolutions to be Computershare Investor Services PLC not later than proposed at the AGM are in the best interests of 96 hours before the time appointed for holding the shareholders as a whole and recommends that they AGM so that the plan administrator can submit a form vote in favour of such resolutions, as the Directors of proxy before the 48 hour period begins.
intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
By order of the Board F&C Management Limited Secretary 5 November 2008 24 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC
