29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 15:56 Page 20 REVIEW OF THE YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY I MISSION AND VISION I CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW I LEADERSHIP TEAM BUSINESS REVIEW WE HAVE RESTRUCTURED OUR OPERATIONS Simon Clamp UK BUSINESS Managing Director, UK UK Corporate Marketing products and services to corporate clients PAGE 22 UK Individual Marketing products and services to individuals PAGE 24 Sesame A major intermediary network wholly owned by Friends Provident Pantheon Financial A specialist intermediary network wholly owned by Friends Provident Rocco Sepe INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS Managing Director, International Friends Provident International Marketing products and services in Asia, the Middle East, Continental Europe and the UK PAGE 26 Lombard A pan-European company specialising in providing life assurance-based tax and estate planning solutions to wealthy individuals, wholly owned by Friends Provident PAGE 28 AmLife A Malaysian life assurance company 30% owned by Friends Provident PAGE 26 Richard Crouch CUSTOMER OPERATIONS Director, Customer Operations Delivering an efficient and valued end-to-end service to our customers and also responsible for ensuring legacy portfolio products that are no longer open to new business contribute positively to Friends Providents profits 20 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 15:56 Page 21 STRATEGY I KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS I PEOPLE AND PROCESSES I CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY BUSINESS REVIEW KEY RISKS I FINANCIAL REVIEW UK BUSINESS OVERVIEW Following a comprehensive review of strategy and Distribution is primarily through independent financial structure in early 2008, the UK-facing operation now advisers or through distribution agreements.
has two main trading businesses.
UK Corporate is Both UK Corporate and UK Individual are positioned focused on building on its position of strength in the in their respective markets to target profit above group pensions arena but with a growing involvement volume growth.
The strength of both businesses in corporate protection schemes.
Distribution is rests in the advanced use of technology to support primarily via Employee Benefit Consultants and leading-edge processes and high-quality service.
Sesame and Pantheon Financial operate UK Individual seeks to build on its proven expertise independently although our ownership of these in protection plans for individual customers, while two intermediary networks enhances our insights maintaining a tactical approach to individual pensions, into the UK marketplace.
savings & investment plans and annuities.
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS OVERVIEW The international dimension of the Friends Provident and tax planning solutions for high and ultra-high Group comprises two long-established and net worth individuals.
Distribution is predominantly complementary businesses.
Friends Provident focused on Europe via strong relationships with a International has offices in the Isle of Man, Guernsey, select number of private banks and specialist advisors, Hong Kong, Dubai and Singapore.
It markets including leading global institutions.
predominantly savings plans but is increasingly Friends Provident currently prioritises international diversifying into pensions and protection plans.
growth as we see international markets as offering Distribution is focused on the four key regions of Asia, greater potential than the UK.
The strengths of our the Middle East, Continental Europe and the UK, and international operations are our respected brands, our is primarily via specialist independent financial advisers culture of quality service and our broad diversification and strategic partnerships.
by products, territories and customer segments.
Lombard is based in Luxembourg, with a branch office in Switzerland.
It specialises in providing estate CUSTOMER OPERATIONS OVERVIEW Customer Operations aims to provide an efficient Customer Operations undertakes activities to and valued service to intermediaries and customers, understand better the things that intermediaries and giving them good reasons to stay with us and to want customers value, and incorporates these insights into to use us again as and when the opportunity arises.
the design of its processes.
The way we are organised For customers, it offers end-to-end services that start enables Customer Operations to work closely with from a completed application being received to the our UK and International businesses to develop besttime the policy ends or a claim is made.
practice solutions that align with business strategies and that represent value for money.
The vision of Customer Operations is to be the service provider of choice and its strategy is to The processes of Customer Operations are validated balance cost-efficiency with providing high levels of against the FSAs Treating Customers Fairly principles service that positively differentiate Friends Provident to ensure the needs of customers remain central to in the marketplace.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 21
