ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 16 Business review Results for 2008 Geographic performance After another very successful year, the Group reports a record profit of 330.2 million before tax, amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising ICAPs businesses operate in more than on consolidation and exceptional items: this represents 30 countries worldwide: in terms of revenue a 31% increase over the prior year.
On a statutory and profit, EMEA and the Americas are the basis, profit before tax was 275.1 million for the two largest regions.
We continue to believe that profit before tax, 50% amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising EMEA on consolidation and exceptional items better reflects the Groups underlying year-on-year performance.
39% The Americas This measure is reconciled to profit before tax on the face of the consolidated income statement.
11 % Asia Pacific The majority of ICAPs revenue is dollar denominated Geographic and therefore the weakening of the dollar against performance: sterling had a significant impact on ICAPs reported percentage of Group results.
Year-on-year profit before tax would have operating profit been approximately 14.0 million higher without the dollar depreciation.
Business drivers ICAP is a growth business in a growing market.
Many factors continue to support this growth including: instability in currencies, interest rate and credit markets leading to continuing price volatility and the basis for further growth in interest rate and credit derivatives, FX, commodities and listed futures markets: the overall commitment of capital to trading in these markets, whether from banks or from hedge funds: increasing use, by a wider audience, of derivatives to reduce risk exposure, not only in the financial markets but in commodities and in newer markets such as insurance: commoditisation of flow markets and the increasing focus on electronic trading and commitment of capital to proprietary and algorithmic trading strategies by dealers and their customers: rapid growth in equity derivatives driven by rising stock markets and the search for yield: continuing liberalisation of emerging markets and the growth in onshore and local currency fixed income, derivatives and credit markets: and increasing regulatory pressure for best execution and price transparency, which favours electronic trading venues.
Our very broadly diversified businesses, both geographically and in the individual markets, means our exposure to changes in market volumes in any single market is restricted.
Excludes amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
17 ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Geographic performance EMEA Asia Pacific Headline Underlying Headline Underlying growth growth growth growth m%% m%% Revenue 610.0 21 20 Revenue 166.6 14 14 Operating profit 166.3 34 32 Operating profit 36.1 89 66 Once again EMEA was the most profitable region with the highest This was a more stable year but the voice broking market has continued operating profit margin.
The region delivered a very good performance to be highly competitive in the region with several smaller competitors during the period with both voice and electronic revenue growing rapidly.
still trying to build their presence.
The strongest growth came from Electronic broking of spot FX was a highlight.
There has been very strong the emerging markets and interest rates business, the latter boosted revenue growth in the interest rate derivative business, in part a result by a very significant input from electronic broking.
We are investing of steeper yield curves.
Credit derivatives also grew significantly with to build businesses in the emerging markets, which at this stage an expanding portion traded electronically.
Demand for corporate bonds implies lower margins.
Our joint venture with CFETS in Shanghai began remained subdued.
The commodities business has produced another very operations in September 2007.
The recent acquisition of Link will strong performance helped by the acquisition of the shipping businesses.
further boost our performance in equity derivatives in Asia Pacific.
The Americas Headline Underlying growth growth m%% Revenue 527.8 15 20 Operating profit 129.3 24 34 While revenue and operating profit increased substantially on an underlying basis, dollar weakness reduced this on a headline basis: the profitability of the region improved during the year.
Credit derivatives grew very strongly benefiting from active markets.
Overall corporate bond markets were slow.
In the emerging markets business, mainly driven by Latin American products, growth slowed in the second half after a very active period.
The commodities business performed well, as did equity derivatives.
The flight to quality and steeper yield curves contributed to growth in the interest rate markets, particularly from the electronic business.
Underlying additionally excludes the impact of FX and acquisitions.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 18 Business review continued Divisional performance Divisional performance Electronic broking Headline Underlying growth growth ICAP segments its Group revenue and m%% operating profit into three divisions, electronic, Revenue 273.9 38 30 voice and information.
Operating profit 106.9 93 83 Electronic broking had an outstanding year with record volumes, 32 % Electronic revenue and profit.
Average daily electronic broking volumes in March 2008 reached the highest level ever as volatility continued in the global financial markets.
Overall, average daily volume in March was 61 % $966.1 billion, breaking the record of $933.9 billion set in August 2007.
Voice New records were also set in both fixed-income products on the BrokerTec platform including US treasury products, EU repo and 7% US repo which increased 12% year-on-year to $713.0 billion Information March 2007 $639.4 billion.
Spot FX traded on ICAPs electronic Divisional platform, EBS, also increased 34% year-on-year in March to an performance: average daily volume of $253.1 billion March 2007 $189.1 billion.
percentage of Group operating profit Three of the top ten trading days on EBS were in March 2008.
As we have noted previously, the expansion of electronic broking in the more liquid and commoditised markets itself feeds additional growth through: driving lower transaction costs which increase trading volumes by encouraging the development of algorithmic and other highly price sensitive trading strategies: concentrating volumes among fewer electronic venues: and enabling lower post-trade transaction costs through automated confirmation and STP, thereby increasing customer efficiency and attracting extra marginal volumes.
Revenue and profit margin growth has continued in electronic broking in several of the interest rate markets including euro repo, credit derivative products, forward FX, US agencies, mortgage-backed securities and interest rate products in Asia Pacific.
The percentage of ICAPs overall profit arising from electronic broking was 32%, an increase from 22% in the previous year.
ICAP has a long-term target to increase the share of operating profit coming from electronic broking to 50%.
Algorithmic trading in both the fixed income and FX markets has continued to grow quickly and now makes a significant contribution to liquidity on the two trading platforms.
19 ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements We have continued to expand electronic broking product coverage: Voice broking dollar rouble, Australian dollar New Zealand dollar and dollar Headline Underlying growth growth Turkish lira spot FX: m%% ICAPs BrokerTec platform was chosen by the Netherlands for Revenue 990.8 14 17 euro government bond trading.
This will enable European primary Operating profit 202.9 19 24 dealers to fulfil their secondary market quoting obligations in the wholesale government bond market on BrokerTec, opening this The voice division operates both in the faster growing products where market to competing electronic platforms for the first time: innovation in the financial markets is creating many new opportunities non-deliverable forward FX in seven Asian currencies and the and also in the more mature, slower growing group where volumes are Russian rouble were launched on the EBS platform: and much higher and products are moving towards more commoditisation and tighter bid-offer spreads.
These more mature businesses are the securities lending in Europe and Asia.
ones that we expect to move eventually to electronic broking.
Many of The majority of the costs and inefficiencies in the OTC market usually the focus businesses have had a very good year with significant overall occur post trade, where transactions need to be manually confirmed revenue growth and increased profit margin.
We have continued to see and entered into the banks systems for both settlement of the trade and the trend of robust growth in the more structured and complex products position management.
For ICAP, a fundamental business objective is the as our clients leverage both their financial and intellectual capital to integration of our networks and systems with those of our customers enhance yield.
Establishing these links can be difficult and slow, Voice broking volumes have continued to benefit from the higher involving the banks in investing time and money to complete this activity level created by increased volatility and continuing disruption integration, but once established they provide a significant advantage.
Steeper yield curves have provided a significant As a part of this partnership we believe that there are many business boost to interest rate derivatives activity in many markets.
The higher opportunities in streamlining post-trade services for our customers price of credit risk has kept the credit derivatives market very active, as they struggle to handle the enormous increase in trading volumes notably in single name credit default swap and index products.
ICAP in many asset classes in recent years.
Our customers have absorbed benefits from having its activities spread over a wide range of markets hundreds of new participants from both emerging and developed and geographies with a variety of drivers of growth in those markets.
markets through prime broking relationships this in turn has created a Emerging market products have grown in all centres as these markets huge increase in the pressure on the middle and back offices of the banks develop and derivatives in both interest rates and currency markets and other market participants.
It is estimated that there are 500 million evolve.
For much of the year the commodity markets have been very transactions annually in the OTC markets excluding futures and the active, with volatility in the oil markets continuing.
In addition, other retail markets, which cost $5 billion to process.
Improving the efficiency products such as freight derivatives have been an important contributor of the whole process allows volumes to increase while minimising risk to growth.
and reducing costs to all market participants.
Information division This year we have added Traiana to our existing portfolio of post-trade services.
This portfolio includes Reset, a matching service which Headline Underlying reduces outstanding fixing risk in the interest rate market, and through growth growth m%% our associate, TriOptima, the web-based early termination and reconciliation service.
Revenue 39.7 2 Traiana is independently managed within ICAP.
It provides a post-trade, Operating profit 21.9 2 1 pre-booking service to the FX industry with existing connectivity to most trading platforms and major banks front and back office systems via its ICAP is also the source of global market information and commentary Harmony network.
This network is used by over 50 of the worlds leading for professionals in the international financial markets.
Our market data banks and has grown to process approaching 100,000 deal tickets a day.
offers real-time, end-of-day and historical market data sourced from It has a very strong position in FX prime broking products as well as our global interdealer trading platforms, providing authoritative and developing services in metals, interest rate derivatives and credit derivatives.
comprehensive information on global markets across a broad range of asset classes.
A significant part of the revenue of ICAPs information A significant portion of ICAPs trading volumes in the OTC markets, division is drawn from the electronic broking businesses.
particularly cash products, is cleared through a variety of clearing venues.
We believe that the wider use of fungible clearing for OTC derivative instruments will increase the efficiency of these markets, making them more attractive and expanding the use of electronic broking.
We are supporting plans by the banks together with The Clearing Corporation to introduce OTC derivative clearing, initially in the credit derivatives market.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 20 Business review continued Markets Markets To provide investors with a broader understanding of the growth drivers to the Groups business, ICAP provides an additional analysis of its business by market.
These are interest rates, credit, commodities, To explain the drivers of ICAPs performance FX, equities, emerging markets and information.
These groups are aligned more clearly, ICAP discloses revenue by product with the way our customers manage their businesses and as a result ICAP is able to explain the drivers of performance more clearly.
These groups are aligned with the way The revenue and growth rates of ICAPs revenue for these product in which our customers manage their businesses.
groups are set out below: These are interest rates, credit, commodities, 2008 2007 Revenue Revenue Growth FX, equities, emerging markets and information.
m m % Interest rates 546.6 468.4 17 42% Credit 158.5 124.9 27 Interest rates Commodities 131.3 101.1 30 12 % FX 196.6 159.2 23 Credit Equities 108.6 98.3 10 Emerging markets 123.1 114.6 7 10 % Information 39.7 39.8 Commodities Total 1,304.4 1,106.3 18 15 % FX Interest rates There was a sharp steepening of yield curves following the start of the Markets: credit crisis in June 2007, particularly in the dollar, with a flight to quality percentage of by investors.
These represented attractive markets for trading and we Group revenue have seen very busy interest rate derivatives markets.
According to ISDA, notional amounts of interest rate derivatives outstanding, which include interest rate swaps and options and cross-currency interest rate swaps, grew by almost 34% to $382.3 trillion in 2007, the same rate of growth as the previous year.
The liquidity problems in the short dated interest rate markets have attracted a great deal of attention from the central banks but secured lending through the repo markets has been very 8% active and ICAPs electronic volumes in US and EU repo increased Equities by 25% during the year.
In the US treasury market, volumes increased by 13% and ICAPs electronic volume in US treasury products increased 10 % by 27% during the year.
Emerging markets Credit The re-pricing of risk in the credit markets since June 2007 led to 3% very active markets in both credit default indices and single name credit Information default swaps and volumes in the credit derivatives markets continued to grow very rapidly.
However, many of the more complex, structured products, where ICAP did not have a large share of the market, experienced a dramatic fall off in activity.
ISDAs survey, which focuses on credit default swaps, indicates that the notional principal outstanding volume grew 81% to $62.2 trillion in 2007: the previous year the growth rate was 102%.
Growth in secondary market trading in the corporate bond markets remained subdued.
In EMEA, ICAPs electronic broking platform covering both credit default indices and single name credit default swaps has expanded very successfully.
Significantly more than half of the volume traded is completed electronically.
In addition to ICAPs successful voice broking business in North America we are working hard to expand the use of electronic broking there too.
21 ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Commodities However, the brokered market is large and fragmented and we believe The markets in both EMEA and the Americas have been very active, will consolidate.
At the beginning of April 2008, we acquired Link, with the oil markets particularly volatile, and we benefited from these the leading specialist global equity derivatives broker, for an initial conditions.
Coal, gas and electricity were also busy.
There was very consideration of 135 million.
This acquisition doubles ICAPs overall strong growth in two of the newer markets: carbon emissions credits global market share in equity derivatives taking it to roughly 18% and freight derivatives.
ICAP launched a new electronic tanker freight and makes it the market leader by a substantial margin.
derivatives broking service in April 2008.
This new electronic Link enjoys a very strong market position with offices in London, functionality will be the first OTC tanker derivative broking platform New York and Hong Kong servicing over 500 customers.
The combination with the added security of a clearing link into LCH.
We believe of Links strengths in index and single stock derivatives, with the majority that this is of real value to our customers and will increase liquidity in of ICAPs existing equity derivatives business outside the Americas, the tanker forward freight agreements market.
creates no significant overlaps and has a staff of 210 brokers.
The growth of China and India has combined with other structural The acquisition of Link is an important further step in building ICAPs factors to produce convergence within the commodities markets and overall capability in the equity markets and good synergies exist shipping is increasingly important in this process.
J. E. Hyde, the global between cash equities execution and a well integrated equity derivatives shipping business acquired by ICAP in May 2007, covers a broad range business.
In cash equities the Group has started building a global, of shipbroking and related services to the shipping industry.
Its core non-conflicted, agency only, cash equity broker.
Over the next few business of dry cargo shipbroking and the sale and purchase of ships is years this is expected to leverage both brokers and technology to complemented by shipping market research, yacht broking and shipping build a substantial global business.
Capital Shipbrokers was acquired in January 2008 to expand further ICAPs shipbroking coverage to a full service spanning Emerging markets chartering, sale and purchase, freight derivatives and research in the ICAPs emerging market teams in EMEA, the Americas and Asia Pacific tanker sector as well as in dry cargo.
cover a very broad range of products: including FX, interest rate products, government and corporate bonds.
During the past year Foreign exchange activity levels have been mixed, with some products growing very As an asset class FX has experienced a resurgence in recent years.
strongly and others less so: however, given their diversity, this is to be There has been significant volume growth and, this year, several periods expected.
After the boom and bust cycle over many years, we believe of high volatility.
On ICAPs spot FX electronic broking platform, EBS, that the emerging markets now represent real opportunities as they we have seen increasing business completed through the prime broking demonstrate fiscal responsibility and sound financial management of arms of our customers, including algorithmic trading.
In March 2008 their exciting economies.
spot FX traded on the EBS platform increased 34% year-on-year to an average daily volume of $253.1 billion March 2007 $189.1 billion.
Often our initial role in these markets is to link the interest from our Three of the top ten trading days on EBS were in March 2008. larger customers in the main financial centres with the local banks in the emerging markets.
In some markets, activity then expands more quickly In forward FX, ICAPs success in European countries with our i-Forwards in the emerging market and more deals are done between customers in project is being extended to incorporate liquidity from our Asian and that market: in others trading is predominantly in the offshore market.
In addition to voice broking in non-deliverable forward FX, ICAP launched non-deliverable forward FX trading on the We have found and expect to find many more opportunities in EBS platform in seven Asian currencies and the Russian rouble this year.
eastern Europe, Russia, Turkey and Africa.
In Asia Pacific we have a well-developed network of 12 offices with more than 700 staff Equities covering the markets.
In many parts of Central and Latin America There has been significant growth in the use of equity derivatives the Group has developed a network by working together with the during the past five to seven years as a result of the search for yield, local exchanges.
Recently ICAP acquired a 15% stake in the Bolsa fide the demand for absolute returns and the emergence of volatility as Productos fide Chile, a commodity exchange in Chile, to help us to build a traded asset class in its own right.
In 2007, according to ISDA, the on our already strong market position in the commodity markets.
notional amounts of equity derivatives outstanding, consisting of equity swaps, options and forwards, grew from $7.2 trillion to $10.0 trillion.
The vast majority of ICAPs business in the equity markets has been in derivatives and more complex structures in the UK, US and Japan.
As one of the focus areas that we have identified as having faster structural growth opportunities, we have been expanding our activities in these markets, both organically and by acquisition.
During the past year ICAP increased its staff in this area by 54%.
39% growth in notional amounts of global equity derivatives outstanding ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 22 Business review continued Competitive environment Competitive environment The major interdealer broker firms continue to consolidate market share as banks seek to rationalise their broking relationships and achieve economies of scale.
While this process of consolidation has already run The interdealer broking market continues to a long way in certain products, it is still in the early stages in others such consolidate: the largest five groups now account as equity derivatives and commodities.
for 60% of global revenue in the available market In the past we have defined our market rather narrowly but, as we expand and further diversify the business, a broader definition is based on ICAPs broader definition of the market.
On the original definition of our market ICAP has maintained its share.
In addition to the interdealer broking markets for FX, interest rates, credit, emerging markets and commodities we need to consider the scale of markets such as shipping, post-trade services and equity derivatives.
ICAP is working with an external consultant to estimate the size of ICAPs available market using this broader definition.
Markets like global cash equities and financial futures remain separate from this broader definition.
On this basis ICAP estimates its share including Link of this market to 20%22%.
Our target is to have 35% of this larger market.
The financial and commodity derivatives exchanges have continued to expand the volume of their business, more or less in line with the electronic OTC markets, demonstrating the often symbiotic relationship between the two.
The launch of new futures or options contracts is a risky and often disappointing business.
Given the lack of liquidity, quite frequently deals are completed in the OTC markets and then novated into the exchange to take advantage of the clearing facilities.
We have found that innovation in the OTC markets is much more frequent and has a much greater chance of success.
Recent examples include freight derivatives and carbon emissions.
We believe that there will be opportunities to launch new exchangetraded products and are continuing with the lengthy application process with the FSA to establish a regulated market.
Our combination of voice brokers and our electronic network, together with exchange trading technology, places us in a strong position to launch new regulated markets in areas where there is considerable client demand.
23 ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Using technology the need for speed Technology ICAPs electronic broking competitiveness relies on our ability to improve continuously the speed of price and liquidity discovery and to transact at ever faster deal speeds, with almost instantaneous response times.
A significant investment in technology is The demands of algorithmic trading have created new demands on our essential to keep both the electronic and networks and systems.
Of course all of this is delivered over one of the very few truly global electronic transaction networks.
The greatest technical challenge faced by the operators of all electronic trading platforms is ensuring that the technology is ahead of demands of the customers.
During the year we spent 12% of our revenue on technology.
This is a significant investment but it is essential to keep both the electronic and voice broking businesses competitive by meeting our customers diverse expectations.
Significant economies of scale have been realised by leveraging internally developed and externally acquired trading platforms.
ICAP now has a global IT organisation of 650 professionals based in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East and Asia Pacific.
They are committed to the development and support of these systems.
As with any forward-looking business the emphasis of our technology development costs is on systems that change the business rather than simply running the business better.
To do this, ICAP uses a combination of both internal development of its own technological systems and support from third party providers.
ICAP also completed the most recent phase of enhancements to its market leading EBS spot FX electronic trading platform.
These enhancements significantly improve functionality, increase the frequency of market view updates and speed of data delivery, and provide greater order book transparency for all EBS customers.
12% of revenue spent on technology ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 24 Business review continued Risk Risk The Group has put in place a group-wide risk management framework and has enhanced risk management discipline across the Group.
It is the policy of the Group to ensure that the Risk philosophy important and significant risks and their controls The directors believe that robust risk management is a fundamental are continually reviewed and assessed.
part of ICAPs business approach.
The Group is committed to maintaining a strong control environment, both geographically and across product lines.
To better align its risk capabilities with its strategic objectives, the Group has made substantial progress in the past year by: establishing an enterprise risk management ERM framework: further enhancing the risk management discipline: and increasingly embedding the risk management approach in the business decision-making processes.
Managers are responsible for the level of risk, however the risk function proactively helps ensure that activities remain within the Groups risk tolerances at all times.
Risk appetite The board examines the risk appetite of the Group along multiple dimensions, combining both quantitative and qualitative indicators.
At the aggregate level the board governs the Group with the over-arching objective of maintaining an investment grade credit rating at the corporate level.
This metric incorporates the key financial and risk drivers of the business including, in particular, earnings stability, levels of liquidity and gearing.
25 ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Risk management Risk governance structure The Group has classified its exposures into seven risk types: operational, credit, market, liquidity, regulatory, reputation and strategic risks.
ICAP plc board Operational risk Operational risks are the most important source of potential unexpected Group Chief Executive Officer Group risk committee losses that the Group faces across all of its businesses worldwide.
Operational risks cover instances where the Group may suffer a loss directly or indirectly from inadequate or failed internal processes, Group Chief Operating Officer people activities, systems or from external events.
They are intrinsic in all the Groups activities and are comprised of a wide and diverse range of risk types.
In particular losses can result from: Global Head of Risk significant and extended failure of IT systems and applications: breakdown of information security, including corrupt data due Global Financial Risk Global Operational Risk to network intrusion, breach of network gateways or security systems failure: Risk governance project risk in relation to critical IT development: ICAP has established an overall risk governance structure which helps the loss of key members from a broking desk: ensure the independence of risk management responsibilities from the commercial side of the Group and strengthens the influence of the risk broker errors: function in strategic and tactical decisions of the Group.
external events including failure of external settlement clearing The board is responsible for setting the overall risk strategy systems: and risk appetite of the Group.
The main forum for the board to discuss failure or disruption of operational or businesses process flow: risk matters is the group risk committee.
The key monitoring tool is the list of the top 25 significant risks for the Group.
These risks are natural or man-made business disruptions: and regularly re-evaluated in the light of general market circumstances introduction of new products and markets and the related tax, and the state of the risk drivers and internal risk controls, and the legal, accounting, regulatory, settlement and technology issues.
potential impact these risks will have on the organisations external credit rating and market perception.
The use of a dashboard enables It is a policy of the Group to ensure that the important and significant the board to understand the level and the direction of the Groups operational risks and their controls are continually reviewed and assessed.
In addition the board receives regular updates As a consequence of this process, corrective action plans are introduced on the Groups risk exposures.
to mitigate the impact of a risk when it occurs and reduce the probability of it occurring.
The board has delegated the day-to-day risk management of the Group to the group risk committee which meets at least six times a Operational risks are monitored and managed using a variety of tools year.
Details of the committees responsibilities are shown on page 44. including risk control self assessments, key risk indicators and process maps.
Large uncontrollable external events cannot be directly influenced The Global Head of Risk, reporting to the Group Chief Operating Officer, however, the Group mitigates the potential consequences through its is accountable for managing the risk framework of the Group across business continuity planning activities and appropriate insurance coverage.
all ICAPs entities and geographies.
The main responsibilities include: ensuring that the risk policies of the Group are up-to-date, understood and enforced: ensuring that the risk limits are communicated and enforced, and any breaches are quickly resolved: ensuring that the risks are measured and that risk mitigation actions are in place: enabling the risk management processes: reporting risks to executive management and the board: and maintaining and developing the business continuity plans of the Group.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 26 Business review continued Credit risk Market risk The Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance ICAP does not engage in proprietary trading activities.
As a result, by counterparties in respect of its agency, matched principal and however, of providing its clients with matched principal brokerage, treasury operations.
using debt to finance acquisitions and having a truly global franchise, it is exposed to a variety of market risks including price, interest rate To manage credit risk, group risk sets global limits for each counterparty and currency.
based on indicators of credit quality internal ratings in order to limit the potential loss which the Group could suffer as a result of a counterparty The Groups matched principal brokerage business involves ICAP acting default.
Where appropriate, country limits are also applied to limit the as counterparty for identified buyers and sellers in matching, in whole exposure of the Group to that country.
or in part, reciprocal back-to-back trades.
In order to facilitate customer transactions and provide liquidity, the Group may, however, participate In name give-up transactions, ICAPs role is to bring together buyers in certain marketplaces by posting quotations.
The act of posting and sellers and, where appropriate, to assist in the negotiation of the price quotations in pursuit of customer orders can result in ICAP becoming and other material terms of the transaction in return for a commission.
principal to an unmatched trade.
In such situations, or where one or both At the point at which the parties agree to terms, ICAP leaves the buyer counterparties in an OTC matched principal transaction fail to fulfil their and the seller to clear and settle directly with one another through the obligations e. g. an unsettled transaction or through trade mismatches appropriate market mechanism.
Credit risk relating to the name give-up or errors, ICAP is exposed to market risk.
In such situations, to mitigate business is monitored by regional accounts receivable teams, with risk risk, ICAPs policy is to liquidate or hedge and liquidate these principal limited to non-recovery of commission income.
positions as soon as reasonably practicable.
In certain markets, ICAP facilitates its clients by acting as the executing A similar risk exists for exchange traded transactions which are entered broker of exchange products.
In these transactions, ICAP executes the to facilitate client orders.
While trades are normally taken up by the client order on the exchange as principal and then novates the trade to underlying clients clearing brokers within a few minutes, if take-up is the underlying clients respective clearing broker for settlement.
In the delayed or ultimately does not happen, ICAP is left with a position facing vast majority of cases such trades are given up intra day, usually within the exchange and is exposed to short-term price movements in the a few minutes.
In circumstances where novation is delayed, ICAP is underlying asset temporarily held by the Group and movements in left with a position facing the relevant exchange clearing house and, foreign exchange rates.
Policies and procedures are in place to reduce until subsequent give-up is achieved, may be required, in line with the likelihood of such trade mismatches or failed give ups and, in the clearing house rules, to post margin.
ICAP maintains liquidity to manage event that they arise, the Groups policy is to liquidate these principal these short-term requirements.
In contrast to name give-up transactions, matched principal transactions In certain parts of its businesses, the Group, acting in its interdealer involve ICAP acting as counterparty for identified buyers and sellers in broker capacity, occasionally engages in complex and sometimes very matching, in whole or in part, reciprocal back-to-back trades.
To mitigate substantial structured matched principal transactions developed by the potential credit risk implicit in matched principal transactions, its highly-rated counterparties.
The Group undertakes significant tax, ICAP applies a disciplined approach to new client approval, undertakes legal and regulatory due diligence before entering these transactions.
transactions on a  basis and, through the These transactions do not involve the Group taking proprietary positions.
group risk function, monitors limits and their utilisation on a global basis.
In some cases, exceptions do occur but these are approved prior to the Only a very small proportion of ICAPs transactions result in any transaction taking place and are reported to the group risk committee.
exposure to market risk and compliance with ICAPs policies is monitored by the risk and compliance functions and by senior management.
Credit risk related to treasury activities cash investments and derivative financial instruments is limited by the Groups policy of Financing currency requiring its treasury transactions to be undertaken with financial A combination of regulatory capital rules, clearing house deposits institutions which have been approved by the group risk committee and other commercial requirements result in the Group having to and which are investment grade rated.
hold minimum cash and cash equivalent balances of approximately 260 million.
The existence of these cash and debt positions exposes the Group to interest rate risk which, from time to time, it manages with derivative instruments with the objective of minimising interest cost and the impact of interest volatility on the Groups income statement.
At 31 March 2008, the impact of a one hundred basis point movement in interest rates impacted interest expense by 1 million.
27 ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements The Group publishes its consolidated financial statements in sterling Regulatory risk GBP and conducts business in a number of other currencies, principally Regulatory risk is the risk of a financial loss or opportunity cost arising the dollar and the euro.
As a result the Group is exposed to foreign from either the failure to meet the requirements set by the Groups exchange risk due to exchange rate movements which affect the regulators or the impact that legislation has on the markets in which Groups transactional revenues, and the translation of the earnings the Group carries out its business.
and net assets of its overseas operations.
During 2007, wide ranging financial regulatory developments were The table below shows the anticipated impact for the year ending introduced.
The impact of these, including the CRD and MiFID, has March 2009 on operating profit of a 10 cent movement in the dollar considerably raised the profile of regulatory risk within the Group.
and euro on ICAP in terms of transactional and translational exposure.
The Group is required to meet the systems and controls requirements Dollar Euro Total of the CRD and has, during the past year, reviewed these and where Operating profit m m m necessary taken action to ensure compliance.
Transactional 6 9 15 The FSA adopts a risk-based approach to supervision and does this Translational 8 8 in various ways including the review of prudential returns, visits to the Group and meetings with senior management.
In the US, the Groups Further details of the Groups hedging strategy and the level of activities are primarily regulated by FINRA and the SEC.
The Group cover in place as at 31 March 2008 is contained in note 23 to the operates in other countries and its operations are subject to relevant financial statements.
Adherence to these regulations is Liquidity risk monitored, where applicable, by local compliance officers who report The Group seeks to ensure that it has constant access, even in periods regularly to the board.
of corporate or market turmoil, to an appropriate level of cash, other Reputational risk forms of marketable securities and committed funding lines to enable The Group relies on its reputation as a fair, ethical and conflict-free it to finance its ongoing operations, proposed acquisitions and other player to attract business from financial institutions globally.
reasonable unanticipated events on cost effective and attractive terms.
Details of ICAPs funding are set out on page 34.
ICAP mitigates reputational risk by promoting an ethical work environment, strictly imposing its group-wide policies, providing regular training and When investing its cash balances, the Group considers the protection constantly seeks to reinforce the deep penetration of the risk management of principal, instruments liquidity characteristics and bank counterparty culture in business practices.
risk, as well as the optimisation of return.
With the exception of small, local cash management balances, surplus cash is invested with financial Strategic risk institutions which have an equivalent credit rating of A or better and, Strategic risks, as set out below, are inherent for all firms operating in during the year, significant steps were made in terms of developing the financial markets and constitute a key element of the growth engine regional cash solutions in Asia Pacific, the UK and the US.
The potential downside of growth is mitigated through invests cash balances in a range of instruments including money market the overall management processes of the Group including, in particular, deposits, AAA liquidity funds, government bonds and more structured the new business initiative process: instruments.
Counterparty limits are set and monitored by the group risk increasing competition disintermediation: existing or potential committee and, through the recent financial market turmoil, a number of competitors might be able to exploit their size, expertise, access to changes have been made to reduce the Groups exposure to institutions better funding, superior technology or other types of leverage to perceived as higher risk.
change the economics or the mechanics of our business to their advantage and hence reduce ICAPs market share or profitability: variability in economic and financial markets: the volume of business flow transacted by the Group is affected directly by conditions in the global financial markets.
Factors influencing ICAPs daily volumes include levels, volatility and correlations of asset prices, credit quality of counterparties, changes in economic activity, political and market events, product innovation and indicators of market confidence: and diversification into new markets, with performance risk characteristics different to plan.
Excludes amortisation and impairment of tangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 28 Business review continued Risk measurement and infrastructure The key elements of the internal control system are: Daily risk management and mitigation is the responsibility of the Groups the establishment of an organisational structure with clearly defined business and desk leaders.
The risk function provides support to the levels of authority and division of responsibility: businesses with a wide range of tools adapted to the size and complexity of the Group.
These tools include: a comprehensive budgetary process, with both annual and regular forecasts being considered and approved by the board: credit risk limits based on an internal scoring system: the formulation of policies and approval procedures in key areas: Group and risk policies: daily monitoring of revenue as well as frequent reviews of balance controls: sheet and cash flow against budget and prior periods with significant procedures: variances being investigated and appropriate action taken: process maps: formulation and review of specific policy covering credit, market, operational and treasury risks faced by the business: risk and control self assessments: and regular visits to Group operating companies by executive board insurance contracts.
members and senior management: The risk team monitors an array of qualitative and quantitative measures all transactions authorised in accordance with delegated authority to ensure that the business risks remain within acceptable parameters.
limits approved by the board: More emphasis is given to the relevance of these measures than to their mathematical sophistication.
Metrics that are robust, easy to regular internal audit visits to Group operating companies to carry explain to the businesses and directly related to their risk profiles are out reviews of systems and procedures and compliance with preferred.
Examples include key risk indicators and credit exposure Group policies: metrics.
Using these measures, the Group produces a number of accountability of senior management within each region for the market, credit and operational risk and intelligence reports which are establishment of appropriate control frameworks within their disseminated widely among the Groups managers and up to executive operations to ensure compliance with Group policies, procedures management level and the board.
They are also responsible for ensuring that risks within Internal control their businesses are identified, assessed, controlled and monitored The board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control on an ongoing basis: and and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system of internal control regular reports from both the external and internal auditors on the is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve internal control systems operating within the Group.
business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The board, through the audit committee, has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control covering The effectiveness of the internal control system is reviewed regularly all controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and by an independent internal audit function.
Internal audit reports to the risk management systems.
The Group has investments in a number audit committee and functionally to the Group Finance Director and of joint ventures and associates.
Where the Group is not directly involved provides assurance to executive management and the board that the in the management of the investment it can influence, through board system of internal control achieves its objectives and highlights gaps representation, but not control the internal control systems present and areas for improvement.
The internal audit function is outsourced in those entities.
The boards review of the effectiveness of the system to an external firm.
Internal audit establishes an annual plan of desks of internal controls in those entities is consequently less comprehensive and functions to be examined based on discussions with management than in its directly-owned subsidiaries.
and the perception of the level of risk in the Groups activities.
Following audits, internal audit provides management and the board via the audit committee with conclusions of their analysis and with a monthly report of internal audit activity.
The monthly report includes the current year plan progress, updated activity schedule, outstanding issues, issues overdue, as well as issues added and closed during the month.
29 ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Staff Corporate and social responsibility ICAP has more than 3,900 staff worldwide with more than 2,200 broking staff.
More than 1,600 of our staff are based in EMEA, with over 1,500 in the Americas and the remainder in Asia Pacific.
More than 650 As an international business operating in more are involved in technology including the development and delivery of our than 30 countries, ICAP aims to conduct its electronic broking systems.
The number of staff has grown significantly this year due to acquisitions and new hires in faster growing business areas.
business in a socially responsible manner, In a competitive environment, our ability to recruit and retain the to contribute to the communities in which it highest quality staff: brokers, marketing and sales staff, support staff, operates and to respect the needs of employees, technology professionals and many others, is vital to the success and investors, customers, suppliers, regulators and future growth of our business.
We believe that the combination of our people together with sophisticated technology and a focus on other stakeholders.
new product market innovation is an attractive proposition to both our staff and our customers.
First launched in 2006, ICAPs Global Graduate Programme was created to produce a pipeline of young, developing talent into the Group.
Since its launch, 44 graduates have joined the Group and we expect a further 35 to join in 2008.
Our aim is to increase these numbers and extend the programme in the future.
The Global Graduate Programme seeks to create a talent pool which will help us foster greater creativity and motivation in new business development.
The largest group of ICAP staff, our brokers and their managers, have very special characteristics: entrepreneurial, high calibre, team-spirited individuals with the drive to succeed in a challenging, pressurised and dynamic environment their jobs require strong interpersonal and networking skills.
Overall staff compensation was 56% of revenue in 2008, a decline from 57% in the previous year.
ICAP monitors the voice revenue per voice broker as the most relevant efficiency measure of our voice broking business.
In 2007 08 this metric grew 10%, from 454,000 in the previous financial year to 499,000.
The variable component of voice broker remuneration increased to 63% this financial year from 60% in the previous year.
Employee involvement and employment practices The Group is committed to achieving the highest standards in its workplace.
The policies and practices in place within the Group to deter acts of harassment and discrimination are regularly monitored.
The Group undertakes training and maintains policies designed to prevent sexual harassment, discrimination and retaliation against individuals who report problems in the Groups workplaces.
The Group recognises the value of communication with employees at all levels and incentive schemes and share ownership schemes are run for the benefit of employees.
Information on these schemes is set out in note 26 to the financial statements.
ICAP has more than 3,900 staff worldwide ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 30 Business review continued Equal opportunity and diversity policy Charity Day The Group is committed to employment policies that provide and ICAPs Charity Day, introduced 15 years ago by Michael Spencer, promote equal employment opportunities for all employees and the Groups Chief Executive Officer, plays a very special role in applicants and to maintaining a workplace that ensures tolerance, staff motivation.
In December 2007, Michael Spencer was awarded respect and dignity for all its employees.
No employee, contract a Beacon Special Prize in recognition of his pioneering approach to or temporary worker or job applicant will be treated less favourably, modern philanthropy.
victimised or harassed on the grounds of their disability, sex, Charity Day raises very significant revenues which are donated to marital or civil partnership status, race, nationality, colour, ethnic or charities chosen by our staff around the world.
The success of this national origins, religious or similar philosophical belief, sexual orientation, day relies on the combination of huge support from our customers age or any other class protected by applicable law.
and a very impressive effort from our staff.
During the year the Group Health and safety donated 9.2 million to charitable organisations globally.
It brought the The Group has a health and safety policy which is approved by the total raised by ICAP since Charity Day began to more than 42 million.
board and owned by the Group Chief Operating Officer.
Regional Staff welcome the chance to give back to their local communities and health and safety committees ensure there is an effective structure this year more than 100 charities worldwide benefited.
Among them for delivering compliance with the policy.
Under the policy all managers were the National Centre for Young People with Epilepsy, the Breast have the responsibility to ensure that a healthy and safe working Cancer Haven, the Arnold Palmer Medical Centre and the Pathways environment is in place for all employees.
As the great majority of Foundation.
More information can be found on the Groups website.
the Groups employees work in office environments, there are no Environment significant areas of risk on which to report.
The Groups environment policy is approved by the board and owned by the Group Finance Director.
Corporate and social responsibility As an international business operating in more than 30 countries, The nature of ICAPs business activities means that the most significant ICAP aims to conduct its business in a socially responsible manner, impact on the environment is the emission of greenhouse gases to contribute to the communities in which it operates and to respect as a result of running the Groups offices and the associated travel.
the needs of employees, investors, customers, suppliers, regulators and ICAP seeks to reduce emissions by purchasing electricity from renewable other stakeholders.
sources where possible, minimising the amount of air travel that its employees undertake and recycling much of the Groups waste.
ICAP endeavours to conduct its business in accordance with established ICAP again worked with Carbon Neutral Ltd, an environmental impact best practice in each of the countries in which it operates.
The Group aims consultancy, to estimate the residual emissions of the Group in terms to be a responsible employer and adopt values and standards designed to of carbon dioxide equivalents.
Worldwide, the Group is estimated to help guide our staff in their conduct and business relationships.
emit the equivalent of approximately 14.5 thousand tonnes of carbon The Group recognises its responsibility and integrity in meeting best dioxide or 4.1 tonnes per employee per annum.
ICAP will monitor practice benchmarks when interacting with its employees, investors, its emissions going forward and is working to reduce this footprint.
customers, suppliers, regulators and other stakeholders.
ICAP expects To the extent that ICAP cannot eliminate emissions, Certificates of to deal with these stakeholders in an open and co-operative way, Emission Reduction are purchased under the United Nations sponsored ensuring full, transparent, fair, accurate, timely and understandable Clean Development Mechanism Programme.
disclosure public communication to encourage sustained and long-term mutually rewarding relationships.
ICAP operates a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct policy, which is approved by the board and owned by the Group Chief Executive Officer.
42million the amount raised since Charity Day began Based on World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute Protocols, relevant Scope 3 activities mainly business travel and commuting have been included as recommended by these organisations.
Using only Scope 1 and 2 emissions minimum recommended reporting level would reduce ICAPs reported emissions by over 68%.
31 ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements There continues to be significant innovation in the wholesale financial Measuring our progress services markets and the Group recognises the need to introduce and acquire new businesses in these product areas.
Businesses acquired or started during the past three years accounted for 20% of overall Key performance indicators Group revenue, up from 16% in the previous financial year.
While we The financial key performance indicators on the inside front cover do not set a specific target for new business as a percentage of revenue, and page 1 set out the financial KPIs.
Here we describe other it is important that this is material.
important measures of our performance and the progress that we are making towards our strategic goals: to be the leading global ICAPs considerable investment in technology is essential to keep both intermediary in the wholesale OTC markets by a clear margin with the electronic and voice broking businesses competitive.
The measure at least a 35% share of overall market revenue and with 50% of with which ICAP can benchmark itself against competitors is technology 1 our profit derived from electronic broking.
Total operating profit spend as a percentage of revenue.
During the financial year to arising from electronic broking has risen to 32% from 22% in the 31 March 2008 we have redefined the basis of the measure of previous year.
During the year to 31 March 2008 we have amended the definition of this indicator from income statement As a result of its diversification strategy, ICAP has worked with an change to cash spend on technology.
On this basis we spent 12% of external consultant to redefine its market to take account of a wider our revenue on technology, in line with the previous year restated at range of competitors particularly in shipping, post-trade services 12%.
ICAP combines electronic and voice broking and this percentage and other areas where new entrants are emerging all the time.
appears appropriate when compared with other interdealer brokers This figure continues to exclude cash equities which is estimated to and exchanges.
This includes continued investment in upgrading be a $40 billion commission market.
On this basis, ICAP estimates our infrastructure and extending our delivery mechanisms to its share of this market share to be 20%22%, including Link.
customers, with 650 staff committed to the development and Our target market share is 35% of this larger market.
Previously, ICAP based its market share analysis on publicly available As the most relevant efficiency measure of our voice division, data from a group of similar competitors and we believe we have we monitor the voice revenue per voice broker.
This measure grew maintained market share of 30%31% using this basis.
by 10% from 454,000 in the previous financial year to 499,000.
We believe that this compares favourably with that of other interdealer Share of the global OTC market Target: 35% brokers.
The variable component of voice broker remuneration increased 2006 28%29% to 63% in this year from 60% in the previous year.
2007 30%31% The overall percentage of staff compensation as a percentage of 2008 30%31% revenue is a key part of cost control.
There has been continued reduction from 57% to 56% although in the year to 31 March 2008 the leverage 1 2 gained from the increase in electronic revenue has been partly offset by Operating profit split between voice, electronic and information Target: 50% of profit derived from electronic broking Voice Electronic Information the Groups investment in new businesses.
2006 78% 15% 7% 2007 69% 22% 9% 2008 61% 32% 7% 3 New business 2006 12% 2007 16% 2008 20% Voice revenue per voice broker 2006 413,000 2007 454,000 2008 499,000 Staff compensation as percentage of revenue Notes: 2006 60% 1 Excludes amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation 2007 57% and exceptional items.
2008 56% 2 60% of ICAPs information divisions operating profit is derived from electronic broking.
3 Revenue derived from businesses acquired or started in the previous three years.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 32 Cost management Financial review The effective and efficient management of the Groups cost base remains a key component of operational strategy.
During the financial year the Group continued to invest for the future in ICAP has demonstrated very strong financial terms of people and technology.
Employment markets remained highly performance and cash flows.
With a robust competitive in a number of areas of the Groups operations.
However, balance sheet and control environment, ICAP by actively managing all cost areas the overall impact has been reduced see margins below.
is in an excellent position to continue to grow.
Net operating expenses have gone up by 13%.
Broker bonuses, which vary with revenue, account for the majority of the increase with the balance being made up of acquisitions and investments in new businesses and technology.
Excluding these items, costs increased by less than inflation reflecting the Groups focus on cost management and reallocation of resources to higher margin businesses.
Staff costs represent the largest single expense of the Group.
This year staff costs as a percentage of revenue fell slightly to 56%.
This reflects the higher proportion of the Groups revenue from electronic broking being offset by the investment in new business areas which are not as productive initially as the established voice broking businesses.
Overall we would not expect the drivers of the cost base to change and continued focus on this area will be required.
Operating profit margins The Groups operating profit margin for the year ended 31 March 2008 has increased by 3% to 25% maintaining the Groups leading market position.
This improvement is largely driven by the electronic division with an increased proportion of the Groups operating profit being derived from electronic businesses 32% of Group operating profit compared to 22% in the prior year as well as a significant increase in the operating profit margin in the year of 11% to 39% demonstrating the operating leverage of this business.
The voice business has also seen a small improvement in operating profit margin due to the substantial growth in revenue exceeding the cost growth.
As highlighted last year, cost and competitive pressures, as well as continued investment in new businesses, means that we would not expect voice margins to improve substantially from this level.
7 million free cash flow in 2007 08 Excludes amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
33 ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Exceptional items Dividend Exceptional items in the year include the final costs from the integration Subject to shareholder approval, a final dividend of 11.95p is proposed.
The total exceptional integration costs are in line This compares to 9.3p in the prior year and would result in a full-year with the anticipated $48 million disclosed in the 2007 Annual Report dividend of 15.65p, up 27% on the financial year 2006 07 broadly while the total annual benefit for the year ending 31 March 2009 in line with growth in profit before tax.
Dividend cover has remained onwards will be at least $58 million as previously estimated.
at the same level as the prior year and is covered two times by adjusted basic EPS.
As disclosed in the half-year report, a sub-custodian made a post-settlement adjustment debiting ICAPs account for a total of Interim dividends are calculated as 30% of the previous years full-year 22.5 million without notice or our consent.
ICAP continues to believe dividend.
This approach will continue for the 2008 09 financial year.
that this adjustment is erroneous and has formally requested the repayment of the money.
After taking further additional legal advice, Operating profit cash conversion ICAP is taking legal proceedings to recover this money.
As a result of The Groups consolidated cash flow statement is set out on page 58 the need to resort to litigation to recover the debt relating to the of the financial statements.
post-settlement adjustment described above, ICAP has fully provided The table below demonstrates the strong cash generative nature against this debt 12.7 million after offsetting cost recoveries.
Cash generated from operations is after taking A total of 14.9 million has been recognised as exceptional income account of a net reduction in cash from the year-on-year impact mainly in respect of the disposal of exchange shares and seats together of initially unsettled trades and exceptional items of 53.6 million.
with litigation settlements in Australia and Hong Kong.
Excluding the impact of initially unsettled trades and exceptional items, cash from operations was 361.9 million, an increase of 112.0 million.
A total tax credit of 4.4 million has been recognised in respect of these items.
Free cash flow increased to 231.7 million 2007 190.1 million.
This enabled the Group to fund 86.9 million of acquisitions out of cash Tax principally in respect of Hyde, Capital and the deferred earnout due for The overall objective continues to be to plan and manage the tax Reset, while the acquisition of Traiana was funded out of debt.
Following affairs of the Group efficiently within the various local tax jurisdictions the significant level of corporate activity in the year, the net debt position of the world so as to achieve the lowest tax cash cost consistent with of the Group as at 31 March 2008 was 58.8 million 2007 net cash compliance with the local tax regulations.
Year ended Year ended The Groups effective tax rate, excluding amortisation and impairment 31 March 31 March of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items, 2008 2007 Calculation of free cash flow m m has reduced to 35% 2007 37% following a restructuring of the Groups financing arrangements.
Cash generated by operations 361.9 303.5 Interest and taxation 94.2 86.2 The Groups tax charge is affected by the varying tax rates in different jurisdictions applied to taxable profits and the mix of those profits, Cash flow from operating activities 267.7 217.3 by the rules impacting deductibility of certain costs, such as finance Capital expenditure 42.7 31.1 costs, and by the rules relating to double taxation relief.
The Group Dividends from associates continues to take a prudent approach to the management of its tax and investments 6.7 3.9 affairs and provisions are set to cover any tax exposures the Group Free cash flow 231.7 190.1 may have.
This figure includes the impact of initially unsettled matched transactions.
Usually, in a Earnings and earnings per share EPS matched principal transaction, both sides settle on the same day.
Occasionally, for various reasons, only one side of the transaction may settle giving rise to a temporary cash We continue to believe that the most appropriate EPS measurement position which reverses on the completion of the other side of the transaction, normally ratio for the Group is adjusted basic EPS, which better reflects the within 24 hours.
Adjusted basic EPS excludes The Group is required to maintain significant cash balances within its amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation operating entities for regulatory, clearing house deposits and commercial and exceptional items.
The calculation of EPS is set out in note 12 requirements.
It is estimated that 260 million of the total cash balance to the financial statements.
of 384.4 million is required for these purposes.
Adjusted basic EPS increased by 27% to 31.3p.
The Groups basic EPS increased from 19.3p to 24.5p.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 34 Business review continued Impact of shortage of liquidity in financial markets Capital structure and regulatory capital As discussed earlier, the increased volatility in the financial markets ICAP is an international business which provides brokerage, information caused by the credit crisis has had a favourable impact on trading and post-trade services in a wide range of products to professional levels for the Group.
The business is subject to consolidated supervision by the FSA under the terms of the CRD.
In March 2007, ICAP obtained The Group continues to ensure that it has access at all times to a waiver from the consolidated capital adequacy tests which have the appropriate levels of cash and borrowing facilities to finance its ongoing effect of excluding goodwill from the capital computation and, in so operations, proposed acquisitions and other reasonable unanticipated doing, allows the Group to undertake acquisitions using debt rather events.
Due to the level of corporate activity during the year, the Group than equity finance.
The terms of the waiver require ICAP to operate was required to increase its borrowing facilities.
Despite the market its brokerage business on a matched principal, name give-up or broker of conditions, the Group successfully renegotiated its revolving credit exchange listed products basis and prohibits the Group from undertaking facility on favourable terms see balance sheet and capital section below proprietary trading activities.
This restriction resulted in the Group having and as at 31 March 2008 had 192 million of undrawn committed to dispose of its controlling interest in the Exotix business and Guy Butler borrowing facilities.
Subsequent to the year end the Group entered Limited during the prior financial year.
The Groups Pillar 1 regulatory into a new 150 million term loan to finance the acquisition of Link and capital surplus calculated in accordance with the waiver is relatively stable a 75 million 364 day bilateral loan to further increase liquidity headroom.
Balance sheet and capital ICAP has demonstrated very strong financial performance and Net assets increased by 39.7 million during the year and, as at cash flows.
With a robust balance sheet and control environment, 31 March 2008, were 833.4 million.
ICAP is in an excellent position to continue to grow.
During the year, the Group refinanced its borrowing facilities in part to finance the acquisition of Traiana.
The Group entered into a new three-year 520 million unsecured revolving credit facility of which 473 million is available for general corporate purposes, with the remainder available to meet margin calls from the FICC.
Although the new facility is for three years, the amounts drawn at 31 March 2008 were for a one-month period so the borrowings have all been shown as short term on the balance sheet.
Certain Group companies are involved in matched principal broking as principal in the purchase and simultaneous commitment to sell securities between third parties.
Such trades are complete only when both sides of the deal are settled and so the Group is exposed to risk in the event that one side of the transaction remains unsettled.
Substantially all the transactions settle within a short period of time and the settlement risk is considered to be minimal.
All amounts due to and payable by counterparties in respect of matched principal business are shown gross, except where a legally enforceable netting agreement exists and the asset and liability are either settled net or simultaneously.
At 31 March 2008 matched principal business resulted in the balance sheet being grossed up by 37 billion.
