Chairmans Statement or maintained market share in every market experience in Ireland and the value we Gerald Corbett in which we compete.
The launches of have been able to add to the business give Independent Non-Executive Gatorade and Drench were delivered in line us encouragement to continue, albeit at a with our expectations.
Price realisation in the prudent rate, our international expansion.
Chairman on-trade is higher than in the off-trade, but The strength of our market positions, our overall average realised price improved in our portfolio of leading brands, and our spite of the decline in the on-trade, reflecting innovation and product launch programme the improvement in our business processes.
give us confidence as we approach the full Our approach is to keep costs tight, whilst effects of the consumer downturn in 2009. maximising margins and cash.
As the This confidence and our cash flow underpin impact of the adverse trading environment the Boards decision to propose the strong became clear, management was again final dividend.
The new year has begun able to configure the business to deliver an Britvics profit before tax, in its third satisfactorily for Britvic in a tough market improving underlying operating profit margin, year as a public company rose 14.4% and we fully expect to be able to yet again whilst continuing to invest in our brands.
to 70.1m, before exceptional items on demonstrate the resilience of our business.
the back of revenue growth of 29.3% In Great Britain, the performance of the core During the year, Chris Bulmer, the Chairman to 926.5m.
Earnings per share rose brands, mostly notably Pepsi, Robinsons and of our Remuneration Committee, stepped 21.6% to 24.8p per share, and cash Fruit Shoot has been strong, and we have down.
Chris made a great contribution to our flow was again strong with free cash driven revenue growth through continuing affairs since the flotation and we wish her flow generation of 66.2m, before to take volume and value share.
The signing well in her new life in Australia.
We are proposing a of three further bottling agreements with the Chief Executive of Mothercare plc, has final dividend of 8.8p per share, which PepsiCo, our major commercial partner, is joined the Board, and our Senior Independent will make a full year divided of 12.6p per a demonstration of the strong and growing Director, Bob Ivell, has taken over as share, an increase of 14.5%.
This was relationship that now goes back over 20 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
another creditable set of results given years.
We are committed to their success, the consumer environment, record and they to ours.
It has been three years since we floated commodity price rises, another poor and became a public company.
The time has Britvic Ireland, in its first full year as part of summer and the downturn in the onpassed quickly, but after an early set back the Britvic Group, is now fully integrated trade.
Britvic is developing a solid track our executive team has demonstrated what with the rest of our operations.
The market record of growth in all key measures a sound and robust business we have.
On in Ireland, particularly in the licensed onfinancial and market.
Our objective is to behalf of the Board I would like to thank premise channel, suffered from the sharp make steady progress on all measures them and all Britvic employees for their hard decline in the Irish economy.
work and commitment during the year.
This the business held or grew share across key strong result is to their credit, and gives us categories.
The market position, together Financial results are outputs, and reflect all confidence in a positive future.
with a well-invested sales and supply chain actions taken and strategies pursued by infrastructure, mean that Britvic Ireland is the management.
In sales terms, we again well placed to take advantage of future outperformed the British soft drinks market, recovery in the market.
The upgrade to building on the strength of our brands, the synergies, now totalling 21m by 2011, and our innovation and product launch is a positive sign for the future.
We either gained market share 12 Britvic plc Annual Report 2008
