Business Review Group Chief Executive The BSS Group plc has had a good year, with both Domestic and Industrial Divisions achieving strong growth in revenue and operating profit and the newly formed Specialist Division contributing positively to Group earnings.
Free cash ow increased by 20% on last year we buy products well, add value for our Revenue Growth to 30.7m after funding investment in stock customers, sell them at an appropriate 27.4% Group and infrastructure.
margin and create profitable growth and good returns for our shareholders.
We The Group remains conservatively nanced do remain alert to changing customer and I am delighted at the strong cash requirements and are exible to their need.
20.8% Domestic performance at a time of uncertainty in the Our success is underpinned by keeping close credit markets.
to our customers and the market.
We are good at growing our business, taking 12.9% Industrial Our continued strategy of driving profitable, advantage of the commercial opportunities in cash generative organic growth in the existing the market place, and using our experience businesses through superior service, continues and knowledge to best advantage.
We These record results reect the considerable to deliver increased shareholder value.
Despite continue to see growth opportunities.
progress made by the Group: the benefit of an unsettled economic outlook there remains focusing on sustainable organic growth, and considerable opportunity available to us in the To ensure we are consistently building value the positive impact of acquisitions, which have UK, and the business is well placed to take for shareholders, we concentrate on a number resulted in the Group increasing market share.
The business remains resilient as of key measures alongside profitability.
I am a specialist distributor with revenue primarily pleased to report that all these key measures Growth in revenue of 27% against last year driven by non-discretionary repairs and are heading in the right direction: like for like resulted in a 23% increase in profit before tax, maintenance R & M activity.
Our strategic sales over the period are up 8.5% 2007: matched by a 23% increase in earnings focus remains on four core elements: 7.1%, the costs to sales ratio has been per share.
reduced to 17.4% 2007: 17.5%, with like Consistently delivering excellent customer for like costs up 4.7%.
Operating margin Costs remain tightly controlled with productivity service was 4.92% 2007: 5.07%, an excellent result continuing to improve.
With the acquisitions of Strong leadership and sensible business given that two loss making businesses, AHED Buck & Hickman and Birchwood Products practices Limited AHED and Buck & Hickman Limited completed, and the Specialist Division formed, profitable organic growth and value Buck & Hickman, were acquired, integrated we continue to invest for growth.
enhancing acquisitions and returned to profit.
Productivity continues Results driven culture to improve with sales per employee up 4% 2007: 5% with investment in stock and Our business model is straightforward: infrastructure supporting the improvement.
Substantial The BSS Groups products progress in all Plumbing, heating and air conditioning Renewable Energy products Sanitaryware Solar Thermal Panels and Accessories three divisions Showers and Accessories Heat Pumps, Ground Source, Air to Water, and Exhaust Air to Water Taps and Brassware has increased Water Reclamation Boilers Bio Mass Boilers market share, Radiators and Heat Emitters H & V Control Equipment sales and Specialist Pumps and Pressurisation Equipment Hand and Power Tools Hot Water Generation profitability.
Personal Protective Equipment Cylinders and Equipment Industrial consumables Ventilation and Air Conditioning Equipment Gas and Electric Fires including Surrounds Flues and Chimneys Plastic and Metal Piping Systems Pipe Supports Heating Spares and Burners Heating and Plumbing Consumables including own brand ranges The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 7
