The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report The Directors present the annual financial report of the The Company pays quarterly dividends and the Board has a Company and give their report for the year ended 31 January policy of making these progressive from year to year, in keeping 2008. with the Companys stated objective to provide an above average level of income and income growth.
The dividend has increased every year for the past twenty five years and details of Business Review historic dividend payments are set out on page 4. Business and Status of the Company The Company is an investment company as dened in Section Performance 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
In the year to 31 January 2008 the NAV per Share fell by 13.3%.
This compares with the capital return on the Companys The Company carries on business as an investment trust and benchmark indices of -5.2% FTSE 100 and -12.1% FTSE 350 was approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment Higher Yield.
At 31 January 2008 the value of the Companys trust in accordance with Section 842 of the Income and investment portfolio was 608.5m.
The Investment Managers Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 31 January review on pages 5 to 8 includes a review of developments 2007.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has during the year as well as information on investment activity subsequently conducted its affairs so that it should continue to within the Companys portfolio.
The Company will continue to seek approval under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 Key Performance Indicators KPIs each year.
The Company is not a close company for taxation The Board uses certain financial KPIs to monitor and assess the purposes.
The principal KPIs are: Regulatory Environment Performance against the benchmark indices The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is The Companys performance is benchmarked against the subject to UK company law, financial reporting standards, listing FTSE 100 Index and the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index.
These are rules, tax law and its own Articles of Association.
In addition to the most important KPIs by which performance is judged.
annual and half yearly financial reports published under these rules, the Company announces net asset values per share on a Performance against the Companys peers daily basis for the information of investors.
It provides more The Board also monitors the Companys performance with detailed information on a monthly basis to the Association of reference to its investment trust peer group.
Investment Companies, of which the Company is a member, in order for brokers and investors to compare its performance with Performance Attribution its peer group.
The Board of Directors is charged with ensuring The performance attribution is considered at each Board Meeting that the Company complies with its own objectives as well as and enables the Directors to judge how the Company achieved these rules.
The Board has appointed RCM UK Limited to its performance relative to the benchmark index and to see the carry out investment management, accounting, secretarial and impact on the Companys relative performance of factors administration services on behalf of the Company.
The including stock and sector allocation.
A Performance Attribution Company has no employees or premises of its own.
Analysis for the year ended 31 January 2008 is given on page 4.
Investment Objective and Policies Discount to net asset value NAV The Companys objective is to provide an above average level of The Board has a share buy back programme which has a role to income and income growth together with long term growth of play in enhancing the NAV for existing shareholders, as shares capital through a policy of investing mainly in higher yielding UK are bought back at a discount, and in minimising the volatility of FTSE 100 companies.
The Companys investment performance movements in the discount.
In the year to 31 January 2008 the is assessed by comparison with other investment trusts within shares traded between a discount of -5% and a discount of the UK Growth and Income sector.
In addition, it is -14% with debt at fair value.
benchmarked against the FTSE 100 Index, reecting the emphasis within the portfolio, as well as the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index, reecting the Companys higher yield objective.
15 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report Total expense ratio TER Principal Risks and Uncertainties The most significant expense for the Company is the cost of the With the assistance of the Managers the Board has drawn up a management fee and the costs of interest on the Companys risk matrix which identies the key risks to the Company.
Other expenses include the costs of investment key risks fall broadly under the following categories: transactions, directors fees and insurance, professional advice and regulatory fees and the costs of production of the reports to Investment Activity and Strategy shareholders.
The TER is calculated by dividing operating An inappropriate investment strategy, e. g. asset allocation or the expenses by total assets less current liabilities, that is, the level of gearing, may lead to under-performance against the Companys management fee and all other operating expenses Companys benchmark index and peer group companies, and including tax relief, where allowable, but excluding interest also in the Companys shares trading on a wider discount.
The payments as a percentage of assets at the year end.
The TER for Board manages these risks by diversication of investments the year ended 31 January 2008 was 0.51% 2007 0.46%.
through its investment restrictions and guidelines which are monitored and on which the Board receives reports.
RCM UK Revenue Limited RCM provides the Directors with management The return attributable to Ordinary Shareholders for the year information including performance data and reports and amounted to 23,649,820 2007 22,854,005. shareholder analyses.
The Board monitors the implementation and results of the investment process with the investment Earnings per ordinary dividend amounted to 22.86p.
The first managers, who attend all board meetings, and reviews data and second interim dividends of 5.4p and 5.4p respectively which show risk factors and how they affect the portfolio.
The have been paid during the year.
Since the year end the third Board reviews investment strategy at each board meeting.
interim dividend of 5.4p has been paid.
The final proposed dividend of 5.4p is payable on 14 May 2008.
In accordance Portfolio and Market with FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, the third and Market risk arises from uncertainty about the future prices of the final dividends are not recognised as liabilities within the Companys investments.
This is commented on in Note 20 on financial statements.
The Board monitors the implementation and results of the investment process with the investment managers.
Historical Record Accounting, Legal and Regulatory The distribution of total assets is shown on pages 11 and 12, In order to qualify as an investment trust the Company must and the historical record of the Companys revenue, capital and comply with Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes invested funds over the past ten years is shown on page 4.
Act 1988 Section 842, and details are given above under Graphs appear on page 13 showing the performance on a total the heading Business of the Company.
A breach of Section return basis over the past ten years of the Net Asset Value of 842 could result in the Company losing investment trust status the Companys Ordinary Shares against the Companys and, as a consequence, gains in the Companys portfolio would benchmark indices, the growth in net ordinary distributions be subject to Corporation Tax.
The Section 842 criteria are made by the Company against the Retail Price Index, and the monitored by RCM and results are reported to the Board at Companys discount to Net Asset Value over the same period.
The Company must comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, and the Companies Act Invested Funds 2006 as it becomes enacted Companies Acts, and, as the Sales of investments during the year resulted in net gains based Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the on historical costs of 34,315,606 2007 53,443,663.
Company must comply with the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Provisions contained in the Finance Act 1980 exempt approved Rules and Disclosure Rules UKLA Rules.
A breach of the Investment Trusts from corporation tax on their chargeable gains.
Companies Acts could result in the Company and or the Invested funds at 31 January 2008 had a value of Directors being ned or becoming the subject of criminal 608,450,967 2007 695,769,971 before deducting net proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Rules could result in the liabilities of 102,263,754 2007 106,935,296. suspension of the Companys shares which would in turn lead to a breach of Section 842.
The Board relies on its company 16 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report secretary and its professional advisers to ensure compliance business will take place and it is our policy to abide by these with the Companies Acts and UKLA Rules.
The Company had no trade creditors at the year end 2007 nil.
Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations Details of the Companys compliance with Corporate Donations and Subscriptions Governance best practice, including information on relations There were no charitable donations and subscriptions in respect with shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance of the year 2007 nil.
No political donations were made Statement on page 24 to 27. during the year.
Operational Final Dividend Disruption to, or failure of, RCMs accounting, dealing or payment Subject to the final dividend being approved by shareholders at systems or the custodians records may prevent accurate the Annual General Meeting, payment will be made on 14 May reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial position.
2008 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close RCM has contracted operational functions, principally relating to of business on 11 April 2008 at the rate of 5.4p per Ordinary trade processing and investment administration, to The Bank of Share.
Further details are provided in Note 6 on page 39.
New York Mellon London Branch.
Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by RCM and other suppliers and Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 the key elements designed to provide effective internal control The following information is disclosed in accordance with are included within the Internal Control section of the Corporate Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006.
Governance Statement on pages 26 and 27.
Capital Structure Financial The Companys capital structure is summarised on page 43.
The Directors have reviewed the Managers statements on the risks associated with the Company and concur with their opinion Voting Rights in the Companys Shares on these risks.
Further analysis of these risks can be found in The voting rights at 31 December 2007 were: Note 20 on pages 46 to 50.
Number Voting Total of shares rights per voting Future Development Share class issued share rights The future development of the Company is dependent on the Ordinary shares 102,813,464 1 102,813,464 success of the Companys investment strategy against the of 25p economic environment and market developments.
The 3.65% Cumulative 1,178,000 1 1,178,000 investment manager discusses his view of the outlook for the Preference shares Companys portfolio in his report beginning on page 5. of 1 Total 103,991,464 103,991,464 Net Asset Value These gures remained unchanged at the date of this report.
The Net Asset Value of the Ordinary Shares of 25p at the year end was 492.3p as compared with a value of 567.5p at 31 January Substantial Shareholdings 2007.
As at 11 April 2008 the following had declared a notiable interest in the Companys issued share capital: Share Capital Ordinary Shares: Details of the Companys share capital are set out in Note 11 Number Percentage of on page 43.
Name of Shares Voting Rights Rensburg Sheppards Payment Policy Investment Management It is the Companys payment policy for the forthcoming financial Group Limited 4,524,860 4.4% year to obtain the best terms for all business and therefore Legal & General there is no consistent policy as to the terms used.
In general, Group PLC 3,427,541 3.3% the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which 17 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report 3.65% Cumulative Preference Stock: Biographical details of the current Directors and of Michael Number Percentage of McKeon and Henry Staunton are on page 14.
Name of Shares Voting Rights The current Directors and their beneficial interests in the share P. S. & J. M. Allen 185,582 15.8% capital of the Company as at 31 January 2008 and 2007 or at Prudential plc 176,000 14.9% the date of appointment to the Board are listed below: Ecclesiastical Insurance Ofce plc 134,690 11.4% Ordinary Shares of 25p F&C Asset Management plc 60,000 5.1% 2008 2007 D. J. Edwards 50,000 4.2% R. A. Bareld 2,418 2,343 J. Y. Miller 36,000 3.0% Sir Bob Reid 5,000 5,000 Sir James Sassoon 35,600 35,600 The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of P. J. Scott Plummer 16,000 1,000 directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and powers H. A. Stevenson 25,000 25,000 to issue or buy back the Companys shares are contained in the Since the year end, Mr R. A. Bareld has acquired a further Articles of Association of the Company and the Companies Acts 22 Ordinary Shares due to reinvestment of income in a share 1985 and 2006. plan.
There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in No contracts of signicance in which Directors are deemed to the Company: no special rights with regard to control attached have been interested have subsisted during the year under to securities: no agreements between holders of securities review.
regarding their transfer known to the Company: no agreements Contracts of service are not entered into with the Directors, who which the Company is party to that might affect its control hold ofce in accordance with the Articles of Association.
following a takeover bid: and no agreements between the Company and its directors concerning compensation for loss of Management Contract and Management Fee ofce.
The management contract with RCM UK Limited RCM provides for a fee of 0.35% per annum 2007 0.35% of the Directors and Management value of the assets, calculated quarterly, after deduction of All Directors listed below served throughout the financial year current liabilities, short term loans under one year and any under review.
funds within the portfolio managed by RCM.
The management The Directors retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting contract is terminable at one years notice 2007 one year.
are Sir Bob Reid, Joe Scott Plummer and Dick Bareld.
Joe Scott Plummer and Dick Bareld each offers himself for re-election The Managers performance under the contract and the contract and both have the full support of the Board in doing so.
Sir Bob terms are reviewed at least annually by the Management Reid is retiring from the Board and does not offer himself for Engagement Committee.
This committee consists of the re-election.
The Board confirms that, since the year end, the Directors not employed by the management company in the performances of Joe Scott Plummer and Dick Bareld have past five years and therefore includes the entire Board.
During been subject to a formal evaluation and that each continues to the year, the committee met the Manager to review the current be effective in, and to demonstrate commitment to, his role.
investment framework, including the Trusts performance, The Board considers Joe Scott Plummer and Dick Bareld to be marketing activity and total expense ratio.
independent, notwithstanding their length of service, and The committee also reviewed the terms of the management continues to be of the view that their extensive experience and active knowledge of industry and financial services are of great contract and considered the level of the management fee, which it found to be appropriate.
The committee was satisfied benefit to the Board.
with its review and believes that the continuing appointment of Michael McKeon and Henry Staunton will be appointed to the the Managers is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Board with effect from 1 May 2008.
In accordance with the Articles, both will retire and each will offer himself for election at the Annual General Meeting.
18 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the Individual Savings Accounts PEPs United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of The affairs of the Company are conducted in such a way as to the financial statements may differ from legislation in other meet the requirements for an Individual Savings Account and it jurisdictions.
is the intention to continue to do so.
12 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors at the date of the approval of this Report, each The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Financial confirm to the best of their knowledge that: Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Company law the financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the this Annual Financial Report includes a fair review of the Directors are required to: development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Annual Financial Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The financial statements are published on www.
co. uk, which is a website maintained by the Companys Investment Managers, RCM UK Limited.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
The work undertaken by the Auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of the website and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
19 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report Articles reect the replacement of Section 212 of the 1985 Act Annual General Meeting with Section 793 of the 2006 Act.
Summary of Revised Articles of Association to take effect from the date of the Annual 5 Convening extraordinary and annual general meetings The provisions in the current Articles dealing with the convening General Meeting, conditional on the passing of general meetings and the length of notice required to of Resolution 10 convene general meetings are being amended to conform to A copy of the proposed new Articles of Association is available new provisions in the Companies Act 2006.
In particular an from the Company Secretary on request contact details are on extraordinary general meeting to consider a special resolution page 55. can be convened on 14 days notice whereas previously 21 days notice was required.
1 Articles which duplicate statutory provisions Provisions in the current Articles which have the same effect as The proposed new Articles also deal with situations where, provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 are to be because of a postal strike or similar situation beyond the control amended in the new Articles to bring them into line with the of the Company, a notice of meeting is not received by a Companies Act 2006.
Some examples include provisions shareholder.
The amendment will ensure that such failure does concerning the form of resolutions, the variation of class rights, not invalidate proceedings at the meeting in question.
the requirement to keep accounting records and provisions regarding the period of notice required to convene general 6 Quorum meetings.
The main changes made to reect this approach are The proposed new Articles have been amended to make it clear detailed below.
that two persons who are proxies for the same member or representatives of the same body corporate can constitute a 2 Form of resolution quorum.
The current Articles contain a provision that, where for any purpose an ordinary resolution is required, a special or 7 Attending and speaking at meetings extraordinary resolution is also effective and that, where an The proposed new Articles now provide that the chairman of extraordinary resolution is required, a special resolution is also the meeting may permit non-members or persons who are not effective.
This provision is being amended as the concept of entitled to exercise the rights of members to attend and, at the extraordinary resolutions has not been retained under the chairmans discretion, speak at a general meeting.
8 Polls 3 Transfer of shares The proposed new Articles have been amended to clarify that a Under the Companies Act 2006, a company must either register poll may be demanded before a show of hands, as well as a transfer or give the transferee notice of, and reasons for, its immediately after the result of a show of hands, and to give the refusal to register the transfer.
Any registration of a transfer or directors the right to demand a poll as well as the Chairman of notice of refusal must be made or given as soon as practicable the meeting.
and in any event within two months from the date that the transfer is lodged with the company.
The proposed new Articles 9 Votes of members reect these requirements.
Under the Companies Act 2006 proxies are entitled to vote on a show of hands as well as a poll, and members may appoint a 4 Disclosure of interests proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and The provisions relating to the disclosure of interests in shares vote at meetings.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided contained in the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act, that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a including Section 212 on company investigation powers, were different share or shares held by the shareholder and multiple repealed in January 2007.
Section 793 and related sections in corporate representatives may be appointed.
The proposed new Part 22 of the 2006 Act, which contain the corresponding Articles reect all of these new provisions and also take account company investigation powers previously contained in Section of the ICSAs concerns in relation to Section 323 of the 212, were brought into force simultaneously.
The proposed new Companies Act 2006.
20 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report 10 Receipt of appointments of proxy and termination of proxy document or information has been placed on the website.
A member who has consented or is deemed to have consented authority The proposed new Articles provide that proxies for a poll to be to receive communications via the website can request a hard copy of any document at any time.
Members can also revoke taken after the date of a meeting or adjourned meeting must be received not less than 24 hours, or such shorter time as the their consent to receive electronic communications at any time.
directors may determine, before the time of the poll.
The In relation to joint holders of shares, the amended Articles deadlines for receipt of termination of proxy authority have been provide that the agreement of the first-named holder on the brought into line with the deadlines for receipt of proxies.
They register of members to accept notices, documents or also permit the directors to specify, in a notice of meeting, that information electronically or via a website shall be binding on in determining the time for delivery of proxies, no account shall the other joint holders.
The new Articles would also permit the be taken of non-working days.
Company not to send or supply any notice, document or information to a member whose registered address is not in the 11 Notices and other communications United Kingdom unless that member gives a non-electronic The Companies Act 2006 enables companies to communicate address in the United Kingdom.
with their members by electronic communication to a greater extent than previously permitted.
The proposed new articles will There are new provisions that cater for situations where the provide the Company with a general power to send or supply provision of corporate information in electronic form or via a any notice, document or information to any member by a website may amount to a breach of securities laws of another variety of methods in person, by post or in electronic form jurisdiction.
The Company may send hard copies if it needs to such as by email, or by making it available on the Companys restrict the circulation of information in certain circumstances, website.
In addition to any notice, document or information such as for US securities law reasons.
which is specically required to be sent or supplied under the 2006 Act, the Company will also be able to send any other The proposed new Articles also deal with notices, documents or document or information to members using this variety of information sent by the Company to a member which have methods.
been returned undelivered on three consecutive occasions.
The member will only be entitled to be sent further communications The proposed new Articles allow proxies to be sent or supplied upon provision of a new postal or electronic address to the in electronic form and, where the Company gives an electronic Company.
address in a form of proxy, shareholders may send the appointment of proxy to that electronic address, subject to any Further proposed provisions are included to deal with the conditions or limitations specified in the relevant notice of validation of documents in electronic form by members where meeting.
In the case of notices of meetings or proxies, any validation requirements must be specified in the There is no present intention to implement electronic notice.
communication with shareholders but general powers are being sought in accordance with changing market practice.
12 Directors indemnities and loans to fund expenditure The proposed new Articles contain provisions which take The Company may ask each member for his or her consent to advantage of changes to the law relating to the Companys ability to give indemnities to the Directors and others.
The receive communications from the Company via its website.
If the member does not respond to the request for consent within changes allow the Company to provide its Directors with funds to cover the costs of defending legal proceedings brought 28 days, the Company may take that as consent by the member to receive communications in this way.
If the Company against any director directors or the directors collectively on an as incurred basis.
Previously, a company could only fund a sends or supplies any notice, document or information to members by making it available on the Companys website, it directors defence costs once final judgement in his her favour had been reached.
It is therefore proposed that the Companys must notify each member who has consented or is deemed to have consented to receive documents via the website, either Articles be amended so that the Company may fund the defence costs of current or former directors or other ofcers if by post or by email if the member has specically agreed to receive communications in electronic form, that the notice, an action were to be brought against them.
21 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report 13 Conict of Interest Duties himself for the purposes of this article have been deleted.
There The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors general duties.
The is no requirement in the Companies Act 2006 to include such a provisions largely codify the existing law, but with some changes.
provision and this Act contains a much wider denition of Under the Companies Act 2006, from 1 October 2008 a connected person of a director.
The director and the Company director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a must still take a view each time a matter is being considered as direct or indirect interest that conicts, or possibly may conict to whether the interests of the directors connected persons with the Companys interests.
The requirement is very broad mean that the director should be treated as interested for the and could apply, in some cases, if a director becomes a director purposes of this article.
of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to 15 Removal of age limit for directors authorise conicts and potential conicts where the articles of The provision requiring a directors age to be disclosed, in a association contain a provision to this effect.
The Companies Act notice of meeting at which that director is to be appointed or 2006 also allows the articles to contain other provisions for reappointed, if that director has attained the age of 70 years or dealing with directors conicts of interest to avoid a breach of more, has been removed from the proposed new Articles to duty.
The Articles have been amended so that they confirm that reect the repeal of the previous provisions regarding directors such interests, ofces or employment will not infringe the over 70 from the Companies Act 1985. conicts duty as codified in the Companies Act 2006.
16 The seal The proposed new Articles give the directors authority to The proposed new Articles provides that instruments other approve conict situations including other directorships held by than share certicates to which the seal is afxed shall be the companys directors and include other provisions to allow signed by two authorised persons or by a director in the conicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the presence of a witness, whereas previously the requirement current position.
was for signature by either the director and secretary or two directors.
There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide whether to authorise a conict or potential conict.
First, only Purchase of Own Shares directors who have no interest in the matter being considered The Board is proposing that the Company should be given will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking renewed authority to purchase Ordinary Shares in the market for the decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in cancellation.
The Board believes that such purchases in the good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys market at appropriate times and prices are a suitable method of success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions enhancing shareholder value.
The Company would make either when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
It is a single purchase or a series of purchases, when market also proposed that the amended Articles should contain conditions are suitable, with the aim of maximising the benets provisions relating to condential information, attendance at to shareholders and within guidelines set from time to time by board meetings and availability of board papers to protect a the Board.
director being in breach of duty if a conict of interest or potential conict of interest arises.
These provisions will only Where purchases are made at prices below the prevailing net apply where the position giving rise to the potential conict has asset value of the Ordinary Shares, this will enhance net asset previously been authorised by the directors.
value for the remaining shareholders.
It is therefore intended that purchases would only be made at prices below net asset It is the boards intention to report annually on the Companys value, with the purchases to be funded from the realised capital procedures for ensuring that the boards powers of authorisation profits of the Company which are currently in excess of 400 of conicts are operated effectively and that the procedures million.
The rules of the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules have been followed.
limit the price which may be paid by the Company to 105% of the average middle-market quotation for an Ordinary Share on 14 Permitted interests and voting the five business days immediately preceding the date of the The provisions which previously deemed certain interests of a relevant purchase.
The minimum price to be paid will be 25p directors connected persons to be the interests of the director 22 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report per Ordinary Share being the nominal value.
Overall, this The power to allot new Ordinary Shares for cash, other than pro proposed share buy-back authority, if used, should help to rata to existing shareholders, is limited to the aggregate nominal reduce the discount to net asset value at which the Companys amount of 1,285,168 Ordinary Share capital, being shares currently trade.
approximately five per cent of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company as at the date of this report, provided that there is no change in the issued share capital between the date of The Board considers that it will be most advantageous to shareholders for the Company to be able to continue to make this report and the Annual General Meeting to be held on 13 May 2008. such purchases as and when it considers the timing to be most favourable and therefore does not propose to set a timetable for making any such purchases.
The Directors do not currently intend to allot shares under these authorities other than to take advantage of opportunities in the The Companys Articles of Association permit the Company to market as they arise and only if they believe it would be advantageous to the Companys existing shareholders to do so.
redeem or purchase its own shares out of capital profits.
Under the Listing Rules, the maximum number of shares which a listed The Directors confirm that no allotment of new shares will be made unless the lowest market offer price of the Ordinary company may purchase through the market pursuant to a general authority such as this is equivalent to 14.99% of its Shares is at least at a premium to net asset value, valuing debt at market value.
For this reason, the Company is limiting its renewed authority to make such purchases to 15,411,738 Auditors Ordinary Shares, representing 14.99% of the issued share capital, provided that there is no change in the issued share The Directors will place a resolution before the Annual General capital between the date of this report and the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint  LLP as Auditors Meeting to be held on 13 May 2008. for the ensuing year.
A resolution to authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration will also be proposed at The authority will last until the Annual General Meeting of the the Annual General Meeting.
Company to be held in 2009 or the expiry of 18 months from the date of the passing of this resolution, whichever is the By Order of the Board earlier.
The authority will be subject to renewal by shareholders K. J.
Salt at subsequent annual general meetings.
Secretary Allotment of New Shares and Disapplication of 14 April 2008 Pre-emption Rights Approval is sought for the renewal of the Directors authority to allot relevant securities, in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 8,567,788, representing approximately 33% of the existing Ordinary Share capital.
This authority would expire five years from the date of renewal, if not previously revoked or varied.
A resolution was passed at the Annual General Meeting held on 14 May 2007 to authorise the Directors to allot the unissued Ordinary Share capital for cash.
The authority is renewable annually and expires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2008.
A Special Resolution is therefore proposed under special business at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to renew this authority for a further year.
