: DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Group business review 17 Group business review Split of business divisions by year end receivables 01 Consumer Credit Division 80% 01 852.1m 02 Vanquis Bank 20% 02 205.4m 2008 2007 Change Group results m m m Consumer Credit Division 126.1 123.5 2.6 Vanquis Bank 8.0 0.9 8.9 Yes Car Credit 2.9 2.9 Central: costs 5.5 6.5 1.0 interest receivable 3.1 2.0 1.1 Total central 2.4 4.5 2.1 Profit before tax from continuing operations 128.8 115.2 13.6 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Consumer Credit Division: Home credit 18 Consumer Credit Division 86% of our customers consider our products to offer them good value for money.
Home credit Another advantage of home credit is the part Home credit is Provident played by the agent.
Agents are paid commission on what they collect, not what they Financials longest running lend, so they have every reason not to lend more business stretching back to the than their customers can afford to repay.
It is good for the customer and a valuable check on impairment for the business.
The agents weekly the largest home credit business visit is not only convenient for the customer but in the UK and Ireland.
Every acts as a useful reminder to put the money aside week, 11,500 local agents visit for the repayment too.
If customers get into difficulty, they know theyll get a sympathetic 1.8 million customers around response from their agent.
The home credit one in 20 UK households to issue product is one that customers trust and positively want to use which helps to explain loans and collect repayments.
why our customer satisfaction rates are Even after 129 years, the business consistently high.
95% of customers say they are continues to flourish and fill an satisfied with the Provident home credit service, and the vast majority say they would important space in the UK nonrecommend Provident to family or friends.
Consumer Credit standard credit market.
Division overview The market and economic environment There are over ten million non-standard The business succeeds by offering simple, Managing Director credit consumers in the UK, of which the transparent financial services to customers on Chris gillespie home credit industry serves up to three million.
average or below-average incomes, some of Provident Financial has 1.8 million home whom may find it difficult to obtain or manage Brands credit customers.
The service is popular Provident Personal Credit for very clear reasons: its personal, friendly greenwood Personal Credit The picture is changing, however.
The tightening and flexible, and is well-suited to the needs Real Personal Finance of lending criteria in response to the global of its customers.
scarcity of credit and increasing impairment Divisional strategy has meant that mainstream lenders are not How home credit works Broaden the product mix advancing credit to those at the margins of their Provident is the UK and Irelands leading Increase the number lending models many of whom would have been community-based lender operating through the of customers more suited to high service level, home credit Provident Personal Credit and greenwood Increase receivables lending in any case.
This presents an opportunity Personal Credit brands which share a national Continue to modernise for Provident to win back some of the customers the business network of over 350 administrative offices.
it has lost to the mainstream lenders over recent Provident and greenwood provide small, years.
As a result, combined with the changes we unsecured loans, typically for sums of between Highlights from 2008 have made to the business, after several years of 100 and 500.
These are delivered to the 6.8% increase in customer gradual decline, home credit customer numbers numbers customers home by self-employed agents who have started to grow: up 2.1% in 2006, 5.3% in Stable impairment at 30.4% then call every week to collect repayments.
2007 and 6.8% in 2008. of revenue Unlike other forms of lending, home credit Real Personal Finance market includes all the costs up front.
There are no extra The continuing tightening of lending criteria by test progressing well charges whatsoever, even if a customer misses a mainstream credit providers is leading to a payment.
For those managing on a tight budget, growing non-standard market in the UK and its important to know that the amount to be presents a growing opportunity for home credit.
repaid is fixed at the start and will never go up.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW 19 Home credit products at a glance Product Main features Provident Personal Credit Small cash loans arranged at the customers home with Greenwood Personal Credit an agent who then calls weekly to collect repayments.
Pre-loaded Visa cards A home credit loan loaded onto a Visa card which customers can use to shop online or over the telephone.
Shopping vouchers Pre-paid vouchers which can be redeemed at a number of high street retail outlets.
Percentage of customers who Home credit strategy use their loans to buy clothes The home credit businesss strategy is to deliver profitable growth through product and channel innovation, better collection performance, and new ways of working enabled by technology and people development.
1 0% Key activities in 2008 People After a significant number of new appointments to key positions in 2008, the core management team is now fully operational and working to deliver the strategy.
A new people development programme was started in the first quarter of 2008 with the objective of more closely aligning the behaviour of managers with the business strategy.
The programme includes leadership development, identifying and recruiting talented managers and developing their careers Ben, Katie and Megan play with a Christmas present accordingly, pay systems that properly reward top performers, and performance reviews for all managers.
The programme has proved extremely successful with significant improvements in management effectiveness and motivation.
Home credit agents Pricing for risk A range of factors determine how we price our Percentage of customers products.
We continually monitor our prices in who use their loans to pay 1 1,500 for family holidays relation to those of our competitors in the UK non-standard credit market to ensure we remain competitive.
Over the past decade we have also Home credit customers surveyed our customers four times every year to understand their views on the value for money we 2 1% offer, amongst other things.
8m close eye on trends in levels of impairment and economic conditions such as unemployment to ensure that we reflect these risks appropriately in our pricing.
During 2008, the interest rates, fees and charges on credit cards, unsecured and secured loans and overdrafts increased markedly.
Macroeconomic conditions began to deteriorate and the downwards trend in unemployment began to reverse.
Our customers told us that we were still offering good value for money with our products and their satisfaction ratings remained high.
Taking all this into account, in September and November small price rises were made on some Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Consumer Credit Division: Home credit continued 20 Consumer Credit Division of our home credit products to bring them back Core accounting system customers recruited via into line with the rest of our products and reflect A new core accounting and processing system the internet the level of risk in the marketplace.
The effect that helps run the business effectively was fully of these increases was to raise the price of implemented in September, three months ahead our most popular product by 3%, bringing our of schedule.
The new system, called Focus, 1 2.6% typical APR to 189.2%.
All of our home credit gives us a platform from which we can launch a products remain highly competitive in the series of business improvements, including the marketplace and are below the rates of the new commission scheme for agents which was Home credit branches majority of our competitors.
Our customers can implemented in November, better management find a comparison of the price of home-collected information, better record keeping, the and other small cash loans available in their development and implementation of new 3 56 local area at www.
uk, products, improving collections performance an independent price comparison website.
and building better customer relationships.
Making good credit decisions Agent performance To support agents in their lending decisions, A new commission scheme that encourages the business has continued to refine its credit agents to take decisions that are in line with the scoring to help decide whether to accept new business strategy was implemented throughout customers or extend further credit to existing the business in November.
The revised systems led to our declining continues to pay agents in line with collections 60% of new customer applications in 2008 performance but further rewards them for 55% in 2007 a number of which we would developing a strong repayment discipline early have accepted previously.
As well as filtering in their relationship with a customer and for out the higher risks, the system can also help working closely with customers who fall into agents to spot the good payers earlier in the arrears.
The scheme is also much simpler to relationship, providing opportunities to offer understand and therefore makes it easier for more credit sooner, when thats appropriate for the customer.
I like the fact that I always know where I am with my home credit payments and that I never have to worry about extra charges, even if I have to miss a payment.
Carol Laine Home credit customer Home credit agent, Lorraine, visits her customer, Carol, at her home in Wishaw, glasgow Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Consumer Credit Division: Home credit continued 21 Home credit loans are often used In order to make our products desirable to as to help cover back to school broad a range of customers as possible we are costs such as uniforms, books extending the range of ways customers can take and sports kit their loans and make their repayments.
Customers can choose to receive their loan in cash, as shopping vouchers, loaded onto a ready loaded Visa card so that customers can use it over the phone or on the internet giving them, for example, access to online bargains or directly into their bank account.
Customers can already make payments in cash or by cheque and collecting repayments via debit cards and credit cards is being tested in a number of areas, as is taking repayment via the AllPay system at Post Offices and at PayPoint terminals in retailers.
A further development has been the establishment of Real Personal Finance, full Nicola wraps a Christmas present for her son Jensen details of which can be found on page 23. agents to maximise their earnings.
Agents like Regulation the new scheme and it is delivering the expected Applying to the groups home credit companies improvements for the business.
The Competition Commission Inquiry 2006 The Competition Commission remedies are now Recruiting and retaining customers in place.
The independent website setting out We have relied traditionally on agents to price data went live in early autumn 2008 at recruit most of our new customers.
agent recruitment of customers continues, the business is now making more and better Ireland Consumer Protection Code for use of other channels and is adopting other Moneylenders techniques, such as partnerships with mail The Financial Regulator in Ireland has published order houses and finance companies, to take a new Consumer Protection Code that will apply on customers whose credit applications have to home credit traders.
The Code includes new been declined.
Our websites are now our provisions on knowing the customer, suitability, most cost-effective channel for recruiting complaint handling and consumer records.
We have developed online general principles in the Code came into force links with retailers to provide credit to their on 1 January 2009.
The more detailed provisions customers and are using the internet more will come into effect in September 2009. to advertise our products.
The proportion of customers recruited via the internet increased to a record 12.6% in 2008.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Consumer Credit Division: Home credit continued 22 Applying to all group companies Looking ahead Each Tuesday we have The Consumer Credit Act 2006 In 2009, the challenge facing the home credit a detailed picture of All major parts of this Act are now in force, business is to continue to grow whilst keeping a the previous weeks although the Office of Fair Trading OFT still has tight grip on impairment.
There are significant performance which to complete a project on irresponsible lending.
opportunities in the market as mainstream means we can make Irresponsible lending is one of the matters lenders continue to restrict the flow of credit but changes very quickly which the OFT must take into account in there are also risks as unemployment rises and when necessary.
assessing fitness to hold a licence.
OFT people cut back on expenditure.
The issue is one guidance on the types of behaviour which might of striking the right balance and throughout contribute to irresponsible lending is expected 2008 we have been discussing with our staff how to be published later this year.
best to strike this balance.
We believe we now have in place the right systems and the right The EU Consumer Credit Directive thinking to achieve this.
We are prepared to see Adopted by the european Parliament in January some rise in impairment as a trade-off for 2008, this must now be implemented into profitable growth but we will be watching the Member State law by mid-2010.
The Department sales data carefully to make sure we continue to for Business, enterprise and Regulatory Reform get it right.
We benefit from getting excellent BeRR has already been talking informally to data back very quickly from our staff and home stakeholders, including the trade body of the credit agents.
each Tuesday we have a detailed home credit industry, the Consumer Credit picture of the previous weeks performance Association, with a view to a formal consultation which means we can make changes very quickly process beginning in the early part of 2009. when necessary.
These new rules include provisions on precontract information, adequate explanations to consumers, obligations to assess creditworthiness, database use, rights of withdrawal and changes to the early settlement rebate scheme.
As part of the implementation process, BeRR is engaging Percentage of Consumer with the european Commission and with Credit Division customers other Member States.
who use their loans to pay for household items 23% Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW 23 Three features of Real Personal Finance loans Face-to-face meetings A Personal Finance Manager visits each RPF customer at home to discuss and underwrite their loan.
Direct repayments Repayments are made monthly by direct debit.
Larger loan amounts RPF offers customers larger loans than home credit, from 750 to 6,000.
Term of RPF loan responds to customers preferences for personal contact, and the home visit also means Real Personal Finance that each customers circumstances can be 1 2 36 individually assessed.
The direct repayment, nonRPF offers larger loans than traditional standard loans market continues weekly-collected home credit from 750 to m onths to be under-supplied, with those 6,000 with typical APRs of between 60% and already in the market reducing 70%.
It has been set up within the Consumer Credit Division so it can share the home credit their presence and further RPF loan amounts businesss resources in particular its tightening their lending criteria.
350-strong office network thereby keeping Real Personal Finance RPF has overheads to a minimum.
Personal Finance 750 Managers PFMs work from the existing branch been set up to test whether we network and are part of the home credit area can profitably extend our reach sales team.
The PFM underwrites the loan at 6,000 the customers home and also handles any early into this market.
This differentiates us from competitors and allows us both to convert leads quickly and RPF is a logical extension of the home credit to make better informed decisions as to model into a much larger market sector, whether, and how much, to lend.
adjacent to the weekly-collected home credit sector.
It capitalises on the strengths of our The strategy for RPF in 2008 was to test further home credit business, not least of which is the business model, to establish a larger, more conducting the initial assessment interview in stable management team and to test various the customers home, with payments collected customer recruitment channels.
This model Our Personal Finance Manager was really helpful.
He came to our house to talk things through with us and came up with a repayment plan to suit our budget.
Jenny Goodson Real Personal Finance customer gabriels mum, Jenny, used her RPF loan to buy a new kitchen Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Consumer Credit Division: Real Personal Finance continued 24 Percentage of customers We have built a team of 58 PFMs up from 33 at Consumer Credit Division results who use their loans to pay the end of 2007 managed by five Regional The Consumer Credit Division has performed for special occasions Managers and supported by experts in specialist well in 2008 with profit before tax rising by areas many of whom also support the home 2.1% to 126.1m 2007: 123.5m.
The team many recruited levels of demand for home credit, the business externally and bringing considerable experience has applied greater selectivity to accepting of this type of lending is now very stable and is new customers and a cautious approach to 3 8% becoming increasingly effective as its re-serving existing customers in order to experience of our lending model grows.
maintain an appropriate balance between the rate of customer growth, field collections In 2007, new business came predominantly from capacity and the quality of the receivables book.
home credit customers who had recently paid This strategy has also reinforced the businesss up their loan.
In 2008, we expanded our two responsible lending policy.
As a consequence, other sources of business.
We have now growth in year end customer numbers of 6.8% established relationships with a number of was at a similar rate to that reported at the credit brokers which are working well and half-year.
And we have developed our direct response activity.
Average receivables grew by 12.0%, of which This takes two forms: direct mail activity to 1.2% was attributable to Real Personal Finance, home credit customers who have not renewed the market test of direct repayment loans, and their loan, and various forms of internet activity 10.8% to home-collected credit.
Receivables including leads from the RPF and other group growth exceeded customer growth due to the company websites and leads from affiliate growth in the number of higher quality, partners websites.
Direct response activity re-servable customers, and a focus on the now generates 35% of our business.
The issue of longer term loans contributed very little to Looking ahead overall growth because of the greater emphasis The expansion of the business throughout 2008 on shorter term products which, in difficult has provided further evidence that we can build times, carry less risk and allow agents to Percentage of customers a profitable, large-scale remotely-collected reassess affordability more regularly.
who use their loans to buy credit business.
In 2009, we will increase the new furniture size of the loan book from the existing 50 Revenue growth of 10.4% was slightly lower than locations before expanding the business further.
the rate of receivables growth.
This is primarily a We will continue to test recruitment channels result of the anticipated impact from the and the business model.
We will also evaluate implementation of the Competition Commissions various core business systems which could be remedy to offer customers more generous early 5% deployed as and when the business reaches settlement rebates on new loans granted after operational scale.
Impairment levels remained in line with plan throughout the year and at 30.4% of revenue were unchanged from the half-year.
The increase from 29.7% at the end of 2007 reflects a small degree of strain from increased numbers of new customers who are inherently Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Consumer Credit Division: Real Personal Finance continued 25 Consumer Credit Division riskier than established customers.
This stable cost base and grew in line with activity levels.
profit before tax performance has been delivered through a Other costs increased at a higher rate as a period of price inflation, which has adversely result of the roll-out of the Focus accounting affected customers disposable incomes, and a platform across the branch network, training 126.1m weakening of the economy.
It demonstrates the and other costs relating to the implementation benefits of the consistently cautious approach to of the revised agent commission scheme, and lending coupled with the investment in improved the deployment of Real Personal Finance in Consumer Credit Division credit application and behavioural scoring 50 branch locations.
revenue systems over the past two years.
Real Personal Finance continues to perform The environment is expected to remain difficult in line with expectations.
Approximately 80 additional was 18m at the end of 2008 with credit quality 651.8m branch-based managers have been recruited developing as expected.
The business will throughout the field organisation in recent continue to grow the loan book from the current months to reinforce spans of control over 50 locations and, as previously reported, the collections and arrears management throughout board will review the progress of the business the field organisation.
Similarly, the area during the second quarter of the year before and regional management structures are setting the pace and scale of a national roll-out.
receiving investment which includes creating 21 new branches to enhance effectiveness and add capacity.
Total costs rose faster than revenue, up 13.4% in line with internal plans.
Agents commission represents approximately 40% of the divisional Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 Change Consumer Credit Division m m % Customer numbers 000 1,762 1,650 6.8 Average customer receivables 712.7 636.1 12.0 Revenue 651.8 590.5 10.4 Impairment 197.9 175.3 12.9 Revenue less impairment 453.9 415.2 9.3 Impairment % revenue 30.4% 29.7% Costs 291.2 256.7 13.4 Interest 36.6 35.0 4.6 Profit before tax 126.1 123.5 2.1 Impairment as a proportion of revenue for the 12 months ended 31 December.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc
