Relationships We do not sell products we offer a service.
For us, that is an important distinction.
We strongly believe that clients value having direct access to the person who is managing their investments.
We aim to build long-term relationships with individuals, their families and advisers.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 The Boardroom in Rathbones Edinburgh ofce.
13 Business review Business review continued Unit Trusts continued Table 11.
Units Trusts operating expenses 2008 2007 Table 9.
Units Trusts fund details m m 1 Staff costs 31 Dec 31 Dec Morningstar 2008 2007 xed 2.8 2.8 Fund Stars m m variable 3.4 4.4 Ethical Bond Fund 2 36 46 1 Total staff costs 6.2 7.2 Global Opportunities Fund 4 52 60 Other operating expenses 3.9 4.7 Income Fund 4 544 1,112 High Income Fund N A 16 25 Operating expenses 10.1 11.9 Income and Growth Fund 4 34 54 Cost income ratio 80.8% 63.3% Smaller Companies Fund 3 24 47 Special Situations Fund 2 54 164 1 Represents the costs of investment managers and teams directly involved in investment or distribution activities Other N A 269 379 Total 1,029 1,887 Fixed staff costs of 2.8 million for the year ended 2008 were consistent with 2007.
Full time equivalent headcount was 27 at Actions are underway to reduce the cost base of the 31 December 2008 compared to 31 at 31 December 2007. business and improve future investment performance.
The ratio of variable staff costs to profit before tax was 141.7% in 2008 2007: 63.8% largely reecting the way in which costs Financial performance of the profit share schemes for this business are accounted for.
Unit Trusts financial performance As costs of three year bonus schemes are required to be spread over the employee service period, the effect has been to distort 2008 2007 m m 2008 performance with costs which were derived from higher Initial charges net of discounts 0.9 1.0 profit levels in previous years.
The following table demonstrates Annual management charges 17.7 26.1 the effect this has had.
Units Trusts variable staff costs Interest and other income 1.3 1.5 20.4 30.3 2008 2007 m m Initial commission payable 0.1 0.4 Total variable staff costs 3.4 4.4 Rebates and trail Deferred profit share commission payable 7.8 11.1 adjustment 1.7 1.5 Net operating income 12.5 18.8 Variable staff costs excluding deferred profit share 1.7 5.9 Operating expenses 10.1 11.9 Variable staff costs excluding profit before tax 2.4 6.9 deferred profit share as a % 1 Operating % margin 19.2% 36.7% of profit before tax and total 1 Unit trust profit before tax divided by net operating income variable staff costs 29.3% 52.2% The 32.2% reduction in annual management charges Outlook from 26.1million in 2007 to 17.7 million in 2008 is almost entirely reective of the reduction in funds under 2008 has been a difficult year for the unit trust business management.
Average funds under management in 2008 and actions are already underway to maximise profitability.
decreased by 28.6% from 2.1 billion to 1.5 billion.
We expect investor confidence to remain brittle although we Annual management charges as a percentage of average will place considerable focus on improving fund performance funds under management remained consistent at 1.2% whilst maintaining continuity of service and contact with 2007: 1.2%.
advisers and distribution platforms, which should facilitate a recovery of new business levels when markets improve in Rebates and trail commission payable as a percentage of the medium term.
annual management charge income were 44.1% compared to 42.5% in 2007.
Managers box dealing profits constituted 4.0% of net operating income in the year 2007: 9.0% largely as a consequence of fund and market movements.
Net operating income as a percentage of average funds under management was 0.8% in 2008 compared to 0.9% in 2007.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 14 Business review Independence Rathbones is an independent, listed company.
This independent status is key to our philosophy.
The Rathbone Investment Process guides investment managers decisionmaking, but their judgement and expertise, along with their knowledge of their clients individual requirements, remain paramount.
We are not restricted on what investment products and assets we select for clients and look across the market at the full universe of opportunities, including funds and alternative investments.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 Rathbones sponsored two boats at Cowes, summer 2008.
15 Business review Business review continued Trust and Tax continuing operations the taxation services business which prepares tax returns for individuals and trusts, provides income and capital tax Table 13.
Key performance indicators for Trust and Tax planning services as well as the ability to assist with tax investigations.
2008 2007 % % Both of these businesses have performed satisfactorily in 1 Operating % margin 11.1 2.0 2008 with considerable focus being placed on managing 1 Trust and tax profit before tax from continuing operations divided by increasingly complex regulation for clients as well as trust and tax net operating income see Table 15 improving administration processes.
Trust and Tax financial performance Following discussions with the management of the respective 2008 2007 m m offshore trust businesses, Rathbones reviewed the most appropriate ownership structure for these businesses in Net operating income 5.4 5.1 Operating expenses 4.8 5.0 light of the changing focus of regulators and scal authorities.
This review resulted in the sale of our offshore trust business profit before tax from in Jersey on 15 October 2008 to Hawksford Holdings continuing operations 0.6 0.1 Limited for 28.5 million, consisting of a cash consideration Discontinued operations 2.2 4.9 of 23.5 million and deferred consideration of unsecured profit before tax 2.8 5.0 subordinated loan notes with an initial issue value of 1 Operating % margin 11.1% 2.0% 5 million.
The loan notes will be repaid on the earlier of a future sale or listing of the Jersey trust business.
1 Trust and tax profit before tax from continuing operations divided by net operating income The sale of the Geneva business to its management was Operating income increased by 5.9% from 5.1million in completed on 10 February 2009 and it is anticipated that the 2007 to 5.4 million in 2008.
Changes in inheritance tax sale of the Singapore and British Virgin Islands businesses legislation for trusts in the 2006 Finance Act drove increased will be completed in the first half of 2009. activity levels and fees in the first half of 2008 as restructuring of accumulation and maintenance trusts and life interest The resulting impairment charges recognised in the results trusts had to be completed before April 2008. for 2008, arising from the disposal of these businesses, is Table 16.
Trust and Tax operating expenses shown in the table below.
Impairment loss on disposals 2008 restated m m Value of Carrying 1 Staff costs consideration value Impairment As at 31 Dec 2008 000 000 000 xed 2.7 3.0 Planned disposals variable 0.4 0.4 Singapore 48 1,249 1,201 1 Total staff costs 3.1 3.4 Geneva 16 190 206 Other operating expenses 1.7 1.6 BVI 186 330 144 Operating expenses 4.8 5.0 1,551 Completed disposal Cost income ratio 88.9% 98.0% Jersey 10,678 1 Represents the costs of fee earning staff and teams involved in client Total related facing activities professional costs 451 Fixed staff costs of 2.7 million for 2008 reduced by 12,680 10.0% due to lower headcount.
Full time equivalent headcount was 44 at 31 December 2008 compared to The continuing business is now concentrated wholly in the 49 at 31 December 2007.
Other operating expenses UK and it is closely aligned with our core discretionary represent property, depreciation, settlement costs, fees, investment management business so as to benefit from IT and other support costs which are largely xed and available synergies within the UK client base.
Our continuing were 35.4% of total operating expenses in 2008 operations comprise: 2007: 32.0%.
the UK trust business which provides advice on tax Outlook planning, including wills and inheritance tax, family ofce services and trust and estate administration: and In the UK, proposed changes in legislation for 2009 appear benign in terms of capital taxation but other changes in personal taxation may result in an increase in activity for private clients.
We will continue to seek opportunities to grow the business on a selective basis in 2009.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 16 Business review Tax Rathbones has adopted the standardised approach to calculating its Pillar I credit risk component and the basic The effective tax rate for the year is 31.5% 2007: 30.0%, indicator approach to calculating its operational risk calculated as the total tax charge on continuing operations component.
of 13.5 million 2007: 14.2 million divided by the profit Rathbones is well capitalised and does not rely on the before income tax on continuing operations of 42.8 million wholesale market to fund its operations.
to market conditions, future earnings are protected The effective rate of tax in 2008 is higher than the somewhat by variable rewards being closely linked to composite UK standard rate of 28.5% due principally to the profit before tax.
It is estimated that Rathbone Investment effect of disallowable expenditure, a fall in the expected Management would in theory be profitable should deduction for share based payments and the release of it be faced with a scenario that the FTSE Index remain certain deferred tax assets held in prior years.
at a level around 2500 for a sustained period.
A full reconciliation of income tax expense is included in Rathbones Pillar III disclosure is given on our website at note 11 to the consolidated accounts.
Dividend Treasury and nancing An interim dividend of 16p per share was paid to Rathbone Investment Management holds most of the shareholders on 8 October 2008 and the Board is Groups surplus liquidity on its balance sheet and this recommending a final dividend of 26.0p, resulting in a includes clients cash that it holds in its capacity as a deposit total payment of 42.0p 2007: 41.0p.
This dividend is taker, which is authorised and regulated by the Financial covered 1.1 times by reported basic earnings per share Services Authority.
and 1.7 times by underlying earnings per share.
The treasury department of Rathbone Investment Management, reporting through the banking committee to Capital the Board, operates in accordance with procedures set out in an approved treasury manual and monitors exposure to A summary of the capital position for the Group at market, credit and liquidity risk, as set out in note 31 to the 31 December 2008 is shown in the table below.
Regulatory capital The turmoil in the credit markets has resulted in a considerable amount of activity for the banking committee 31 Dec 2008 m which has continued to manage the Groups counterparty risk.
Our banking licence allows our treasury department to Tier 1 capital resources Share capital 2.1 make use of a range of appropriate instruments issued by a Share premium 29.0 relatively wide number of counterparties.
Counterparties Other reserves excluding available for sale reserve 32.6 must be A rated or higher by Fitch and are regularly reviewed 1 Retained earnings 116.6 to prevent ratings being out of date.
As liquidity in client Deduction for intangibles 68.2 portfolios rose to 1.1 billion 2007: 1.0 billion during Total Tier 1 capital 112.1 2008 and credit markets tightened considerably, we worked hard to set appropriate exposure limits and monitor Tier 2 capital resources Upper Tier 2 counterparty quality throughout the year to keep within available for sale reserve 2.1 our conservative treasury policy, which recognises the deduction material holdings 0.9 fundamental importance of financial stability and continuity Total Tier 2 capital resources 1.2 to our clients.
No losses have been incurred on treasury counterparty exposures.
Total Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital resources after deductions 113.3 As a net provider of liquidity to the banking markets Total capital requirement 63.7 Rathbones does not rely on wholesale funding to finance its operations and does not anticipate that this will change.
Surplus of capital resources over capital requirement 49.6 External borrowings are limited to a term loan facility of 9.2 million at 31 December 2008 from Barclays Bank PLC.
1 Excluding 2.2 million in Rathbone Insurance Limited An amount of 3.1 million was repaid during the year.
The balance is repayable in six-monthly equal instalments ending on 4 April 2011.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 17 Business review Business review continued Cash ow Operations and resources As Group fee income is largely debited directly from client Rathbones Information Technology department has portfolios, Rathbones operates with modest working capital.
continued to provide a robust operations infrastructure.
Our Larger cash ows are principally generated from the Groups integrated core systems, comprising 3is core Rhymesight banking treasury operations.
Excluding these cash ows, the processing engine, the internally developed Rathbone most significant non-operating cash ows during the year Investment Desk and Equipos STR client reporting package, were as follows: operated very successfully during the year.
2008 also saw us complete our planned transition to a Microsoft desktop.
Cash outows relating to the payment of dividends of 17.5 million.
There have been a large number of different developments in our investment systems and our business support systems 11.3 million of capital expenditure.
to drive forward our business and its efficiency.
Some of the Net cash inows of 16.3 million on the disposal of the more significant examples have been: Jersey trust business.
significant enhancements to the intermediary and client website: Pensions an improved data repository for electronic copies of valuations and reports, allowing easy access and Rathbones operates two dened benefit schemes both e-mail functionality: of which are closed to new members and a dened contribution pension scheme.
At 31 December 2008, the introduction of market leading contribution analysis combined accounting deficit for the two dened benefit and attribution software to support existing sophisticated schemes totalled 5.7 million 2007: 6.5 million.
Details performance software: of the assumptions supporting the accounting valuation are regulation-driven upgrades eg PEP to ISA migrations, included in note 28 to the accounts on page 91.
The Board capital gains tax, Budget and VAT changes: recognises that the calculation of the pension deficit is subjective.
International Accounting Standards require that further developments to electronic workow for account pension liabilities be discounted based upon a 15 year AA opening and account amendment, allowing smooth rated corporate bond rate.
In 2008, credit spreads on handling of record levels of business: and corporate bonds were artificially high.
Following completion launch of a branded white label service for an of the triennial review of the Rathbones 1987 Scheme in intermediary, covering documentation, reporting and 2008, and after taking into account the sensitivity of the client website.
valuation to discount rate changes shown in note 28 to the financial statements, the Board has approved a schedule of We have also completed a full migration of our unit contributions of 22.0 million for the next eight years to fund trust outsourcing contract to IFDS and HSBC the scheme deficit.
successfully moving the business platform to our own core Rhymesight RID investment platform with new During the year, the Group made contributions of direct electronic links to HSBC.
2.3 million into the Rathbone 1987 Scheme.
Rathbones particular strength is that we offer bespoke A triennial valuation of the Laurence Keen Scheme as at solutions with different approaches for different client needs 31 December 2008 is planned for 2009. through various approaches.
In addition we do not aim to generate index returns over short periods but look to provide longer-term wealth management.
From an investment perspective, this means that we need to provide a full range of assets to our clients including traditional equities and bonds, fund of hedge funds, structured products and investment into areas such as commodities, private equity and property funds when appropriate.
This requires greater operational capabilities.
In the latter part of 2008, for example, we adapted a number of operational processes to ensure that higher volumes of gilt and treasury bill orders could be settled efficiently.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 18 Business review Stability Rathbones is a long-established, leading investment manager that has built a strong reputation for quality and permanence.
We value our people and are committed to developing their skills.
Our high staff retention gives clients confidence that the individuals at Rathbones they know and trust will remain with us for years to come.
Many of our client relationships are with several members of one family and may have lasted for a number of generations.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 Rathbones Bristol ofce in Queen Square.
19 Business review Business review continued Operations and resources continued To mitigate this risk, we continue to invest in the people and resources required to ensure the Rathbone Investment This year we achieved our best ever CREST and overseas Process remains robust, exible and capable of meeting settlement rates, and will continue to invest in our core a variety of needs.
The business continuously monitors processes to secure future efficiencies.
In 2009 we expect developments in the marketplaces in which it operates and to begin a two year development of a comprehensive client the Group invests in enhancing or broadening the services documentation and relationship management solution, offered where we believe it will contribute to growth in review our key market data providers following the recent earnings.
Investment is maintained in the marketing and decision of Global Topic to withdraw from the market, operational resource to continue to develop distribution upgrade our Microsoft Ofce suite to Ofce 2007 and invest channels for all parts of the business.
in our Sun accounting systems.
Recruitment policies stress the importance of recruiting This year has seen a major refurbishment project in our high quality staff and, through regular benchmarking, we Port of Liverpool Building premises part of a World Heritage ensure that remuneration packages remain appropriate.
Site resulting in a number of operational difficulties which Staff training and development is supported by the we have worked hard to overcome.
The majority of the employment of a dedicated training manager and contracts project is now complete although some work will inevitably of employment for all fee earning staff are reviewed continue into 2009.
Rental rates are xed at attractive levels regularly and updated when necessary.
Reputational risk In London we have now agreed to terms which align Rathbones has a reputation as a high quality provider leases on our 159 and 161 New Bond Street premises.
of investment management and wealth management Fit out work in our new Exeter and Birmingham ofces has services.
There is a risk that significant damage to reputation been completed and we have relocated to an attractive new could lead to the loss of existing clients and failure to gain ofce in Bristol.
We will continue to work hard to secure new clients, which would lead to financial loss.
optimal use of space as part of our overall plans to manage Reputational risk could arise for many reasons including costs carefully.
poor performance or service, and regulatory censure leading to negative publicity.
Risks and uncertainties This risk is mitigated by preserving and building on our established culture of seeking the highest possible The principal risks and uncertainties that face professional and ethical standards, and fostering a Rathbones are: strategic focus, throughout the business, on the provision Financial risks of a first class service to our clients.
The Group also places significant emphasis on compliance with all relevant The principal financial risks that the Group faces, together regulation and statutes, in particular the Training and with the policies and procedures for the monitoring and Competence regime of the Financial Services Authority and management of those risks, are set out in note 31 to the the principle of Treating Clients Fairly.
This is monitored by internal auditors as well as the Groups Non-financial risks compliance department.
The significant non-financial risks that face Regulatory risk Rathbones are: The financial services sector in which we operate is heavily Competition risk regulated.
Failure to comply with regulatory requirements Rathbones operates in a competitive market and therefore could lead to fines or other disciplinary action.
There is also there is a risk of loss of existing clients or failure to gain a risk that changes in, or additional, regulation could new clients due to poor performance or service, failure to adversely affect profitability.
respond to changes and demands in the marketplace, We monitor regulatory changes, assess the impact any inadequate investment in marketing or distribution, or the changes may have on our business and plan to ensure we loss of key investment professionals.
have sufficient resource to implement those changes.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 20 Business review Focus We are focused on providing high-quality, personalised investment management and wealth management services to private clients, charities and trustees.
Over 30,000 clients entrust their assets to Rathbones because they know we have their interests at heart and have grown our business around their needs.
We work hard to provide a consistent service cost-effectively for transparent, standardised fee rates.
While investment management services continue to account for over 85% of our income, we also offer additional wealth management services where clients require them.
These often increase the strength of client relationships.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 Rathbones Winchester ofce.
21 Business review Business review continued Risks and uncertainties continued Group risk The Group will continue to grow in line with its acquisitive Technology risk strategy.
Where Group entities fail to consider the impact of The continuing delivery of high quality services to clients their activities on other parts of the Group, or the risks arising is to a large extent dependent on a robust and exible from these activities, there may be a potentially adverse IT infrastructure.
Failure of IT strategy or implementation impact on the Groups profitability.
In addition to reputational would have an adverse impact on the business.
risk, discussed above, there are two other components of group risk: IT infrastructure is given a high priority.
There are a number Strategic of business led IT-focused steering committees in place This is the risk that the Groups strategy is inappropriate or but overall responsibility for strategy rests with the Group that the Group is unable to implement its strategy.
IT Steering Committee, chaired by a main board director.
IT projects are reviewed by the Group committee on a Management stretch monthly basis and formal documented procedures exist Management stretch is the risk that business growth might for approving IT changes or developments.
cause the management structure to become overly complex or existing management resource might not be sufficient to In the UK, we have duplicate core systems in our London cope with growth, undermining accountability and control and Liverpool ofces that can be accessed from disaster within the Group, and making the identication, analysis and recovery sites in Leatherhead and Warrington.
control of risks more complex.
Operational risk The Executive Committee, which consists of five executive Operational risk arises from the risk of losses resulting from directors, retains close day-to-day contact with key inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, management throughout the Groups entities and ensures or from external events.
that activities are appropriately coordinated and controlled The Group has implemented policies and procedures, in accordance with the Groups strategy.
A clear, hierarchical designed to minimise these risks, that are communicated monitoring and governance structure is in place to provide to staff and other third parties.
The Group also regularly effective oversight throughout the Group and to provide a monitors the performance of its controls and adherence to transparent mechanism for the escalation of issues.
these guidelines through the Risk Management Committee.
Key components of the Group control environment include modelling of operational risk exposure and scenario testing, management review of activities, documentation of policies and procedures, contingency planning and embedding systems and controls within our key processes.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 22 Business review Operational excellence We believe that high-quality administration underpins successful long-term client relationships.
Private clients are frequently family groups of two or more sometimes considerably more and their investment assets will encompass a wide range of structures.
In order to meet the needs of diverse investment strategies and structures there is a growing range of options in the investment universe that we must support.
These include fund of hedge funds, structured products and investment into areas such as commodities, private equity and property funds when appropriate.
Meeting client expectations efficiently at a reasonable cost to the client remains a challenge and one in which we continue to invest.
Rathbones operations department is housed in one of the Three Graces Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 on Liverpools waterfront, a World Heritage site.
23 Business review Directors 1 23 45 67 8 9 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 24 Directors Chairman 3 Ian Buckley 7 Peter Pearson Lund Ian Buckley, aged 58, is chief executive of Peter Pearson Lund, aged 61, is the 1 Mark Powell the Groups trust and tax business and director responsible for Rathbones unit Mark Powell, aged 63, is the chairman the director responsible for its pensions trust business and is chief executive of with principal responsibility for the and advisory business.
He is also Rathbone Unit Trust Management Limited.
He moved to a chairman of the Groups IT Steering He was appointed to the Board in January non-executive role with effect from Committee and the director responsible 2005.
Before joining Rathbones, Peter 1 January 2008 and is not considered for marketing.
He qualied as a chartered worked for Gartmore for 14 years where to be independent for the purposes of accountant with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & he was a group director and managing the Combined Code.
He was chief director of Gartmore Fund Managers, the executive of Smith & Williamson for ten unit trust division.
Peter joined Rathbones He has been involved in investment years from 1985 to 1995, and in 1999 when the Group decided to management for private clients subsequently chief executive of EFG develop its unit trust activities and throughout his career.
From 1968 to Private Bank Limited and Tenon Group promote them externally.
1989 he worked in what became Credit Plc.
He was appointed to the Board in Lyonnais Securities and was chief 8 Richard Smeeton December 2001.
He is the senior executive of CL-Alexanders Laing & independent director of NXT Plc.
Richard Smeeton, aged 44, has, as his Cruickshank Holdings.
In 1989 he joined principal responsibility, the management 4 Paul Chavasse Laurence Keen as chief executive and of the Groups investment management was appointed to the Rathbones Board Paul Chavasse, aged 44, is the chief business in London and Jersey.
He also as managing director of the Group operating officer responsible for the manages a large number of client following its acquisition in March 1995.
Groups investment operations, IT portfolios.
Having trained with County He was appointed as chairman in May infrastructure and facilities.
He started his Bank, he joined Laurence Keen in 1988 2003.
He is also non-executive chairman career working for the institutional fund prior to its acquisition by Rathbones in of SVM Active Fund Plc.
He is a former management arm of NatWest, which was 1995.
He was appointed to the Board in chairman of the Association of Private later merged with Gartmore.
He chairs the Groups Client Investment Managers & period in the private client businesses of Alternative Asset Committee.
Stockbrokers APCIMS and a member NatWest and Coutts, his final role before of the Takeover Panel.
He is chairman 9 Paul Stockton joining the Group in 2001 was as head of of the Nomination Committee.
NatWest Portfolio Management in Bristol.
Paul Stockton, aged 43, is the finance He was appointed to the Board in director.
He qualied as a chartered September 2001.
Executive directors accountant with  in 1992.
In 1999 he joined Old Mutual Plc 5 Richard Lanyon 2 Andy Pomfret as group financial controller, becoming Richard Lanyon, aged 57, is the director of finance in 2001 and finance Andy Pomfret, aged 48, is the chief director responsible for Rathbones director of Gerrard Limited eight months executive.
He is chairman of the Executive investment management business.
Following the sale of Gerrard to Committee which manages the day-to-day Initially with Laurence Prust, he moved Barclays in 2003, he left in 2005 and has affairs of the Group and of the Groups to Framlington Group Plc in 1986 where since worked for Euroclear in Brussels Social and Environmental Committee.
he was the Board member responsible and as a division finance director of the He qualied as a chartered accountant for pension funds.
Richard joined the Pearl Group.
He joined Rathbones in with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. now Group in 1992 to concentrate on August 2008 and was appointed to the KPMG.
Prior to joining Rathbones in private client discretionary investment Board on 24 September 2008.
July 1999, he spent over 13 years management and was appointed to Members of the Executive Committee with Kleinwort Benson now Dresdner the Board in March 1996.
Kleinwort as a corporate nancier, 6 Andrew Morris venture capitalist and latterly finance director of the investment management Andrew Morris, aged 44, is the director and private banking division.
He was responsible for Rathbones investment appointed to the Board in August 1999 management business in Liverpool, and became chief executive in October Edinburgh, Kendal and Birmingham.
He is also the senior independent also manages a large number of client director of Beazley Group plc and a portfolios.
He has spent his entire working director of the Association of Private career at Rathbones in private client Client Investment Managers & investment management and was Stockbrokers APCIMS.
appointed to the Board in November 2000.
He is chairman of the Groups Training and Competence Committee.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 25 Directors Directors continued 1 Non-executive directors 4 Oliver Corbett Oliver Corbett, aged 44, is group finance 1 David Harrel director of Novae Group plc.
He is a David Harrel, aged 60, was one of the chartered accountant and worked for founding partners of S J Berwin LLP in SG Warburg, Phoenix Securities later 1982, and was made senior partner in Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette and Dresdner 1992.
He relinquished this role in 2006 Kleinwort Wasserstein now Dresdner and is now a consultant to the rm.
David Kleinwort, where he was managing has a variety of other appointments: he is director, emerging companies, before a non-executive director of Wichford Plc joining Novae Group formerly SVB 2 and chairman of The Kyte Group Limited, Holdings PLC in October 2003.
He was a member of the Board of the English appointed to the Board in March 2006 National Opera and a trustee of the Clore and is considered to be independent.
He Dufeld and John Aspinall Foundations.
was appointed as chairman of the Audit He was appointed to the Board in Committee on the retirement of Giles December 2007 and is considered to Coode-Adams on 22 December 2008. be independent.
He was appointed as 5 John May the senior independent director on the retirement of Giles Coode-Adams on John May, aged 53, has been an executive 3 22 December 2008. director at Caledonia Investments plc since 2003.
He has over 30 years 2 James Barclay experience in advising, managing and James Barclay, aged 63, has many years investing in listed and unlisted companies, experience in the financial services and including more than 20 years with banking sector.
As chairman and chief the Hambros Group, where he was executive of Cater Allen Holdings Plc, joint managing director of Hambro he was responsible for creating a market Countrywide Plc and an executive leader that was ultimately sold to Abbey director of Hambros Bank, and National in 1998.
Currently, he is subsequently with his own private equity 4 non-executive chairman of M&G Equity investment and consultancy business.
Investment Trust PLC and a director of He was appointed to the Board in Thos.
Agnews and Sons Limited, a December 2007.
He is a director of a leading West End international art dealer.
major shareholder, Caledonia Investments In 2000 he was appointed as an adviser plc, and it is recognised that he is not to the UK Debt Management Ofce and considered to be independent for the was chairman of its audit committee purposes of the Combined Code.
He was appointed to the 6 Mark Robertshaw Board in November 2003 and is considered to be independent.
Mark Robertshaw, aged 40, is 5 chief executive officer of The Morgan 3 Caroline Burton Crucible Company plc.
Prior to joining Caroline Burton, aged 59, is a highly Morgan Crucible in 2004 he was experienced gure within the asset chief financial officer of Gartmore management industry.
She spent Investment Management Plc for four 26 years with Guardian Royal Exchange years.
He previously worked for the Plc where she was executive director in NatWest Group and also spent nine charge of investments from 1990 until years as a management consultant 1999.
She was also a director of The with Marakon Associates.
He was Scottish Metropolitan Property Plc until appointed to the Board in March 2006 6 June 2000 and was a member of the and is considered to be independent.
service authority for the National Crime Squad and National Criminal Intelligence Service until March 2006.
She is a non-executive director of TR Property Investment Trust Plc.
She was appointed to the Board in November 2003 and is considered to be independent.
She is chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 26 Directors
