| | 22 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review EMERGING MARKETS GROWING IN AFFINITY BUSINESS REVIEW Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | RSA | 23 RSA Seguros is the market leader In Chile, Falabella has over 400 In October we launched a number in Chile with 16% market share, outlets including supermarkets, of loyalty campaigns aimed at employing over 500 people.
In 2008 department and home improvement strengthening retention and, we grew by 16%, slightly faster than stores and financial services retailers as a result, weve seen retention the market and achieved a combined and has around three million active rates increase by 25% over average operating ratio of 92.3%.
In 2008, Affinity was one of our key We provide Falabella with a drivers of growth with premiums dedicated relationship manager increasing by 12%.
One of our most and support team to ensure that we established relationships is with provide a high standard of service Falabella, a leading retail group and to them and their customers.
a powerful brand in Latin America.
| | 24 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review EMERGING MARKETS EMERGING MARKETS IS OUR FASTEST GROWING REGION AND IN 2008 DELIVERED 20% GROWTH IN NET WRITTEN PREMIUMS.
WE REMAIN ON TRACK TO DELIVER OUR TARGET OF INCREASING PREMIUMS TO 1BN BY THE END OF 2010. m 2008 2007 NET WRITTEN PREMIUMS 738 615 UNDERWRITING RESULT 23 18 COMBINED OPERATING RATIO COR % 96.4 95.3 BUSINESS OVERVIEW advantage.
We are committed to strong governance and control, as well as close Emerging Markets has operations in 20 co-operation across the region to develop countries across Latin America, the Baltics, customer solutions which can be replicated Asia and the Middle East and Central and in relevant territories cost effectively.
We are the number one insurer in Chile and in the Baltics, the largest We are focusing on Motor, Affinity, Large private insurer in Uruguay and Intouch, our & Complex Risks and Small and Medium business in Central and Eastern Europe, has Enterprises SME.
market leading direct operations in Poland, the Czech Republic and Russia.
Motor is 45% of the portfolio and is a significant driver of growth and profitability.
We are KEY STRATEGIES leveraging the Groups expertise to improve our pricing and claims capability to give us We are focused on delivering profitable growth competitive advantage in the markets in which we operate.
through expanding distribution, disciplined underwriting and improving operational performance.
Our strategy is to focus on Affinity is a significant opportunity given the scale of the populations in markets such as markets where we can establish a meaningful Brazil and India.
It is a route to customers who presence, either in overall market share or in have not previously been able to purchase segments where we have a competitive THESE ARE ATTRACTIVE MARKETS, WITH GOOD LONG TERM POTENTIAL AND WE REMAIN ON TRACK TO DELIVER AN INCREASE IN EMERGING MARKETS PREMIUMS TO 1BN BY THE END OF 2010.
Paul Whittaker CEO of Emerging Markets BUSINESS REVIEW | | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RSA 25 insurance and can provide much needed In the Baltics, premiums are up by 4% on MARKET CONDITIONS simple, low cost products.
We are working constant exchange and, while growth has with utility companies, among others, to cost slowed as a result of economic conditions, We are seeing the impact of economic effectively access these large markets using we have taken action on rate and expenses downturn in a number of our markets and, their existing billing systems.
in response, we have taken a number of actions on expenses to protect profitability, including For Large & Complex risks, we have Asia and the Middle East again performed reducing headcount by around 400 across the implemented a hub and spoke approach, strongly with a 43% increase in premiums region, representing around 10% of the total where regional centres of excellence assist 30% on constant exchange with strong Emerging Markets workforce.
our smaller operations underwrite complex growth in UAE Motor and Construction and risks, combining RSAs global technical Engineering.
We are making good progress OUTLOOK expertise with local knowledge.
This has on our expansion plans in China and recently significant cost advantages over employing received approval to establish a new branch in 2009 will be a challenging year and we expect to technical experts in all locations.
We have also received our Royal Decree see a continued slowdown in growth as a result in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia which enables us of economic conditions across a number of our to proceed with the IPO of our Saudi business.
SMEs have historically been underserved by markets.
However, we will continue to take brokers due to the high cost to service small action to protect profitability.
As insurance Latin America delivered a 22% increase in individual policies: however in countries such penetration is low across our areas of strategic premiums 10% on constant exchange after as India, this customer segment represents a focus, there remain good opportunities for adjusting for the sale of Venezuela, reflecting significant opportunity.
By offering simple, profitable growth.
These are attractive markets, good double digit growth across Chile, Brazil, standard products with policies that can be with good long term potential and we remain Argentina and Colombia.
issued after answering a handful of questions, on track to increase Emerging Markets we plan to simplify the broker sales process premiums to 1bn by the end of 2010. and access the potential of this market.
Our associates in India and Central and Eastern Europe continue to build momentum, and premiums are up by 37% to 140m PROGRESS AGAINST 25% on constant exchange.
In India, the KEY STRATEGIES business has performed strongly, growing ahead of the market and increasing the agent In Emerging Markets, premiums are up by network by 2,700.
20% to 738m 7% on constant exchange and up by 26% 12% on constant exchange Across the region, we are successfully after excluding Venezuela, which we sold in implementing our Affinity strategy and December 2007.
The underwriting result is in 2008 we signed deals with 47 retailers up 28% to 23m and the COR was 96.4% and financial institutions.
