| | 18 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | RSA | 19 Business review UK TARGETED GROWTH IN MARINE INSURANCE Marine insurance is an important as well as bespoke solutions for since 2003, with strong customer part of RSAs heritage and one of Port & Terminal operators.
retention and a consistent track our key specialty lines.
We are one Weve also expanded geographically, record, and have delivered more of the largest Marine underwriters establishing specialist insurance than 20 successive quarters of in the UK and our market leading teams in Belgium, Brazil, China, positive underwriting results.
technical skills provide real Dubai, France, Germany, The competitive advantage.
Our performance has been recognised through a number of We have been steadily expanding With these initiatives and our awards, such as the British Insurance our Marine business with innovative investment in specialist teams, Awards Underwriter of the Year products, such as New Aquaculture we have expanded our Marine in 2005 and Lloyds List Marine for the growing fishfarming industry, business by more than 70% Insurer of the Year in 2008.
| | 20 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review UK THE UK HAS DELIVERED ANOTHER STRONG PERFORMANCE IN A COMPETITIVE MARKET, WITH NET WRITTEN PREMIUMS OF 2.7BN AND AN UNDERWRITING RESULT OF 99M.
m 2008 2007 NET WRITTEN PREMIUMS 2,711 2,688 UNDERWRITING RESULT 99 65 COMBINED OPERATING RATIO COR % 97.6 97.6 BUSINESS OVERVIEW In Commercial we are focusing on specialist PROGRESS AGAINST segments, such as Risk Solutions and Marine, KEY STRATEGIES We are the UKs largest Commercial insurer.
and leveraging our technical expertise We are the largest in Commercial Property to develop innovative risk solutions and We are maintaining our strategy of targeting and the second largest in Motor and Liability strengthen our broker proposition to profitable growth, taking the right action and a leading Marine underwriter.
We are the deliver profitable growth and manage on rate and selective capacity withdrawal.
UKs third largest Personal lines insurer, with retention in our target markets.
Total premiums are up 1% to 2,711m.
the number two position in Household and Retention remains strong at around 80% across number four in Motor.
In Personal, we are using increased customer the portfolio.
The underwriting result is 99m segmentation and pricing sophistication to 2007: 65m, with the expected lower level launch innovative products and marketing KEY STRATEGIES of prior year development and increased large initiatives to acquire new customers and build losses partially offsetting the benefits of retention.
Our reputation for delivering quality We are committed to delivering sustainable improved weather.
affinity propositions for our partners and their profitable performance.
We will only write retail customers is attracting new deals and business that is profitable and are driving COMMERCIAL helps us retain existing partnerships.
growth in segments where we can achieve In Commercial, premiums are in line with our target returns.
We are committed to last year at 1.6bn, with strong growth in We achieved our target of 120m of annualised underwriting discipline and actively withdraw specialty lines, including Risk Solutions expense savings by mid 2008 and have capacity in areas of the market where the which is up 9%, Marine up 13% and targeted committed to delivering a further 70m of rate, terms and conditions do not meet our growth in Commercial Fleet offsetting the savings by mid 2010.
With these and other underwriting criteria.
withdrawal of capacity in lines of business actions, we are targeting an expense ratio such as Liability and small and mid of around 14% by the end of 2012. corporate Property.
WITH OUR CONTINUED ACTION ON RATE AND EXPENSES, WE ARE CONFIDENT THAT THE UK BUSINESS WILL CONTINUE TO DELIVER SUSTAINABLE PROFITABLE PERFORMANCE.
Adrian Brown UK Chief Executive BUSINESS REVIEW | | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RSA 21 We have continued to take action on rate, In affinity, we signed two new deals and The Personal market remains competitive, achieving increases of 6% in Liability, 7% in retained four existing partnerships that although we are now seeing some improving trends on rate and evidence of an increase in Property and 8% in Motor.
discipline from our major competitors.
The influence of aggregators continues to grow and The COR was 99.3% 2007: 95.9%, with TECHNICAL CAPABILITIES they are an increasing source of business for us.
adverse large loss experience and lower prior Our technical skills are market leading Our approach is to focus on working together year development reducing the Property and and a real source of competitive advantage.
with aggregators to create value over the long Casualty results, however, this has been offset In 2008, we won Insurer Innovation of the term.
We also anticipate that the current by good profitability in Marine and in our Year at the Insurance Times awards for economic environment may result in more Legacy operations.
our Energy Performance Management affinity deals coming to the market.
Proposition, which helps our customers In 2008 we expanded our Risk Solutions meet Government requirements for European business and opened a new office Energy Performance Certificates.
In addition, OUTLOOK in Munich.
This was followed by the opening our rehabilitation programme, RSA Care, of our office in Madrid in February 2009, won the Rehabilitation Award at the British We are committed to maintaining underwriting increasing the number of our European Insurance Awards.
discipline and targeted profitable growth.
While the economic downturn is impacting MARKET CONDITIONS premium volumes, we are seeing signs that PERSONAL rates are beginning to harden, which should In Personal, premiums are up by 2% at 1.1bn, The UK market remains competitive, partially mitigate this.
In addition, with our reflecting a good performance from MORE however, we are now starting to see early continued action on rate and our programme TH N with 2% premium growth, while, signs of positive rating trends.
While we are to deliver an additional 70m of expense as expected, affinity volumes continue to beginning to see the impact of the economic savings by mid 2010, we are confident that the be impacted by lower new car sales and downturn on premium volume with a UK business will continue to deliver sustainable mortgage originations.
The COR was 95.0% slowdown in business activity in Commercial profitable performance.
compared with the 2007 result of 100.6% and lower mortgage originations and new which was impacted by the summer floods.
car sales in Personal, this is expected to be partially offset by higher rates.
We have achieved consistent increases in rate, with Personal Motor rates up by 6% and In Commercial, we are increasingly seeing Household by 5%.
clients and brokers looking at the security and quality of companies where they place We are continuing to build the MORE TH N business and with our strong balance sheet brand with a series of marketing campaigns and reputation for technical excellence, we and new propositions.
During the year, are well positioned.
There are also signs of the MORE TH N won Finaccords Most Effective market showing a more disciplined approach Brand and was a finalist at the British Insurance to rate and greater resistance to high levels Awards for E-business and Customer Care.
TARGETED PROFITABLE GROWTH UK NET WRITTEN % PREMIUM 2008 % 13 MARINE MOTOR CASUALTY 35 12 9 RISK SOLUTIONS HOUSEHOLD MARINE 21 8 PROPERTY OTHER 2 MORE TH N 21 3
