| | 14 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review INTERNATIONAL CNS BUILDING IN CANADA The 2007 acquisition of CNS The integration is progressing well.
marked a 37 million investment in We have consolidated our product our Canadian broker business and range and all new business is now made us the largest general insurer processed on the RSA platform.
in British Columbia and the sixth The CNS brand has been updated largest in Canada.
and has a new, modern look and feel consistent with the RSA brand.
Our focus has been to build on CNS Through these and other innovations strong local service delivery and we have positioned the business to leverage RSAs technical expertise continue delivering profitable growth.
and capacity to strengthen our broker and customer propositions.
In 2008 CNS contributed almost 10% As a result, we are well positioned of Canadas premiums and has helped to continue to grow profitably in the the Canadian business continue to important British Columbian market.
For more information visit www.
BUSINESS REVIEW Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | RSA | 15 | | 16 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review INTERNATIONAL INTERNATIONAL HAS DELIVERED ANOTHER STRONG PERFORMANCE, WITH A 19% INCREASE IN NET WRITTEN PREMIUMS AND A 27% INCREASE IN THE UNDERWRITING RESULT.
m 2008 2007 NET WRITTEN PREMIUMS 2,998 2,513 UNDERWRITING RESULT 262 206 COMBINED OPERATING RATIO COR % 91.2 91.3 BUSINESS OVERVIEW Our geographic spread and segmented approach enables us to target growth in profitable segments International comprises the Groups where our technical expertise gives us operations in Scandinavia, Canada, Ireland competitive advantage.
These businesses have strong positions in these attractive markets and Customer focus is central to our propositions and we aim to outperform in terms of both we are optimising customer reach through our growth and profitability.
multi channel distribution strategy, with strong intermediary, affinity and direct propositions.
KEY STRATEGIES We delivered our increased target of 60m We are committed to delivering sustainable of annualised expense savings by mid 2008, profitable performance.
We are using three and made good progress towards achieving levers to drive the business forward and the additional 25m expense savings target outperform the competition: set for Scandinavia this year.
These savings are to be achieved by mid 2010 and will double Scandinavias expense savings to 50m and r Delivering profitable growth by focusing on reduce the expense ratio to around 14%.
profitable segments, expanding distribution and selected acquisitions r Leveraging our market leading capabilities in underwriting and claims: and r Driving continuous operational efficiencies across the business.
WITH OUR STRONG TOP AND BOTTOM LINE PERFORMANCE, WE ARE CONTINUING TO DRIVE THE GROUP FORWARD.
Simon Lee Chief Executive, International businesses BUSINESS REVIEW | | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RSA 17 26% to 884m 15% on constant exchange, exchange reflecting growth in Personal Motor PROGRESS AGAINST and the underwriting result is up 14% to 57m.
and increased distribution, with 37 new agents KEY STRATEGIES Profitability remains strong with a COR of signed this year.
92.9% 2007: 92.4% despite adverse weather, International continues to drive the Group with some of the worst winter storms in In Ireland, the market remains competitive and forward and has again delivered a strong top Ontario for almost 70 years.
we are continuing to act on rate.
Premiums are and bottom line performance.
Net written in line with last year, with growth in our affinity premiums are up 19% to 2,998m 6% on Commercial net written premiums increased business and recent acquisitions offsetting the constant exchange.
International contributed by 19% to 217m 9% on constant exchange withdrawal of capacity in areas such as Fleet the majority of the Groups underwriting result, reflecting the CNS acquisition in December and Solicitors Professional Indemnity.
We also with a 27% increase in underwriting profit to 2007 and continued strong retention.
The completed the domestication of our Irish business, 262m and a COR of 91.2%.
integration of CNS is on track and the establishing it as a separate legal entity.
This business is performing well, with 80% of company started writing Group business in 2009, SCANDINAVIA business retained.
taking advantage of Irelands lower tax regime.
Scandinavia represents over 50% of the International portfolio and 25% of the RSA Personal net written premiums increased by Group.
We are the third largest insurer in MARKET CONDITIONS 28% to 667m 18% on constant exchange.
both Denmark and Sweden and are Growth in Personal Intermediated reflects expanding our presence in Norway and In Scandinavia, the rating environment remains positive rate, strong retention and the addition Finland.
In 2008, premiums increased by 16% stable and we continue to achieve single digit of CNS.
Johnson is Canadas second largest to 1,602m 3% on constant exchange and rate increases across most lines.
In Canada, we affinity writer and represents 40% of our the COR improved by 3.1 points to 88.3% are seeing continuing evidence that the Personal Canadian business.
In 2008, Johnson continued driven primarily by a strong performance in market is hardening, and although Commercial Sweden, particularly in Personal lines.
to perform strongly, delivering 24% growth remains competitive, we are starting to see an 14% on constant exchange, reflecting the improving trend.
The Irish market remains benefit of the TJV acquisition in 2007 and the Commercial performed strongly, delivering a competitive, while the Italian insurance market 19% increase in net written premiums to 727m signing of 35 new sponsorship groups, giving us contracted over 2008 reflecting lower levels of 5% on constant exchange.
This reflects good access to a potential 240,000 new customers.
growth in Norway, and in SME, Marine and Renewable Energy in Denmark.
OTHER EUROPE OUTLOOK In Other Europe, which comprises our operations In Personal lines, premiums are up 14% to in Ireland and Italy, premiums are up by 19% to We have built a track record of delivering strong 875m 1% on constant exchange reflecting 512m 2% on constant exchange.
The COR top and bottom line performance.
Although continued growth from WLI in Norway and of 97.1% 2007: 89.1% reflects the impact of the economic conditions will present some good retention across the region.
floods in Ireland as well as the exceptional level challenges in 2009, we are seeing positive rating of prior year development in 2007. trends in our markets, and with our ongoing CANADA actions on expenses and our strong portfolio, Canada has delivered another excellent In Italy, we continue to grow ahead of the we are confident that we will continue to deliver performance, net written premiums are up market with premiums up 3% on constant sustainable profitable performance.
