4 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Business review 2008 Principal activities Store numbers and store space the number of Carpetright plc is Europes leading specialist stores trading and their gross area, including both floor covering retailer, selling a wide range selling and warehouse space.
Space occupied by of carpets, rugs, vinyls and laminates together sublet tenants is excluded.
Underlying operating margins operating profit, The Group trades from 675 stores excluding profits losses on property disposals organised and managed in two geographical and other non-recurring items, as a percentage segments.
These are the UK & RoI comprising of sales.
the UK and the Republic of Ireland and the Rest of Europe comprising The Netherlands, Belgium and Poland.
In addition, there is a new joint venture arrangement in Germany.
Overview of Group financial performance The Group aims to be the first choice 2008 2007 for all consumers by offering the broadest m m % change range of floor coverings, at the keenest prices, Revenue 521.5 475.9 9.6% with unbeatable customer service.
Underlying operating profit UK and Republic of Ireland 58.0 55.6 4.3% Business strategies The Netherlands and Belgium 6.8 4.8 41.7% The primary financial objective of the Group is to deliver long-term sustainable growth in earnings Poland 1.4 0.9 per share and cash flow.
We achieve this through Total 63.4 59.5 6.6% the following strategies: Net finance charges 1.3 1.8 27.8% Focusing on floor coverings, ensuring that we Underlying pre tax profit 62.1 57.7 7.6% improve and develop our product ranges to Losses profits on property provide consumers with comprehensive product disposals and non-recurring items 2.6 9.3 choice at the best prices: Profit before taxation 59.5 67.0 11.2% Providing an inclusive offer which appeals to all Underlying earnings per share pence 63.5 58.3 8.9% segments of the market: Basic earnings per share pence 63.2 68.2 7.3% Ensuring our customers receive excellent levels Net borrowings 57.5 6.9 of service: Where this review makes reference to Underlying these relate Actively managing our store portfolio, by a mixture to profit earnings before profits losses on property disposals of new store openings in areas where we are not and other non-recurring items.
represented, coupled with store relocations in Progress against the Groups financial objectives areas where we are either over-spaced or where has been challenging this year.
Revenue new units are available which deliver better increased by 9.6% in the year to 521.5 million overall profitability: with growth being achieved in both regions including a contribution of 30.1 million from Expanding into additional European countries Storeys and Carpetworld.
The Rest of Europe where market opportunities exist: grew faster than the UK & RoI and now Achieving market leading positions, and an represents over 13% of total revenue.
increasing market share, in each country in The Group opened 47 stores and closed which we trade through the addition of new, 36, which together with the 30 and 13 stores profitable stores: acquired respectively with Storeys and Carpetworld, gave a net increase of 54 stores and a total store Improving margins by better sourcing, continuous base of 675.
Many of the new stores are either cost control and efficient management of stock concession stores or are smaller format stores levels and working capital: and resulting in total space growing by 7.8% to just Continuing to invest in training and developing over 5.8 million square feet.
our people to maintain a competitive advantage.
Underlying operating profit grew to 63.4 million, an increase of 6.6% on last Key performance indicators year, with UK & RoI profitability increasing by We monitor our performance against the 4.3%.
Profits in The Netherlands and Belgium strategy by reference to a limited number improved by 41.7% but these were offset, of key indicators: in part, by continued start-up losses in Poland which totalled 1.4 million.
Underlying earnings Like-for-like sales growth calculated as this per share increased by 8.9% to 63.5 pence.
years sales divided by last years sales for all Group profit before taxation decreased stores that are at least 12 months old at the by 11.2% to 59.5 million with basic earnings beginning of our financial year.
Stores closed per share decreasing by 7.3% to 63.2 pence, during the year are excluded from both years.
principally arising from non-recurring costs No account is taken of changes to store size arising in the year.
or the introduction of third party concessions.
Gross margins gross profit as a percentage of sales.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2008 5 The Group recorded a profit on property Group underlying pre-tax profit m disposals of 7.0 million 2007: 9.3 million as we continued to trade our property portfolio successfully.
This has been offset by other 2004 65.0 non-recurring items, comprising post-acquisition 2005 61.5 reorganisation costs and asset write offs in 2006 56.7 Storeys, together with pre-opening and dual running costs, principally rent, rates and utility 2007 57.7 costs, in respect of the new cutting and 2008 62.1 distribution centre, ahead of it becoming fully operational in April 2008.
These non-recurring costs totalled 9.6 million 2007: nil.
The Groups Basic earnings per share pence strategy to relocate stores continues to deliver strong cash flow and lower the total rent 2004 68.8 exposure.
The Board anticipates that property profits and cash flows will continue to be 2005 71.0 achieved on an ongoing basis and that there 2006 65.0 will be modest non-recurring costs incurred in the forthcoming period as a result of the 2007 68.2 Carpetworld integration.
2008 63.2 The Groups operating cash flow was strong.
This was supported by 20.0 million of Dividend pence proceeds from property disposals.
Significant investments in the year included 22.3 million for the new cutting and distribution centre, 2004 44.0 10.6 million in respect of freehold and long 2005 47.0 leasehold acquisitions, 32.2 million for the acquisition of Storeys and Carpetworld, 2006 49.0 and 4.7 million in respect of the continued 2007 50.0 rollout of Navision store IT systems.
Net debt increased by 50.6 million over the year and 2008 52.0 totalled 57.5 million at the year end.
Net finance charges decreased to 1.3 million, with the impact of higher levels of net borrowings more than offset by 0.9 million 2007: nil of finance charges capitalised as a result of the change in accounting policy announced at the time of our Interim statement.
UK and Republic of Ireland Operational review Delivering our vision Objectives We have reviewed our key objectives for the UK & RoI, and the targets that we will look to kComprehensive product choice achieve in the next three years: kGrowing our store base Stores expand Carpetright and Storeys to kDelivering great value 550 stores excluding concessions across the UK & RoI, particularly in those areas where kOffering outstanding customer service we are geographically under-represented.
We will continue to improve the portfolio mix by relocating from A1 to lower cost bulky goods Achievements in 2008 parks wherever possible, and ensuring we have Cut-length carpet ranges have been further the right store sizes and formats to suit local extended and a wider range of rugs has been market conditions.
The acquisition of Storeys has Concessions continue to build on the current enabled us to extend our wood and laminate concession operations In-House and offering.
The ranges in each country have been Carpetright branded and seek opportunities adjusted to suit local markets and capture new to take over the operation of carpet departments customer trends.
in appropriate host stores: Goals for 2009 Product maintain our leading position in The ranges within markets and formats will carpets and vinyl as well as growing our market continue to be adjusted to suit local conditions share and proposition in other floor coverings.
Increasing focus will be put on the We will continue to expand our exclusive ranges Super Savers value range and a wider vinyl and enlarge our value offerings: offering in the UK.
6 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Business review continued Service following the relocation into our Delivering our vision new cutting and distribution centre, ensure we reduce our delivery lead times for the benefit of our customers and make this a source of kComprehensive product choice competitive advantage: kGrowing our store base Costs focus on reducing operating costs through a combination of space reduction, kDelivering great value the store relocation programme and appropriate kOffering outstanding customer service sublet opportunities, and lower administration costs following the implementation of the new in-store computer system which is expected to Achievements in 2008 be complete by October 2008: and The Group has opened a net 11 stores in the Storeys and Carpetworld the initial objective year, which together with 30 and 13 stores in respect of both acquisitions has been to from the Storeys and Carpetworld acquisitions develop the ranges and store format to improve respectively, means we now trade from customer choice and service.
In addition we are 675 stores.
In addition, we trade from one simplifying the operations by sharing the cutting, trial store under our new joint venture distribution and administration activities with arrangement in Germany.
Store expansion, focused on Scotland and the north of England, Goals for 2009 will then follow.
The Group plans to increase its store base by a net eight in the UK & RoI and 17 in the Rest of Financial results Europe.
This will take the Groups store base to 2008 2007 700 including 14 stores in Poland which should UK & RoI Key financial results m m Change provide a solid base for profitable expansion.
Revenue 452.7 418.1 8.3% In addition we plan to open further stores, Gross profit 284.1 258.8 9.8% dependent upon trial store performance, in Germany.
Gross margin % 62.8% 61.9% 0.9pp Underlying operating profit 58.0 55.6 4.3% Underlying operating margin % 12.8% 13.3% 0.5pp Revenue in the UK & RoI was 8.3% ahead of last year at 452.7 million driven principally by the Storeys acquisition.
The 53rd week contributed 1.6% to the revenue increase in the period.
Like-for-like sales declined by 2.7% with a decline in the first half of 3.4% 2007: increase 0.9% and a decline in the second half of 1.8% 2007: decline 3.6%.
Storeys and Carpetworld performed substantially in line with our expectations delivering revenue of 30.1 million.
This performance can be viewed against a market which, we believe, increased by less than 1% in value terms and so represents a further increase in market share.
Gross profit increased by 9.8% to 284.1 million with a further increase in the gross margin to 62.8%.
This is 0.9 percentage points ahead of last year and has been achieved through improved supplier rebates, lower levels of stock loss and better management of the UK & RoI: Like-for-like % distribution network, offset by the impact of the strengthening Euro on product cost prices and lower initial margins in Storeys and Carpetworld.
H1 0607 0.9 The Storeys margin continues to improve as it H2 0607 3.6 benefits from core Carpetright terms although with a different sales mix its margin will continue H1 0708 3.4 to be lower than that achieved in the rest of the H2 0708 1.8 UK & RoI business.
The margin in Carpetworld will increase further as we standardise formats and terms.
UK & RoI: Underlying operating margin % 2004 16.3 2005 14.7 2006 13.8 2007 13.3 2008 12.8 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2008 7 Underlying operating profit increased by 4.3% We have introduced a number of higher quality to 58.0 million.
The 53rd week in the financial ranges, which command higher prices, and these year had an overall benefit to operating profit are increasingly being bought by our customers of 0.7 million.
The underlying operating margin who recognise the value for money that these reduced by 0.5pp to 12.8% which can be products deliver.
analysed as follows: The laminate and wood market appears to have stabilised over the last year.
Underlying operating margin last year 13.3% Laminate remains a small part of our business Impact of Storeys and Carpetworld 0.5% c 2% and our offer comprises a small range of Core business take-away product and a more extensive range Increase in gross margin 1.8% that can be ordered.
The Storeys business now Increase in store occupancy costs 0.7% brings a wider range of laminate and wood products to our offering.
Decrease in store staff costs 0.3% Throughout the year, we have sourced a Increase in advertising 0.4% wider range of rugs, principally from India and Increase in depreciation 0.4% China.
Our rug sales now represent 2.5% of Increase in other costs 0.6% our total business.
Our medium-term target is Underlying operating margin this year 12.8% to grow rug sales to nearer 5% of total revenue.
In the second half we decided to exit Store occupancy costs increased as a from our Carpetright at Home business that percentage of sales as a result of lower like-foroffered insurance and retail customers the like sales relative to fixed expenses and increases opportunity to choose carpets from their home.
in rent and rates reflecting the year-on-year space Instead, our insurance business will be run growth.
In addition, the business was impacted through an independent third party.
By doing by increasing energy and fuel costs, although the this we will continue to achieve sales from impact of fuel price increases was partly mitigated insurance customers but with a lower central by improvements to the distribution network cost and improved cash flows versus dealing following the move to the new cutting and with insurance companies directly.
In the forthcoming year, Carpetright, Staff costs decreased as a percentage together with several carpet manufacturers and of sales with inflationary increases offset by a distributors, will be participating in The Fifth reduction in headcount of over 100 in stores Wall project, to promote the generic benefits excluding Storeys and Carpetworld and the of carpet via a major consumer advertising and central office.
We continue to ensure our PR campaign.
We anticipate that this will help managers remain well rewarded recognising re-invigorate interest in carpet in the marketplace.
the significant contribution they make to sales.
The business incurred higher advertising spend Store portfolio development to support stronger promotions.
We continue to develop our store portfolio : Dual running costs incurred in the start-up Store numbers Sq ft 000 phase of the new cutting and distribution centre UK & Rol April May April May have been treated as non-recurring items and store base 2007 Openings Closures Other 2008 2007 2008 have been excluded from underlying profit.
Carpetright 439 21 13 13 460 3,930 3,963 Sales and marketing Concessions 73 10 22 61 154 121 The specialist floor covering market has declined Storeys 8 30 38 387 in volume terms over the last year, impacted by 512 39 35 43 559 4,084 4,471 a poor economic environment, deteriorating Including Carpetworld stores.
consumer confidence and a decline in mortgage approvals and resultant housing transactions.
In response to the tougher market conditions, Manufacturers and retailers have seen the decline the last 12 months has seen a slow-down in accelerate over the year and we believe many the rate of store openings.
There has been a independents have ceased trading.
As a result, net 9% increase in the number of stores with we are continuing to grow market share.
39 new openings as well as 43 from business There remains a surplus of supply to the acquisitions.
All our new stores take time to market and it is likely that manufacturers will mature and we expect to see stronger sales come under increasing pressure.
We continue from them in the year ahead.
At the same to work with a small number of selected time we closed 35 stores, either as part of manufacturers who can meet the demands our ongoing programme to move to lower of our customers in terms of the latest ranges, cost locations, or because the stores did the best quality and at the keenest prices.
not contribute to our overall profitability.
The general trend in our business towards Total space grew by 9.5% with the average cut-length carpets, rather than roll-stock, has store size now 8,000 sq ft, which is a slight slowed in the year.
There has been a gradual increase on the prior year due to larger store increase in the average selling price over the year, sizes in Storeys and Carpetworld.
In the 2009 in response to cost price inflation impacted by financial year we anticipate opening a net eight the strength of the Euro.
Other trends we have stores with an increase in average space of seen have been a gradual transition from light approximately 2%.
natural colours towards darker natural colours.
8 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Business review continued As we have previously outlined, there is a The supply chain has performed well throughout significant opportunity for us to generate cash, the year and store staff have been able to sell make profits, improve store locations and reduce with confidence.
The Group moved into the our ongoing rent bill by moving from A1 retail new facility in Purfleet, Essex in January which parks to bulky goods parks.
During the year, accommodates the Groups cutting centre, we negotiated to relocate from two A1 parks.
distribution hub and central offices.
This has Our portfolio is now broadly split 40 60 in relation allowed us to close four sites by the end of to occupancy on A1 or bulky goods parks.
In addition we are looking to downsize from The benefits of this investment are: 10,000 square feet plus units to smaller units on current parks or through relocations.
More efficient goods-in and production Where this is not possible, we will sublet space processes: to concessions.
During the year, we have Lower transport costs as carpets will now be downsized or relocated in three such locations cut and despatched to store from the same site: and we believe that there is an opportunity to downsize in excess of 100 locations.
Faster delivery times to stores of cut-length Rent inflation is being mitigated to some orders: extent by the introduction of Sleepright, a start-up In-house production for the first time of bed concession, into a number of our stores.
cardboard inner tubes for individual carpet These units occupy around 1,200 sq ft of space orders, utilising waste cardboard: per unit.
At year-end, 83 stores included a Sleepright concession and we anticipate the Lower labour costs as there will be less format will be rolled out to around a further manual handling through the use of increased 25 stores in the coming year.
These concession automation: units help to reduce operating costs and also In-house cutting of vinyl at a lower all-in cost: and provide additional footfall.
Since the Group acquired Storeys and Improved communication and interaction Carpetworld, a large number of changes have between central support office, cutting and been made to improve the underlying businesses.
Staff numbers have been reduced by over 140 These savings will offset the additional leasing since acquisition and store layouts and product costs of the new site.
As the business grows ranges have been improved.
These changes the new site will be able to handle additional have, at times, caused some disruption but leave volume with a minimal increase in costs.
the stores well positioned for the future.
The quality of fitting continues to improve The Republic of Ireland remains a key and independent fitters have been found to growth opportunity with 26 stores including support each new store.
Ensuring quality fitters one concession trading at the year end.
are available for our customers remains a key The performance of these stores continues priority and the business continues to invest in to improve and we remain on course to reach the Fitters Academy with 163 fitters assessed our medium term target of 30 stores.
There is an increasing emphasis in the Operational initiatives market on the importance of the service offer.
We continue to invest in the three key service areas: Our customers are now able to make comments The in-store experience including the new store on service via email as well as the telephone, computer system and system improvements allow us to capture customer service comments more easily.
The effectiveness of the supply chain We continue to train our Store Managers to The quality of our service and, in particular, handle complaints effectively and we treat all the fitting service feedback as an opportunity to improve our service offering further.
Similarly, we have been In the stores, we have continued the rollout of providing appropriate training and courses for our rug display areas and the introduction of energy estimators to enhance the customer experience.
efficient lighting in the roll-stock areas, giving the stores a much fresher look.
We have continued Storeys to review our point of sale posters and price On 1 May 2007, the Group acquired Storey tickets to ensure they properly communicate Carpets Limited for a total consideration of the great value that we offer.
19.7 million, of which 0.7 million was paid The new store computer system, Navision, in May 2008.
Storeys comprised 30 stores which forms part of the major IT investment at the time of acquisition, primarily located in that we have made over the last three years, north east England, and it has been trading continued to be rolled out during the year.
We are trading Storeys as a At the year-end it was in 417 stores and we are standalone business but we have consolidated converting approximately 10 stores per week.
its administrative functions with those of This continuing rollout has enabled UK store Carpetright.
By the year end, we had added staffing levels to be reduced by over 90 people eight further stores, simplified processes, since May 2007.
The rollout is expected to be improved the customer offer and increased complete by October 2008.
The benefits include gross margins in this business.
better management information, improved stock control and an improved customer order process.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2008 9 Carpetworld On 31 March 2008, the Group acquired Melford Commercial Properties Limited, the parent company of Carpetworld Manchester Limited Carpetworld for a total consideration of 7.2 million plus 7.7 million of debt repaid.
Carpetworld comprised 13 stores at the time of acquisition, primarily located in north west England including four freehold and two long leasehold properties, valued at 12.5 million.
As with Storeys, since acquisition we have started to simplify operating processes and improve operating margins.
It is intended that this business will ultimately be split across the Carpetright and Storeys formats.
Summary and outlook The last year has been more challenging than we anticipated with the deteriorating economic environment, a decline in consumer confidence and a reduction in housing transactions having adverse impacts on revenue.
We remain cautious about the short-term prospects but are confident that the investments we are making in our stores, ranges, new cutting and distribution centre and IT systems will all support future growth.
Rest of Europe: Underying operating Rest of Europe margin The Netherlands and Belgium % Operational review Objectives 2004 3.3 The Rest of Europe continues to grow as a 2005 5.6 percentage of the overall Group.
We have set 2006 7.1 ourselves the following medium-term objectives: 2007 8.5 Grow our store base to 130 stores across The Netherlands and Belgium: 2008 10.2 Achieve 10 million profit from The Netherlands and Belgium through a mixture of sales growth, improvements in the gross margin and rigorous cost control: Expand our Polish store base to 20 stores and Delivering our vision achieve at least breakeven: Through our pilot stores under our joint venture kComprehensive product choice arrangement in Germany, gain a greater kGrowing our store base understanding of opportunities in this market: and kDelivering great value Identify, evaluate and, where appropriate, exploit opportunities to open stores in other kOffering outstanding customer service European countries.
Financial results Achievements in 2008 2008 2007 The Group has continued to offer customers Rest of Europe Key financial results m m Change outstanding promotions throughout the Revenue year with prices reduced by up to 60%.
The Netherlands and Belgium 66.7 56.8 17.4% This has been achieved by improving terms Poland 2.1 1.0 110.0% from suppliers.
Rest of Europe 68.8 57.8 19.0% Goals for 2009 Underlying operating profit The Group will continue to develop strong The Netherlands and Belgium 6.8 4.8 41.7% promotions and ensure customers are offered Poland 1.4 0.9 great value across all countries, whilst retaining Rest of Europe 5.4 3.9 38.5% outstanding customer service.
Underlying operating margin% The Netherlands and Belgium 10.2% 8.5% 1.7pp Poland Rest of Europe 7.8% 6.7% 1.1pp 10 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Business review continued Revenue in the Rest of Europe was 19.0% ahead of last year at 68.8 million.
In local currency Delivering our vision terms the improvement was 12.7%.
Like-for-like sales in local currency increased by 6.7% in kComprehensive product choice The Netherlands and Belgium, and by 11.8% in Poland.
Gross profit increased by 21.9% to kGrowing our store base 39.0 million with an improvement in the gross kDelivering great value margin in The Netherlands and Belgium of 1.4 percentage points on the back of improved kOffering outstanding customer service rebates as volumes increased, offset by increased promotional activity.
Costs were tightly controlled with most Achievements in 2008 of the increase attributable to new space and The quality of the fitting service, undertaken by inflationary pressures.
our independent carpet fitters, together with the The region recorded an underlying operating effectiveness of our new cutting and distribution profit of 5.4 million, an increase of 38.5% on centre, has enabled us to improve service to last year.
The underlying operating profit in our customers.
In the stores we are nearing the The Netherlands and Belgium increased by end of the rollout of our new in-store computer 41.7% to 6.8 million with operating margins system Navision which is streamlining our increasing to over our previously stated target order administration.
This was partially offset by continued losses in Poland of 1.4 million 2007: 0.9 million Goals for 2009 loss.
The results of the first store in Germany, We intend to complete the rollout of Navision which opened in April under the joint venture and ensure that our new cutting and distribution arrangement with TTL, were negligible.
This will reduce the delivery lead times and provide increased capacity.
Store portfolio development The store expansion programme continued during the year with eight stores opening.
The portfolio is now as follows: Store numbers Sq ft 000 April May April April Rest of Europe store base 2007 Openings Closures 2008 2007 2008 The Netherlands 75 3 1 77 903 895 Belgium 28 28 347 335 Poland 65 11 63 115 109 8 1 116 1,313 1,345 Total space is impacted by further subletting: we continue to assess sublet opportunities for the business where we have excess space, with 21 now completed in The Netherlands and Belgium.
In addition, a pilot store has been established in Germany operating through a 50 50 joint venture with the German flooring retailer, TTL.
The plans for the current year include a further three stores in The Netherlands and three stores in Poland.
In addition, on 30 June 2008 the acquisition of Ben fide Graaff has seen a further 11 stores join the portfolio in The Netherlands.
Operational initiatives The Netherlands and Belgium The key focus throughout the last year has been the ongoing improvement of in-store product offers, together with increased promotional activity, and a controlled store opening programme in The Netherlands.
Business in both countries has been strong, particularly in The Netherlands, building on the good performance we achieved last year.
Our brand awareness continues to grow, resulting in increased footfall and sales conversion.
In The Netherlands, the focus has been on a strong promotional programme.
The strength of our offer, including the use of single day double discount events, continues to enable us to outperform the competition and we estimate that we have once again increased our market share, with much of this growth attributable to a continued improvement in our customer conversion rate.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2008 11 In Belgium we identified, following market Summary and outlook research, that the stores in the French speaking The performance in the Rest of Europe over region could be targeted more specifically to the the last year has been strong and the growth local consumer.
As a result specific changes were potential remains solid, particularly with the made to the ranges which has led to improved acquisition of Ben fide Graaff in The Netherlands.
In the current year we expect to grow the store We have seen a shift in the sales mix in base by a further 17 stores across the region, The Netherlands and Belgium towards rugs, including 11 from Ben fide Graaff but excluding vinyl and laminate in particular.
These categories Germany and continue to grow our market share are more important than in the UK & RoI, with in each market.
laminate alone representing 24% of total revenue.
The Group will continue to drive sales We have extended the product range to widen and profit in The Netherlands and Belgium in customer choice and our advertising strategy has the year ahead.
In Poland the focus will be on evolved to ensure that we are not perceived as driving sales in the existing stores and ensuring just a carpet specialist.
We will look to grow sales the format supports profitable expansion.
from these categories throughout 2008 9 whilst we continue to develop the best carpet ranges Financial review 2008 for these countries.
Ben fide Graaff Objectives On 30 June 2008, we completed the acquisition The Groups finance function has the following of the trade and assets of Ben fide Graaff Tapijt, objectives: a leading floor coverings and curtains blinds Manage effective financial reporting and control retailer in the south of The Netherlands, for a of the Groups activities including implementation total consideration ofB7.8 million.
Ben fide Graaff of new accounting standards and policies: comprises 11 stores and has been trading for 35 years.
Revenue is approximatelyB15 million Manage the Groups taxation activities ensuring per annum.
Our initial objectives are to implement that appropriate taxation policies and practices appropriate changes to simplify processes, are adopted across the Group: and enhance operating margin with a strong Manage the Groups treasury activities to ensure sales and customer service focused culture.
that funds are always available to meet the shortStores will be converted to the Carpetright brand and long-term business needs at the lowest in those locations where we have no existing possible cost: and presence, but where catchments overlap, the Ben fide Graaff format will remain.
Ensure interest rate and foreign exchange risks are minimised.
Poland Progress in Poland continues to be steady, with Financial results the Group trading from 11 stores at the year-end, 2008 2007 % Change an increase of five in the year.
Encouragingly we have seen like-for-like sales in local currency of Taxation rate % nearly 12% with the best performance from the Underlying 30.8 31.4 0.6pp longest established stores.
Most sales continue Effective 28.1 30.8 2.7pp to be in either rugs or take-away roll-stock Earnings per share pence carpet but the offer continues to evolve and Underlying 63.5 58.3 8.9% we have been pleased with the clearer product segmentation in our most recent openings.
Basic 63.2 68.2 7.3% Securing suitable new sites has continued Dividend per share to be challenging.
We anticipate opening three Proposed and paid pence 52.0 50.0 4.0% stores in the year ahead, and as the number of Cover times 1.22 1.36 10.3% stores increases we will see awareness of the Net borrowings m 57.5 6.9 brand grow, which will in turn support revenue growth.
During the year we have critically Pension deficit m 1.3 1.8 27.8% reviewed the store layout and staffing levels for Interest cover incl capitalised interest each store.
As a result we have reduced the times 27.6 38.2 27.7% number of people employed in each store and reorganised the stores to ensure clearer Taxation category segmentation.
The effective tax rate on profits is 28.1% 2007: 30.8%.
This has declined year-on-year principally Germany due to reductions in the UK corporation tax At the end of 2007 we entered a 50 50 joint rate from 30% to 28% in April 2008 impacting venture agreement with TTL, one of Germanys deferred tax and the recognition of a deferred leading floor covering retailers.
The joint venture tax asset in respect of historic losses in Belgium.
is a pilot for Carpetright in this market.
The joint The underlying rate is stated after removing the venture utilises the key strengths of both the impact of the tax on profits on property disposals businesses, with Carpetright providing store and non-recurring items, as well as the impact design and layout, fixtures and point of sale on deferred tax of the 2% reduction in the UK material as well as staff training.
TTL will provide corporation tax rate.
The ongoing effective rate store location, property negotiation, shop is expected to remain slightly higher than the fitting, staff recruitment, advertising and central combined statutory rate for the Group due to accounting support.
In April 2008 the first store, a number of disallowable items in relation to the branded Carpri, opened in Berlin.
Our current Groups freehold properties and other small items.
intentions are to open a further three stores in the next financial year.
12 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Business review continued Earnings per share Capital expenditure comprised 10.6 million on long Basic earnings per share decreased by 7.3% leaseholds and freeholds, 22.3 million on the to 63.2 pence, reflecting a 7.6% decrease new cutting and distribution centre, 8.9 million in earnings.
Underlying earnings per share on stores and 4.7 million on the new IT systems.
Underlying There was a working capital cash outflow of earnings have increased by 8.6% after removing 1.1 million with decreased inventories being the effect of profits on property disposals and offset by an increase in receivables and a other non-recurring items together with the tax decrease in payables.
thereon, as well as the impact of the 2% reduction in UK Corporation tax on deferred tax balances.
Current liquidity In addition there has been a reduction in the At the year-end the Group held cash balances of average number of shares of 0.3%.
The Group 8.9 million 2007: 20.7 million in a combination purchased 750,000 of its own shares for of Sterling, Euros and Polish Zlotys.
cancellation at an average price of 858 pence Gross borrowings at the balance sheet during the year.
The total consideration for the date were 66.4 million 2007: 27.7 million shares was 6.5 million including fees and taxes.
of which 55.3 million is term based with the The average number of shares in issue was balance of 11.1 million being drawn down 67.7 million and at the year-end the Group had from overdraft facilities.
The Group has further 67.2 million shares in issue.
undrawn, committed facilities of 39.8 million at the balance sheet date.
These are principally Dividend available as on-demand overdraft facilities and The Board is proposing a final dividend of are subject to annual review.
30.0 pence per share 2007: 30.0 pence, The Group is in compliance with its bank bringing the full year dividend to 52.0 pence covenants and has no restriction on funding or 2007: 50.0 pence an increase of 4.0%.
The final investment policy in the foreseeable future.
dividend will be paid on 26 September 2008 to shareholders on the register on 12 September Capital structure and treasury policy 2008. Dividend cover, based on basic earnings The Groups Treasury policy is intended to ensure per share, is 1.22 times 2007: 1.36 times.
that there are adequate financial resources for The Board remains comfortable with this level the development and growth of the business of cover which reflects the Boards confidence whilst financing its operations at the lowest cost in the Groups ongoing cash generating ability.
and minimising foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
The objective is to achieve this without Cash flow and net borrowings operational disruption or recourse to complex 2008 2007 financial instruments.
Summary cash ow m m The strategy and policies are approved by the Operating cash inflows 72.7 81.8 Board.
The Group does not engage in speculative Net finance charges 2.2 1.6 transactions.
The key financial risks relate to meeting debt repayments as they fall due, interest Taxation paid 15.1 15.9 rate risk and limited foreign currency exposure.
Dividends 35.2 33.9 The Groups term based borrowings are Payment for tangible and intangible assets 46.5 33.2 a direct result of the acquisition of businesses Proceeds on disposal of tangible assets 20.0 24.8 in the UK, and the subsequent purchase of Free cash flow 6.3 22.0 further freehold properties in The Netherlands.
The borrowings are denominated in Sterling and Purchase of own shares 6.5 0.4 Euros.
The Group anticipates that there will be Acquisitions 32.2 sufficient Euro cash flow to pay both the interest Other including foreign exchange differences 5.6 0.6 on the Euro borrowings as well as the capital Movement in net borrowings 50.6 22.2 repayment amounts due over the life of the Opening net borrowings 6.9 29.1 underlying loan.
The Group fixes the interest rate on at least 75% of term borrowings via interest Closing net borrowings 57.5 6.9 rate swap arrangements to provide interest cost Net borrowings increased year on year by certainty and reduce risk.
50.6 million reflecting the impact of investment Any current account deposits generated in fixed assets of 46.5 million as well as from the strong operational cash flows of the business acquisitions of 32.2 million.
Group are invested in the currency in which Excluding the investment in the new cutting and they are received unless there is a clear need for distribution centre the Group continued to be conversion.
During the year the Group invested highly cash generative and proceeds from the these deposits in a combination of overnight sales of freehold and long leasehold properties and longer term investment graded accounts and the surrender of leases were very strong at arranged via the Groups principal bankers in 20.0 million.
This includes 6.7 million received the countries in which it trades.
from the sale of the Groups warehouse in West Thurrock and 5.4 million from the sale Accounting policies and standards of the store in Castletown.
The principal accounting policies of the Group are set out in Note 1 to the accompanying financial statements together with a description of certain key measures and policies that are included in the review of the trading results above.
During the year the Group changed the accounting policy to capitalise interest on qualifying tangible fixed assets.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2008 13 Interest of 0.9 million has been capitalised Management risk during the period of which 0.1 million related The Group relies on key personnel including the to the prior year.
As the prior year adjustment Executive Directors, Senior Managers and Store is immaterial the comparatives for the financial Managers.
Procedures are in place to identify year have not been restated.
and retain key personnel and the Board regularly reviews succession planning for the senior roles.
Calendar Customer service risks The Groups financial reporting year ends on Carpetright customers expect and receive a high the nearest Saturday to 30 April.
The UK & RoI level of customer service.
The Group employs accounts for next year will therefore be for the over 4,000 staff, mostly based in stores, and 52 weeks ending 2 May 2009.
The Rest of utilises the services of over 2,000 independent Europe will continue to account on a calendar carpet fitters who provide this customer service.
The Group continues to ensure that all staff are Details of all the calendar dates for properly recruited, trained and rewarded so that the 2008 9 financial year can be found on high levels of customer service are maintained.
page 76 of the report as well as on our website www.
uk Entering new markets Expansion into additional European countries provides the opportunity for substantial long-term Risks and uncertainties growth and economic returns for shareholders.
This represents a good opportunity for the Group The Board has a policy of continuous but exposes it to new cultural and regulatory identification and review of key business risks risks.
Also failure to identify, conduct appropriate and oversees the development of processes due diligence and appropriately integrate, to ensure that these risks are managed acquisitions, particularly in new geographical appropriately.
In the day to day operation of our markets could have an adverse impact on the businesses and the development of the Group Group.
The Group only enters new markets both in existing and new markets, we face risks where the potential long-term growth and returns and uncertainties, some of which are unique to outweigh the risks.
the sector in which we operate.
The risk factors addressed below are those which we believe Cost inflation could adversely affect us, potentially impacting The historic location of the principal carpet the operations, revenue, profit, cash flow or manufacturers in Europe means the Group assets of the Group.
Additional risks and is exposed to fluctuations in the value of the uncertainties currently unknown to us, or which Euro.
The Group seeks to mitigate this risk by we currently deem immaterial may also have an putting in place appropriate arrangements with adverse affect on the Group.
manufacturers and proactively managing its We use our risk management process selling prices to maintain margins.
to identify, monitor, evaluate and escalate such There are a number of significant cost issues as they emerge, enabling the Board pressures affecting all out of town retailers.
to take appropriate action wherever possible Many of these costs are growing by more than in order to control them.
The Corporate the rate of inflation, putting continued pressure on Governance report on pages 19 to 23 describes operating margins.
The strategy of relocating from the systems and processes through which the expensive A1 locations to lower cost bulky goods Directors manage and mitigate risks.
parks helps alleviate some of this risk.
In addition, we continually review our energy consumption Economic and market conditions across our stores and central locations and the The economy is a major influence on consumer fuel costs of our distribution fleet.
spending with trends in housing transactions, consumer confidence, mortgage approvals, Supply chain and business continuity consumer debt levels and interest rates impacting Carpetrights revenues and cash flows are consumer demand for discretionary spending dependent on the continued operation of its on the home.
It is managements experience cutting and distribution facilities.
As noted in from historic downturns that the carpet market this report the new cutting and distribution remains relatively stable in value terms over centre in Purfleet has centralised these activities.
time and this trend is expected to continue.
New business continuity plans are being European expansion not only provides prepared and arrangements put in place to opportunities for sustainable growth and mitigate significant risks arising.
returns but also economic diversification.
IT systems Business strategy development Carpetright is dependent upon the continued and implementation availability and integrity of its computer systems.
If the Board adopts the wrong business strategy The new systems being implemented within or does not implement its strategies effectively the UK & RoI are more robust than those that the business may suffer.
The Board needs to are being replaced and will improve the overall understand and properly manage strategic risk controls over data integrity.
The central systems in order to deliver long-term growth for the benefit are mirrored in a separate location as part of a of all Carpetrights shareholders.
Employee risk Carpetrights businesses depend on a high level of input from all levels of staff.
The employee risks are split between:
