Business Review Around three quarters of the revenue is Objectives, strategy and risk pro le derived from Name Give-Up activities, where The Companys objective is to maximize the Company is not at any time counterparty returns to shareholders over the medium to to the trade, and where its exposure to long term with an acceptable level of risk.
a client is limited to outstanding invoices for commission.
All activity relating to The strategy to achieve this objective is to derivatives is undertaken as Name Give-Up.
continue to build a business, operating The level of invoiced receivables is as an intermediary in the wholesale OTC monitored closely, by individual clients financial markets internationally, with and in aggregate, and there have been very the scale and breadth to deliver superior few instances in the last few years when performance and returns, whilst maintaining invoiced receivables have not been collected.
The balance of the revenue is derived from The key actions to deliver this strategy are: Matched Principal activities, where we are the counterparty to both sides of a develop and maintain strong pools of matching trade.
To mitigate settlement risk liquidity in all major financial products the business undertakes transactions on and all major financial centres: a strict  basis.
In the event of a client default in a Matched attract and retain key revenue producers: Principal trade, our exposure is not to the principal amount but to the movement development of electronic broking in the market value of the underlying capabilities to support our voice broking instrument, and so our exposure becomes expertise: a market risk.
This risk is mitigated by use of central counterparty services and other focus on improving contribution rates: and default risk transfer agreements wherever possible, and where such services are not focus on maintaining an appropriately available, by taking swift action to close sized support cost base.
out any position that arises as a result of a client default.
Once a Matched Principal As an intermediary, the business does not transaction has settled usually 1-3 days take trading risk and does not hold principal after trade date, there is no ongoing risk trading positions.
The key day-to-day risks for the business.
faced by the business are counterparty credit risk which in the event of a Discussion of the risk factors facing the counterparty default becomes a market business and on our risk management risk and settlement risk.
issues and actions during 2008 is included on pages 18 to 21.
For more information please visit: 08 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 www.
com Conversely, the most ef cient number Market developments of central counterparties is one.
A single Tullett Prebon is the worlds second largest central counterparty allows the most IDB, acting as an intermediary in the ef cient operation with counterparties wholesale financial markets, facilitating the able to use cross margining and netting trading activities of its clients, in particular of positions between different products.
The The best way to solve these con icting business operates mainly in the OTC markets, objectives is for central counterparties and offers a valuable service by nding and to be owned by not-for-pro t utilities creating liquidity through price and volume owned and operated by most major discovery, and by providing clients with market participants.
anonymity for their trading activities.
It is essential for the ef ciency and There has been a lot of discussion in exibility of the markets that access to recent months on how the operation central counterparties and other clearing of the wholesale OTC markets could be mechanisms continues to be open to all improved, particularly through the wider execution venues on an equal basis.
adoption of central counterparty services for more derivatives, which we support.
In addition to the implications of The issue of wider central counterparty the possible development of central clearing for the OTC markets is clearly one counterparty clearing, the other subject of signi cant concern for shareholders which has preoccupied shareholders for but much of the discussion is bedevilled most of the past year has been the outlook by jargon, knee-jerk reaction, and selffor volumes in the OTC markets and serving pleading by market participants.
revenues for the IDB sector.
We would also In an effort to overcome this, we would like to offer some observations on this: put forward the following observations: It is easy to identify the possible negative Whilst central counterparty clearing trends which may impact volumes and may be desirable in order to overcome revenues in the IDB sector caused by problems caused by a reduced willingness fide-leveraging.
It is likely that the number for banks to regard each other as of counterparties in OTC markets mainly equivalent counterparties, it is not a banks, the amount of capital they devote simple solution to these problems.
In to trading in general, and their risk particular, the margin requirements of appetite, will decline sharply as a result central counterparties, which offer the of the financial crisis.
However, there are protection against failure of a counterparty, some countervailing forces, including: absorb signi cant amounts of participants liquidity.
Moreover, central counterparty The increase in volatility in markets clearing for derivative instruments with caused by the financial crisis.
The long durations is not simple to implement.
reaction to the credit crunch has caused major changes in currency It is not axiomatic that in order to parities and interest rate structures implement central counterparty as well as the need for signi cant clearing, an instrument needs to be government bond issuance.
These are traded on an exchange, or needs to be the products which make up the bulk traded electronically.
For example, a of Tullett Prebons product mix.
signi cant proportion of medium term interest rate swaps, which are voice The OTC markets and the IDB sector brokered, are cleared through SwapClear are not synonymous.
The majority which acts as a central counterparty.
of OTC transactions are undertaken Nor is it true that exchange-owned directly between banks and other electronic platforms would add anything counterparties.
It is possible that to the transparency and liquidity one side effect of the credit crisis is provided by the IDB-owned electronic an increased use of IDBs by banks, trading platforms in OTC products.
initially as the crisis has led to a greater desire for anonymity and a Central counterparties should not be greater value placed upon liquidity, allowed to develop as monopolies but ultimately as a cost saving or possibly even as duopolies in the measure as banks direct sales forces ownership of for-pro t organisations.
have fewer transactions to distribute.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 09 shareholder information financial statements governance business review Business Review continued These actions include broker hires and Overview of 2008 acquisitions focused on broadening our Unlike most financial services businesses, product coverage and deepening our the IDB business thrives on volatility in liquidity pools, particularly in the newer financial markets.
The unprecedented sectors of the market where we have been market turbulence resulted in high levels under-represented, and the successful of volatility throughout 2008. development and launch of electronic broking platforms.
The high level of volatility in the markets and the impact that this has had on our We now provide clients with electronic customers has presented challenges as solutions to complement our voice broking well as opportunities.
Prior to its collapse activities across a number of product in September, Lehman Brothers was groups.
These include FX Options in all one of our biggest clients, but the direct three regions, Repos in North America impact of its failure on our operating and Europe, Agency bonds in North pro t was minimal, and was almost America, Credit in Europe, and Energy in entirely related to provisioning against North America and Europe.
In addition we invoiced receivables arising from Name provide a post trade FRA matching tool in Give-Up activities.
This demonstrates Asia and Europe.
We will continue to invest both the robustness of our business in the development of these and other model, under which as an intermediary platforms as well as in straight-through we do not take any trading risk and do processing and other post-trade services.
not hold principal trading positions, and the effectiveness of the OTC markets and Our development effort in electronic the related infrastructure in coping with broking has increasingly focused on such exceptional circumstances.
Under the hybrid management policies and procedures, model the electronic broking capability and our operational processes have been is supporting other voice broking activity stress-tested under live conditions, and in similar products, and is part of the set have been proven to be robust.
of tools that enable the voice brokers to provide a full broking service to clients.
The The historical strength of our business is revenues facilitated by hybrid platforms, in voice broking in the traditional product and the cost of their development, are sectors such as foreign exchange, interest an integral part of the voice business, rate swaps and government bonds.
Our and we have therefore brought expertise and depth of liquidity pools together all the voice and electronic in these areas have been particularly applications development activities attractive to OTC market participants under common management.
The costs during the upheaval in financial markets of the development of our electronic which has resulted in dramatic changes in broking capabilities are now therefore interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
integrated within our total IT applications development spend.
Our P&L expenditure Our performance in 2008 has also on all applications development activity bene ted from the steps we have taken including that relating to electronic over the last two years to accelerate the broking, together with the management rate of revenue growth, and to increase the and sales teams supporting electronic scale and breadth of the business.
broking, was around 8m higher in 2008 than in 2007.
Our key financial and performance indicators for 2008 compared with those for 2007 are summarised in the table below: Change Constant Exchange 2008 2007 Reported Rates Revenue 943.6m 753.8m 25% 20% Operating pro t before exceptional items 175.1m 131.8m 33% 28% Operating margin 18.6% 17.5% 1.1% points Broker headcount period end 1,653 1,636 1% Average revenue per broker 000 548 463 18% 13% Broker employment costs: broking revenue 57.5% 56.4% 1.1% points Non-broker headcount period end 889 936 -5% For more information please visit: 10 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 www.
com Revenue in 2008 of 943.6m was 20% Operating review higher than 2007 at constant exchange rates.
Average broker headcount was 6% The tables below analyse revenue and higher, and average revenue per broker operating pro t for 2008 compared with was 13% higher at 548k.
A signi cant proportion of the Groups average broker headcount re ects the 125 activity is conducted outside the UK and brokers we contracted during 2007, who the reported results are therefore impacted have all now started with the business, the by the movement in the foreign exchange restructuring and extension of our joint rates used to translate the results of nonventure in Tokyo, which was completed UK operations.
In order to give a more at the end of 2007, and the acquisition of meaningful analysis of performance, the Primex Energy Brokers in March 2008. results for 2007 shown below are stated using translation exchange rates consistent Operating pro t before exceptional items with those used for 2008, with revenue and for 2008 of 175.1m is 28% higher than operating pro t growth rates calculated on in 2007 at constant exchange rates, and the same basis.
the operating margin has increased by 1.1 percentage points to 18.6%.
As expected, Revenue in all product groups has bene ted and in line with the half year results, broker from the high levels of volatility throughout compensation as a percentage of revenue the year.
is slightly higher than a year ago, re ecting the investment in hires in new product Within Treasury Products, which covers areas where revenues have built up over FX and cash, we have bene ted from our the year.
We have continued to exercise market leading positions in forward FX tight control over support costs, and the across all three regions, as well as from our improvement in the operating margin continued development in non-deliverable demonstrates the operating leverage of forwards and in emerging market currencies.
the business and the bene t derived from increased scale.
With the volatile interest rate environment during the year, volumes in Interest Rate Towards the end of the year we undertook Derivatives have been strong, with good a cost review to ensure that the business growth across both short and medium term was well positioned to respond to swaps, and interest rate options.
potentially less favourable market conditions.
The objective of the exercise The growth in Fixed Income re ects the was to increase exibility in front of ce strength of our franchise in government costs and to reduce absolute support bonds in North America and Europe, and the costs, enhancing our ability to maintain bene t of the investments we have made operating margins in the event of lower over the last two years in developing our revenues.
We have closed a number of Credit business, which accounts for over 40% marginal desks, reduced broker headcount of our Fixed Income revenue.
The acquisition and other front of ce costs, and reduced of Chapdelaine in North America at the support staff headcount.
The annual cost beginning of 2007 added signi cant strength base across the front and back of ce has in this area and the business continues to been reduced by an amount similar to the perform well.
Through our broker hires in 19.5m one-off costs, which are shown Credit in Europe, we have re-established our as exceptional items.
The impact of the presence in this market, and our position has exercise on headcount levels at the year been further enhanced by the successful end in both the front and back of ce is launch in the last quarter of 2008 of re ected in the previous table.
Creditdeal, our electronic trading platform.
2008 2007 Revenue by product group m m Change Treasury Products 246.1 215.1 14% Interest Rate Derivatives 220.9 187.5 18% Fixed Income 282.1 219.6 28% Equities 94.2 83.9 12% Energy 81.5 66.1 23% Information Sales 18.8 14.9 26% At constant exchange rates 943.6 787.1 20% Translation 33.3 Reported 943.6 753.8 25% Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 11 shareholder information financial statements governance business review Business Review continued 2008 2007 Revenue by region m m Change Europe 504.1 381.8 32% North America 339.6 320.7 6% Asia Paci c 99.9 84.6 18% At constant exchange rates 943.6 787.1 20% Translation 33.3 Reported 943.6 753.8 25% Our Equities business covers both equity The corporate bond and credit default derivatives, where volumes have been strong swaps brokers we hired during 2007 throughout the year, particularly in index started with the business at the beginning options in Europe, and cash equities, where of 2008, and as they steadily established volumes have been much more subdued.
their presence in the market, their revenue generation increased over the Our Energy business has bene ted from course of the year, assisted towards the the expansion of our product coverage, end of the period by the introduction with the acquisition of Primex adding of Creditdeal, our electronic trading substantial liquidity in a wide range of oil platform.
The performance of the Primex products, and from the ongoing volatility oil products broking business has also in energy markets.
been encouraging, and we have integrated the existing oil products brokers into the Growth in revenue from Information Sales acquired business.
London accounts for re ects increased demand from customers the substantial majority of our European for both real time and end-of-day data, business, but our operations in the other and an expansion of the customer base, financial centres in Europe, which are including into emerging markets.
focused on serving local clients in Fixed Income and Treasury products, have also Europe delivered good revenue growth.
Revenue in Europe has increased by 32%.
All product groups in Europe have seen North America strong revenue growth.
The business In North America, revenue has increased has bene ted from high volumes in its by 6%.
Average broker headcount fell by 5% market leading activities in forward FX, and average revenue per broker increased government bonds and interest rate by 11%.
Performance by product group swaps, and from the investments we was mixed.
Although headcount in Fixed have made in Credit and Energy.
Average Income fell over the year, it continues to revenue per broker has increased by 22%, be the largest product area in the region, and average broker headcount in Europe accounting for over 40% of the revenue, increased by 9%.
The increase in headcount and we delivered good revenue growth re ects broker hires in Credit in London, in both government and agency bonds, the addition of 35 brokers through the corporate bonds and credit derivatives.
acquisition of Primex, and broker hires in the continental European business.
The rate of growth in both Treasury Products and Interest Rate Derivatives was lower in the second half as volumes fell in the emerging markets business in both areas.
In Equities, the at performance in cash equities in the year offset good growth in equity derivatives.
We experienced lower volumes, particularly in the second half, in our Energy activities which are focused in the power and gas markets.
For more information please visit: 12 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 www.
com 2008 2007 Operating pro t by region m m Change Europe 108.1 76.4 41% North America 57.8 50.0 16% Asia Paci c 9.2 10.6 -13% At constant exchange rates 175.1 137.0 28% Translation 5.2 Reported 175.1 131.8 33% Operating margin by region 2008 2007 Europe 21.4% 20.0% North America 17.0% 15.6% Asia Paci c 9.2% 12.5% 18.6% 17.5% Operating pro t and operating margin are before exceptional items.
Asia Operating pro t Our business in Asia is predominantly Operating pro t in Europe has increased focused on Treasury Products and Interest by 41%, with operating margin increasing Rate Derivatives.
Broker employment costs as re ects the bene t of the buoyant markets a percentage of revenue have increased in the first half of the year and the extension slightly re ecting the build up to the full of our Tokyo joint venture which gives us run rate of revenue from new hires, and presence in the local interest rate swap support costs have increased due to the market beyond Yen products and has added higher expenditure on the development of forward Yen FX to our portfolio.
Average our electronic broking capability.
However, broker headcount in Asia increased by 20% the operating margin has improved as the and average revenue per broker was little rate of increase in support costs is much changed compared with last year.
The three lower than the growth in revenue.
largest centres in the region, Singapore, Hong Kong and Tokyo, account for over 80% Operating pro t in North America has of the revenue, and these centres increased increased by 16%, with the operating revenue by 23% in the year.
Broker employment costs as a percentage of The overall rate of growth was held revenue are consistent with the prior back by the more subdued performance year, and total support costs are also in the smaller centres in Asia as volumes largely unchanged, but operating pro t in some emerging markets products reduced, and the improvement in operating margin particularly in the second half.
We continue to have been held back by the one-off costs look for opportunities to build our presence associated with of ce moves.
Our pioneering joint venture in Shanghai, which has been pro table for the In our smallest region, Asia Paci c, last two years, has seen signi cant revenue operating pro t has fallen, with operating growth in 2008, and provides a strong margin reducing to 9.2%.
The reduction platform for us to expand our operations in operating margin is due to dilution into other centres in China.
from the consolidation of the Tokyo joint venture, as we now include 100% of the costs, the increase in costs borne in the region supporting the development of electronic broking, and an increase in employment costs to retain staff in an environment where competitors are aggressively buying market share.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 13 shareholder information financial statements governance business review Business Review continued Financial review The results for 2008 compared with those for 2007 are shown in the table below: 2008 2007 m m Revenue 943.6 753.8 Operating pro t before exceptional items 175.1 131.8 Cash finance expense 19.7 17.4 Adjusted Pro t before tax 155.4 114.4 Tax 56.0 43.5 Associates 1.3 0.8 Minority interests 0.5 0.9 Adjusted Earnings 100.2 70.8 Adjusted Earnings per share 47.1p 33.5p Adjusted PBT reconciles to reported PBT as follows: 2008 2007 m m Adjusted Pro t before tax 155.4 114.4 Exceptional items 19.5 Non cash finance income expense 1.1 0.6 Reported Pro t before tax 137.0 113.8 Adjusted Earnings reconciles to reported Earnings as follows: 2008 2007 m m Adjusted Earnings 100.2 70.8 Exceptional items 19.5 Tax relief on exceptional items 5.8 Non cash finance income expense 1.1 0.6 Deferred tax on non cash finance income expense 0.4 0.3 Prior year tax items 7.3 5.1 Capital tax items 1.6 Reported Earnings 94.5 73.4 Finance income expense year, re ecting the pro ts earned in the US The increase in cash finance expense where the average statutory rate is 46%, in 2008 compared to 2007 re ects the and the extent of disallowable items.
impact of lower yields on the Groups cash balances and an increase in interest Prior year tax items re ect the release of payable, despite lower interest rates, due tax provisions made in previous years as to the higher average bank debt balance tax matters are settled, and do not relate outstanding during the year.
The bank to current period trading.
The capital tax debt was first drawn down in March charge in 2007 relates to potential tax 2007 to finance the return of capital to arising due to the restructuring of our shareholders.
Non cash finance income joint venture in Tokyo.
expense in 2008 represents amortisation of discounted deferred consideration Exceptional items and the expected return and interest on The 19.5m exceptional items re ect the pension scheme assets and liabilities.
cost of actions taken to reduce operating costs, including the costs of desk closures, Tax redundancies and the write-down of The effective rate of tax on adjusted pro t sign-on payments which are considered to be before tax is 36.0% 2007: 38.0%.
reduction in the effective rate compared with 2007 results primarily from the full year bene t Adjusted basic EPS of a rationalisation of intra-group nancing Adjusted basic EPS is calculated using arrangements that was implemented in underlying earnings shown in the table mid-2007.
The effective rate is higher than above and the undiluted weighted the average standard UK rate of 28.5% for the average number of shares in issue of 212.8m 2007: 211.3m.
For more information please visit: 14 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 www.
com Cash ow Cash ow before dividends, debt repayments and draw downs is summarised in the table below: 2008 2007 m m Operating pro t before exceptional items 175.1 131.8 Share-based compensation 4.9 2.9 Depreciation and amortisation 7.8 7.2 EBITDA 187.8 141.9 Capital expenditure net of disposals 14.9 6.4 Working capital 20.2 5.0 Operating cash ow 193.1 140.5 Exceptional items cash payments 1.4 Interest 18.8 15.5 Taxation 39.1 32.9 fide ned bene t pension scheme funding 3.2 2.5 Share option related cash ow 10.9 Transaction costs 1.0 Dividends received from associates paid to minorities 0.5 Acquisitions investments 5.5 30.2 Cash ow 124.6 47.5 In 2008 the Group has again delivered Exchange and hedging operating cash ow in excess of operating The income statements of the Groups pro t. Net capital expenditure was higher non-UK operations are translated into than depreciation and amortisation due sterling at average exchange rates.
The to of ce relocation projects.
The net most signi cant exchange rates for the working capital in ow of 20.2m re ects Group are the US dollar and the Euro.
The tight management of receivables and Groups current policy is not to hedge settlement balances.
The cash spend associated with the cost The balance sheets of the Groups nonreview was 1.4m in 2008.
The remaining UK operations are translated into sterling cash expenditure will be incurred in the using year end exchange rates.
The major first half of 2009. balance sheet translation exposure is to the US dollar.
The gross exposure Interest and tax payments were higher in at 31 December 2008 amounted to 2008 than in 2007 re ecting higher pro t US$221m, represented by US and and loss charges.
Historically the Group designated a cross-currency interest Expenditure on acquisitions and investments rate swap as a net investment hedge of in 2008 includes 0.9m of initial cash US$117m of the US dollar denominated consideration and transaction expenses for net assets.
During the second half the Primex in March 2008, 1.5m of initial cash Group decided not to hedge this balance consideration for Aspen Oil in November of sheet translation exposure.
The swap 2008, and 3.0m of deferred consideration was fide-designated as a net investment relating to the Chapdelaine acquisition.
The hedge and an FX forward contract was expenditure in 2007 included the initial cash executed to close out the FX position consideration and transaction expenses for inherent in the swap.
Average and year end exchange rates for the The share option related cash ow in 2007 US dollar and the Euro are shown below: re ected the cost of acquiring shares to satisfy share options.
Transaction costs in Average Year End 2008 2007 2008 2007 2007 related to the demerger of the Collins US dollar $1.89 $2.00 $1.44 $1.99 Stewart stockbroking business and the Euro 1.28 1.47 1.03 1.36 return of capital.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 15 shareholder information financial statements governance business review Business Review continued Financing The movement in cash and debt is summarised below: Cash Debt Net m m m At 31 December 2007 290.5 450.5 160.0 Cash ow 124.6 124.6 Dividends 27.2 27.2 Funds acquired with Primex 1.6 1.6 Debt repayments drawdowns 30.1 30.1 Effect of movement in exchange rates 45.8 1.0 44.8 Movements in fair value amortisation of costs 1.2 1.2 At 31 December 2008 405.2 422.6 17.4 The Groups net debt position has Our overriding priority in cash management reduced very substantially, from 160.0m is the security of our cash resources, and at 31 December 2007 to 17.4m at our exposure to bank counterparties is 31 December 2008.
The majority of the cash the Group held cash, cash equivalents is deposited either overnight or in accounts and other financial assets of 405.2m with immediate availability.
to this policy is in the corporate centre where the element of cash that, with a high degree The Groups borrowings at 31 December of certainty, will not be immediately required 2008 comprised the 150m Eurobond is placed on deposit of up to three months.
which matures in August 2014, 270m drawn under an amortising term Pensions loan facility, and a small amount of The fide cits of the Groups fide ned bene t finance leases.
The term loan is subject pension schemes at 31 December 2008 to repayments of 30m in each year under IAS19 totalled 8.5m 2007: 3.9m.
until and including 2011, with 180m The increase in the fide cits re ects the fall maturing in January 2012. in the value of the schemes assets over the year, partially offset by a reduction in the The Group manages its liquidity by valuation of the fide ned bene t obligations.
maintaining appropriate cash balances in each region in which it operates.
Each The Group has entered into funding region manages its own cash resources agreements with the Trustees of the under the supervision of the group finance schemes with the aim of eliminating and treasury function.
When cash balances the actuarial fide cits in the pension in a region accumulate, excess cash is schemes by 31 December 2010.
Under remitted to the corporate centre.
The these agreements, the Group will make Group maintains suf cient cash balances regular contributions to the schemes at the corporate centre to meet external equal to pensions in payment and to fund obligations including interest and debt commutation lump sums, plus additional payments.
The Group also has a 50m contributions of 4.5m in each of 2009 revolving credit facility.
For more information please visit: 16 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 www.
com Return on capital employed Outlook The return on capital employed of 50% 2007: 37% has been calculated The unprecedented events in the worlds as operating pro t divided by average financial markets in the last few months shareholders funds plus net debt, and have resulted in signi cant structural adding back cumulative amortised change in the banking industry and goodwill and post-tax reorganisation adjustments to the business models and restructuring costs.
OTC market volumes in some areas, including Regulatory capital structured products and emerging markets The Groups lead regulator is the Financial products, are expected to reduce.
The Group in interest rates and exchange rates, applied for and received a waiver from the however, looks likely to persist for some FSA in relation to the consolidated capital time, and government bond issuance is adequacy requirements of the Capital set to substantially increase.
We expect Requirements Directive effective from that our expertise and depth of liquidity 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2011. pools in these more traditional product Under the waiver, the Group is subject to areas, and the service we provide for our a financial holding company test, whereby customers, will continue to be attractive.
the aggregate financial resources of the Group are calculated by reference to the The business has made a reasonable start capital and reserves of the parent company, to the year, and our European business in Tullett Prebon plc, with the Groups particular continues to perform strongly.
aggregated financial resources requirement Revenue in the first two months of 2009 under Pillar 1 of the FSA framework credit, is slightly lower at constant exchange market and operational risks calculated as rates than in the same period last year.
the sum of the Pillar 1 requirements of all The impact of currency movements on the Groups subsidiaries.
the translation of our non-UK operations is favourable to reported results, and The Groups Pillar 1 regulatory capital reported revenue for the first two months surplus is fairly consistent with headroom of 2009 is 11% higher than last year.
Forecasting market activity for the year, Under Pillar 2 of the FSA framework the however, remains dif cult.
We have taken Group has established an Internal Capital action to reduce xed costs and to increase Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP our exibility to ensure that we are well to assess whether any additional capital is positioned to cope with potentially less required for risks not adequately covered favourable market conditions if they occur.
The Board has concluded that the Group has adequate capital.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 17 shareholder information financial statements governance business review Business Review continued All risk management sections are Risk management unaudited except for those relating to Risk assessment framework credit risk, market risk and financial risk, Robust risk management is fundamental to which form part of the Groups IFRS7 the achievement of the Groups objectives.
The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk appetite and for monitoring The eight risk categories are as follows: the signi cant risks faced by the Group.
1. Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to To facilitate this, the Group maintains the Group in the event of non-performance a Risk Assessment Framework, through by a client or counterparty with respect to its which the key risks affecting the Group contractual obligations to the Group.
As the are identi ed, assessed and monitored.
Groups business is contracted on an agency The Risk Assessment Framework identi es or intermediary basis, the main credit risk is risks within eight risk categories, listed actually more akin to a market risk, as the below.
The risks within each area are exposure in such cases is to movements in analysed, mitigating factors assessed, securities prices and foreign currency.
and relevant controls identi ed.
The The Board has approved the general risks are then graded for their expected parameters within which credit risk is severity and probability, and a risk rating taken through a credit exposure assigned to them to enable the Board to framework.
Within this overall framework prioritise its attention to them.
Action speci c limits are granted by the relevant is taken by the Board to manage the key Credit or Executive Committees acting in risks as it considers appropriate so as to accordance with their delegated authority.
safeguard the Group and the interests of All counterparties are subject to regular its shareholders.
The Risk Assessment Framework is Analysis of the Groups credit risk is regularly updated and is reviewed at provided in Note 26. least twice each year by the Board, with particular focus on high priority risks.
Market risk is the vulnerability of the Risk Assessment Framework is also used Group to movements in the value of to provide guidance for the ICAAP, the financial instruments.
The Group does development of the internal audit plan, not take trading risk and does not hold and the frequency and content of ongoing proprietary financial positions.
risk can arise, however, in those instances where one or both counterparties in a As noted in the Report on Directors Matched Principal transaction fail to ful l Remuneration, the Remuneration Committee their obligations i. e. an initially unsettled considers that the Groups remuneration transaction or through trade mismatches policies do not contribute signi cantly to or other errors.
The risk in these situations the risk pro le of the Group.
is restricted to short term price movements in the underlying securities held or to be The Groups risk management governance delivered by the Group and movements in processes are set out in the Corporate foreign exchange rates.
Policies and procedures exist to reduce the likelihood of such trade mismatches and, in the event that they arise, the Groups policy is to close out such balances immediately.
All market risks arising across the Group are identi ed and monitored on a daily basis.
For more information please visit: 18 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 www.
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting 5.
The nature and scope from inadequate or failed internal processes, of the Groups operations mean that it people activities, systems or external is exposed to a number of treasury risks, events.
Operational risk covers a wide principally liquidity risk, interest rate risk and diverse range of risk types, and the and currency risk, taxation risks, and the overall objective of the Groups approach risk of financial crime.
to operational risk management is not to attempt to avoid all potential risks, but Liquidity risk proactively to identify and assess risks and The Group seeks to ensure that it has access, risk situations in order to manage them in an even in periods of corporate or market ef cient and informed manner.
volatility, to an appropriate level of cash, other forms of marketable securities or Examples of operational risk include: funding to enable it to finance its ongoing operations, proposed acquisitions and any IT systems failures, breakdown in other reasonable unanticipated events on security or loss of data integrity: cost effective terms.
Cash and equivalent balances are held with the primary objective failure or disruption of a critical business of capital security and availability, with a process, through internal or external secondary objective of generating returns.
error or event: The Group regularly assesses the credit of its deposit taking counterparties, and assigns failure or withdrawal of settlement and limits on the level of exposure.
Funding clearing systems, errors in instructions: requirements and cash and equivalent exposures are monitored by the Group Risk events preventing access to premises, and Treasury Committee.
telecommunications failures or loss of power supply which interrupt business Further details of the Groups cash and activities: and borrowings are provided in Notes 21 and 26. broker errors.
Interest rate risk Line managers in front of ce and The Group has exposure to uctuations support functions have the day-to-day in interest rates on both its borrowings responsibility for the management of and cash and cash equivalent balances operational risk and for the escalation which, from time to time, it manages with of issues to senior management.
The Groups net exposure to interest rate movements is not 4.
The Group signi cant in the context of total operating operates in an environment characterised by pro t. intense competition and rapid technological change.
Failure to adapt to changing market Analysis of the Groups sensitivity to dynamics and customer requirements interest rate movements is set out in constitutes a signi cant long term risk.
The Groups strategies for managing and mitigating this risk include geographic Currency risk and product diversi cation, development The Group trades in a number of of new products and, where appropriate, currencies around the world, but reports acquisitions.
Regular management review its results in sterling.
The Group therefore of results and key performance indicators, has translation exposure to foreign competitor benchmarking and active exchange movements in these currencies, management of client relationships all principally the US dollar and the Euro, and act as controls on the Groups strategic transaction exposure within individual and business risk.
operations which undertake transactions in one currency and report in another.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 19 shareholder information financial statements governance business review Business R Business Re eview view c co on ntinued tinued Analysis of the Groups sensitivity to with litigation: and the possibility of a movements in foreign currency exchange failure to retain and motivate key members rates is set out in Note 26. of staff.
The Group also faces the risk that changes in regulations or laws could have Taxation risk a serious adverse impact on the business, Taxation risk is the risk of financial including when such changes are directed loss or misstatement as a result of at other parts of the financial services non-compliance with regulations relating sector but may also encompass the Group.
to direct, indirect or employee taxation.
The Groups lead regulator is the FSA The Group employs experienced quali ed and individual operations are regulated staff in key jurisdictions to manage this by their local regulatory bodies.
Adherence risk and in addition uses professional to regulations is monitored by compliance advisers as appropriate.
of cers who report regularly to the Board.
The Groups legal department oversees 6.
Reputational risk is the risk that the contracts entered into by Group companies, Groups ability to do business might be and manages litigation which arises from damaged as a result of its reputation time to time.
Salaries, bonuses and other being tarnished.
Clients rely on the bene ts are designed to be competitive Groups integrity and probity.
The Group and the Groups HR function monitors has policies and procedures in place to staff turnover on an ongoing basis.
manage this risk to the extent possible, which include conduct of business rules, Risk management development in 2008 procedures for employee hiring and the The Group took a number of actions during taking on of new business.
the year to improve its risk management, and was faced with a number of signi cant 7.
Governance risk is the risk of loss or risk events that tested its risk management damage to the business due to a failure systems and processes.
of management structures or processes.
This might take the form of misstatement Credit and market risk or accounting errors, fraud, a failure Our credit risk management processes to ensure adequate succession to were tested by the unprecedented failure of key management positions, or the Lehman Brothers, and were proved inappropriate use of authority and to be robust.
The Group had exposure in uence.
The risk of accounting error or to Lehman Brothers through uncollected fraud is mitigated by the strong control commission receivables arising from Name environment which exists within the Give-Up activities and as counterparty on Group, in particular the involvement of Matched Principal trades.
Although Lehman the Audit Committee, the internal audit Brothers was one of our largest clients, team and the Group Risk and Treasury the provisions made against uncollected Committee.
Succession planning within commission receivables are not material, the Group is overseen by the Board and re ecting the tight management and the Remuneration and Nominations control over our accounts receivable.
exposure on Matched Principal trades where Lehman Brothers was our counterparty was 8.
Regulatory, legal and human resource mitigated by our use of clearing houses risk is the potential loss of value due to and other default risk transfer agreements regulatory action arising from such things in North America, as a result of which we as compliance breaches or market abuse: incurred no losses, and by the swift action the possible costs and penalties associated to close the open positions in Europe, which resulted in a negligible loss.
For more information please visit: 20 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 www.
com We reviewed our credit management Financial risk processes and have taken a number of The Group maintained high levels of steps to further improve them, including a liquidity throughout the year.
The key review of credit limits for counterparties in liquidity issues during 2008 were increased particular instruments, a project to ensure volatility in margin calls from clearing full consistency in approach between organisations in North America, and the regions, and more detailed daily heightened uncertainty about certain reporting on exposure to counterparties financial institutions as counterparty for by instrument type.
Actions have been taken to reduce our exposure to large margin calls Operational risk and we are in an ongoing dialogue with The t-out of a new dedicated disaster the clearing organisations to optimise recovery centre for Europe, located just the calculation of margin calls re ecting outside London, was completed during our status as an intermediary.
Our cash the year, providing an improved solution deposits were rebalanced between to potential prolonged lack of access to institutions several times during the operational facilities.
There were some year to ensure that we were not unduly external events that prevented physical exposed to any one counterparty.
access to certain premises during the year, but these were all minor with only a few As discussed in the Financial Review the hours lost business in total, and insurance Group reviewed and amended its hedging claims have been made and settled transactions to re ect the signi cant shift relating to these.
in currency exchange rates during the year.
The value of loss events during the year due Governance risk to broker errors were in line with the last few The Groups management succession years and in total were less than 3m.
planning was successfully deployed following the departure of some senior Strategic and business risk executives during the year.
Internal As discussed earlier in the Business Review, appointments were made to the Executive the Group has made successful investments Committee and to local management over the last two years designed to improve teams to ll the vacancies with appropriate, our service to clients and to accelerate the experienced staff in line with plan.
rate of revenue growth, through broker hires and business acquisitions and on the development and launch of electronic broking platforms, addressing one of the key strategic and business risks facing the Group following the successful integration of Tullett and Prebon.
Our perspectives on risks relating to changes in OTC market infrastructure and on the outlook for volumes and revenues for the IDB industry are also discussed earlier in the Business Review.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 21 shareholder information financial statements governance business review Business Review continued Ethical issues Corporate Social Responsibility The Companys approach to ethical Tullett Prebons principal contribution to behaviour and corporate governance is the wider society in which it exists is in speci cally written into policy and Tullett meeting the business requirements of its Prebon documents, for observance by all customers by ensuring liquidity in, and members of staff, provision for: supporting the ef cient operation of, the global capital markets in which it operates, maintaining high standards of thus ensuring its clients are best able to compliance and risk management meet their own business objectives and activities ultimately reporting to the the expectations of their own shareholders Chief Executive and monitored by the and society more widely.
Tullett Prebon Board and Audit Committee: makes this contribution following a high standard of governance and business fully complying with legal and regulatory ethics, to which all members of the Board requirements in each of the jurisdictions are committed.
It should be noted that in which it operates, including the the Chief Executive was the author of the Financial Services Authoritys Conduct standard text book Accounting for Growth of Business Sourcebook and the Bank which exposed questionable accounting of Englands Non-Investment Products practices in large public companies.
Code: In successfully providing a critical disallowing corrupt practices such as component of the global capital markets inappropriate payments to any third infrastructure Tullett Prebon is best able party directly or indirectly: to maximise returns to shareholders over the medium to long term, and as fully complying with tax laws in each a publicly listed company has enjoyed a of the jurisdictions in which it operates positive record in creating value for both relating to its affairs and the deduction institutional and individual investors.
of taxes from staff remuneration: In turn this allows the Company to make a trading fairly, knowing its clients and signi cant contribution to society through properly understanding its trades with social transfer payments in the form of tax its clients.
The Company has a policy of payments.
not participating in trading activities which it suspects may not be for The Company intends that its high legitimate trading purposes, or whose standards of governance and business sole purpose appears to be tax reduction ethics contribute to the wider social by the counterparty: good through the example it sets and the high standards it maintains, both in guiding employees involved in the UK and in all other geographies where procurement activities, including a the Company is present, complying with requirement to adhere to the highest all laws and regulations, trading fairly, ethical and social standards: and and only participating in legitimate trading activities.
maintaining appropriate guidelines on gifts, hospitality, entertainment and con icts of interest.
For more information please visit: 22 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 www.
com Employees The welfare of staff is taken seriously and Attracting and retaining the best the Company has policies on health and brokers and support staff is crucial to safety, which include the management of the Companys ongoing success, and the stress.
Given the demanding conditions of Companys ability to maximise returns to broking activities, immediate responsibility shareholders is dependent on employing for staff welfare rests with line the best staff in all the geographies management and this is supplemented in which it operates.
The Company is by an Employee Assistance Programme, committed to training and motivating which provides counselling, and advice to its staff and measures performance to staff and their families.
The Company has recently increased the amount of Records on employment and pastoral care training given to senior management, matters are maintained as required in each and has operated programmes to hire legal and regulatory jurisdiction: and educate trainees from a variety of backgrounds in each of our regions.
The in 2008 productivity per broker increased productivity and welfare of employees by 13% over the previous year.
The in a business dependent on people average revenue generated by each such as Tullett Prebon is a matter that broker was 548,000 2007: 463,000 : attracts considerable senior management attention.
the Company employs over 2,500 staff worldwide 45% in Europe, 35% in North Tullett Prebon is committed to America and 20% in Asia Paci c and attract, retain, train and advance total remuneration for all staff in 2008 the most quali ed persons without was 590 million: regard to their race, colour, religion, creed, gender, age, marital status, claims for compensation for worksexual orientation or disability.
This related accidents and illnesses were commitment is underpinned by policies minimal in 2008 with only one in the US on equal opportunities, harassment and and none in the UK: discrimination, to which all employees are required to adhere.
in 2008 there was a reduction in absence due to employee sickness, both total Employee engagement is recognised days taken and average time off work.
as an important responsibility and the The Company lost 2,331 sick days in Company maintains effective internal 2008 2007: 2,450.
The average time communications channels.
Employees off work due to sickness in the UK was are informed in a timely way about major 2.34 days per employee 2007: 2.83 : and developments in the business, such as the launch of new products and financial an increase from three to six minor announcements.
This information is reported staff accidents was recorded made available to all employees via in the UK in 2008.
No visitors suffered regular use of internal emails, the Groups injury on Company premises during intranet, through newsletters and town 2008. hall meetings.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 23 shareholder information financial statements governance business review Business Review continued Tax and other social payments Environment The Board believe that as the Company is Tullett Prebon is not engaged in registered, regulated and publicly listed manufacturing, mining or distribution in the UK, Tullett Prebon has a social duty activities and its direct environmental to pay the right tax at the right time due impact is limited.
The Groups primary from its activities.
The Company strives environmental impact is the emission to retain a Low Risk rating from HMRC of greenhouse gases which results and was recently recognised in the UKs from operating our of ces and from Guardian newspaper for this status in an business travel by our staff.
This is article exploring how some companies mitigated by extensive use of videoand seek to reduce their tax payments.
Company has earned this Low Risk rating in each of the last three years since HMRC Tullett Prebon is in the process of started to publish the names of those producing an environmental policy, which companies achieving this important is scheduled to be implemented in 2009. status.
During 2008, the Group created the post of Health & Safety and Environment Of cer, Tullett Prebon made payments to tax based in London.
In July 2008, the Group authorities principally in the UK and US, adopted a recycling scheme at its head the main jurisdictions in which it operates of ce with the aim of improving recycling for 2008 of over 270 million, covering rates to above 70% in the first 12 months corporation tax, employers social security of the scheme, rising to above 80% by payments, and income taxes and social 2010.
The range of items recycled includes security paid on behalf of employees.
not only paper but also packaging, batteries and electrical equipment.
In addition the Company makes payments to the tax authorities in all other tax Responsibility for social, ethical and jurisdictions in which it operates.
environmental matters rests with the Board, and is included in its terms of Donations reference.
The Company does not make political contributions.
It also does not normally Contractual arrangements make charitable donations on the basis Tullett Prebon has diversi ed client that shareholders funds should be and supplier bases, and as such has retained for use within the business, and no individual contractual arrangements that it is for shareholders to determine which are essential to the business of what philanthropic use should be made of the Company.
Terry Smith Chief Executive 10 March 2009 For more information please visit: 24 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 www.
com governance In this section: 26 Board of Directors 28 Report of the Directors 31 Corporate Governance Report 37 Report on Directors Remuneration 43 Statement of Directors Responsibilities Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 25 shareholder information financial statements governance business review
