Directors Report: Business Review This Business Review provides shareholders and other readers with information about the Companys business and results in 2008 and looks forward to the year ahead.
It is divided into two sections: Corporate & Investment: the former addressed by Robert Clarke, Chief Executive Officer: the latter by Mark Lynam, Chief Investment Officer.
CORPORATE SECTION Objectives and strategy Principal risks and uncertainties Management arrangements Management team changes The Witan benchmark Witan Investment Services Dividend policy VAT Buy-back policy Priorities for 2009 Key performance indicators Robert Clarke Objectives & Strategy relationships, selects new managers when a change is Witans objective is to be the first choice for wealth appropriate, runs Witan Investment Services and creation through equity investment.
From an investment advises the Board on all relevant investment and perspective this means that Witan will seek to business matters.
outperform global stock markets consistently, adding As already mentioned in the Chairmans Statement value in the long term for its investors.
In addition Witan the Board made some changes to the investment seeks to attract new investors to buy the Trusts shares in manager line-up during the year.
These are referred to order to provide ongoing liquidity for shareholders.
in greater detail in the Investment Review on page 13 Witan aims to outperform by using a multi-manager along with other investment issues.
This allows us to select fund managers are summarised on pages 20 and 21 with a managers from around the world often where the fund brief description of each.
manager is not otherwise available to the UK investor.
Witan has also appointed third parties for the various Your Board pays close attention to the control of risk supporting services it requires including: and this is clearly of particular relevance in the current BNP Paribas Securities Services SA for global custody troubled financial and economic environment.
and for investment accounting and administration However, the Board is at the same time mindful that risk Henderson Secretarial Services Limited for company needs to be embraced in order to enhance performance.
secretarial services We will therefore consider employing innovative Equiniti Limited as plan administrators of Witan investment techniques and diverse asset classes if, and Wealthbuilder.
when, these are deemed appropriate.
As an investment trust, Witan can borrow in order to improve From time to time, and as required, Witan also procures performance in rising markets.
We will be considering professional advice in the areas of legal, compliance, carefully at what stage it may be appropriate to deploy investment consulting, financial and tax advice.
our long term borrowings to a greater extent in order to increase the gearing in the portfolio.
Witans aim is to provide the best possible return to shareholders.
With this in mind, your Board applies Management Arrangements strict controls to costs.
Expenditure is only undertaken As already mentioned, the management of Witans when necessary and relevant or when a specific project portfolio is outsourced to third party fund managers has been identified which is likely to achieve a profitable around the world.
Witans in-house executive return for the original outlay.
Witans careful cost management team manages and controls these control has resulted in a total expense ratio of 0.71%.
7 Directors Report: Business Review continued Although, along with many other funds, we have seen proportion of trade flows are internal.
The Board felt at our TER increase as a result of falling asset values, it the time of the change, and still believes, that a slightly remains one of the lowest in the investment trust lower weighting to the UK and a larger weighting to the industry and much lower than any multi-manager unit other economies split equally to all three areas would trust.
See further comment on page 9. most likely deliver greater investment returns in future over the long term.
Furthermore the Board believed that Since November 2005 the Company has had a lease the new benchmark would give a fairer representation of on office premises at 14 Queen Annes Gate, London the Companys proposition to its investors and would SW1H 9AA.
The Companys registered office is at ultimately offer a truer gauge of its long term 201 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AE.
As the new benchmark allocates a greater weighting to the Asia Pacific region, an area which your The Companys policy towards its employees is to attract Board expects to outperform in the long term, then, if and retain staff with the particular skills and expertise that view is correct, it will prove to be a more exacting required to manage the affairs of an investment trust test of performance than the old benchmark.
The Company has no specific policies in respect of environmental or social and community affairs.
Dividend Policy As the Chairman has addressed in his Statement, the The Witan Benchmark Company has recently announced an increase in the Your Companys benchmark is a quantitative dividend declared in respect of 2008 of 3% compared representation of what shareholders can expect in the with the previous year.
This is the 34th consecutive year long term from an investment in Witan both in terms of that the Board has increased the annual dividend and the underlying investment structure of the portfolio and underlines the Companys ongoing intention to increase in performance.
It enables the aims of your company to dividend income for shareholders at least in line with be encapsulated succinctly without the need for a inflation.
It is an equity benchmark, although your Board reserves the right to invest in other Buy-back Policy assets if it deems it to be appropriate, for better Your Board places great importance on the need to performance or capital preservation.
The benchmark provide liquidity in Witans shares to the market place.
does not drive the portfolio structure nor the specific Shareholders should be able to sell Witan shares at a allocation of mandates to managers.
This is evident price that reflects prevailing market value while from the table on page 14 showing the investment potential new shareholders should be able to invest management arrangements but it does provide a marker when they wish to do so.
Shares are bought back when for the long term performance of the Company.
Over they stand at a significant discount with the objective, shorter periods, performance can be expected to vary, subject to market conditions, of keeping the discount to sometimes considerably, from that of the benchmark.
net asset value at less than 10%.
This policy has the impact of improving net asset value per share, On 1 October 2007 the Companys benchmark changed improving liquidity and bringing the share price closer from 50% FTSE All Share Index 50% FTSE World ex to that of net asset value all other things being equal.
UK Index to: 40% FTSE All-Share Index In 2008 the Company bought back and cancelled a total 20% FTSE All-World North America Index of 9,027,845 ordinary shares at a cost of 38.7 million 20% FTSE All-World Europe ex UK Index including stamp duty.
The result of this in terms of 20% FTSE All-World Asia Pacific Index.
performance enhancement was to add just over 0.5% to the net asset value per share at 31 December 2008.
This change recognised that the global economy can be In addition, Witan operates an ongoing marketing viewed as three major trading areas: the Americas, programme designed to stimulate demand for, and Europe, and Asia Pacific.
Within these regions, a large 8 Witan... encourage new investment into, the Companys shares.
that both remain relevant This programme reaches out to private and professional and appropriate in a investors and to financial advisers and intermediaries rapidly changing financial using a blend of targeted marketing disciplines.
services and savings wisdom market.
These issues are Tax increases can send your blood pressure sky high.
To lower it, just imagine youre a Witan investor.
At the end of the last day of our financial year there was reviewed at least annually 0800 082 81 80 www.
3187 a currency market abberation which resulted in the Please remember, past performance is not a guide to future performance, and the value of your shares and the income from them can rise and fall, so you may not get back the amount originally invested.
Issued and approved by Witan Investment Services Limited.
Witan Investment Services Limited is registered in England no.
Witan by the Board and include Investment Services Limited provides investment products and services and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Calls may be recorded for our mutual protection and to improve customer service.
discount with debt at fair value rising to 12.3%.
scrutiny of investment Nevertheless the average discount for the year was 10.1%.
policies, the role of marketing and the Witan Wealthbuilder savings schemes as well as wider industry Key Performance Indicators trends.
Your Board assesses its performance in meeting the Companys objective against the following key The Groups key risks fall broadly under the following performance indicators: categories: net asset value total return total shareholder return Market and portfolio investment performance compared with the Witan is essentially a vehicle for UK and overseas equity benchmark investment.
The Board is unlikely, in normal annual dividend growth conditions, to allow the invested level to drop below discount to net asset value 80%.
Therefore the prime risk of investing in Witan is a the level of buy back activity fall in equity prices.
total expense ratio The other generic risks associated with any international growth in the number of private investors equity portfolio are those of strategy and of country, The increase in the Total Expense Ratio TER from currency, industrial sector, and stock selection.
There are 0.53% last year to 0.71% in 2008 is due to an increase also risks associated with the choice of managers.
Your in performance fees from 0.5 million in 2007 to Board seeks to manage these risks through: 1.4 million in 2008 as a result of managers appropriate decisions regarding asset allocation outperforming their benchmarks and also due to a fall regular reviews of the competency and stock selection in the average total shareholders funds of 18.3%.
skills of fund managers monitoring the economic outlook, geo-political The Board also reviews both absolute and relative environment and stock market conditions around the volatility and risk statistics for the portfolio and world evaluates employee performance.
Witans performance the application of relevant policies on gearing and in 2008 against the above parameters is shown on liquidity.
page 3 and is discussed in the Chairmans Statement.
The multi-manager structure of the portfolio means Principal Risks and Uncertainties that from a risk point of view we are less dependent on The Board has summarised the key risks to the Group one investment manager than with a conventionally in a risk matrix document.
The risks relating to Witans structured portfolio.
subsidiary company, Witan Investment Services Limited WIS, are separately recorded.
The respective Risk issues are further referred to in note 14 on pages documents are reviewed and updated regularly by the 51 to 56. relevant Board of directors.
Investment activity and strategy The Board is conscious that it must regularly review the An inappropriate investment strategy for example, in nature of its objective and corporate strategy to ensure terms of asset allocation or the level of gearing may 9 Directors Report: Business Review continued lead to underperformance against the Companys the activities of all third parties and reports any benchmark index and compared with the companies in significant issues to the Board.
It may also result in the Companys contractual obligations and indemnification provisions shares trading on a wider discount.
The Board seeks to have been put in place with each of the third party manage these risks by ensuring a diversification of services providers.
investment managers and investments and a regular Accounting, legal and regulatory review of the extent of borrowings.
In order to qualify as an investment trust the Company The Chief Executive Officer CEO and the Chief must comply with section 842 of the Income and Investment Officer CIO manage the overall business Corporation Taxes Act 1988 section 842, to which and investment portfolio in accordance with limits and reference is made on page 24 under the heading Status.
restrictions determined by the Board.
These include A breach of section 842 could result in the Company limits on the extent to which borrowings may be used.
losing investment trust status and, as a consequence, The Board reviews regularly the matters delegated to capital gains realised within the Companys portfolio executive management and the CEO confirms would be subject to Corporation Tax.
The section 842 compliance at each Board meeting.
Directors are criteria are monitored by the CEO.
The Company must provided with comprehensive management information comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, covering many aspects of the business including and the Companies Act 2006 as it becomes enacted the investment performance data, financial reports and Companies Acts, and, as the Companys shares are shareholder analyses.
The Board reviews investment listed for trading on the London Stock Exchange, the strategy at each Board meeting and monitors the Company must comply with the UK Listing Authoritys implementation and results of the investment process Listing Rules and Disclosure Rules UKLA Rules.
A with the CIO, who attends all Board meetings.
The CIO breach of the Companies Acts could result in the regularly reviews reports and data which monitor the Company and or the directors being fined or becoming various risk factors in respect of the portfolio.
the subject of criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Rules could result in the suspension of the Companys Corporate governance and shareholder relations shares which would in turn lead to a breach of section Details of the Companys compliance with corporate 842.
The Board relies on the CEO, the company secretary governance best practice, including information on and the Groups professional advisers to ensure relations with shareholders, are set out in the Corporate compliance with the Companies Acts and UKLA Rules.
Governance Statement on pages 32 to 35.
The subsidiary company, Witan Investment Services The operational and regulatory risks described below are Limited WIS, is regulated by the Financial Services regularly and extensively reviewed by Witans Audit Authority for the administration of savings plans.
WIS and its marketing activities are are administered on behalf of WIS by Equiniti Limited.
regulated by the Financial Services Authority and the The operation of the savings plans is monitored closely subsidiary is subject to its own operating rules and by the Board of WIS and by the member of staff regulations.
Your Board takes its own regulatory appointed as Compliance Officer.
responsibilities very seriously and reviews the main points of compliance against requirements on a Operational quarterly basis.
Your Board also takes corporate, legal, Many of the Groups operations are outsourced to third accounting, and tax advice as appropriate.
parties, principally BNP Paribas Securities Services BPSS.
Disruption to, or failure of, the accounting, Operationally, the multi-manager structure is a robust payment systems or custody records operated by BPSS one as each of the investment managers, custodians and could prevent the accurate reporting and monitoring of fund accountants keep their own records which are the Companys financial position.
Details of how the reconciled on a monthly basis.
Management monitors Board monitors the services provided by BPSS and its 10 Witan... other suppliers, and the key elements designed to to generate a revenue Ones scruffy and old-fashioned, and the other can drive you round the bend.
provide effective internal control, are explained further stream exceeding costs in the internal control section of the Corporate normally incurred by its Governance Statement on pages 34 and 35. parent, Witan wisdom Request: stop.
Investment Trust Forget the politics, boys, and simply help people make their capital work for them.
Management Team Changes to have a tangible 0800 082 81 80 www.
3261 The Chairmans Statement refers to the splitting of the Please remember, past performance is not a guide to future performance, and the value of your shares and the income from them can rise and fall, so you may not get back the amount originally invested.
Witan benefit for Witan Investment Services Limited provides investment products and services and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
role of Chief Executive CEO.
Robert Clarke was shareholders appointed a director and CEO with effect from 15 to develop profitable new products within Witan that September 2008 from which date he took executive create demand for Witan shares responsibility for the overall management of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Mark Lynam was In April Witan launched the Jump Child Trust Fund appointed Chief Investment Officer CIO with effect CTF that allows parents to invest the 250 from 3 November 2008, from which date he took Government CTF voucher in Witan.
The CTF market responsibility for investment policy and manager represents a great opportunity for Witan to broaden the selection and monitoring.
The CEO and CIO will work Trusts shareholder base further, and more importantly closely together and in conjunction with the Board to to nurture the next generation of Witan investors.
manage all aspects of the Companys affairs.
VAT Witan Investment Services WIS Note 24 on page 60 explains in detail the current Witan Investment Services Ltd is a wholly owned situation with regard to recent claims made by the subsidiary of Witan Investment Trust plc.
It was Company to recover VAT borne following a legal established in March 2005 and is authorised and regulated judgment which held that the provision of investment by the FSA to provide investment products and services.
management services to investment trust companies is an exempt activity for VAT purposes.
The Company has WIS has two discernable channels of income by which its received amounts in excess of the balance recognised as performance and profitability may be judged.
These are receivable as at 31 December 2007 of 1.45 million.
firstly revenues from transaction fees and annual The excess received of 565,000 is included in the management charges relating to its savings plan business 2008 accounts together with a further 200,000 being and, secondly, executive management and marketing fees an estimate of the interest likely to be received on the paid by its corporate clients, Witan Investment Trust plc total balances recovered.
It is possible that further and Witan Pacific Investment Trust plc.
amounts may be recovered in future relating to different past accounting periods.
However, the The platform provides savings plans to Witan recovery of such amounts is not sufficiently certain to Investment Services clients and is marketed under the be recognised at this stage.
Witan Wealthbuilder and Jump brands.
It currently has over 29,750 customers with assets of some 150 million Priorities for 2009 invested.
The major cost incurred by Witan Investment As a result of priorities set in 2008, the Board split the Services is its fee to Equiniti Limited, the administrators role of CEO, launched a new Child Trust Fund CTF of the Witan Wealthbuilder platform.
WIS is a profit product under the Jump brand, and introduced three centre in its own right and the company contributed new managers to the portfolio this is referred to in positively to the consolidated results of Witan greater detail on pages 15 to 17.
Investment Trust during the year.
One of our most important priorities for the foreseeable Witan Investment Services overall aim is to stimulate future is to ensure that Witan is protected from the demand for Witan shares and to do so profitably.
It has worst excesses of the severe financial and economic three specific objectives: 11 Directors Report: Business Review continued conditions which have developed since last year.
We will seeking and evaluating relevant business also look to take advantage of any investment and development opportunities where Witans multibusiness development opportunities which will manager expertise can be combined productively undoubtedly arise from such traumatic events.
with other businesses both within and outside of the investment trust sector.
The new management team, comprising Robert Clarke, CEO, Mark Lynam, CIO, and James Frost, Marketing Essentially the new team is looking to build upon Executive, is focusing on: Witans strengths and expertise, while identifying new managing the core Witan portfolio with the objective ways of generating shareholder value.
of generating strong investment returns for shareholders the execution of investment policy decisions so that once agreed new key themes can be transmitted into the portfolio quickly and effectively 12 INVESTMENT SECTION This Investment Section is addressed by Mark Lynam, Chief Investment Officer under the following headings: Investment policy Portfolio review Investment managers Manager review Outlook Mark Lynam Investment Policy monitoring of investment manager performance and Witans objective is to be the first choice for wealth portfolios.
Investment manager performance against creation through equity investment.
This means that their benchmarks is set out on page 17.
Witan seeks to outperform global stock markets, monitoring of asset allocation, currency exposures consistently adding value in the long term for its and gearing levels.
Witan invests primarily in global equities: the During the year the Company invested its assets with a minimum equity level is set at 80% of net assets view to spreading investment risk and in accordance although in practice, in recent times, it has been over with the investment policy as set out above.
The Board is prepared to consider alternative it has maintained a diversified portfolio, of which the investments when considered appropriate.
analysis on page 22 and the commentary in this Business The Company has the power under its Articles of Review provide illustration.
The portfolio has been Association to borrow up to 100% of the adjusted total actively managed by the investment managers, under the of capital and reserves.
Essentially this allows the direction of the Chief Executive Officer and, since Board to seek to improve performance through November, of the Chief Investment Officer.
The directors gearing by borrowing amounts equivalent in value to have received regular reports on investment activity and shareholders funds.
The Company had in place 144 portfolio construction, both at and outwith the regular million of long term debt.
In practice the Board would meetings of the Board.
not, other than in exceptional circumstances, allow 2008 Portfolio Review gearing as defined on page 3 to rise to more than 20%.
It is difficult to write about 2008 without adopting a Over the past five years it has varied between 0% and wholly negative tone.
The scale of the global financial 15% while, occasionally, the Company has held a crisis and economic downturn has resulted in small net cash position.
substantial negative returns for almost all asset classes, Investment risk is managed through: and nearly all investment managers, badly affecting the selection of different investment managers with investors be they institutional or private individuals.
Details of the managers, their string of bank bailouts across the world following the mandates and the value of funds under management collapse of Lehman Brothers in September has led to a are set out on pages 14 and 17. total collapse in investor confidence.
Over the course of the broad adherence to a global geographic the year global equity markets fell 43.3% as measured by the FTSE World Index in local currency terms.
The UK benchmark, ensuring diversity.
Details of major economy has suffered due to its relatively high exposure investment sectors and shareholdings are set out on to financial services, consumer indebtedness and an pages 22 and 23. inflated housing market, and consequently the FTSE AllShare Index fell 29.9%.
13 Directors Report: Business Review continued The table below shows the current investment management arrangements: INVESTMENT BENCHMARK INVESTMENT EQUITY MANDATE MANAGER TOTAL RETURN STYLE UK mainstream equities Henderson Global Investors FTSE 350 ex investment Enhanced index companies UK smaller companies Henderson Global Investors Hoare Govett Smaller Growth at an attractive Companies ex investment price companies Global Southeastern Asset Management FTSE All-World Quality at a discounted valuation UK Artemis FTSE All-Share Recovery special situations UK Marathon FTSE All-Share Capital cycles Global MFS International FTSE All-World Growth at an attractive price Global Thomas White International FTSE All-World Fundamental valuation techniques Continental Europe Wellington Management Company FTSE World Europe ex UK Fundamental research Europe inc UK Varenne FTSE All-World Value Developed Europe North America Henderson Global Investors FTSE World North America Enhanced index Japan Brandes Investment Partners FTSE Japan Value Asia Pacic ex Japan Comgest FTSE All-World Asia ex Fundamental Japan Australia New Zealand research Australasia Orbis Investment Management FTSE Australia Value The Witan portfolio is well diversified across both the Japanese Yen and Euro strengthened stockmarkets and also through a range of managers.
The strategic decision Even so this challenging environment has resulted in a taken over recent years by Witan has been to emphasise decline in net asset value total return of 23.3%, investment overseas at the expense of the UK.
This has marginally ahead of the Witan benchmark which fell been reflected both in adjusting downwards the 23.9%.
Contributions to this marginal relative Companys benchmark allocation to the UK and, in outperformance came from being underweight the UK 2008, by strategically underweighting the UK allocation and overweight international markets where the relative to this benchmark.
Whilst the rationale for this weakness of Sterling has mitigated poor overseas policy reflects the perceived superior growth stockmarket returns and there has been good stock opportunities in overseas economies, the benefit in 2008 selection by our managers.
has actually only been seen in the strengthening of foreign currencies.
Witan has some 60% of its assets Currency volatility has been a major feature of markets invested overseas and this foreign currency exposure with a counter intuitive flight into the US Dollar by helped improve on poor stockmarket returns when investors keen to seek safety in what is still considered translated back into Sterling.
Whilst our actual currency the worlds reserve currency, despite the poor US exposure via our overseas managers has been of benefit, economic fundamentals.
In addition to the US Dollar, shareholders will know that in 2008 Witan engaged an 14 Witan... active currency manager to generate additional 31 December 2008 and investment return.
Unfortunately results have been very each management disappointing.
At the interim stage we commented on agreement can be the poor performance whilst we believe the premise terminated on one months wisdom that investing in currency markets can add value, it notice.
Two of the Is Witan the best place to put your money if youre looking for consistent long-term performance?
became evident that Mellon Capitals fundamental investment mandates are 0800 082 81 80 www.
4581 Please remember, past performance is not a guide to future performance, and the value of your shares and the income from them can rise and fall, so you may not get back the amount approach to currency management was unsuited to the held through pooled originally invested.
Witan Investment Services Limited provides investment products and services and is authorised and regulated by the Financial ServicesAuthority.
momentum-driven forces that have been a recurring vehicles.
These driving force behind currency movements in 2008. arrangements are not subject to specific investment Following direct discussions with Mellon Capitals new management agreements as they are in effect direct CIO we took the decision to redeem the currency loan investments.
However, the relevant terms are similar to note.
This had given Witan effective economic what is described above.
The base management fee rates exposure to 350 million of foreign currency being range from nil to 0.90 per cent per annum and the approximately half of Witans actual foreign currency performance fees range from nil to 25 per cent per exposure at the time of initiating the investment.
annum of the relevant outperformance.
All the fees are The actual loss in 2008 was a very disappointing payable quarterly in arrears.
The performance fees are 14 million.
payable on a pro rata basis, after a minimum initial period of one year, and after three years are calculated Elsewhere the majority of Witans managers on a rolling three year basis.
Amidst such unrelenting bad economic and stockmarket news any The average aggregate base management fee, including positive comments are likely to be seen as overly the investments in pooled vehicles and the currency optimistic but we are encouraged by our multi-manager note, calculated on a size-weighted basis according to strategy and the fact that nine out of the thirteen the value of the funds under management, was 0.28 per managers selected by us have outperformed their cent as at 31 December 2008 and 0.21 per cent as at benchmarks in 2008 some marginally and some to a 31 December 2007.
The investment in the fund much greater extent.
It is even more encouraging if we covering Australasia is subject to uncapped performance compare our managers returns with comparable peer fees of 20% of outperformance.
Excluding these two groups of managers available to investors in the UK.
investments, the maximum performance fees payable, if Using the IMAs Investment Management each of the other investment mandates performs to at Associations sector guidelines we calculate that seven least the extent that the relevant cap applies, would managers would rank in the first quartile and a further result in total fees of 0.98 per cent being paid based three in the second quartile.
on the value of the funds under management at 31 December 2008.
Investment Managers As listed on the previous page, the portfolio consists of The investment managers may use certain services 13 separate mandates managed by 11 different fund which are paid for, or provided by, various brokers.
return they may place business, including transactions relating to the Company, with these brokers.
Each of the managers is entitled to a base management fee, calculated according to the value of the assets under Investment Manager Review management, and or a performance fee, calculated All our UK managers outperformed with the new according to investment performance, over a rolling additions in 2008, Artemis and Marathon, three year period, relative to the benchmark applicable demonstrating the benefits of active management in to the relevant investment mandate.
Each of the such a challenging environment.
Both comfortably performance fees is subject to a cap, except in respect of outperformed over the period from May 2008 when the investments in the fund covering Australasia, until they were appointed.
Artemis fared particularly well and 15 Directors Report: Business Review continued benefited from large underweight positions in banks, data also appeared to stabilise.
However, this mild mining and consumer related sectors.
Their preference recovery in sentiment was short lived as the oil price for the more defensive areas of the market such as peaked at $147 per barrel and the global economy utilities, pharmaceuticals and food companies aided showed signs of deteriorating.
Whilst acknowledging the poor economic crisis claimed a number of high profile victims and environment our fund manager at Artemis believes that resulted in a wave of panic selling that peaked in Declining interest rates are, however, a positive.
There were a number of public bailouts, are a large number of equities that are well financed and including AIG Insurance, and a number of iconic Wall have yields three and four times the current level of base Street names, such as Merrill Lynch, were forced to rates.
On a medium to long term view these equities will merge with larger rivals.
The response from the make us money.
Marathon too have delivered Federal Reserve was unprecedented, with interest rates outperformance which has been largely attributable to cut to record low levels.
By the fourth quarter the stock selection and to a lesser extent sector selection.
financial crisis had moved into the real economy, with The latter was positive owing to the significant unemployment rising sharply, a steep drop in underweight to financials which was enough to offset industrial activity, and confirmation of a recession.
the underweight to outperforming defensive areas such Only when Barack Obama proposed a massive as oil & gas, health care and utilities.
Their underweight stimulus package in November did the equity market to basic materials stocks was also beneficial.
stabilise to end the year off its lows but still down 40% in local currency terms.
The near 25% rally in the Whilst Artemis and Marathon have mandates to invest US Dollar gave Sterling investors an index return of freely across all areas of the UK stockmarket, the core -13.1%.
Our US equity exposure is through the of Witans UK equity exposure is managed by Henderson North America Enhanced Index Fund Hendersons UK Enhanced equity team and focuses which follows a similar low risk process to the on the FTSE 350 index.
This index represents large and Henderson UK Equity Enhanced portfolio and which midcap stocks.
Hendersons investment strategy seeks marginally underperformed the US market.
to add value through a mix of fundamental and technical strategies implemented through a number of Continental European stocks declined nearly 44% in small over and underweight positions around the core Euro terms during the year.
The result is a low risk strategy which for 2008 worst, while companies with more defensive earnings matched their benchmark.
The Witan Europe ex-UK account is a concentrated portfolio where bottom up Witans coverage of the smaller companies in the UK fundamental analysis drives stock selection as well as has remained underweight given the poor outlook for industry allocation.
Unfortunately absolute returns the UK economy.
This area of the market suffered more have been negative but having underperformed in than larger companies as both prospects and liquidity recent times it is good to see that our manager, dried up.
This portfolio is also managed by Henderson Wellington, has outperformed in 2008 by remaining and the manager, who outperformed his specific small true to their investment principles.
Wellingtons focus company benchmark, is very experienced and thorough on less popular stocks where they identified more in his approach.
The emphasis is to pick stocks that value than the market helped them to outperform for exhibit a solid business model, strong management, a Witan this year.
This was particularly true amongst the sound financial structure.. all attributes that are key cyclical areas of the market such as financials, energy, to survival in this difficult environment.
and industrials, where their allocation and stock selection were strong.
In financials, their preference Turning to overseas, the US equity market got off to a for reinsurers over banks helped, while, in industrials, weak start in 2008 but there was a hope after the US timely purchases of companies like Ryanair and authorities rescued Bear Stearns that the government Deutsche Post were well rewarded.
Amongst would step in to protect companies and the economy.
defensives, the weighting and selection in telecom At the same time corporate earnings and economic 16 Performance for the year ended 31 December 2008 and from inception to 31 December 2008 Investment Manager Value of % of Witans Performance Benchmark Performance Benchmark Funds under Assets under in the period Performance in the period Performance Management Management 31.12.07 to 31.12.07 to since inception since inception m at 31.12.08 at 31.12.08 31.12.08 % 31.12.08 % to 31.12.08 % to 31.12.08 % annualised annualised B B Henderson Global Investors UK mainstream 134.2 14.8 -29.3 -29.4 3.0 2.9 A A Henderson Global Investors UK smaller 31.0 3.4 -40.1 -40.8 1.2 0.0 B B Southeastern Asset Management Global 130.8 14.5 -23.5 -19.4 1.6 5.7 B B MFS International Global 101.9 11.3 -8.7 -19.4 8.8 5.7 D D Thomas White Global 91.1 10.1 -18.4 -19.4 -12.9 -15.1 B B Wellington Management Company Europe 76.2 8.4 -23.0 -25.9 5.5 9.0 A A Henderson Global Investors USA 58.6 6.5 -13.9 -13.3 3.9 3.5 B B Brandes Investment Partners Japan 80.3 8.9 18.8 -1.1 8.6 5.9 C C Comgest Asia Pacic ex Japan 50.5 5.6 -24.2 -33.5 -8.3 -17.0 Orbis Australasia 10.8 1.2 -40.3 -32.9 -23.1 C -19.3 C E E Varenne Capital Europe 24.3 2.7 not applicable -26.4 -23.6 F F Artemis Investment Management UK 58.4 6.5 not applicable -19.6 -28.3 F F Marathon Asset Management UK 55.4 6.1 not applicable -24.3 -28.3 excluding cash balances held centrally by Witan and the unquoted investments.
F from 06.05.08. stocks was again very additive: however, the selection company-by-company analysis.
Sector and industry of healthcare stocks was not as strong as hoped.
While weightings are a by-product of this stock selection they were correct in anticipating that investors would process and are not a result of top-down allocations take a fresh look at healthcare stocks generally, the driven by an economic outlook.
This strategy has served market had a clear preference for larger companies.
them well as they have been a consistent outperformer This meant that many of their smaller companies did through 2008 and were some 12% ahead of their not hold up as well as they expected.
Our other benchmark in Yen terms which, when converted into European manager Varenne Capital Partners has an Sterling, produced a very welcome positive return of even more concentrated portfolio approach.
Brandes is a bottom-up, value-oriented manager their intense research process and the economic whose objective is to buy undervalued stocks and to background, they have spent these first months since hold them until they attain their intrinsic value.
inception building the Witan portfolio which numbers Holdings in the food products industry had the most just ten stocks.
It is too short a period to judge their positive impact on their portfolio performance this year.
Within this industry, positions such as Nippon Flour Mills Co. Ltd packaged foods & meats and Fuji Oil Co. Japan has not been immune to the economic and Ltd agricultural products were among the top financial crises.
Whilst Brandes, our Japan manager, performers.
Other positions that performed well in 2008 monitor the economic environment developments in included Tokushu Tokai Holdings Ltd paper & forest global markets, their investment philosophy focuses on products and Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma 17 Directors Report: Business Review continued pharmaceuticals.
At the end of the year their portfolios has a particular small cap value style which should be most significant exposures was in the commercial handsomely rewarded in more normal markets.
banking and pharmaceutical industries and they In contrast to our regional managers our trio of believe the portfolio is well positioned to deliver global managers are free to actively pick stocks on a favourable long term results.
regionally unconstrained basis and two of them 2008 turned out to be a painful one for investors in continue to do so successfully.
Comgest continue to manage our Asia Pacific ex Chicago based Thomas White demonstrated their Japan portfolio, with their concern for free cash flow active management in the latter half of the period by and quality companies helping them to comfortably reducing exposure to emerging markets and trimming outperform their benchmark.
Comgest believe that the developed European and Asia-Pacific regions.
The those companies that can generate enough free cash cash proceeds were designated to be added to the US flow to finance their development or that can readily weight.
During the fourth quarter the portfolio draw on credit lines will be at a competitive advantage reflected this strategy as new US positions in Exxon in an environment where credit is restricted.
It will be Mobil 23.9% and Dominion Resources 14.4% critical to identify such companies because they are the were among top performers.
Other portfolio holdings best-equipped to survive or to become the consolidators performing well in a challenging economic in their industries.
Comgest highlight stocks such as environment also included leading Mexican retailer Delta Electronics as falling into this category.
Grupo Elektra 48.6%, Japans Electric Power The Orbis Australia Fund completes our Asia Pacific Development 47.9%, Toyo Suisan Kaisha 38.6% exposure.
Performance was disappointing in both and Bristol Myers 36.0%.
absolute and relative terms but this specialist manager, Top 10 Overweight Positions at 31 December 2008 Portfolio Weighting Name Sector minus Benchmark Weighting Fairfax Financial Nonlife Insurance 1.64 Nipponkoa Insurance Nonlife Insurance 1.45 Walt Disney Media 1.31 Liberty Media Media 1.19 Japan Petroleum Exploration Oil & Gas Producers 1.00 ACS Actividades Construction & Materials 0.97 Sompo Japan Insurance Nonlife Insurance 0.94 Willis Nonlife Insurance 0.89 DirecTV Media 0.87 Dell Technology Hardware & Equipment 0.87 Top 10 Underweight Positions at 31 December 2008 Portfolio Weighting Name Sector minus Benchmark Weighting HSBC Banks -1.42 BP Oil & Gas Producers -1.29 Vodafone Mobile Telecommunications -1.05 Royal Dutch Shell Oil & Gas Producers -1.04 GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology -0.65 British American Tobacco Tobacco -0.56 Telefonica Telecommunications -0.52 AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology -0.52 Novartis Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology -0.44 BG Oil & Gas Producers -0.41 Source of both tables: BNP Paribas and Style Research.
Global equity manager MFS were substantially ahead of sorted according to their the benchmark index thanks to their preference for respective relative high quality stocks and consequently a lack of weightings against the financials.
MFS benefited from their positions in benchmark.
wisdom companies that have demonstrated the ability to Our managers are expert at delivering long-term growth for investors.
Which is good news if your bank manager has absolutely nothing to offer.
Outlook maintain above-average growth and returns through 0800 082 81 80 www.
4821 Confidence in a Please remember, past performance is not a guide to future performance, and the value of your shares and the income from them can rise and fall, so you may not get back the amount various economic cycles, including Swiss fragrance and originally invested.
stockmarket recovery flavour maker Givaudan and US diversified would of course be welcomed by all investors but in the manufacturer 3M.
MFS have high conviction in a short term economic indicators suggest chronically number of individual companies that they believe have weak economies, rising unemployment and depressed a good mix of products and are able to absorb and pass corporate profits and dividends.
We view the concerted on increased input costs, and therefore are able to action by governments and central banks as positive, maintain earnings growth and profit margins in various although the jury is still out as to whether or not economic conditions.
historically low interest rates, bank bailouts and The laggard continues to be Southeastern Asset printing money will succeed in re-kindling economic Management, a manager with an enviable long term activity.
Loose monetary policies were the origins of track record and clear investment philosophy.
As value this slump and counter cyclical fiscal policies are also investors their style has been out of favour and needed to reflate the economy.
Southeasterns end of year report shows their frustration Tactically we will maintain our underweight position in but also a strong belief that the portfolio of stocks they the UK with a recession unfolding there is little hold for Witan offers dramatic upside potential when encouragement for investors in the short term.
stability and confidence return to stockmarkets: Elsewhere, the US should not be underestimated as the Throughout the year we followed our long-held best positioned to recover first, given the flexibility and discipline of trying to protect capital by buying resourcefulness inherent in their economy.
Asia has the businesses with competitive advantages, good advantage of being the mirror image of the West with management partners, and prices below 60% of well capitalised banks, current account surpluses and appraisal.
In 2008 many high quality investments went consumers who have a propensity to save.
from 60-cent dollars to 30-cent dollars, even after Witan has been careful to select a range of quality lowering appraisals to account for the worse investment managers who we believe have the environment.
We believe that prices will return to fair intellectual, philosophical and practical experience to value at some point meaning that returns on our navigate difficult, arguably uncharted, waters.
Most of capital are deferred, not lost.
our managers are bottom-up stock pickers who analyse At Witan we are acutely aware that managers have poor individual companies using fundamental analysis.
They periods when their style of investment may be out of believe that their portfolio valuations are at historic low tune with market dynamics indeed the strength of levels and represent considerable value.
such managers is that they are not persuaded by shorter We are not able to forecast short term movements in term underperformance to change their investment stockmarkets but firmly believe in economic cycles, that approach and throw in the towel at precisely the wrong reflation will come and that equity investments will time.
We continue to monitor and liaise with all our benefit.
In the very long run stockmarkets have averaged managers, including Southeastern.
6% per annum: from these depressed levels one might The two tables opposite provide extracts of the top expect returns to be higher.
With this in mind we will 10 overweightings and top 10 underweightings.
prudently make use of gearing during 2009.
These are derived from the investment holdings in the managers portfolios being consolidated and 19
