Report of the Directors Business review Over the past year we have worked hard to ensure that our customers are at the heart of everything we do.
In BT is one of the worlds leading communications services recent years we have proved our ability to deliver both local and companies, operating in over 170 countries worldwide.
Our global networked IT services contracts for large corporate principal activities include the provision of: customers and other organisations including the government and public sectors around the world.
"We have a networked IT services globally: "" comprehensive portfolio of services, supported by tens of local, national and international communications services: thousands of highly skilled professional services people."
"Revenue "" from networked IT services for 2008 was 4,841 million, up broadband and internet products and services: and "" 10% on the previous year."
"converged xed mobile products and services. """
Broadband in the UK Our vision We continue to enhance the availability and attractiveness of Our vision is to be dedicated to helping our customers thrive in broadband in the UK.
At 31 March 2008, we had 12.7 million a changing world.
Dedication to our customers is vital in a broadband lines, including 4.3 million LLU local loop competitive market.
By designing everything we do around our unbundling lines.
Broadband is available through our wholesale customers, we can help them succeed on their terms.
business to 99.6% of the UKs homes and businesses.
We aim to be a global leader in converged communications In the highly competitive retail market, our market share of services.
Convergence bringing together xed-line and mobile consumer and business DSL digital subscriber line and LLU technologies, IT and communications, networks and services is broadband connections was 35%, compared with 34% in 2007. at the core of what we offer our customers.
At BT, we call this With 4.4 million broadband connections, we continue to be the unied communications.
UKs most popular broadband retailer.
During 2008, revenue from broadband services grew by 10% to 2,219 million.
"Our strategy Our strategy is to increase shareholder value by: Convergent mobility solutions In the converged world, individuals and businesses increasingly driving profitable growth in new wave markets: "" need to connect and communicate wherever they happen to be, defending our traditional business: "" using whatever device they choose."
We offer a range of mobility services in both the consumer and business markets.
"BT transforming our networks, systems and services for the "" Openzone, for example, is one of the leading Wi-Fi wireless twenty-first century: and broadband services in the UK and at the heart of our wireless creating long-term partnerships with our customers. """
cities initiative see Wi-Fi in the community on page 20.
Customers signing up to our broadband packages get Wi-Fi Driving profitable new wave growth minutes included and we offer Wi-Fi roaming via 3,000 At a time when next generation products and services are premium BT Openzone hotspots in the UK and Ireland and a radically reshaping the communications industry, customers have further 40,000 around the world.
more choice than ever before.
But more choice can mean more In 2008, group mobility revenue was up 18% at 348 million, complexity.
Which is why we aim to offer straightforward and compared with 294 million in 2007.
At 31 March 2008, we comprehensive services, backed by levels of customer service had a total of 360,000 mobile connections.
We also further that set us apart from our competitors.
extended the European coverage of our mobility offering in In the 2008 financial year 2008, 39% of our revenue came 2008 through MVNO mobile virtual network operator from new wave and next generation products and services agreements with Vodafone in Spain and Italy.
primarily networked IT, broadband and convergent mobility solutions.
This is up from 36% in the 2007 financial year 2007.
Defending our traditional business New wave revenue grew by 9% in 2008, mainly driven by We continue to face challenges in our traditional markets as a growth in networked IT services and broadband.
result of increased competition, a shift in our customers buying patterns and a challenging regulatory regime.
In response to Global networked IT services these conditions, we aim to make our traditional services We are a business operator running our customers missionmainly calls and lines ever more compelling for customers.
For critical networked IT services, to allow them to focus on their example, by combining voice services in attractive new ways, we core business.
We do this to create value in partnership with our can continue to add value to our customers lives and customers, including co-investing and co-innovating so that they businesses.
Revenue from traditional services was 12,661 million can create long-term value for their customers.
This represents a rate of decline of only 1% compared How do we measure our success?
For 2008, the KPIs key performance indicators against which we measured the success of our strategy were: customer service: Transforming our networks earnings per share before specic items: and free cash ow.
Our strategy is to build innovative, software-driven global networks that provide platforms for the rapid delivery of exible Being number one for customer service and resilient new services that transform the customer Our goal is to become number one for customer service.
We experience and enable us to operate more cost effectively.
Our believe that this is the vital differentiator in all the markets in global 21CN twenty-first century network is helping to define which we operate.
In order to measure our progress, we have communications networks for the future and we are investing in changed our main customer measures to reect more directly a exible systems infrastructure throughout BT.
At 31 March the real experience our customers have from start to nish.
The 2008, 40% of the core 21CN infrastructure had been built.
"key measures we now use are right first time and cycle time: right first time is the most important measure of whether we "" At the heart of a networked Britain are keeping our promises to our customers and meeting or BT has the most comprehensive xed-line communications exceeding their expectations: and network in the UK, with around 5,600 exchanges, 670 local and cycle time is the time between the start and nish of each 120 trunk processor units, more than 125 million kilometres of "" and every customer experience for example, the time copper wire and over 10.8 million kilometres of optical bre, elapsed between a customers initial attempt to contact BT and an extensive IP backbone network."
and receipt of the relevant service and payment of the bill.
Our global footprint We have one of the most extensive IP-enabled networks in the We are focusing on getting things right first time because this world, stretching from Europe to North and South America, the will streamline the customer experience and reduce cycle times.
Middle East, Africa and the Asia Pacic region.
We set ourselves the group-wide target in 2008 of improving In 2008, we focused on enhancing the quality of our agship right first time by 11%.
In fact, we achieved an increase of MPLS multi-protocol label switching network service which around 9% and, for the 2009 financial year 2009, our target is provides coverage and support in 172 countries from more than to achieve an even greater year on year improvement.
800 BT managed PoPs points of presence and more than All parts of BT are required to implement right first time 2,500 PoPs in partnership.
We installed an average of more than plans for their customers, and a number of right first time 3,100 new customer sites a month on our MPLS network during initiatives have been introduced.
As a result, MPLS revenue for 2008 grew by 25% to prioritisation of sales queue activities, clean order entry and 815 million.
validation, accurate billing and closer working with suppliers Global customer service is provided via service and network throughout our global operations, through to a drive in our management centres around the world, 24 hours a day, seven retail operations relating to the provision and repair of products days a week.
In November 2007, BT won the World and services.
In our consumer business, for example, a rigorous Communications Association award for Best Customer Care.
emphasis on right first time has driven major improvements in Widely recognised as a leading global industry event, the scheme the experience of customers using our broadband technical help celebrates business excellence and outstanding service.
Thanks to the introduction of new processes, a restructuring of the call centre and the delivery of customerCreating long-term partnerships focused training programmes, our front line advisers have been Our customers are at the heart of what we do and improving able to deal with customers more effectively.
Customer customer service is a critical focus for us.
Understanding our dissatisfaction levels have fallen as advisers have been able to customers needs and responding to them quickly and with handle a higher proportion of customer contacts, without the insight helps to set us apart from our competitors.
need to pass them on to colleagues.
We explain elsewhere in this Business review how we are, for Although the principal emphasis during the year was on right example, focusing on areas such as networked IT services first time, we also paid close attention to cycle time.
In contracts see Networked IT services on page 15 as part of this particular, we have been driving cycle time improvements long-term partnership strategy.
At 31 March 2008, around 80% through individual product lines.
of our global services business units major contracts were for five or more years, and 70% of consumer revenue was under Earnings per share contract.
For details of year reduction in the net finance income associated with how we calculate earnings per share, see page 47.
We also expect to continue to deliver revenue growth share before specic items is a non-GAAP measure.
For further as we continue our transformation.
Our continued focus on discussion of non-GAAP measures, see page 55. driving efficiencies across the group is expected to generate further gross cost savings of some 700 million which will Free cash ow contribute towards growth in EBITDA before specic items and Free cash ow in 2008 was 1,503 million, compared with leaver costs.
1,354 million in 2007 an increase of 11% and 1,612 million Capital expenditure is expected to reduce to around 3.1 in 2006.
For details of how we define free cash ow, see billion in 2009.
We expect to continue to generate good cash page 49.
Free cash ow is a non-GAAP measure.
For further ow from our operations, with free cash ow anticipated to be discussion of non-GAAP measures, see page 55. at a similar level to 2008.
We remain committed to delivering value for shareholders and Transforming BT expect to increase dividends in 2009.
BT is engaged in a process of radical transformation from a xed-line business to a software-driven global communications How BT is structured services company.
In 2008, we invested 402 million in this BT has four customer-facing lines of business: BT Global transformation.
Increasingly, communications infrastructures are Services, BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach, all supported no longer just the physical network: what is becoming more by two internal functional units: BT Design and BT Operate.
important now are the layers of software that make it possible BT Global Services is a global business operator: BT Retail, BT to manage the network without the need for physical Wholesale and Openreach operate mainly within the UK, where intervention.
The development of common capabilities, or BT is the largest communications services provider to the reusable components, is increasingly enabling us to meet residential and business markets.
customers needs quickly and exibly.
80% of our new products already use common capabilities.
BT Global Services A year ago we announced a new structure designed to enable Revenue in 2008 increased by 8% to 7,889 million, compared us to transform the way we offer services to our customers.
Non-UK revenue grew by 21% in Today, we are one of the worlds first communications 2008 and new wave revenue grew by 10%.
Total orders were companies to have achieved the integration of its networks, IT, 8 billion in 2008. processes and technical product design.
This enables us to create end-to-end processes, remove unnecessary complexity and bring BT Retail BT people closer to our customers.
See Our IT systems and Revenue in 2008 increased by 1.6% to 8,477 million, networks estate on page 30 for more information about our compared with 8,346 million in 2007.
New wave revenue, systems and networks.
mostly broadband, grew by 20%, while traditional revenue, mainly calls and lines, decreased by 3%.
"Outlook There are four parts to BT Retail: In our outlook statement in our 2007 Business review, we said Consumer: at 31 March 2008, we had 15 million UK consumer "" that we had confidence that we could continue to grow customers with around 19 million residential customer exchange revenue, EBITDA before specic items, earnings per share before and broadband lines: specic items, and dividends in 2008."
"We have successfully BT Business: at 31 March 2008, we had around one million "" delivered growth in all these areas."
"business customers in the UK, who between them had 7.5 million In addition, we stated we were confident in our ability to business customer exchange and broadband lines: improve shareholder returns and accelerate the strategic BT Ireland, which operates across the major business, SME, "" transformation of the business."
In 2008, we paid out consumer and wholesale markets throughout the Republic of 1,236 million in dividends, and BT Operate and BT Design are Ireland and Northern Ireland: and now fully operational.
By 31 March 2008, we had returned 1.5 Enterprises, which comprises a number of individual businesses: BT billion as part of our 2.5 billion share buy back programme.
"We "" Conferencing, BT Directories, BT Payphones, BT Redcare have maintained our solid investment grade credit rating monitoring and tracking facilities, BT Expedite a specialist retail Standard and Poors: BBB : Moodys: Baa1: Fitch BBB and division offering retail integration solutions and services and continued to invest in capital expenditure and acquisitions to dabs."
com a leading internet-based retailer of IT and technology underpin the growth of the business.
In 2009, we expect to continue to increase our earnings per share before specic items and leaver costs, despite the year on BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 13 Report of the Directors Business Report of the Directors Business review of Fortune Global 500 companies 60% have contracts with us............................................................................................................................................................. BT Wholesale Major corporate customers In 2008, BT Wholesales main focus was as a market-facing line Our target customers are corporate customers and government of business.
Overall, revenue decreased by 8% to 4,959 million, organisations around the world.
These include major financial mainly due to a decline in low margin transit and premium rate institutions, oil and gas companies, manufacturers, services revenue, price reductions in broadband and volume pharmaceutical companies, retailers, and all other organisations decreases resulting from LLU migrations.
However, at the same with significant global requirements, together with large national time, we are increasingly positioning BT Wholesale as a provider and international public sector and governmental organisations of innovative, managed network solutions, signing a number of in particular local markets.
Revenue from this customer group major deals in 2008. grew by 7% to 7,573 million in 2008 and accounted for 37% of total group revenue.
Openreach Our strategy is to get closer and become more important to Openreach is responsible for the crucial first mile of the our major corporate customers by offering high-value services network in the UK.
It was set up in January 2006, following a and propositions that can directly improve their business strategic review of the telecommunications market by Ofcom, to performance.
We take on the management of our customers offer all communications providers including other BT lines of mission-critical networks and IT assets and processes.
This helps business fair, equal and open access to our access and them to grow, reduce their costs, manage their relationships backhaul networks, in order to underpin the future development with their customers, optimise their supply chains, develop risk of the industry.
resilience and operate competitively, sustainably, securely and Revenue in 2008 grew by 1% to 5,266 million, driven by within the relevant regulatory frameworks.
external volume growth across Openreachs portfolio of products In an intensely competitive market, we have set ourselves and services.
apart from straightforward network product and service providers by developing propositions, through our professional BT Design and BT Operate services business, that consistently add value to our customers BT Design is responsible for the design and deployment of the businesses, including investing and innovating in partnership platforms, systems and processes which support our products with them.
In addition to local, national and international and services.
BT Operate is responsible for their operation.
communications services and higher-value broadband and IP Together, they help BT deliver software-driven products over products and services, we have developed a comprehensive next generation networks.
They also help BT to achieve cost portfolio of services focused on unied communications, CRM efficiencies.
BT Design and BT Operate serve BTs customercustomer relationship management, systems integration, facing businesses and do not generate external revenue.
security services and applications, outsourcing, managed mobile services and applications hosting.
Our customers We have contracts with over 60% of the Fortune Global 500 In the following review of BTs business and activities we look at companies including Credit Suisse, Fiat Group, Volvo, BMW, the ways in which we are meeting the needs of our different AstraZeneca and Inbev and over 65% of the FTSE 100 customer groups: companies.
"In addition, we work closely with government organisations such as the UK Department for Work and Pensions major corporate customers global corporations, multi-site "" DWP and National Health Service NHS, the European organisations in the UK and overseas, and governments in the Commission and NATO."
"UK and overseas : consumer customers in the UK: "" Global operations BT is a growing company, offering global propositions and small and medium-sized enterprises SME in the UK typically "" delivery, backed by facilities and people across the world."
"companies with up to 1,000 employees, although some of Although we currently generate most of our revenue in the UK, our customers in this market are signicantly larger : and North America and continental Europe, we have been investing other communications providers in the UK including our "" to expand our presence elsewhere."
Revenue outside the UK wholesale customers and those who receive access network grew by 18% in 2008. services provided by Openreach.
Our aim is to be wherever our customers need us to be.
As they are progressively expanding into new countries and For financial reporting purposes, we continue to report by lines territories, it is increasingly important for us to have a presence of business see Financial review.
in all their relevant markets.
Our extensive global communications network and strong partnerships enable us to serve customers in the worlds key commercial centres, using a 14 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 18% revenue growth outside the UK............................................................................................................................................................. combination of direct sales and services capabilities and strategic and engineering service provider based in France: and INS Group partnerships.
SA, a Belgium-based network and systems operator.
In 2008, we launched mobile services in Italy and Spain, North America reinforcing our ability to meet the xed and mobile We have been operating in North America for 20 years.
Having communications needs of our business customers in both successfully integrated four acquisitions in the past three years, countries.
And we introduced a number of new services in the we now have more than 3,600 professionals serving over 1,000 German market, including Onevoice Mobile Access, BT Hosted customers.
Major customers include Microsoft, PepsiCo, Contact Centre and, in partnership with Reuters now known as American Express, Continental Airlines and Bristol Myers Squibb.
Thomson Reuters, following Thomson Corps acquisition of In addition to providing our customers with the full range of Reuters on 17 April 2008, a new variant of the Reuters Market infrastructure, outsourcing, contact centre and mobility services, Data System.
we are recognised as a market leader in the provision of We have been active in the dynamic Central and Eastern managed security services.
We offer a broad, exible range of European CEE market since the late 1990s and our CEE services including consulting, device management and organisation provides services to more than 370 multinational monitoring.
In 2008, we announced an expansion of our operations in Hungary.
A new centre of excellence in Debrecen Asia Pacic will provide regional customer service for European corporate Revenue in the Asia Pacic region grew by a spectacular 66% in customers and support for our commercial and technical 2008. activities.
In the year, we made a further commitment to the Chinese The launch in partnership with telecoms service provider 1 market forecast to grow by almost 10% in 2008 by opening a Etisalat of Radianz services in the United Arab Emirates technology and service centre in Dalian and a research and enabled significant expansion of our financial services capability development centre in Shanghai.
In South Africa, where we have had a We also signed an agreement with Shenzhen-based ZTE presence for 15 years, we announced a two-year business Corporation, a leading provider of telecommunications expansion plan.
equipment and network solutions, to provide contact centre and MPLS connection services to support ZTEs worldwide business Latin America expansion.
We have been rapidly expanding our Latin American presence to In March 2008, we completed the acquisition of Frontline support the needs of our multi-site customers.
Today, we have Technologies Corporation Ltd, one of the leading providers of more than 1,000 people serving more than 350 companies and end-to-end IT services in the Asia Pacic region.
government organisations in 22 countries, including Argentina, Over the past year, we have grown to be one of the most Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Mexico, Peru, extensive foreign network operators in India, where we have Uruguay and Venezuela.
A 24 7 operations centre in Sao Paulo, both national and international licences.
During 2008, BT India Brazil, supports customers in Latin America, Europe and Asia.
acquired i2i Enterprise Pvt Ltd subsequently renamed BT Global Following the acquisition of Comsat International, we signed Communications India Pvt Ltd, a provider of data contracts with, among others, Caixa Econo mica Federal, the communications services in India.
In addition, we own a 35% Brazilian state-owned bank, and the Colombian Ministry of stake in Tech Mahindra Ltd, which provides IT services and Communications.
solutions to the telecommunications industry.
In 2008, we jointly opened a shared services centre in Noida in the National Networked IT services Capital Region in the north of the country.
Predictions are that We have demonstrated that we have the expertise to help our 2 the Indian economy will grow by around 8% in 2008 and it is customers succeed in a world in which business applications are critical that we play a part in this expanding economy.
increasingly networked and networks are increasingly vital to productivity and competitive advantage.
In 2008, we secured Europe, Middle East and Africa networked IT services orders in the UK and around the world Our expansion in the more mature continental European markets with a total value of 5 billion.
continued with the acquisition of: the IT infrastructure division ` of CS Communication & Systemes, a French IT systems and network services provider: Net2S SA, a technology consulting 1 fiscal year www.
com countries china 2 fiscal year www.
In the UK all of its locations with TelePresence 3000 systems that we The National Programme for IT NPfIT in the NHS, for example, develop provide in conjunction with Cisco Systems.
is the worlds largest civilian IT project.
We are making good In the US, we were chosen as the hosting provider for the progress in the delivery of our three contracts and helping the Nissan North America Unied Communications and Collaboration NHS to provide better, safer care by delivering computer systems Program.
This five-year, multi-million dollar contract reinforces and services which improve the way patient information is stored our credibility in the unied communications and collaboration and accessed.
In London, where we are working with the NHS to modernise EMAK, a fully owned subsidiary of Al-Khara Group, one of IT systems and services across the capital, we installed a further the largest general contracting companies in the Middle East, 49 systems during 2008 bringing the total to 189. signed a three-year service agreement with BT to build a next Additionally, 50 trusts in London will benefit from signicantly generation network as well as data centres.
We will also provide reduced call charges, having signed up to connect their voice professional and security services and run the data centre in Port networks to N3, the national broadband network that we have Ghalib, Egypt.
rolled out as part of the NPfIT.
Since it was created in 2004, the BT HP alliance has On the Spine the secure database and messaging system BT successfully developed and managed services for around 70 has built and is managing for the NHS the first patient customers, winning new contracts worth in excess of US$2.6 summary care records have been created.
Customers include FirstGroup, Aker Kvaerner, Aibel and potentially life-saving information such as current medications, Anglo American.
Additionally, BT provides HP with network and allergies and previous bad reactions to medicines.
call centre services, and HP provides us with IT services.
In August 2006, we began the deployment of one of the In the third quarter of 2008, BT and HP won a five-year worlds largest IP converged private networks for the DWP.
In global infrastructure contract worth over 300 million Norwegian March 2008, the new IP telephony platform which has been Krone with international oil services company, Aibel.
BT will act installed in 1,023 sites around the UK serving over 120,000 as the prime contractor, helping Aibel to expand its operations users handled, for the first time, more than two million calls in and grow its non-Nordic business.
This IP platform was completed in 30 months.
The In February 2008, Nycomed, an international pharmaceutical DWP is one of our three largest central government clients and company headquartered in Switzerland, chose to outsource its the contract, which runs until March 2011, supports the DWPs infrastructure services to the alliance for five years.
As part of programme to use IT to reform and deliver public services.
the agreement, BT will provide MPLS network services, internet bandwidth for Nycomeds EMEA Europe, the Middle East and We are bringing the expertise we have developed in the successful management of these major transformational Africa, Asia Pacic and Americas hubs, and remote access programmes in the public sector to our partnership with Oxford services for 6,500 users.
The BT Centre for Major During 2008, we secured a number of other major networked Programme Management is the worlds first centre for the study IT service contracts across all sectors, including financial services, of major programme management.
At contract value, these included: Date Customer Nature of contract Around the world Our contract with Thomson Reuters is one of the largest May 2007 AGIS Five-year contract, part of strategic outsourcing deals in the industry.
Under the terms of the German IT a strategic partnership AGIS subsidiary of has agreed with Fujitsu the deal, we will manage Thomson Reuters data services and the insurance company Services for desktop, services they offer their customers globally over a period of Allianz network and more than ten years.
Building and converging the Thomson communication services.
Reuters network onto our global MPLS network will involve the The project has a total convergence of circuits across 14,000 sites and the value of aboutE400 million.
In March 2008, we signed a major agreement with Thomson Reuters to manage the WAN wide area network elements of its global intra-company network.
This will transform its existing WAN into a high-speed, IP-based global infrastructure, covering 323 locations in 100 countries across the world.
Date Customer Nature of contract Agricole, Tereos and Solvay.
Solvay, an international chemical and pharmaceutical group, signed a contract worth more than June 2007 AstraZeneca Five-year, 25 million deal E2 million to include two fully managed and hosted regional one of the worlds positions BT to become internet gateways in the US and the UK for its 13,000 global leading AstraZenecas global pharmaceutical network partner.
companies new agreement, the BTmanaged global MPLS Consumer customers in the UK network in EMEA and Asia In 2008, overall consumer revenue declined by 1% to 5,071 Pacic will be extended to million, mainly as a result of the highly competitive marketplace 32 new sites in the USA and Latin America.
The and call package price reductions.
This was largely offset by contract now covers over growth in broadband which helped to increase ARPU average 170 managed connections revenue per user by 5%.
at 141 AstraZeneca sites in Consumer demand for communications and entertainment 64 countries worldwide.
services in the UK continues to grow.
This market is highly September Schenker AG Seven-year, three-digit competitive and the entry of strong players such as Sky and 2007 a leading million Euros global Carphone Warehouse into our core xed-line and broadband international contract to connect around markets is leading to strong price and service competition.
supplier of 1,000 locations in 57 The distinction between xed and mobile, communications integrated logistics countries to our MPLS data services network and to provide a and entertainment services is increasingly blurred, and providing number of security services.
combined services that cross this divide is increasingly critical.
New business models and new ways of engaging with customers September Novartis Seven-year, around continue to emerge.
Faced with this, we believe that consumers 2007 a provider of US$500 million managed will increasingly value reliability, good customer service, value healthcare services contract covering solutions 95 countries.
for money and product innovation all of which BT is well placed to deliver.
November Digital 3&4 15-year, 80 million Our strategy in this market is to provide customers with a 2007 the joint venture contract to distribute ITVs range of services that help them communicate more effectively, between ITV and and Channel 4s digital Channel 4 in the terrestrial TV channels to access entertainment and manage their lives.
This strategy is UK all major TV transmitters underpinned by a number of key objectives, including throughout the UK, over maintaining our broadband market share, enhancing our voice our MPLS network.
This is business and developing BT Vision into an attractive, mass a key part of the UK Digital market service.
November ITV Seven-year, 44 million Broadband 2007 one of the UKs contract to connect all We believe that the broadband experience is about much more leading ITVs UK locations, enabling than having basic access to the internet: customers want to use independent them to optimise their broadcasters resources and workow.
broadband to access exciting content and secure, robust services as standard.
We are rmly established at the high end of the March 2008 KPMG Europe LLP Five-year, 62 million consumer broadband market and offer a family of high-quality the largest outsourcing agreement broadband packages, including: integrated with KPMG practices in the accounting rm in UK and Germany.
"The deal BT Total Broadband, our comprehensive home broadband service, "" Europe will deliver significant which offers download speeds of up to 8Mb."
Other features include operating cost efficiencies free internet voice calls, free Openzone minutes, and a suite of and productivity security software.
At 31 March 2008, we had 3.3 million BT Total improvements to KPMG Broadband customers, up by 21% over last year.
More than half of businesses and a them opted for one of our premium packages.
transformed technology architecture on which to build value-added services.
"In addition to these major deals, we signed a large number of smaller networked IT services contracts in 2008 with a wide range of customers from different sectors, including Credit BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 17 Report of the Directors Business Report of the Directors Business review The UKs top five consumer broadband providers in the 2007 calendar year Q3 & Q4 Overall ranking Q1 Q2 combined 1 BT BT BT a 2 PlusNet Demon Demon 3 O2 AOL Tiscali 4 Tiscali Pipex Pipex a 5 Or TalkTalk PlusNetange Source: Epitiro February 2008 Note: these figures are as presented by global benchmarking company, Epitiro a PlusNet is part of BTs broadband portfolio............................................................................................................................................................. BT Total Broadband Anywhere, launched in May 2008, is the UKs "" Go!Messenger most complete broadband package."
It offers our customers the InFebruary2008,  same BT Total Broadband experience that they receive in the home EntertainmentEurope, welaunchedGo!Messenger, awireless while they are out and about with a BT ToGo phone.
BT Total  PlayStationPortable Broadband Anywhere customers can enjoy their home broadband services on the move exchanging emails, making VoIP voice over gamingdevice.
Go! IP calls and accessing social networking, shopping and ourresearchlabs.
" , We have joined forces with FON to develop a global wireless "" broadband access service at no extra cost to our customers."
BT FON , includingBTOpenzone, whenonthe gives every BT Total Broadband customer who agrees to share a move.
 small, secure section of their home broadband connection the service.
chance to benefit outside the home from sharing the connection of another BT FON member, as well as using Openzone Wi-Fi Support and security hotspots.
We now have more than 90,000 BT FON members.
Because we believe that customers want hassle-free access to new services, we are increasingly offering a range of valueWe have recently won a number of broadband awards, added services designed to make new technology easier to use including: and more secure.
"These include: in March 2007, BT was voted most trusted ISP by Readers "" BT Home IT Support, which offers broadband customers "" Digest: straightforward, jargon-free advice and support over the phone and in the home for a wide range of computer issues."
"Launched less in October 2007, BT won ISP of the year at the MAC User "" than two years ago, the service has already provided more than awards: and ten million minutes of advice: in March 2008, bt."
"yahoo was named best portal at the "" BT Net Protect, which offers anti-virus and rewall security "" Internet Industry Awards."
"products: and BT Digital Vault, which enables users to store their digital valuables We are also playing a leading role in the development of "" photos, personal les in an online data back-up and storage internet telephony or VoIP."
At 31 March 2008, we had around facility.
At 31 March 2008, there were more than 594,000 BT two million registered consumer customers for our VoIP services Digital Vault customers.
BT Broadband Talk and BT Softphone.
New entertainment services Television on your terms Traditional services for consumers The roll out of our next generation television service accelerated 58% of the UKs 26 million households receive our traditional during the financial year at 31 March 2008, we had 214,000 calls service.
Our call pricing packages are designed to give our active BT Vision customers.
Usage is growing and our subscribers customers value for money and greater certainty about their are watching on average one on-demand programme a day.
BT Vision Television on your terms does not require a In February 2008, we made UK weekend xed line call regular monthly subscription.
It provides a pay as you watch charges a thing of the past by extending free weekend calls to option.
The service is delivered via a set-top box the V-box all our Option 1 customers.
For the first time, all 15 million BT through which customers can access up to 40 free digital TV and households the majority of British households no longer 30 free radio channels and pay-per-view services from our have to pay for weekend calls.
These include some of the industrys top The new Unlimited Weekend plan means customers can now names and, in 2008, we signed an agreement with CBS get free evening and weekend calls included in the price of line Paramount International TV to access their extensive rental with a renewable contract.
Our other two plans have been entertainment archive.
Since the beginning of the 2007 08 substantially reduced in price the monthly cost of our season, BT Vision customers have also had access to live FA Unlimited Anytime plan is now 60% lower than two years ago.
Premiership and Scottish Premier League football and to a In addition, we challenged other companies to follow our lead selection of terrestrial programmes released in the previous when we made calls to our customer service and helpdesks free.
In March 2008, BT Vision was offering more hours of onAt 1 April 2008, 99% of the numbers to our customer service demand programmes than any other UK digital TV provider.
and helpdesks with an 0845 or 0870 prex were switched to free 0800 numbers.
The other numbers will be changed over the coming months.
18 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F............................................................................................................................................................. And customers can enjoy further savings with our competitive Our portfolio of products and services specically for SMEs International Savings plan, which offers international calls at includes: heavily discounted rates.
"BT customers made 3% more BT Business Total Broadband, a comprehensive broadband package "" international calls in 2008 than in the previous year."
"with download speeds of up to 8Mb: Business customers in the UK BT Business One Plan, the UKs first triple-play landline, mobile and "" broadband calling package designed for businesses."
At 31 March Overall, our SME revenue during 2008 grew by 5% to 2008, BT Business One Plan had 168,000 locations, and accounted 2,590 million, 31% of which was from new wave activity, for 16% of call revenues from business customers: compared with 28% the previous year.
"We estimate that the SME sector in the UK constitutes an BT Broadband Voice, a free additional line offer: "" addressable market of more than 18 billion."
"The convergence BT Communications Complete, launched in January 2008, a simple, "" of underlying technologies is creating new growth opportunities."
"networked IP platform offering everything our business customers Customers are being offered innovative services that combine need to improve their communications: elements from previously distinct product sectors by suppliers BT Corporate Fusion, a combination of hardware, software and "" ranging from IT companies to software vendors and web-based networking technology to integrate mobile communications onto businesses."
corporate networks: All of this can be a real challenge for many SMEs.
"On the one hand, they have access to services that were once only available BT Fusion, a versatile tariff that includes unlimited calls to UK "" mobiles and UK landlines made from the ofce within range of the to larger corporations: on the other, they dont necessarily have BT Business hub or from a BT Openzone hotspot: the time or experience to stay on top of technological developments."
"We have the opportunity to put BT at the heart BT Ofce Anywhere, a hand-held device that gives users on the "" of this market and help our customers navigate its complexities."
move the functions of an ofce Windows PC.
"Unlike other smartphones, it comes with VoIP and the option of unlimited VoIP Our strategy is to help businesses succeed by providing them calls to UK landlines: and with unied communications, collaboration and commerce solutions that help them to manage their businesses, market Blackberry Internet Service, which offers talk, email and internet "" themselves and interact with their customers in new and more access on the move using a Blackberry handset."
Increasingly, these are available through a single ordering process and covered by a single service level agreement.
Our combination of national reach and local presence, trusted New services for business customers brand and innovative portfolio makes the BT proposition very We offer a wide range of value-added services designed to make attractive.
By putting their trust in us, SMEs can transform the it easier for our business customers to seize the possibilities that way they work and free themselves to do what they do best.
"These include: BT Business IT Manager, a comprehensive IT support service: "" Broadband for business customers Broadband is increasingly critical to the success of businesses BT Business Essentials, included free as a standard part of BT "" and BT Business Broadband remained the leading internet Business Total Broadband packages, is designed for customers taking their first online steps and includes basic website creation service provider for SMEs in the UK."
"tools: In 2008, broadband revenues in the business segment grew by 22% and at 31 March 2008, 60% of new business broadband BT Tradespace, an online trading community that brings businesses "" customers had contracts for a minimum of two years."
Because and individual sellers together with potential customers and partners.
At 31 March 2008, there were over 65,000 members of businesses need more than basic broadband access, over 98% of the BT Tradespace community, and we were adding around 2,000 our broadband sales are now made with value-added services each week: and attached.
"In the business mobility market, our strategy is to integrate BT Business Builder, one of a series of SaaS software as a service "" traditional xed, mobile and IP services to offer a single applications designed to help small businesses with administration and cost control."
A free online service, it addresses the core communications solution to our customers.
We also provide a financial, legal and administrative elements of business range of managed mobile services to UK and global customers management.
who either outsource their mobile communications entirely or rely on BT to provide specic managed services.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 19 Report of the Directors Business Report of the Directors Business review Openzone minutes 234m used in 2008 up 85%............................................................................................................................................................. Wi-Fi in the community cost base of our wholesale business by 13% through headcount BT Openzone is one of the leading providers of Wi-Fi services in reduction, eliminating duplication, achieving further operational the UK and Ireland.
In 2008, 234 million Openzone minutes efficiencies and aligning our resources more effectively with the were used up 85% on 2007. evolving needs of our customers.
In October 2007, we launched the worlds first international Wi-Fi voucher scheme, which means cheaper and more Managed network services contracts predictable costs for travellers when abroad.
The Openzone 500 During 2008, we signed a number of major managed network vouchers offer Wi-Fi access across roaming partners in the US, services contracts worth a projected total of 1.8 billion over Canada, Brazil, Argentina and Europe and Openzone access to their lifetimes.
These ranged from a comprehensive outsourcing hotels, airports and other hubs for an all-inclusive rate.
deal with the Post Ofce, to providing enhanced connectivity for We are also leading the way in building wireless cities other communications providers networks: throughout the UK, in order to ensure that local residents, Date Customer Nature of contract businesses, tourists and local government employees are always best connected.
May 2007 Post Ofce Four-year outsourcing contract In Westminster, for example, applications include wireless for provision of wholesale communications services to CCTV cameras, which are helping combat crime and anti-social underpin the Post Ofces drive behaviour, as well as assisting with parking enforcement.
We are to become a fully integrated also working with Westminster Council to provide online voice and broadband provider.
information from cinema listings to council services free to anyone logging on to BT Openzone from within the area.
July 2007 T-Mobile Five-year contract to link T-Mobiles UK base stations to its network.
Wholesale customers We have two principal groups of wholesale customers September Orange Provision of wholesale landline customers of our wholesale business and Openreachs customers 2007 services to Orange customers, enabling Orange to offer as well as our global carrier customers.
Like the industry it serves, our wholesale business is in transition.
As the industry migrates from traditional to next December Virgin Media Five-year, 98 million contract generation services and adopts the infrastructure being enabled 2007 for provision of voice network management services.
by Openreach, so we are establishing BT as a leading provider of innovative managed network solutions, which will enable our February Scottish and Supporting SSEs planned customers to transform their businesses.
Our strategy is to 2008 Southern launch of integrated support them through this transition, generating future growth Energy SSE communications services to its 8.5 million customers in the from the delivery of long-term managed solutions.
them to avoid the capital and operational risk associated with upgrading to next generation networks and services.
In the March 2008 Vodafone Five-year managed access process, we are managing our own transformation from a highagreement linking Vodafones volume product wholesaler to a next generation communications UK base stations with its core infrastructure.
product wholesaler and solutions provider.
All of this is being supported by improved service delivery, transformed propositions and a range of new software-driven services.
In 2008, for example, by focusing on our customers New wholesale products overall experience, we improved our right first time 21CN Ethernet performance for the provision and repair of our core wholesale In January 2008, we started to take orders for 21CN Ethernet, a broadband and data connectivity services.
next generation wholesale Ethernet service and the first product In the UK wholesale market, we provide network services and to be delivered over the 21CN platform.
21CN Ethernet will offer managed solutions to over 700 communications companies, up to ten times the bandwidth of the core MPLS network, including xed and mobile network operators, ISPs internet delivering high-speed data connectivity to corporate customers service providers and other service providers.
We interconnect and mobile operators.
Subsequent upgrades will enhance the with more than 180 other operators, as well as carrying transit services functionality and footprint.
We aim to have installed trafc between telecommunications operators.
around 600 nodes by Spring 2009, giving BT the UKs largest In 2008, we maintained our focus on the cost reduction Ethernet footprint.
opportunities that arise as our business changes.
We reduced the 20 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Network improvements in 2008 Service improvements in 2008 average offered lead times across product portfolio working days March 2008 March 2007 Improvement Network joints remade, replaced or sealed 132,000 Business order provision 2.9 4.8 40% Network blackspots upgraded 5,000 Consumer order provision 3.9 8.4 54% Defective telephone poles removed replaced 24,500 Business fault repair 0.6 1.3 54% Overhead wires renewed upgraded 29,000 Consumer fault repair 0.9 1.6 44% Targeted improvements to local networks 23,000 Overall activity level in exchanges rose by 22% Exchanges prepared for 21CN at 31 March 2008 1,600............................................................................................................................................................. Wholesale Broadband Connect Improvements in lead times offered to customers see table In April 2008, following trials with communication provider above contributed to improved cycle times.
customers, we launched a next generation 21CN broadband Achieving a step improvement in service performance was service, Wholesale Broadband Connect.
The benets of the new dependent upon reducing volatility and input volumes.
Through service include faster speeds, guaranteed service level exible resourcing and processes, Openreach stabilised and agreements, the ability to trade speed for stability, and improved levels of service, enabling it to cope with unexpected enhanced line diagnostics.
It will initially be available from events, such as the oods experienced in the summer of 2007. exchanges serving around one million homes and businesses and Service involves more than just reactive provision and repair we plan to extend the footprint for this service to exchanges activity: it also includes the process of reinvigorating the access serving ten million homes and businesses within a year of network infrastructure through investment in the local network launch.
which leads to improved reliability, enhanced service standards and reduced cost.
In 2008, Openreach invested around Traditional wholesale portfolio 35 million in a proactive maintenance programme, which We continued to sell a wide range of capacity and call-based reduced the number of access network faults by 10%.
At the products and services, including regulated interconnect services same time, the number of high-bandwidth services carried rose and new, non-regulated products and services.
time, we have been refreshing our core traditional portfolio with In addition to Openreachs business as usual provision and next generation replacements that will, over time, move these repair activity, preparing telephone exchanges for 21CN meant it services to 21CN and allow the decommissioning of parts of our had to replace and recover 2.5 million jumper wires.
Equivalence Management Platform EMP Openreach and the UK access network The EMP provides a single interface for communications Our Openreach access network business provides more than 450 providers to buy products from Openreach.
This is a major communications provider customers, including other BT lines of change from the previous approach under which each product business, with equal, open and economic access to the first was provided separately.
mile of BTs UK access network.
One of the industrys vital The creation of the EMP is a major achievement: the largest infrastructure assets, this first mile links end users premises to IT capability of its kind in the telecommunications industry.
The local telephone exchanges, via xed-line local and backhaul EMP underpins all Openreachs interactions with communications providers, and has the capacity to process up to 100,000 orders connections.
Openreachs 21,000 eld engineers install, repair and upgrade a day and carry out up to 60,000 line checks an hour.
All lines, ensuring that households, ofces and other premises have customers buying LLU now do so using the EMP.
As a result, in reliable local access to the telephony, internet and other services February 2008, Openreach was able to retire the legacy LLU offered by their communications providers.
provisioning system, saving associated running costs.
Openreach is committed to delivering a better network and providing a local access and backhaul environment in which its Delivering on the Undertakings customers businesses can thrive.
Its focus in the 2008 financial During 2008, Openreach delivered a number of the year was to continue to deliver and comply with the Undertakings made to Ofcom, including the launch of wholesale Undertakings made to Ofcom, while driving efficiencies, line rental WLR3 analogue product on 30 June 2007.
This providing the right levels of resourcing and enhancing service provides communications providers with all the information they levels.
Increasingly, it seeks to build mutually rewarding need to book and verify WLR3 orders in real time, 24 7, and relationships with customers and to work with them on issues with no limit on order volumes.
Openreach also delivered such as next generation access the transition from existing local equivalence of input for WLR digital services ISDN2 and ISDN30 access infrastructure or technologies to next generation highin 2008. speed broadband access services, which are of key importance to the UK as a whole.
Openreach products Wholesale Line Rental Improved service performance WLR, one of the largest transformations of the UKs In 2008, Openreach improved the quality of service delivery of telecommunications industry, enables communications providers all its products, signicantly reducing the number of orders and to offer telephony services with their own brand and pricing fault reports that did not meet target delivery date.
A significant structure over BTs network.
reduction in early life failures faults on newly installed lines At 31 March 2008, Openreach was providing over 22 million was also realised by improving its quality of execution.
Of the lines provided to other products, Ethernet resilience is now a viable and cost-effective communications providers, 3.8 million were WLR analogue lines option for enhancing service security.
up 9% on 2007 and 0.9 million were WLR digital lines up 31% on 2007.
Deploying bre to the premises In June 2007, Openreach completed an initial consultation with Local Loop Unbundling communications providers about the deployment of highLLU enables communications providers to use the lines capacity bre optic cable to premises and the delivery of connecting BT exchanges to end users premises and to install wholesale services over these networks to greeneld sites.
From their own equipment in those exchanges.
August 2008, as part of an initial trial, Openreach will deploy There are two types of unbundled line: bre optic cable, instead of copper, to homes on a new 1,000 acre site at Ebbseet Valley in Kent.
"Around 10,000 homes will a fully unbundled line which gives other communications "" be built on the site, incorporated in 1.5 million square metres of providers the exclusive use of the copper line: and retail, leisure and community facilities."
"a shared access line, which only gives other communications "" At this site, Openreach will offer the communications industry providers the use of the high-frequency channel used for a wholesale bre-based broadband product, facilitating broadband the line will also be used by the customers competition at a retail level."
The service will be capable of xed-line voice provider.
supporting speeds of up to 100Mb the fastest headline speed available to residential customers in the UK.
This will make At 31 March 2008, there were 12.7 million unbundled lines in possible a range of applications from HDTV gaming to nearthe UK, up nearly 20% on the previous year.
Of these, instant music downloads.
8.4 million were for BT lines of business, and 4.3 million were for non-BT communications providers.
More than 20 Building our twenty-first century network communications providers were providing unbundled services The key driver behind our 21CN platform is customer choice.
from over 1,850 local exchanges and Openreach was fullling 21CN is our next generation platform that enables softwaremore than 69,000 LLU orders a week.
driven, open innovation by BT, our customers and partners and Although the broadband market in the UK continues to grow is critical to our transformation into a software-driven global along with continued exchange unbundling, this process slowed communications services company.
in 2008 as a result of market consolidation.
Communications Following input from end users and communications providers providers are increasingly focused on improving customer involved in our South Wales pilot, we have evolved our retention and acquisition by offering packages incorporating a deployment strategy from one focused on mass migrating selection of broadband, voice, TV and mobile services.
customers onto the new network, with new services becoming available later, to one that delivers new services to customers Ethernet from the outset.
Openreach continues to develop a comprehensive portfolio of As a result of the new deployment strategy, new services, Ethernet products to support backhaul and access services for a such as 21CN Ethernet and 21CN broadband, will be offered to growing number of other communications providers.
customers during periods of voluntary take-up, after which One of the most exciting upcoming developments is customers will be mass migrated, enabling the closure and Openreachs new backhaul product, Ethernet Backhaul Direct.
decommissioning of certain legacy platforms.
This product has been designed to meet the increasing demand Through this new deployment strategy, we will be able to for high bandwidth backhaul capability from customers wishing deliver new services more quickly, with the associated benets to connect their local access circuits back to their core networks.
of increased revenue potential and improved customer It supports broadband applications such as video on demand, experience.
To date, 21CN has already delivered some 600 which is now driving an increase in internet trafc.
Additionally, million in cost savings, relating to operating efficiencies and by realising the cost efficiencies of 21CN, Openreach is able to reduced spend on legacy networks, and we expect to deliver offer a new, improved pricing structure for this service.
more savings in the future taking the total annualised savings to Openreach has also launched three new Ethernet products: at least 1 billion.
Street Access, Broadcast Access and CCTV Access, which give The 21CN programme has also been expanded to communications providers opportunities to move into new accommodate the increasing focus on software-driven services, markets.
Additionally, Openreachs review of Ethernet circuit as well as the potential of emerging technologies and the resilience pricing lowered the price and extended the availability demand from enterprise customers for additional functionality.
Rather than a premium option limited to a few As a result, we will introduce the BT innovation platform during the summer of 2008, which will enable us and others to develop 22 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 625m efficiency savings in 2008............................................................................................................................................................. and integrate a wide array of new applications that will add 2008 features and value both to the new 21CN services, and to During 2008, we completed a number of key acquisitions: completely new services.
Date Acquisition Keeping our costs down May 2007 We acquired Mumbai-based i2i Enterprise Pvt Ltd, We continue to benchmark ourselves against the best in the which specialises in IP communications services for major Indian and global multinational companies.
industry to determine where efficiencies can be generated.
We i2i is a provider of enterprise telecommunications remain focused on financial discipline and on delivering systems in the Indian market, and distributes BT efficiency programmes to generate sustainable cost efficiencies.
Infonets managed network services and products Cost transformation programmes delivered 625 million of nationwide.
This acquisition underscores our savings in 2008 and we expect to deliver around 700 million in commitment to India, currently one of the worlds fastest growing IT and business process outsourcing 2009.
Many of these programmes are closely linked to right markets.
first time initiatives, which have the dual benefit of reducing our cost of failure as well as enhancing the customer experience.
June 2007 We acquired Comsat International a provider of We have, for example, continued to enhance the ways in data communication services for corporations and public sector organisations in Latin America which customers interact with BT.
The number of transactions through its parent company, CI Holding completed via bt.
Comsat International employs more 31 March 2008, we had 3.6 million customers receiving e-bills, than 700 professionals with in-depth knowledge of almost 1.9 million of whom do not receive paper bills.
In Latin American markets and provides services response, we have planted one million trees over the past three directly in 15 countries.
It has a track record in the years.
delivery of complex projects and the management of network solutions for enterprise, public sector We remained focused on reducing the number and complexity and carrier customers.
of our systems and processes see Our IT systems and networks estate on page 30.
Other key programmes relate to innovative November We acquired the IT infrastructure division of CS procurement and sourcing.
2007 Communication & Syste`mes the French IT systems and network services provider for up toE60 million We continued to explore the possibilities of exible and agile including debt assumed.
At 31 March 2008, 23% of BT people doing what are corporate and public sector clients with a range of conventionally thought of as ofce jobs did not have a services for building and maintaining IT dedicated desk of their own.
Rather, they used a combination of infrastructures, including consulting, network homeworking and or exible workstations which can be shared integration, insourcing, outsourcing and data centre services.
We also made progress in 2008 in our drive to streamline our January 2008 We completed the merger between BT Italia SpA organisation and eliminate duplication.
This will remain a priority and I.
The merger followed the acquisition in 2009. by BT of Etnoteams 13.6% stake in I.
NET and the subsequent public tender offer for the remaining shares in public hands in April 2007.
BT Italia is Acquisitions and disposals Italys leading supplier of communications solutions BT actively reviews its portfolio of assets and acquisition and services dedicated solely to business and public opportunities in its target markets.
We will consider acquiring sector customers.
NET is an acknowledged leader companies if they bring us skills, technology, geographic reach in security and business continuity solutions.
or time to market advantage for new products and services.
March 2008 We acquired Frontline Technologies Corporation Ltd, one of the leading providers of end-to-end IT services in the Asia Pacic region, for approximately S$202 million.
Frontline provides IT consulting, infrastructure services, systems integration and IT outsourcing to local, regional and multinational companies and has operations in China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, the Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam.
Its acquisition enhances our existing networked IT services capabilities in the region.
Date Acquisition INS the California-based global provider of IT consulting and software solutions.
March 2008 At 31 March 2008, we had acquired over 91% of the outstanding issued share capital of Regulation and competition Net2S SA at a price ofE5.27 per share.
The transaction values the entire outstanding issued BT operates in an increasingly competitive and dynamic share capital of Net2S at approximately commercial environment, both in the UK and around the world.
Net2S provides technology Communications markets are undergoing significant change with, consulting and engineering services for critical for example, the accelerating convergence of TV and video business solutions to large corporate customers.
services over xed and mobile broadband connections.
The The company is headquartered in Paris and employs approximately 800 people operating differences between xed and mobile telephony are increasingly mainly in France.
It also has a presence becoming blurred, with many calls from ofces and homes now elsewhere in Europe, the US and Morocco.
Service bundles offering TV, broadband and xed and mobile telephony are provided by an We also completed a number of smaller transactions in 2008, increasing number of competitors in the market.
including the acquisitions of: Brightview Group Limited The changing dynamics of the market and of business models Brightview a consumer internet service provider : Basilica are creating new sources of competition and choices for Group Limited Basilica one of the UKs leading providers of IT consumers.
Under these circumstances, we believe that it is solutions to businesses : Lynx Technology Limited Lynx critical that regulation should only be applied where necessary, Technology one of the UKs foremost suppliers of IT services : otherwise there is a real risk that innovation and investment INS Group SA the Belgium-based network and systems could be stied.
operator : Square Mile Marina Limited a marina Wi-Fi network The UK has one of the worlds most competitive broadband operator : and Fresca Limited a specialist retail markets, with over four million lines for non-BT communications e-commerce service provider.
The success of LLU has led to Ofcoms see below proposed recognition of separate Post-balance sheet event geographic markets in the UK following its wholesale broadband In April 2008, we entered into a conditional agreement to access market review, a position supported by the European acquire Wire One Holdings Inc one of the leading providers of Commission see significant market power conditions on page videoconferencing solutions in the US.
This is a welcome development and means that 350 professionals across the US and Europe and provides deregulation would be able to occur in areas where products and services to over 8,000 customers, including 55% of infrastructure competition is strong, enabling us to compete the US Fortune 100.
With over 20 years of videoconferencing more effectively.
Ofcom is planning to carry out two narrowband support expertise, Wire One is one of the leading providers in market reviews in the 2009 financial year.
the US of easy-to-use, reliable, and cost-effective video communication solutions.
Regulation in the UK Electronic communications regulation in the UK is conducted Prior to 2008 within a framework set out in various EU European Union The BT of today was largely created by a radical restructuring of directives, regulations and recommendations.
The framework is the company in the 2002 financial year.
This restructuring currently under review by EU bodies and new directives are involved a rights issue raising 5.9 billion, the demerger of O2 expected to take effect in or about 2010.
UK legislation and comprising BTs wholly owned mobile assets in Europe, the regulation will therefore need to be amended to reect any disposal of significant non-core businesses and assets, the changes.
unwinding of Concert our joint venture with AT&T and the Our policy is to comply fully with all applicable laws and creation of customer-focused lines of business.
regulations, while competing fairly and vigorously within the In 2006, we acquired Radianz, a financial services extranet rules.
provider, from Reuters for a total consideration of 143 million.
We also acquired Atlanet, a Fiat subsidiary providing domestic Ofcom telecommunications services to Fiat and other non-Fiat business Ofcom the Ofce of Communications was set up under the customers throughout Italy, for approximatelyE80 million, Ofce of Communications Act 2002 replacing the previous further reinforcing our position in the Italian market.
telecommunications regulator, Oftel to provide a single, In 2007, our acquisitions included dabs.
com, PlusNet an seamless approach to regulating the entire communications internet service provider and International Network Services market.
The universal service obligations are dened promoting competition.
in an order issued by the Secretary of State.
Ofcom subsequently Ofcom regulation takes the form of sets of conditions laid adopted universal service conditions based on these obligations.
down by Ofcom under the Communications Act 2003 Our primary obligation is to ensure that basic xed-line services Communications Act, and directions under these conditions.
are available at an affordable price to all citizens and consumers Some conditions apply to all providers of electronic in the UK.
Other universal service conditions include obligations communications networks and services: others apply to relating to payphones and special social needs schemes such as individual providers, which Ofcom has designated as universal the light user scheme.
service providers or having SMP significant market power in a particular market.
The Communications Act also imposes more significant market power conditions general requirements on communications providers.
Ofcom is required by the EU directives regularly to review relevant markets and determine whether any communications Conditions applying to all providers provider has SMP in those markets.
Where Ofcom nds that a General conditions provider has SMP, it must impose such remedies as it considers The general conditions made by Ofcom apply generally to all appropriate, as specified in the Communications Act.
These may providers of electronic communications networks or services.
include obligations to meet reasonable requests to supply certain Although these conditions are concerned primarily with services to other communications providers, not to discriminate consumer protection, they also include requirements relating to unduly, to publish prices and notify price changes and general access and interconnection, standards, emergency obligations relating to regulatory accounting.
In some cases, planning and numbering.
A separate condition regulates the additional obligations such as price controls and cost orientation provision of premium rate services.
Following a series of market reviews by Ofcom, BT has been Electronic Communications Code ECC deemed to have SMP in a number of retail and wholesale xed The ECC applies to communications providers authorised to carry telecommunications markets, including all or parts of the out streetworks and similar activities for network provision.
The markets for: xed narrowband retail services, xed narrowband application of the ECC is subject to conditions made by the wholesale exchange lines, call origination and conveyance, Secretary of State for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory wholesale broadband access, wholesale local access and leased Reform.
In 2008, Ofcom continued to work on its review of the Funds for liabilities wholesale broadband access market, repeating earlier proposals Under the terms of the ECC, an electronic communications to define three geographical markets based upon the level of provider with apparatus on or in the public highway is required competition in individual exchange areas.
For the most to make financial provision to cover any damage caused by work competitive market, covering around 1,070 exchanges, Ofcom it carries out, and for the removal of its network in the event of proposes to remove the SMP obligations, subject to a one-year liquidation or bankruptcy.
Ofcoms Final Statement on this market review The conditions require an electronic communications provider is expected to be published in the first quarter of the 2009 subject to the code to provide Ofcom annually with a certicate financial year.
that, in the opinion of its board, it has fullled its obligations to In May 2007, following certain improvements to our WLR ensure the availability of the required funds.
BT has provided product, Ofcom granted consent for certain pricing relaxations in this for the period to 31 March 2009. relation to business exchange lines for major business customers.
Ofcom is also carrying out a market review of business Other general requirements connectivity.
"This may result in deregulation of some categories Other general requirements contained in the Communications of higher bandwidth wholesale private circuits, and also the Act include: extension of charge controls to a number of business connectivity services not currently subject to such controls see the payment of administrative charges: and "" Pricing regulation on page 26."
"Ofcom is planning to initiate the provision of information to Ofcom when required. """
market reviews of xed narrowband wholesale services and xed narrowband retail services in the 2009 financial year.
Conditions applying to BT Universal service conditions How we are delivering our Undertakings BT is the designated supplier of universal service for the UK, In response to Ofcoms strategic review of telecommunications, excluding the Hull area where Kingston Communications is the we proposed a number of legally binding Undertakings under BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 25 Report of the Directors Business Report of the Directors Business review............................................................................................................................................................. the Enterprise Act 2002 Enterprise Act.
These Undertakings Our charges for a range of interconnect services are were accepted by Ofcom and came into force in September controlled by Ofcom, under the NCC network charge control 2005. regime.
These controls are designed to ensure that our The Undertakings are intended to deliver clarity and certainty charges are reasonably derived from costs, plus an to the UK telecommunications industry and to support a appropriate return on capital employed.
Depending on the reduction in regulation over time.
significant structural changes degree of competition, charges are cap controlled each year have been made to enable BT to deliver the Undertakings, by RPI Retail Price Index minus X for services Ofcom including the creation of a new access services division considers unlikely to become competitive in the near future, Openreach and the implementation of restrictions on the and safeguard cap controlled ie no increases above RPI for sharing of information between upstream and downstream services likely to become competitive.
X is a number specic divisions of BT.
Since the Undertakings came into force, we have to a particular market, indicating the permitted change in made good progress in delivering our commitments.
controlled prices relative to the rate of ination.
The current The key Undertakings given by BT are to: NCC period began on 1 October 2005 and will last until 30 September 2009.
"BT must notify Ofcom and other CPs if it establish Openreach: "" intends to amend existing charges or offer new services."
"deliver equivalence of input for key wholesale products, and "" Other charge controls: PPCs partial private circuits are leased "" increased transparency for others: lines that BT sells to other network operators."
"On 1 October introduce new rules on access to, and sharing of, certain "" 2004, Ofcom introduced a PPC charge control to replace the restricted information: annual determinations previously carried out by Oftel."
"The control is a four-year, three-part RPI minus X formula "" restrict the exercise of inuence by other parts of BT on the covering low and high bandwidth services and equipment."
commercial policy of both Openreach and parts of BT Ofcom will carry out a review of the PPC charge control Wholesale: before the existing control expires on 30 September 2008.
"In ensure fair access and migration to our 21CN for other "" its consultation on the business connectivity market review, communications providers: Ofcom has proposed to remove our SMP designation in relation to higher bandwidth PPCs and certain circuits publish and make available to all BT people a code of practice "" provided in Central London."
This would result in these services explaining what they must do to comply with the being removed from the charge control.
"However, Ofcom has Undertakings: and also proposed to extend charge controls to PPC trunk create an Equality of Access Board EAB to monitor, report "" segments, wholesale Ethernet origination services and certain and advise on BTs compliance with the Undertakings and the ancillary services."
The EAB was established on 1 November 2005.
The EAB annual report which does not form part of Competition this report is available online at www.
com eabreport UK market trends In Ofcoms annual report on the impact of the strategic review The UK market has seen another strong year of growth in of telecommunications, published in December 2007, Ofcom broadband, with Wi-Fi proving ever more popular both in and reviewed the impact of the Undertakings and concluded that out of the home.
Broadband networks have supported the BTs progress in implementing them had delivered benets for launch and increased usage of new services, including peer-toindustry and for consumers.
Ofcom also identied a number of peer applications, such as the BBCs iPlayer, and IPTV, including areas where changes to the Undertakings are required.
Mobile broadband has also been a focus for many of include Openreachs provision of space, power and Ethernet the mobile operators as the voice and text markets approach services, and the process for consulting with industry on the saturation.
Broadband providers are now expected to deliver an deployment of 21CN.
We are working closely with Ofcom on the excellent level of service in addition to a range of applications form these changes will take.
and products which are tailored to the individual needs of customers.
Pricing regulation BT is no longer subject to retail price controls covering publicCompetition law switched telephony services.
Other wholesale services continue In addition to communications industry-specic regulation, BT is to be subject to price controls: subject to the Competition Act 1998 Competition Act in the UK and to EU competition law.
"Breach of UK or EU competition Network charge control: we operate under interconnection "" rules could lead to fines of up to 10% of a companys worldwide agreements with most other CPs communications providers."
A company may also be ordered to cease an Government set BTs property rates and those paid by Kingston infringing activity.
Where we operate outside the UK, we are Communications, and whether or not the UK Government also subject to the competition laws in the relevant countries.
complied with European Community Treaty rules on state aid.
It In 2004, Ofcom launched an investigation into allegations concluded that no such state aid had been granted.
The that BT had abused a dominant position in relation to its pricing Commissions decision has now been appealed, but we continue of consumer broadband products.
Ofcom sent BT three to believe that any allegation of state aid is groundless and that statements of objection to which we responded, and argued that the appeal will not succeed.
our pricing does not amount to an abuse of dominance.
Ofcom is expected to issue a decision during the 2009 financial year.
The rest of the world The vast majority of the communications markets in which we Other significant changes and issues operate around the world are subject to regulation, and in most Ofcom is currently conducting a review of the Openreach of these we have to meet certain conditions and have had to financial framework, with the aim of creating a long-term obtain licences or other authorisations.
The degree to which financial environment in which Openreach will deliver efficiency, these markets are liberalised varies widely which means that our coverage and high quality services, while ensuring that ability to compete fully in some countries is constrained.
equivalence of access encourages improved service performance.
We continue to press incumbent operators and their national The consultation is expected to begin in early summer 2008 and regulatory authorities around the world including in the EU for any newly proposed regulatory measures should take effect cost-related wholesale access to their networks where during 2009. appropriate and for advance notice of any changes to their The implementation of the Undertakings and continuing network design or technology which would have an impact on changes to the market for Openreach products have resulted in our ability to serve our customers.
changes to Openreachs cost base.
The focus of Ofcoms review is likely to be the current price ceilings on the copper access Our relationship with HM Government products WLR and LLU and transaction connections, The UK Government, collectively, is our largest customer, but migrations and rental charges.
the provision of services to any one of its departments or This review is, in our view, a significant milestone and we agencies does not comprise a material proportion of our welcome it as an opportunity to create regulatory certainty and revenue.
Except as described below, the commercial relationship financial stability, as well as provide incentives for Openreach to between BT as a supplier and the UK Government as a customer invest and innovate.
has been on a normal customer and supplier basis.
We can, however, be required by law to do certain things Regulation outside the UK and provide certain services for the UK Government.
General BT must comply with the regulatory regimes in the countries in conditions made under the Communications Act require all which we operate and this can have a material impact on our providers of public telephone networks and or publicly available business.
telephone services, including BT, at the request of and in consultation with the authorities, to make, and if necessary Doing business in the European Union implement, plans for the provision or restoration of services in Communications regulation in each EU country is conducted connection with disasters.
The Civil Contingencies Act 2004 within the regulatory framework determined by EU directives, contains provisions enabling obligations to be imposed on regulations and recommendations.
This framework is currently providers of public electronic communications networks, under review see Regulation in the UK on page 24.
The including BT, in connection with civil contingency planning.
In manner and speed with which the existing directives have been addition, the Secretary of State has statutory powers to require implemented vary from country to country and national us to take certain actions in the interest of national security and regulators are working together in the European Regulators international relations.
Group to introduce greater harmonisation in their approach to the assessment of SMP and the imposition of appropriate Legal proceedings remedies.
We do not believe that there are any pending legal proceedings BT does not have universal service obligations outside the UK, that would have a material adverse effect on the financial although in certain member states we may be required to position or operations of the group.
contribute towards an industry fund to pay for the cost of There have been criminal proceedings in Italy against 21 meeting universal service obligations in those countries.
Blu, in which we held a minority interest, Our success as a business depends on recruiting, retaining, participated in that auction process.
On 20 July 2005, the developing and rewarding skilled and talented people who live former BT employee was found not culpable of the fraud charge by the BT values.
brought by the Rome Public Prosecutor.
All the other defendants were also acquitted.
The Public Prosecutor has Nurturing leadership capabilities appealed the courts decision.
If the appeal is successful, we The quality of leadership is also vital to the successful could be held liable, with others, for any damages.
The company transformation of BT.
We are focused on ensuring that leaders has concluded that it would not be appropriate to make a at all levels understand what is expected of them, have access to provision in respect of any such claim.
appropriate development opportunities and are able to benchmark their performance against that of their peers.
Our resources Our brand and reputation Encouraging learning and development BT has a strong reputation and a trusted brand that is widely We offer employees a wide range of learning and re-skilling recognised in the UK and around the world.
Our brand helps to opportunities.
A variety of online and instructor-led courses are shape our relationships with customers, suppliers and employees.
available through Route2Learn, our group-wide web-based As a vital asset, the BT brand needs to be developed, learning portal.
protected and managed with the same rigour that we bring to We have created and operate a learning governance model to other assets, both tangible and intangible.
And as the world and ensure that learning and development within BT really do align the markets in which we operate change, so our brand needs to with our key strategic objectives.
Our successful company-wide reect this, becoming more confident, dynamic and forward re-accreditation to Investors in People first achieved in 1998 is looking.
a vital measure of our success in achieving this alignment.
Our brand values are implicit in our advertising strap line Key to being number one for customer service is developing Bringing it all together which captures both what we can do a passionately customer-centric culture in BT and ensuring that for customers and our commitment to acting as a single BT our people have the skills and the tools necessary to ensure that team.
every customer experience is an excellent one.
A number of During 2008 we made great progress with the task of development initiatives designed to improve our right first time integrating the brands and identities of the various IT services performance were launched in 2008.
For example, by the end of businesses that we have acquired in the UK and around the May 2008, BT Design and BT Operate will have taken about world.
As each of these companies adopts the BT brand and 21,000 people from around the world through a one-day event identity, they enhance our reputation for expertise in delivering focused on a number of practical ways to improve the customer services in local markets, while the acquired companies gain experience and to drive innovation and cross-organisation from the global scale and trust that the BT brand brings with it.
Our people Rewarding and recognising achievement Our aim is to create a team of high-performing, engaged and Around 40,000 managers are eligible for variable, performancemotivated people who can make a difference for customers, related bonuses and the remuneration of our most senior shareholders, the company and themselves.
managers is linked to BTs total shareholder return performance measured over a period of three years or, in the case of Building a global team Openreach senior managers, Openreachs performance over a Our people strategy continued to support the transformation of three-year period.
BT in our drive to become number one for customer service.
As From 2009, remuneration will also be linked to the manner in we increasingly operate globally, so our workforce outside the which objectives are met as well as to the fact that they are UK continues to grow.
This how factor will take into account the behaviours 111,858 people worldwide 102,544 in the UK and the rest of managers exemplify customer-centric leadership abilities in Europe, the Middle East and Africa: 4,714 in the Americas: and meeting their objectives.
significant acquisition activity We are also developing ways of recognising and rewarding during the financial year meant that 8,455 new employees were not just individual performance but also teamwork between integrated within the BT family.
The acquisition, for example, of individuals and between different parts of the business, in order Frontline involved the transfer of 3,264 people to BT see to promote new ways of serving our customers best interests.
Acquisitions and disposals on page 23.
We operate a exible benets programme in many parts of BT, which gives employees the freedom to choose between 28 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 1% 464% 28% 111,900 Americas UK, Europe, Asia Pacific the Middle East number of employees worldwide and Africa............................................................................................................................................................. different types of benets, exchanging salary for healthcare or disability is championed by a senior manager who is a member bonus payments for enhanced pension contributions.
In addition, each line of business has a senior We continued to provide our employees with opportunities to manager champion for equality and diversity, who is responsible share in the companys success.
Employees outside the UK for the promotion, development and implementation of local receive an award of free BT shares or a cash equivalent diversity and inclusion strategies.
For example, in 2008 depending on local legal and or regulatory requirements from Openreach developed a recruitment campaign to attract more 2008, all BT employees in the UK were entitled to receive free women and people from ethnic minority backgrounds into the broadband instead of an award of free shares.
The campaign received a Chairmans more than 25 countries also have the opportunity to save to buy Award from Race for Opportunity and the Investor of the Year BT shares at a discount to the price at the start of the savings award from Women into Science, Engineering and Construction period.
And under the BT Employee Share Investment Plan WISE.
ESIP, UK employees can buy BT shares from their pre-tax and We benchmark our policies and practices against the pre-NI salaries.
95% of eligible employees participate in one or standards set by a number of organisations including Race for more of these plans.
Opportunity BT ranking: 3rd, the Employers Forum on Disability Most of our employees are members of the BT Pension BT ranking: 3rd, Opportunity Now gender BT ranking: 6th, Scheme a dened benefit scheme or the BT Retirement Plan a Stonewall sexual orientation BT ranking: 11th and the money purchase scheme, both of which are controlled by Schneider Ross Global Diversity and Inclusion benchmark BT independent trustees.
The BT Pension Scheme was closed to new ranking: 2nd.
The majority of new employees are Outside the UK, we are working to ensure that our policies eligible to join the BT Retirement Plan see Pensions in the and practices are tailored to address legislation country by Financial review on page 54. country, as well as respecting cultural differences.
Flexible working for example, hot-desking, ofce sharing Connecting with our people and working from home enables people with disabilities, Our annual employee attitude survey was conducted most caring responsibilities and those returning from maternity leave recently in February 2008 and attracted a 72% response rate to work where once it would have been difficult.
The survey generates around 5,000 employees have the right to request exible working and it is feedback reports for managers and their teams across the already well established in our UK operations where more than business, helping to promote effective team working.
This practice is increasingly important in our global operations where, during 2008, we ran Employees are kept informed about our business through a wide range of communications channels, including our online exible working initiatives in Spain, France, the Netherlands and news service, bi-monthly newspaper, regular email bulletins and the US.
senior management webchats and webcast briengs.
We have a record of stable industrial relations and enjoy Health and safety generally constructive relationships with recognised unions in the The health and safety of our people are of paramount UK and works councils elsewhere in Europe.
In the UK, we importance and we continue to seek improvements by focusing recognise two main trade unions the Communication Workers on behavioural lifestyle change.
In 2008, we concentrated our Union and Connect.
We also operate a pan-European works health promotion activities on mental well-being impaired council the BTECC.
mental health is our single greatest cause of lost time and productivity.
Our sickness absence rate amounted to 2.43% of Embedding exibility and promoting diversity calendar days being lost 20% lower than five years ago.
We continue to create an inclusive working environment in During 2008, we reduced our accident rate by more than 20% to 1.9 lost time incidents per million working hours at 31 March which employees can thrive regardless of their race, sex, religion beliefs, disability, marital or civil partnership status, age, 2008. sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression or caring Our global research and development responsibilities.
22% of our workforce is female, women hold 19 of our top capability 81 leadership roles and make up 29% of the people in our We are developing a global R&D research and development leadership team succession plans.
10% of our most highly capability to support BTs drive to meet customers needs around rewarded people in the UK are from an ethnic minority the world.
We have a world-class team of researchers, scientists background and 16.5% are female.
and developers, including over 3,100 people at Adastral Park Diversity and inclusion at BT are led by our Global Equality England, a research team based in Malaysia and a new R&D and Diversity Forum.
Each diversity group e. g. gender, race, centre in China.
We have announced plans to establish a joint BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 29 Report of the Directors Business Report of the Directors Business review 1,252m invested in R&D in 2008............................................................................................................................................................. research and innovation centre in the United Arab Emirates with and in managing a secure and resilient infrastructure.
In 2008, the Emirates Telecommunications Corporation Etisalat and in addition to the infrastructure work for 21CN, we focused Khalifa University.
And we play a lead role in the India-UK significant systems development effort on introducing new Advanced Technology Centre, a consortium of industry and programmes and services over 21CN and improving right first academic partners from India and the UK.
We have dedicated innovation scanning teams in the US, Asia We continued the radical transformation of the BT systems and the Middle East who identify more than 600 new estate, with the aim of achieving year-on-year cost reductions technologies, business propositions and market trends a year.
at the same time as improving speed to market and enhancing We embrace open innovation, reaching out beyond the the customer experience.
company to nd the best people and the best ideas, wherever By eliminating duplication and simplifying and rationalising they are in the world.
We are involved in partnerships at every our systems, we have been able to reduce the number of stage of the innovation process, from scientific research to the systems in use.
In 2008, we closed almost 650 systems, bringing development of new products and services.
cumulative net closures to around 1,350 in less than three years.
In 2008, we invested 1,252 million in R&D to support our drive for innovation.
This investment comprised capitalised Our property portfolio software development costs of 720 million and R&D operating At 31 March 2008, we occupied approximately 7,000 properties costs of 532 million.
This compares with 1,119 million in in the UK and approximately 400 properties in the rest of the 2007, which comprised 741 million of capitalised software world.
The majority of these UK properties are owned by and development costs and 378 million of R&D operating costs.
leased from the Telereal Group, which is part of the William Pears Group.
These properties mainly house exchange equipment Embracing open innovation and are needed as part of our continuing activities.
Other We work with more than 30 universities around the world and general purpose properties consist chiey of ofces, depots and have open innovation partner relationships with the University of computer centres.
Cambridge, UCL University College London and MIT We anticipate that the deployment of innovative technology Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Examples of which makes possible the consolidation of exchange equipment collaborations include our work with Cambridge University to along with changes to our working patterns, will continue to research protocols and architectures for wireless mesh networks, reduce the size of our property portfolio and the amount we and the work we have done with MIT Sloan on the applications invest in it.
Our wider responsibilities We are also a member of the Participate consortium a UK Sustainability and corporate social Government-funded project to explore the ways in which a combination of pervasive broadcast and online media can create responsibility CSR mass-participation events.
And we led the EU-funded NM2 We see CSR as the voluntary action a company takes to collaborative research project into shapeshifted TV TV that contribute to the wider social goal of sustainable development.
can be personalised to suit the preferences of individual viewers.
Managing social, ethical and environmental issues in a way Building on our long tradition of innovation, we led patent that grows shareholder value, builds our brand and helps us and applications for 168 inventions in 2008.
We routinely seek our customers become more sustainable is very important to us.
patent protection in different countries including the US, Japan, This section, together with the broad statement on social, France, Germany and China, and we currently maintain a total environmental and ethical matters see page 79, conforms to worldwide portfolio of around 8,000 patents and applications.
the Association of British Insurers disclosure guidelines on social responsibility.
More detailed information about our social, ethical External venturing and environmental performance is available in our independently We have successfully launched nine innovative, independent veried 2008 sustainability report at www.
com start-up companies, six through the corporate venturing betterworld partnership unit New Venture Partners, in which we are a limited We invest significant resources in our CSR programmes and partner.
They include Azure Solutions, which merged with Subex believe that it is vital that we continue to be forward-looking to become the worlds largest revenue assurance company.
Real and responsible in our everyday operations and maintain our Time Content is the latest company to be launched.
During 2008, our UK accreditation to environmental Our IT systems and networks estate management standard ISO 14001 was renewed, and we Our dedicated IT and networks professionals have a strong achieved certication for our operations in Ireland, Italy and record in the development and delivery of systems and solutions Belgium.
Our aim is to gain accreditation around the world.
And we help system standard certication for our operations in the UK and the Disaster Emergency Committee DEC respond to much of the rest of the world since 1994. international disasters.
During 2008, our CSR strategy prioritised three areas where In 2007, we launched our first global development BT can make the most difference: climate change, social partnership with UNICEF to develop community projects to bring inclusion and sustainable economic growth.
education, ICT information and communications technology and communications skills to disadvantaged children.
BT is Recognition of our contribution to society investing 1.5 million over three years and this will be added to In July 2007, BT won Business in the Communitys prestigious by fundraising activities by BT people around the world.
Projects Company of the Year award for our positive impact on society.
were launched in South Africa in 2007, and in Brazil in April The award goes to the company judged to be improving its 2008.
More than 140,000 has business and its overall impact on society, in the marketplace, already been raised to support the projects in South Africa the workplace, the environment and the community, through where, with BTs support, UNICEF has built or renovated leadership and integration of responsible business practices.
classrooms at 25 of the countrys most impoverished schools, as During 2008, BT was ranked as the top telecommunications well as providing ICT training for teachers.
Around 18,000 company in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the seventh children have benefited.
The two-year initiative in Brazil aims to year in a row.
The Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes rank reach more than 10,000 disadvantaged young people in ten companies for their success in managing social, ethical and schools in Sao Paulo, Rio fide Janeiro, Belo Horizonte, Salvador environmental issues for competitive advantage.
By making communications skills and technology reaccredited with the Queens Award for Enterprise in available in this way, we are enabling young people to tackle recognition of our contribution to sustainable development.
In issues that affect them, their schools and their communities.
2008, we retained our Platinum Banding for companies scoring In June 2007, we announced a three-year partnership with over 95% on Business in the Communitys Corporate the British Red Cross in support of disaster relief worldwide.
We were the top scorer in all but three of are the first global communications services company ever to the 79 impact areas.
And the Association of Chartered Certied partner with the British Red Cross in this way.
We are investing Accountants ACCA named BT as the winner of its best 100,000 a year to provide essential satellite, IT and GPS sustainability report award 2007. equipment.
By funding a three-year programme, BT and the British Red Cross can ensure that the relevant equipment is in place so that relief can be deployed anywhere in the world as Being a responsible business CSR touches every part of our business from the way we quickly as possible.
This partnership builds on our current interact with our customers, suppliers and partners, look after support for disaster relief through DEC and is a natural extension our people, give back to communities and support charities, of our own emergency response and civil resilience activities.
right through to our practical concern for the environment.
We commit a minimum of 1% of our UK pre-tax profits in cash and Protecting the environment in kind to activities which support society.
We provided a total Reducing waste of 22.3 million designed to benefit society in 2008, of which We recognise that we have a responsibility to the environment 2.5 million was in charitable donations.
and we continue actively to manage our waste reduction and Our community investment strategy aims to help individuals recycling.
During 2008, we received an income of 6.7 million and communities make a better world through improved from our recycling activities, offset against the 7.3 million we communications skills and technology.
Our BT Better World spent managing our waste contracts, recycling our waste and campaign aims to ensure that young people have the sending waste to landll.
We recycled 46% of our waste in 2008 communication skills they need.
Over three million young people and aim to increase this to more than 50% next year.
We also benefit from BTs educational resources every year.
aim to reduce the amount of waste we send to landll by 6% in ChildLine, a UK charity, receives calls from 4,500 children 2009. every day but lack of funds means that many hundreds go unanswered.
We are working with ChildLine on a campaign to Combating climate change ensure that every childs call for help is answered.
In 2008, BT Ten months work by a CBI task force chaired by Ben and BT employees raised 650,000 for ChildLine.
Verwaayen and including 18 chairmen and CEOs from some of BT volunteers and call centre employees take donations as the UKs largest companies resulted in the publication of a part of major charity telephone and online appeals, including report, Climate change everyones business, in November Children in Need, Sport Relief and Comic Relief, helping to raise 2007.
The report concluded that all businesses have a millions of pounds each year.
We also manage the telephone BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 31 Report of the Directors Business Report of the Directors Business review CO UK only 2 Million tonnes 2008 2007 2006 2005 Total 0.68 0.68 0.69 0.84 % below 1996 58% 58% 57% 48% Tonnes per 1m turnover 33 34 35 46 Note: this table reflects the changes to the Defra Department for Environment, Food, and Rural Affairs measures which were revised in June 2007.............................................................................................................................................................. responsibility to reduce their CO emissions and BT has pledged Promoting sustainable economic growth 2 to help full the task forces commitments.
Enabling growth that benets society in both the developed We aim to be a leader in the new low-carbon economy.
and developing worlds within environmental limits is a new Communications technology can benefit the environment by, for area of focus for BT.
During 2008, we established a set of example, reducing the need for people to travel, which in turn sustainability criteria for assessing potential new products and reduces carbon emissions.
On the other hand, the manufacture services.
In 2009, these criteria will be used as a part of our and use of our products and services also produce emissions and standard development process.
During the year we also our energy consumption could increase as a result, for example, developed an opportunities map to help us prioritise and of the growth of our data centres.
Consequently, we have communicate sustainability opportunities throughout our conducted an audit of the energy used by these data centres business.
The map quanties the commercial potential and and are implementing energy saving measures.
We will also be sustainability impacts of products and services currently in helping and encouraging our customers, employees and suppliers development as well as longer-term prospects.
We will also use to play their part, and this includes encouraging our suppliers to this to raise awareness with investors and other stakeholders.
develop products that emit lower levels of carbon.
To help raise awareness of environmental issues, we have launched a website Helping everyone get a fair chance to enable people to calculate their carbon footprint We believe that ICT has a role to play in creating a more www.
com climatechange inclusive society, helping everyone get a fair chance.
We want Our CO emissions in the UK are 58% lower than in 1996 and everyone to share the benets of communications technology.
2 we aim to achieve an 80% reduction from 1996 levels by 2016.
"We are committed to promoting inclusion by: Our UK green electricity contract to purchase green making our products readily available, affordable and easy to "" electricity from a number of energy suppliers is one of the use: largest in the world, and we recently renewed it until 2010."
"Renewable electricity supplies are limited in many countries and increasing communication and ICT skills through community "" investment programmes: and growing demand is pushing up prices."
In response, we have announced plans to develop our own wind farms in the UK.
"This creating an inclusive culture throughout BT. """
will be the UKs biggest wind power project outside the energy sector and by 2016 will meet up to 25% of our UK electricity We aim to help people communicate, whether face-to-face, on needs.
We are exploring suitable sites and expect to start the phone or via the internet, and we are proud of our generating power in 2012. reputation for developing products that can be used by all our We are involved in a number of other energy-saving customers, regardless of age or ability.
We are currently building an energy efficient In July 2007, we launched the inclusive design toolkit combined cooling, heating and power plant at our Adastral Park www.
com betterdesign, the result of a site in the UK.
This will initially use natural gas, and may use collaboration with the i design a consortium of business people renewable fuels in future.
We are also installing a solar and academics research team.
This toolkit aims to support photovoltaic system at our ofce complex in Southern California designers and those involved in product development to include in the US, and expect to reduce CO emissions by 290 tonnes users in the design process and consider the needs of people 2 annually.
We are also integrating carbon management into our newly acquired businesses, and now have low-carbon electricity contracts in Belgium, Germany and Italy as well as the UK.
In 2008, we carried out energy audits at ten UK and three European data centres and plan to cut CO emissions in line with 2 our carbon reduction target.
The table above shows our CO emissions as dened in the 2 Greenhouse Gas Protocol and therefore includes not only the CO e carbon dioxide equivalent emitted directly by BT, but 2 also that emitted in the production of the electricity purchased by us.
Group risk factors For a number of years we have maintained a CSR risk register.
In common with all businesses, BT is affected by a number of During 2008 we continued to develop our knowledge and risk factors, not all of which are wholly within our control.
understanding of our CSR risks.
Our most significant CSR risks Although many of the risk factors inuencing our performance continue to be: are macroeconomic and likely to affect the performance of businesses generally, others are particular to our operations.
"breach of our code of business ethics: "" This section highlights some of those particular risks affecting climate change: "" our business but it is not intended to be an extensive analysis of all risk affecting our business."
"Some risks may be unknown to us diversity: "" and other risks, currently regarded as immaterial, could turn out health and safety: "" to be material."
"All of them have the potential to impact our business, revenue, profits, assets, liquidity and capital resources outsourcing: "" adversely."
"privacy: and "" We have a dened enterprise-wide risk management process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks supply chain working conditions. """
The key features of the risk management Each of these risks has an owner within BT and a mitigation process are provided in the statement on Internal control and strategy in place.
These risks are not regarded as material in risk management on page 80.
The group risk register captures relation to the group and consequently are not included in the most significant risks facing the business over a three year Group risk factors.
Each risk is assigned a senior management owner responsible for monitoring and evaluating CSR opportunities the risk and the mitigation strategies.
The group risk register has In general, corporate sustainability efforts have tended to focus been reviewed by the Operating Committee before being on mitigating risks and reducing social and environmental reviewed and approved by the Board.
Although we believe that such efforts are essential, The risk factors below are all identied on the group risk they are only part of the story.
If our sustainability efforts really register and should be considered against the background of our are to support our business growth, we need actively to seek risk management process.
The risk factors discussed in this out commercial opportunities.
section are considered to be consistent with the principal risks In our view, information and communications technology has and uncertainties facing the group.
The risk factors should also a positive role to play as part of the solution as individuals and be considered in connection with the statement on Internal organisations look for more sustainable ways of communicating, control and risk management on page 80, the forward-looking working and living.
Our sustainable economic growth statements in this document and the Cautionary statement programme is intended to help BT and our customers achieve regarding forward-looking statements on page 154. socially beneficial growth within environmental limits.
This has a very direct connection with our business strategy and our Regulatory controls commitment to put our customers at the heart of what we do.
Some of our activities are subject to significant price and other In 2008, we launched our sustainability practice, helping our regulatory controls which may affect our market share, customers improve their CSR performance.
The first consultancy competitive position and future profitability.
offering is a carbon impact assessment.
Most of our wholesale xed-network activities in the UK are The London Organising Committee of the Olympic Games and subject to significant regulatory controls.
The controls regulate, Paralympic Games LOCOG reinforced its vision of a Games for among other things, the prices we may charge for many of our the Digital Age by announcing in March 2008 that BT had services and the extent to which we have to provide services to become the latest Tier One partner of the London 2012 Games.
In recent years, the effect of As the ofcial communications services partner, we will be these controls has been to cause us to reduce our prices.
We responsible for providing the communications services supporting cannot assure our shareholders that the regulatory authorities the Games.
As a Sustainability Partner, we will use our will not increase the severity of the price controls, nor extend involvement with the Games as a platform to drive and the services to which controls apply including any new services showcase our sustainability agenda.
that we may offer in the future, nor extend the services which we have to provide to other communications providers.
These controls may adversely affect our market share, the severity of competition and our future profitability.
In response to Ofcoms strategic review of telecommunications, Technological advances we proposed a number of legally binding Undertakings that were Our continued success depends on our ability to exploit new accepted by Ofcom and came into force in September 2005.
Ofcoms annual report on the impact of the Telecoms Strategic We operate in an industry with a recent history of rapid Review, published in December 2007, Ofcom noted the real technological changes and we expect this to continue new progress we had made to date in meeting the Undertakings, and technologies and products will emerge and existing technologies described where we could take further action to benefit UK and products will develop further.
A number of challenging milestones in the We need to continually exploit next generation technologies Undertakings also remain to be delivered.
in order to develop our existing and future services and In the case of a breach of the Undertakings, Ofcom has the products.
However, we cannot predict the actual impact of these right to seek an injunction through the courts.
Third parties who future technological changes on our business or our ability to suffer losses as a result of the breach may also take action provide competitive services.
For example, there is evidence of against BT in the courts for damages.
Pressure for the substitution by customers using mobile phones for day-to-day introduction of next generation access services could result in BT voice calls in place of making such calls over the xed network being forced to invest without being able to recover a fair and of calls being routed over the internet in place of the return on the investment.
If these trends accelerate, our Ofcom is conducting a review of the Openreach financial xed-network assets may be used uneconomically and our framework during the 2009 financial year.
Whilst the review is, investment in these assets may not be recovered through profits in our view, an opportunity to create regulatory certainty and on xed-network calls and line rentals.
financial stability, there is a risk that it may adversely affect our The complexity of the 21CN programme, and the risk that our competitive position and future returns on our regulated copper major suppliers fail to meet their obligations may result in delays asset base.
to the delivery of the expected benets.
Impairment writeFurther details on the regulatory framework in which we downs may be incurred and margins may decline if xed costs operate can be found in Regulation and competition on pages cannot be reduced in line with falling revenue.
Transformation strategy Competition in UK xed-network services Our strategy for transformation includes the targeting of We face strong competition in UK xed-network services.
significant growth in new business areas.
Ofcom considers that we have significant market power in This may result in changes to our products, services, markets various parts of the UK xed telecommunications market.
If this transformation strategy is unsuccessful there these areas Ofcom can enforce obligations to meet reasonable is a risk that future revenue and profitability will decline.
In requests to supply services to other communications providers, particular, we have targeted significant growth in new business not to discriminate unduly, to notify price changes and in some areas, such as networked IT services, broadband and mobility.
In cases it can also impose extra obligations such as price controls.
view of the likely level of competition and uncertainties Ofcom has promoted competition in the xed-network area regarding the level of economic activity, there can be no by measures including local loop unbundling, carrier certainty that we will meet our growth targets in these areas, pre-selection making it easier for BT customers to route some with a consequential impact on future revenue and profitability.
or all of their calls over other communications providers networks and wholesale access products.
Major contracts Reduction in our share of the xed-network market may lead Our business may be adversely affected if we fail to perform on to a fall in our revenue and an adverse effect on profitability.
Unlike other communications providers, we continue to be We have entered into a number of complex and high value obliged by the current regulatory regime to serve customers in networked IT services contracts with customers.
Our pricing, cost the UK, whether or not such provision of service is economic.
and profitability estimates for major contracts generally include There is also competition for voice and data trafc volumes anticipated long-term cost savings that we expect to achieve between xed-network operators and those operators offering over the life of the contract.
The impact of all these factors may be These estimates are based on our best judgement of the to accelerate the diversion of our more profitable customers efficiencies we plan to deploy.
Any increased costs, delays or without being able to reduce our costs commensurately, which failures to achieve the anticipated savings could make these may cause adverse effects on our business, profitability, financial contracts less profitable or loss making, thereby adversely condition and prospects.
In some cases, our products and services incorporate software or reduction in our profitability and there can be no assurance that system requirements from other suppliers or service providers.
material adverse events will not occur.
Our ability to meet our commitments in a timely manner may depend on the ability of these suppliers and service providers to Pensions meet their obligations.
Failure to manage and meet our We have a funding obligation to a dened benefit pension commitments under these contracts may lead to a reduction in scheme.
our future revenue, profitability and cash generation.
Declining investment returns, longer life expectancy and regulatory changes may result in the cost of funding BTs Networks and systems failures dened benefit pension scheme BTPS becoming a significant Our business depends on our ability to transfer substantial burden on our financial resources.
As a result, of the triennial volumes of data speedily and without interruption.
actuarial valuation of the BTPS at 31 December 2005, we Any significant failure or interruption of such data transfer as agreed to make annual deficiency payments of 280 million over a result of factors outside our control could have a material ten years.
The first three instalments totalling 840 million were adverse effect on the business and our results from operations, paid upfront by April 2007. including the deployment of 21CN.
We have a business The results of future scheme valuations and associated continuity strategy in place, designed to deal with such funding requirements will be impacted by the future catastrophic events including, for example, major terrorist action, performance of investment markets, interest and ination rates industrial action, extreme computer virus attack, hurricane or and the general trend towards longer life expectancy, as well as ooding.
A failure to deliver that strategy may lead to a regulatory changes, all of which are outside our control.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 35 Report of the Directors Business Report of the Directors The financial results for 2008, 2007 and 2006 reect the continued growth in new wave services as we drive value from transforming the business.
Business review Financial review Corporate governance Page 11 Page 37 Page 58 37 Summarised group income statement 49 Taxation 38 Introduction to the Financial review 49 Total tax contribution 38 Group results 49 Tax strategy 38 Group revenue new wave and traditional 50 Tax accounting 38 Group revenue customer segment 50 Financial risk and capital management 39 Geographical information 50 Financial risk management 39 Other operating income 52 Capital management 39 Operating costs 52 Share buy back 40 Operating profit 52 Capital resources 40 Line of business results 53 Off-balance sheet arrangements 40 Business transformation 53 Balance sheet 42 BT Global Services 53 Capital expenditure 42 BT Retail 53 Acquisitions 43 BT Wholesale 54 Return on capital employed 44 Openreach 54 Pensions 45 Other group items 54 Critical accounting policies 45 Specic items 55 Alternative performance measures 46 Net finance expense 55 EBITDA 47 Associates and joint ventures 55 Results before specic items 47 profit before taxation 55 Free cash ow 47 Taxation 56 Net debt 47 Earnings per share Please see Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements on page 154.
47 Dividends 47 Financing 49 Free cash ow
