18 BUSINESS REVIEW CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 Business Review This Business Review, Chemring Group PLC is an together with the Statement by the Chairman, the international leader in energetic Review by the Chief Executive and the Review by the Finance Director materials, components and set out on pages 2 to 17, and the Corporate Responsibility systems, and expendable Report set out on pages 28 to 31, provides a fair review of the countermeasures, with Groups business development, performance and position at the end of the financial year: manufacturing operations in the its strategy and likely future developments: key performance UK, the US, Europe and Australia.
indicators: and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business.
United States of America Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc. Pennsylvania Kilgore Flares Company LLC, Tennessee Martin Electronics, Inc. Florida Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. Virginia Scot, Inc. Illinois Technical Ordnance, Inc. South Dakota Titan Dynamics Systems, Inc. Texas Revenue by destination 2008 US 142m 40% UK 86m 24% Europe 67m 19% Middle East 30m 9% Far East 23m 6% Rest of world 7m 2% CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW 19 Europe Chemring Countermeasures Ltd, United Kingdom Chemring Defence Germany GmbH, Germany Pirotcnia Oroquieta S. L. Spain Chemring Defence UK Ltd, United Kingdom Chemring Energetics UK Ltd, United Kingdom Chemring EOD Ltd, United Kingdom Chemring Marine Ltd, United Kingdom Chemring Nobel AS, Norway Simmel Difesa S. p. A, Italy Australia Chemring Australia Pty Ltd 20 BUSINESS REVIEW CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 Business Review CONTINUED Energetics: The Group is a centre of excellence for the design, development and production of energetic materials, sub-systems and systems for military, OEM and safety customers.
Our energetics products can be categorised as follows: Pyrotechnics and explosive Munitions Collaboration ordnance disposal EOD between Military pyrotechnics Energetic sub-systems Smoke and ares Propellants and rocket motors Chemring Defence Distraction and screening grenades Fuze and safe arm units Markers Flight termination systems in the UK and Smoke payloads Pyro-mechanisms and actuators Battle eld simulation products Warheads and charges Martin Electronics Impulse cartridges Primers Demolition stores Ammunition and components resulted in Mercury, RF and hard-wired electrical initiators Medium and large calibre ammunition Percussion initiators Fuzes 40mm medium Detonators and charges Propellants Mine eld clearance systems Manufacture of base high explosives velocity ammunition Recoilless fide-armers disrupters Insensitive HE material ROV weapon carriers that has created Marine pyrotechnics a new market by Smokes and ares Rockets increasing the Line throwers Aircrew egress effective range of Rocket propellant Canopy cutting charges under-slung ri e Linear explosives Cartridge actuated devices grenade launchers CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW 21 Our businesses Chemring Australia Martin Electronics Chemring Australia Pty Ltd is based in Victoria, Australia, and Martin Electronics, Inc. based in Perry, Florida, USA, is a specialist supplies a range of pyrotechnics, countermeasures, military manufacturer of ammunition, fuzes, signalling and other training and marine safety products.
pyrotechnically activated devices for use in the defence sector.
Chemring Defence NIITEK Chemring Defence comprises of three companies: Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. based in Virginia, USA, is Chemring Defence UK Ltd, based in Derby, UK: a leading developer of robot and vehicle-mounted mine detection Chemring Defence Germany GmbH, based in Bremerhaven, systems incorporating its advanced Ground Penetrating Radar Germany and Pirotcnia Oroquieta S. L. based in Pamplona, GPR and metal detection technologies.
Chemring Defence is a centre-of-excellence for the Simmel Difesa design, development and production of defence material Simmel Difesa S. p. A. is based in Colleferro, Italy and is a leading and sub-systems for military, OEM and safety customers.
supplier of medium calibre ammunition and components including Chemring Energetics UK fuzes, safety and arming devices, warheads and modular charges.
Chemring Energetics UK Ltd is based on the Ardeer Peninsula in Technical Ordnance Scotland and in Corsham, UK and specialises in the design and Technical Ordnance, Inc. is based in South Dakota, USA, and manufacture of energetic materials, rocket motors, actuated manufactures initiators, impulse cartridges, safety and arming devices and demolition stores.
Chemring EOD Scot Chemring EOD Ltd formerly BDL Systems Ltd and Scot, Inc. is based in Downers Grove, Illinois, USA, and Richmond EEI Ltd is based in Dorset and Norfolk and is a leading manufacturer of cartridge-actuated and manufactures a range of products for detection, assessment and propellant-actuated devices CAD PADs used in aircraft neutralisation of explosive threats for improved explosive device emergency systems, aircrew egress and space launcher defeat IEDD and unexploded ordnance UXO clearance.
Scots products include actuators, valves and Chemring Marine sequencers, separation nuts and bolts, and aircraft weapon Chemring Marine Ltd is based in Fareham, UK and is the worlds ejector systems.
leading supplier of marine distress signals to the commercial Titan Dynamics Systems and leisure markets, under the brand names of Pains Wessex Titan Dynamics Systems, Inc. is based in Marshall, Texas, USA, and and Comet.
is a leading manufacturer of battle eld effects simulators BES.
Chemring Nobel Titans proprietary launchers and cartridges provide realistic Chemring Nobel AS High Energy Materials is based in simulation for force on target training.
It has a range of new Saetre, Norway, and manufactures and supplies RDX and HMX, products to meet the evolving requirements from current and other niche energetic materials for explosives and deployments including improvised explosive device IED effects propellant applications.
simulators, and a missile launch simulator which replicates the characteristics of shoulder-launched weapons against land or Kilgore Flares air targets.
Kilgore Flares Company LLC is based in Toone, Tennessee, USA, and manufactures pyrotechnic and ammunition products, as well as expendable decoys for air and sea platforms.
22 BUSINESS REVIEW CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 Business Review CONTINUED Countermeasures: The Group is the worlds leading producer of expendable decoy countermeasures for protecting air, sea and land platforms against guided missile threats.
Our countermeasures products can be categorised as follows: Air countermeasures Our businesses Our portfolio Conventional MTV ares Alloy Surfaces Advanced decoys is constantly Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc. is based in Special material decoys Philadelphia, USA, and manufactures special Chaff developing to meet material decoys SMD for protecting aircraft against IR missile threats.
Naval countermeasures counter-solutions RF decoys Chemring Countermeasures IR decoys Chemring Countermeasures Ltd is based in for emerging Salisbury, UK and manufactures IR and RF decoys for air, sea and land platforms.
threat technologies, Kilgore Flares re ecting our Kilgore Flares Company LLC is based in Toone, Tennessee, USA, and manufactures expendable commitment to decoys for air and sea platforms, as well as a range of pyrotechnic and ammunition products.
meet new needs and situations CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW 23 Strategy Our vision is to Group strategy be the leading The Group strategy remains focused on our High reliability and safety our products two core sectors of operations Energetics require the highest levels of safety in producer of and Countermeasures.
Manufacturing and product safety must be one of our Our core strategy over the next five years looks highest priorities.
energetic material for the development of excellence within our key three core competencies: High volume manufacturing we currently products and manufacture many of our products in Energetic materials we will focus the signi cant quantities and have built up strong countermeasures business on products where we can exploit expertise in automated manufacturing.
Our our extensive expertise in explosive, strategy is to consolidate manufacturing for the global pyrotechnic and pyrophoric materials.
We will centres, where possible, to give high address niche, highly pro table markets with volumes.
Expertise in automation and exible defence market signi cant, value-added manufacture and manufacture will drive down our cost base assembly where barriers to entry are strong.
Partner major prime Maintain market contractors share through technical leadership Displace weak competitors Establish technology leadership Countermeasures EOD Pyrotechnics Munitions 24 BUSINESS REVIEW CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 Business Review CONTINUED Energetics strategy Strengths and resources The Group has core competencies in the design and manufacture Pyrotechnics and explosive ordnance disposal EOD of energetic materials: the development of highly reliable and Our strategy is to become the world leader in pyrotechnics, safe products: and high volume manufacturing.
through focused investment in new products that displace existing incumbents and better meet our customers Market position and reputation requirements.
We also intend to consolidate the market through The Group is the worlds leading manufacturer of carefully selected acquisitions in both Europe and the US.
countermeasure decoys, with over 50% market share.
The special material decoys manufactured by our US We aim to become the world leader in demolition stores, and countermeasures business are unique to the Group, and we are signi cantly expand our expertise in EOD.
We will become a currently leading the eld in the development and manufacture major European competitor in the demilitarisation of unwanted of other advanced technology products, such as spectral and ammunition and munitions, and we will develop a world-leading kinematic decoys.
position in counter-mine and counter-IED technologies.
In our growing Energetics division, we are building on the Groups Munitions reputation as an expert manufacturer of products containing Our strategy is to develop a position as the preferred supplier of energetic materials, and we are developing a prominent position in energetic materials to the key prime contractors for ammunition several niche market areas, including pyrotechnics for screening, and missiles in Europe and the US.
This will be achieved through signalling and illumination, battle eld effects simulators, key investment in new products, by targeted competition against components of aircrew egress systems, explosive ordnance existing sole-source suppliers, and by further complementary disposal equipment, advanced fuzing and naval ammunition.
We will maintain our position as the world market leader in naval ammunition, and we will develop our focus as Customer relationships a prime contractor in certain special niche markets that are The Group has an extensive customer base, comprising complementary to those of our principal customers.
governments, armed forces, prime contractors and OEMs across the globe.
The US Department of Defense is our largest single customer.
We have an extensive distribution network and, with Countermeasures strategy worldwide market access, our businesses currently supply to The core strategy for the Countermeasures business is to maintain over eighty countries.
our share of the expendable countermeasures market and expand the business in line with the size of that market, which is expected Manufacturing operations to grow steadily over the next five years.
We will increase our The Group continues to bene t from signi cant ef ciency investment in new products and technologies, and will build on our improvements achieved through enhanced automation and current leadership in special material, spectral and thrusted are rationalisation of manufacturing capabilities across the Group, technologies.
We will continue to invest in new fully automated and we have an ongoing investment plan for new plants and production facilities that will improve operator safety, signi cantly technologies.
Our operational structure is now geared to enhance our operational ef ciency, and maintain our lead role in leverage strongly from future sales growth.
the development of new products for the next generation of xed wing and rotary aircraft.
Solid financial base The Group enjoys healthy operating margins across its Geographic strategy businesses.
Our focus on working capital management in recent Our geographic strategy has five components: years has manifested itself in excellent cash conversion and We will maintain our US operations as 50% of the Group.
produced a sound balance sheet for the Group.
We intend to manufacture in the US for the US market and in Europe for the European market.
Management We will use our excellent worldwide sales network to export both Management resource and expertise have been strengthened the Groups and third parties products to global markets from at all levels across the Group during the last three years, and both Europe and the US.
we continue to develop our operational skills to ensure that we We will establish local manufacturing facilities in countries where remain a world class manufacturer.
We have an experienced we need to do so in order to access certain key national markets.
team working on business development and acquisitions, and we We will increase our regional marketing presence in the Far East are focusing heavily on our post-acquisition plans to ensure that and the Middle East.
new acquisitions are effectively integrated within the Group and we achieve maximum value from our growth strategy.
CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW 25 Operating performance 2008 2007 Continuing operations m m Revenue 177.1 128.2 Energetics continuing operations acquired 19.6 - 196.7 128.2 Energetics total Countermeasures 157.5 126.5 Total revenue 354.2 254.7 Underlying operating pro t continuing operations 79.6 61.2 acquired 5.3 - Total underlying operating pro t 84.9 61.2 Underlying pro t before tax 74.2 53.2 Operating pro t 68.4 57.8 Pro t before tax 57.7 49.8 Underlying basic earnings per ordinary share 160p 112p Basic earnings per ordinary share 123p 105p Before goodwill adjustment arising from recognition of tax losses, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations and loss on fair value movements on derivatives of 16.5 million 2007: 3.4 million Key performance indicators The Groups strategy is underpinned by focusing on a number of key financial performance indicators.
The key indicators that the Board utilises to assess Group financial performance are set out below.
Similar indicators are used to review performance in the two divisions.
Details of nonfinancial performance indicators are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report.
The Board considers that the measurement of underlying and divisional operating pro t provides additional useful information to users.
Orders received and order book Orders received Order book 2008 2007 2008 2007 Continuing operations m m m m Energetics 249.2 172.0 281.0 177.8 Countermeasures 155.2 123.0 128.0 119.5 Total 404.4 295.0 409.0 297.3 The closing order book at the year end of 409 million represents a 38% increase on the previous year end.
This re ects the signi cant increase in demand for the Groups products during the year, and provides a solid base for performance in the current financial year.
26 BUSINESS REVIEW CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 Business Review CONTINUED Operating pro t Principal risks and uncertainties As described on page 50 and 51, the Board is responsible for 2008 2007 the Groups systems of internal control and its risk management Continuing operations m m systems.
The Board has constituted a Risk Management Energetics 45.7 27.9 Committee, which meets quarterly, to review the key risks associated with the achievement of the annual budget and the Countermeasures 45.5 38.6 five year plan for each business: the top five health and safety Total 91.2 66.5 risks identi ed at each site: and the risk control procedures Operating pro ts of the divisions are stated before charges for share-based implemented.
The Committee reports biannually to the Audit payments, unallocated head of ce costs and goodwill adjustment arising from Committee and the Board and, through this process, the Board recognition of tax losses, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations has identi ed the following principal risks currently facing and loss on fair value movements on derivatives of 22.8 million 2007: 8.7 million the Group.
The Group mitigates its risk exposure through an insurance programme that covers property and liability risks, The operating pro t on continuing operations increased by 37% where it is appropriate and cost effective to do so.
during the year, re ecting the strong operating performance of both divisions.
Health and safety risks The nature of the Groups operations, involving energetic materials, Return on sales is such that the Board considers health and safety to be a key area of focus in managing risk.
Accordingly, health and safety is included 2008 2007 Continuing operations % % on the agenda at every Board meeting and is also discussed at the Energetics 23 22 monthly Group Executive Committee meeting.
The Board believes that responsibility for the delivery of world class safety standards 29 30 Countermeasures is an integral part of the operational management accountability, Total 26 26 and managers are therefore expected to embrace a positive safety culture and to demonstrate leadership and commitment in The return on sales percentage as a whole is consistent with the the workplace.
All employees are encouraged to report potential prior year.
hazards, and to raise any health and safety concerns through the appropriate channels.
Interest cover Our stated aim is to achieve zero injuries and to reduce health and safety risks, where they cannot be eliminated altogether, to 2008 2007 a level which is as low as reasonably practicable.
All businesses Total 7.9 times 7.6 times are expected to proactively manage their own risks but in addition, the top five site risks at each business and their associated Net finance expense was covered 7.9 times by underlying mitigation programmes are reviewed on a monthly basis by the operating pro t at the year end.
The Board aims to keep Group Executive Committee and quarterly by the Risk Management interest cover at a prudent level.
Technology and automation roadmaps support the Groups strategy for risk reduction through increased automation Operating cash ow and remote operations included within its five year plan.
2008 2007 m m Further details on the Groups approach to health and safety are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report.
Total 83.7 60.6 Management resource Group operating cash ow increased by 38% to 83.7 million The Group requires competent management if it is to achieve during the year.
This represents a conversion rate of underlying its growth expectations, successfully integrate its acquired operating pro t to operating cash of 99%.
businesses and meet its aggressive order capture targets.
Accordingly, the Group Executive Committee reviews the Contractual arrangements strengths and weaknesses of the management team at As referred to above, the Group contracts with a wide range each business twice a year.
We continue to strengthen the of customers, comprising governments, armed forces, prime management organisation across the Group, and a number contractors and OEMs across the globe.
The US Department of of new senior appointments have been made during the year.
Defense is the largest single customer, and procures the Groups We have undertaken a detailed review of our future sales and products under a signi cant number of separate contracts marketing resource requirements, and a recruitment drive is now placed with individual Group businesses.
A similar review of engineering resource is in progress.
The Groups businesses utilise many suppliers across the world, and arrangements are in place to ensure that businesses are not totally A bespoke management development programme for our senior reliant on single suppliers for key raw materials or components.
management will be delivered in 2009 by Henley Management College, with the intent that this will be rolled out to the next tier of management during 2010.
Competitors Defence is a global industry, which is constantly challenged to counter ever-changing threats.
The Groups strategy is to focus on targeted niches in energetic materials and systems, CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW 27 where the nature of the products and the requisite production Technology transfers and quali cation processes provide signi cant barriers to new The formation by the Group of  for the entrants.
However, as threats evolve, new businesses offering production of energetic materials has generated considerable new solutions may enter the market.
interest from major prime contractors in both the US and Europe, who are looking for strategic partners.
Progressing the The nature of the threat from missiles and other weapons development of these relationships and securing the transfer is continually changing, particularly as new platforms are of technologies from these large prime contractors is a key introduced in different countries, and countermeasures objective for the Group over the next five years.
Accordingly, solutions need to develop on an ongoing basis to meet the the Group has been recruiting new personnel to manage these enhanced requirements.
The number of countermeasures activities, and reviewing manufacturing capabilities and investing manufacturers is currently small but as technologies change, capital where necessary, to ensure that we mitigate the risk existing manufacturers compete for new products and new associated with the technology transfers and maximise the businesses can enter into the market.
The Group is currently opportunities that are presented.
the world leader in the supply and manufacture of expendable Management of prime contracts countermeasures, with a number of proprietary products, The Energetics division now has substantial prime contracts with a and we intend to maintain this position through our continued number of countries, and is planning to secure more.
The contracts investment in research and development, and world class provide for the supply of an extensive range of our own and third manufacturing facilities.
party products over the next three years, and require a particular Timing of orders type of programme management expertise.
Dedicated programme The Group has a very strong order book but in general, the managers have been appointed, with a reporting chain through majority of the Groups contracts are of a relatively short to the Group Executive Committee, which undertakes a regular duration and, with the exception of framework contracts with high level review of programme status and supply chain issues.
key customers, do not usually cover multi-year requirements.
During the year we appointed additional personnel with specialist This means that an unmitigated delay in the receipt of key orders knowledge of the management of offset requirements and complex could affect the Groups earnings, and achievement of its growth export compliance issues for this growing area of business.
targets, in a given financial year.
Maximising order intake is Political risks therefore a key priority for the Group.
We are addressing this It is recognised that the nature of the current military operations through the strengthening of our sales and marketing resources.
around the world may change over the next three to five years.
The development of world class manufacturing facilities, with Our energetics activities are less dependent on these military the ability to transfer manufacture across sites, also provides activities, particularly as our product portfolio continues to grow us with the exibility to change our manufacturing schedules if in areas such as training and explosive ordnance disposal EOD.
anticipated orders are delayed and need to be replaced at short notice, and to satisfy our customers surge requirements.
We do not believe that the Groups countermeasures business Introduction of new products will be signi cantly impacted by a change in current military The Groups approach to innovation and continued research operations, as our products will still be required to provide and development activity ensure that we are continually defensive protection during the continuing peacekeeping adding new products to the range.
During the year, our position activities.
Growth in the countermeasures business will be was further strengthened in this area by the demand for our delivered as our proprietary products are tted to a range of new countermeasures on a range of new platforms.
platforms in the US and Europe.
In order to satisfy these requirements, we need to ensure that The US Department of Defense is the Groups largest customer.
new product development is completed in a timely manner to a At the present time, we do not foresee any signi cant change standard which allows us to undertake volume manufacturing, to the level of future demand for the Groups products in the US and to produce products against high reliability and safety criteria following the recent change in administration.
to meet our customers requirements.
New manufacturing Compliance and corruption risks facilities have been established in the year to accommodate the The Group has committed to adherence to the European production of these new products, and in other areas, there has Aerospace and Defence Associations Common Industry been a requirement to signi cantly increase capacity on our Standards on Anti-Corruption, and is currently reviewing all of its existing production lines.
This necessitates careful management business processes in order to achieve full compliance.
of contractors - where construction work is being undertaken, suppliers - where new components have to be quali ed for use Economic risks in our products, and employees - where training in new skills Fortunately, the Group has not been greatly affected by the dif cult is required.
We continue to introduce Six Sigma techniques as economic conditions prevailing in many countries around the world appropriate within the organisation to improve our manufacturing and the Board continues to believe that the future prospects for the capabilities.
This investment in new facilities is ongoing.
However, we will continue to closely monitor our potential exposure to further economic changes.
Introduction of new manufacturing facilities Over the next two years, we will be investing signi cant capital Financial risks expenditure in the establishment of new countermeasures Details of the financial risks to which the Group is potentially manufacturing facilities in the UK and Australia.
We need to exposed are set out in Note 24 of the financial statements.
ensure that these facilities are completed within budget and on time, in order to maximise our manufacturing capacity for our future growth expectations.
We have appointed a senior Project Director to oversee the design and construction activities, and progress is being monitored by the Group Executive Committee.
