Business Review Introduction locating stores in visible, convenient and accessible locations This has been a challenging year for the Group, particularly in the an unwavering focus on customer service second half of the year.
Nevertheless, our performance has been excellent operational and financial management generating resilient and we have continued to grow net asset value per share.
strong cash-flow growth Big Yellow has achieved substantial total returns to shareholders in innovative and creative marketing the last five years with revenue, operating profit and net asset value an entrepreneurial and passionate culture, with accessible senior increasing every year.
These arise from a combination of factors management encouraging innovation and dialogue throughout including: the business recruiting and retaining quality people into the business a prime portfolio of freehold self storage properties successful acquisition and development of new stores Financing Objectives the strength of operational management Big Yellows financing policy is to fund its current needs through a mix revenue growth of debt and equity in building out the existing portfolio and achieving improving cash flow and margins our strategic growth objectives, which we believe improves returns for flexible and conservative financing shareholders.
Business Objectives We aim to ensure that there are sufficient medium term facilities in In recent years, Big Yellow has established itself as the leading self place to finance our committed development programme, secured storage brand in the UK MORI National Survey, August 2007, a key against the freehold portfolio with debt serviced by our strong objective set at flotation.
The Groups strategy is to continue to invest operational cash flows.
in quality assets at the premium end of the self storage market and The core business is financed by a mixture of debt and equity which to build on our brand leadership nationally.
We intend to measure our improves returns to shareholders.
The level of bank debt in the progress by commissioning quantitative research each year.
We business is closely monitored against the Boards policy guidelines, opened our first store outside our core area, in Leeds in 2005 and now which currently require that the ratio of net debt to gross property have sites under development in Manchester, Liverpool, Nottingham, assets is no greater than 50% and interest cover not less than 2 times Birmingham, Edinburgh and two in Sheffield.
based on net operating income, comfortably ahead of its banking The main elements of our strategy remain: covenants.
However, it is acknowledged that there may be limited periods where income cover temporarily falls slightly below 2 as a the roll-out of new freehold stores in major urban conurbations result of known factors, for example a number of new store openings, throughout the UK as new freehold stores make a loss for the first three to six months retaining a focus on London and the South East in the core Group before breaking even at the net operating income level.
conservative financing using flexible bank borrowings secured against a prime freehold portfolio, and more recently the Partnership with Pramerica 06 Big Yellow The Groups strategy is to continue to invest in quality assets at the premium end of the self storage market and to build on our brand leadership nationally.
Risk Management by domestic and business customers is relatively low throughout the The management of risk is a fundamental part of how we have UK, although higher in London.
The rate of growth in branded self controlled the development of Big Yellow since its formation in storage on main roads in good locations continues to be limited by September 1998. the difficulty of acquiring sites at affordable prices and obtaining planning consent.
Self Storage Market Risk Big Yellow only invests in prime locations, developing high quality The economy grew satisfactorily in the first half of 2007, with consumer self storage centres in the large urban conurbations where the spending remaining strong.
The credit crunch, which started in August drivers in the self storage market and the barriers to competition 2007 has clearly impacted the availability of mortgages to home are at their strongest.
owners which in turn has caused a significant reduction in housing We have a large current storage customer base of over 30,000 spread market activity.
This came on top of the additional costs from across the portfolio of open stores and many thousands more have increasing interest rates over the previous year, and more latterly used Big Yellow over the years.
In any month customers move in rising energy, food and transport prices.
The combination of these and out at the margin resulting in changes in occupancy.
This is a factors has impacted confidence and decision making, which has seasonal business and typically one sees growth over the spring and slowed demand.
We believe however that the structural need for self the summer months, with the seasonally weaker periods being the storage remains.
We have increased storage rents to customers by winter months.
The performance in terms of occupancy, revenue 6.1% from May 2008.
Over the last six years average net storage and EBITDA of our stores can be seen from the Portfolio Summary rental growth has been 4.5%.
Approximately 50% of our customers are in some way linked to the housing market, for example with customers renting storage space Property Risk between house moves or whilst moving within the rental sector.
We We are continuing our expansion in key cities in the Midlands, the estimate that 15% of customers rent storage space as a spare room North of England and Scotland, with a target of opening a total of 25 for lifestyle purposes and approximately 20% of customers use the stores in the next five years.
We also retain our focus on growing the product because some event has occurred in their lives generating core business in London and the South of England, through the the need for storage: they may be moving abroad for a job, have acquisition of key strategic sites.
We continue to face significant inherited furniture, are getting married or divorced, are students who competition for sites for these quality main road locations from other need storage during the holidays, or homeowners developing into uses such as residential, hotel, car showroom and offices.
We believe their lofts or basements.
The balance of 15% of our customers are the current difficulties in the banking and capital markets clearly businesses ranging from start ups and market traders to retailers make access to capital required to fund growth more difficult and will and larger multinationals storing stock, documents, equipment, or slow down the growth in self storage store openings in the market promotional materials all requiring a convenient flexible solution to generally.
We believe that we are in a relatively strong position their storage either to get started or to free up more expensive space.
because of our strong balance sheet underpinned by our freehold Self storage is an immature market with further opportunity for property assets, with available banking facilities and an ability to significant growth.
Awareness of self storage and how it can be used access more if required.
Big Yellow 07 Business Review continued The planning process remains difficult with planning consents taking Our portfolio is relatively high yielding and we believe this flexible approximately twelve months to achieve on average.
In this approach to our hedging is appropriate for our strategic aims, given competitive environment, we do take planning risk as it is necessary our conservative balance sheet.
for us to acquire sites unconditionally, with planning and other Interest Cover and Balance Sheet Risk property due diligence carried out under tight timescales.
A slowing The Group reviews the current and forecast projections of cash flow, property market will provide opportunities to buy certain sites on a borrowing and interest cover as part of its monthly management conditional basis, as we have with two of our recent acquisitions.
In addition, an analysis of the impact of significant Big Yellows management has significant experience in the property transactions is carried out regularly, as well as a sensitivity analysis industry generated over many years and in particular in acquiring assuming movements in interest rates and occupancy in the stores property on main roads in high profile locations and obtaining on gearing and interest cover.
In the year under review we were successful in acquiring 10 sites, Credit Risk four in London and sites in Camberley, Reading, Birmingham, Our customers are required to pay a deposit when they start to rent Edinburgh and second sites in Guildford and Sheffield.
We now have a self storage unit and are also required to pay in advance for their a portfolio of 70 stores and sites and one extension site of which four-weekly storage charges.
The Group is therefore not exposed to 48 are currently open and a further 10 have planning consents.
75% of our customers pay by direct debit.
have surplus land of 29.4 million.
Included in this is our second site Since the commencement of the credit and liquidity issues since last at Bow, which was acquired at a time when our existing store was August, we have not seen any increase in bad debts and arrears.
subject to a compulsory purchase order for the Olympic Zone.
This Taxation Risk order has fallen away, so we have made the decision to dispose of the The Group is exposed to changes in the tax regime affecting the cost site.
Additionally, we have decided to sell our site in Blackheath, where of corporation tax, VAT and Stamp Duty Land Tax SDLT.
We regularly we were unsuccessful in achieving planning permission.
monitor proposed and actual changes in legislation with the help of We manage the construction of our properties very tightly.
The our professional advisors and through trade bodies to understand building of each site is handled through a design and build contract, and, if possible, mitigate or benefit from their impact.
with the fit out project managed in-house using an established professional team of external advisors and sub-contractors who have REIT Risk worked with us for many years to our Big Yellow specification.
The Group converted to a REIT with effect from 15 January 2007.
The Group is therefore exposed to potential tax penalties or loss of its REIT Treasury Risk status by failing to comply with the REIT legislation.
The Group has The Group borrows in sterling at floating rates of interest and uses internal monitoring procedures in place to ensure that the appropriate swaps to hedge its interest rate exposure.
The Group has derivatives rules and legislation are complied with.
To date all REIT regulations in place to ensure at least 40-50% of bank borrowings are hedged, the have been complied with.
balance is left floating paying margin over LIBOR.
At March 2008, we have hedging instruments in place over 67% of our outstanding bank borrowings.
During the second half of the year, we have been paying over 1 month LIBOR, rather than 3 month LIBOR which has been at elevated levels due to the illiquidity in the inter bank lending market.
08 Big Yellow Human Resources Risk Operationally, Big Yellow commits to: At Big Yellow we have developed a professional, lively, enjoyable and Development to address relevant issues on local community fun working environment and believe our success stems from and climate change aiming to achieve best practice on attracting and retaining the right people.
We encourage all our staff sustainability checklists and local planning guidance to build on their skills, through appropriate training and regular Design to minimise its carbon footprint as far as practicable performance reviews.
We believe in an accessible and open culture through the application of passive building principles, viable and everyone at all levels is encouraged to review and challenge renewable energy and other sustainability criteria accepted norms, so as to contribute to the performance of the Group.
Construction to aim for build site sustainable practices by raising environmental and health and safety standards through Reputational Risk the Considerate Constructors Scheme Big Yellows reputation with all its stakeholders is something we value Estates and Facilities to monitor energy, waste and water highly and will always look to protect and enhance.
We aim to provider performance in order to identify areas for operational communicate clearly with our customers, suppliers, local authorities efficiency improvements and communities, employees and shareholders and to listen to and Operations to keep store managers and customers informed of take account of their views.
Big Yellows Intranet and Website the ethical, safety, security, energy use and waste minimisation bigyellow.
co. uk are important avenues of communication for both aspects of storage and packaging employees and shareholders.
Sales, Marketing and Customer Care to facilitate external We have signed two international franchise agreements in respect of communication of sustainability and ethical market the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain.
We carried out due diligence on differentiation and improve customer satisfaction our local partners and were advised on the Development Agreement Human Resources to integrate the Group CSR policy within all by the Eversheds Franchise Team, now part of Field Fisher training programmes, employee communications, and benefits Waterhouse.
The Development Agreement provides the requisite initiatives, whilst continuing to promote charitable giving, controls typical of arrangements of this nature to protect our employment creation and staff retention reputation and brand.
We have appointed an experienced International Office Management and Information Technology to facilitate Franchise Director with over 15 years experience in franchising, who internal communication of environmental performance and cost is responsible for growing this aspect of our business.
effectiveness of energy usage, waste paper reduction, recycled paper usage, and the recycling of waste paper Corporate Social Responsibility The CSR Manager will facilitate the Board and Group Operations to The Board has appointed a Corporate Social Responsibility Manager achieve these commitments by establishing more specific objectives during the year.
We have adopted a formal corporate social within the existing management structure and implementing responsibility CSR policy during the year.
guidance to meet agreed continuous improvement targets.
The CSR Manager is also responsible for recording key performance indicators Corporate Social Responsibility Policy for annual reporting and review by the Board.
The Board recognises that high levels of corporate social responsibility CSR linked to clear commercial objectives, will create A detailed review of our work in corporate social responsibility is a more sustainable business and increase shareholder and customer included within the CSR Report on pages 24 to 30. value.
This Policy will cover all of Big Yellows operations, as both a self Stores storage developer and operator.
Big Yellow is seeking to meet the During the year we opened six stores, all in London at Sutton, Ealing, demand for self storage from businesses and private individuals Barking Central, Balham, Merton and our flagship 139,000 sq ft store providing the storage space for their commercial and or domestic at Fulham.
We also closed our store in Sheen for comprehensive needs, whilst aiding local employment creation and contributing to redevelopment into a new 60,000 sq ft store due to reopen in local community regeneration.
These store openings bring the number now trading The Board commits itself to: in the Group and the Partnership to 48.
The available net lettable Complying with relevant social and environmental legislation space increased by 458,000 sq ft over the year to 3.0 million sq ft Establishing a formal integrated CSR management structure to with the opening of these six stores.
implement best practice The maturity profile across the 47 wholly owned stores open at the Preventing pollution and the waste of resources to protect the end of the year is set out in the Portfolio Summary on page 16 and environment shows a blended occupancy for the portfolio of 62% 1.8 million sq ft Consulting with stakeholders on social aspects to improve their occupied, with the 32 stores more than two years old at an average services to the Group occupancy of 82%, consistent with the prior year.
The closing Providing capital for sustainable development that is economically occupancy at 31 March 2008 was 79% against 82% in the prior year, viable reflecting the more difficult trading conditions experienced in the Reporting annually on improving ethical, community and second half of the year.
environmental performance Big Yellow 09 Business Review continued There are a further 22 freehold sites including five sites within Big The drive to improve store operating standards and consistency Yellow Limited Partnership and an extension site at Richmond.
These across the portfolio remains a key focus for the Group.
Excellent sites are at various stages of planning and construction which, when customer service is at the heart of our business objectives, as a fully developed, will increase the total capacity of the portfolio to satisfied customer is our best marketing tool.
From our surveys 98% 4.5 million sq ft. of customers would recommend Big Yellow to a friend.
We measure customer service standards through a programme of mystery 10 of the 22 sites in the development pipeline are located in Greater shoppers and ex-customer surveys.
We have in place a team of Area London, which we believe will continue to improve the quality of our Managers who have on average been with Big Yellow for six years.
We have continued with our stated intention to acquire They develop and support the stores to drive the growth of the sites in key Northern cities, the Midlands and Scotland and set up Big business.
Adrian Lee, Operations Director, is the Board member Yellow Limited Partnership in the year with Pramerica Real Estate responsible for dealing with all customer issues.
Investors to fund this expansion.
We now have seven sites in the north, which will trade in the Partnership when open: in Birmingham, The store bonus structure rewards occupancy growth, sales growth Edinburgh, Liverpool, Manchester, Nottingham and two in Sheffield.
and cost control through setting quarterly targets based on In addition, our 72,000 sq ft store in Leeds was acquired by the occupancy and store profitability, including the contribution from Partnership in November 2007. ancillary sales of insurance and packing materials.
Information on bonus build up is circulated monthly and stores are involved in We continue to work on obtaining planning consents for all future preparing their own targets and budgets each quarter, leading to stores.
We expect to open six stores in the current financial year, improved visibility, a better understanding of sales lines and control three within the core Group, and three within the Partnership.
During the year we moved in over 40,000 customers taking 2.4 million The Group manages the construction and fit-out of its stores in-house, sq ft compared to 42,000 customers taking 2.5 million sq ft last year.
as we believe it provides both better control and quality, and we have This resulted in the stores increasing occupancy by 37,000 sq ft an excellent record of building stores on time and within budget.
The 150,000 sq ft last year, after adjusting for the sale of Leeds and the total construction spend in the year was 47 million.
We currently closure of Sheen.
Of the 48 stores open at the year end 43 are now have seven new stores on site, six of which will open in the financial trading profitably with the other five being the most recent to open.
The Big Yellow store model is now well established.
The typical store We opened our Fulham store in March after our most complicated contains 60,000 sq ft and takes some 2.5 to 3.5 years to achieve 85% construction project to date, involving a six month demolition and an occupancy.
The average room size is some 60 sq ft and the average 18 month construction period.
The new store incorporates retaining net rental achieved last year across the 47 wholly owned stores was a Victorian faade and a significant element of glazing, a double 25.38 per sq ft per annum the average rent in London is higher at basement and five floors above ground.
We have also developed Big 27.93 per sq ft per annum.
The store is initially run by three staff Yellow Wine Cellars, the first wine self storage in the UK, with 480 adding a part timer once the store occupancy justifies the need for private climate controlled cellars with the same benefits as self the extra administrative and sales workload.
Given that the operating storage, including accessibility, flexibility and convenience.
The cellars costs of these assets are relatively fixed, larger stores in bigger urban were formally launched on 13 May 2008, at a wine tasting launched conurbations, particularly London, drive higher revenues and higher by Oz Clarke, the celebrity wine personality.
We believe that as a customer facing real estate business it is paramount to maintain the quality of our estate and customer offering.
We therefore continue to invest in a rolling programme of store makeovers, preventative maintenance, store cleaning and the repair and replacement of essential equipment, such as lifts and gates.
10 Big Yellow Sales and Marketing Security During the year we completed a strategic review of our Marketing The safety and security of our customers and stores remains a key programme and we rolled out our new Brand proposition Get some priority.
To achieve this we invest in state of the art access control space in your life.
This involved a complete re-design of our marketing systems, individual room alarms, digital CCTV systems, intruder and materials, and was launched in April 2007 with an award winning TV, fire alarm systems and the remote monitoring of all our stores out of press and online advertising campaign.
Our TV advertisement has won our trading hours.
multiple awards including New Advertiser and Best 30 second TV ad We have implemented customer security procedures in line with at the British Television Advertising Awards.
We have now integrated advice from the Metropolitan Police and continue to work with the the new designs into all our marketing materials, including an updated regulatory authorities on issues of security, reviewing our operational signage package for new stores.
The importance of security and the need for We are at the forefront of online innovation in the self storage industry, vigilance is communicated to all store staff and reinforced through and during the year we launched the UKs first self storage online training and we have continued to run courses to enhance the reservation and real-time pricing system.
As a result of this, online awareness and effectiveness of our procedures in relation to security, enquiries now account for the majority of our sales prospects, and an entitled You and your customer.
increasing number of our customers are completing their reservations People online.
We are constantly looking to improve our e-commerce At Big Yellow we aim to provide a lively, fun and enjoyable work proposition and we will continue to lead the industry in this area.
environment, without losing our commitment to the best customer We carry out annual awareness surveys and our Brand continues to service and standards of performance.
Highlights from this years survey include: As the business has grown it has been necessary to formalise the We have achieved Brand awareness of 60% 70% in our target means by which ideas and policy changes are communicated and groups in London & the South East, an increase of 30% over the discussed with employees.
We hold regular consultation meetings previous year with employees, both formally and informally, and our Directors and Our Brand awareness is now three times the level of our nearest senior management spend significant time in the stores and are competitor accessible to employees at all levels.
An annual Employee Attitude 80% of our customer base continues to fall within the top three Survey provides the management with key feedback and guidance ACORN customer categories as to where to focus its resources in each year.
Big Yellow leads the industry in terms of Brand preference, with We encourage a partnership culture within the business and believe more potential customers expecting to use Big Yellow than any in staff participating in corporate performance through share other Brand incentives.
Many employees have benefited, or continue to benefit, Source: Ipsos Mori, August 2007 from share options granted in previous years and from an HMRC A thorough understanding of self storage ie a full awareness of the approved Sharesave Scheme.
This provides an opportunity to invest in service provided and its benefits remains relatively low at the future success of Big Yellow at a discount to the prevailing share approximately 30%, and educating the public about our top quality price at the date of each invitation.
service and facilities continues to be at the centre of our Marketing In addition, a stakeholder pension scheme managed by Friends programme.
Provident provides pension provision within the Group and has been We continually monitor local market conditions and review our taken up by 70% of employees eligible to join.
Our strategy is to offer targeted promotions to We had 248 full, part time and casual employees in the business at ensure we are offering the best value available to our customers, the year end 2007: 226 employees, and recruiting and retaining whilst ensuring that we achieve our rental yield objectives.
During the the right calibre people remains critical to the continued success of year our competitors have increased discounting significantly in order Big Yellow.
We promote the individual development of staff through to attract new customers.
Big Yellow continues to operate at the training and regular performance appraisals and delivered over 700 quality end of the market and, in spite of the competitive days training to employees in the last year, equating to an average of environment, we have controlled our discount level from scheduled approximately 3 days training per employee.
In the stores over 60% of rents to an average of 9.1% for the year.
the managerial posts have been filled by internal promotions.
We have Local marketing, selling standards and customer service at store level a policy on flexible working to meet individual needs where possible, are also critical to building the brand and achieving customer loyalty without compromising corporate objectives.
We invest significantly in training and have a reward structure and performance monitoring systems which focus specifically on achieving sales and customer service objectives.
During the year the Group spent approximately 2.6 million 4.6% of our turnover on marketing, in line with the previous year.
It is our intention to continue to invest 4.25% to 4.5% of our turnover to increase awareness of Big Yellow in existing and new markets, particularly as we expand into new cities across the country.
