Business Review Our strategy aims to deliver returns through the high occupancy and rental growth which results from successfully building our business around customer needs.
The importance of the investment markets which interlink with Introduction our occupier markets also dictates that financial management, This Business Review sets out what British Land has achieved in partnerships and deal-doing complement our property-based the year under review and the market context in which we operate.
strategies to capture and translate property returns most efficiently It shows how our actions fit the strategies we have laid out.
It shows to our shareholders.
the business and financial results of those actions.
We seek to In executing these strategies our bedrock disciplines are: highlight positioning for the future, risks in our business and how a focus on areas where we have or can build competitive we are managing them as well as giving Key Performance Indicators advantage: KPIs to judge progress.
clarity that our business success will come from serving Importantly we show also the way our business is shaped by customers well: and responds to the needs of our customers and the wider needs a bias to high-quality assets, with long lease profiles and of society in relation to the built environment of which we represent favourable demand and supply characteristics: an important part.
strong integrated risk management skills blending leasing, development, asset and liability risk into a single attractive and secure growth proposition for shareholders: Objectives and strategy a confident, entrepreneurial, performance-driven culture: particular regard for long-term income cash flow growth: and British Lands primary objective is to produce superior, sustained an appreciation of the importance of sustainability to our and secure long-term shareholder returns from management of customers and other stakeholders in the built environment our chosen real estate activities and their financing.
Our strategy aims to deliver returns through the high occupancy and rental growth which results from successfully building our business around customer needs.
We seek to do this in a number of British Lands activity in 2007 8 ways.
Property sales and purchases adjust the market and sector mix of our property portfolio to best capture trends in customer This was a year dominated by the global credit crunch and its actual demand.
Within our selected markets we also recycle capital, buying and possible impacts on real estate markets.
British Land continued and selling buildings to improve the appeal and growth prospects implementation of our activist strategy producing outperformance of our holdings.
And we look to create more value from new at property level, in rental growth and underlying profits.
We also development in areas where demand for the best new space is mitigated market-led damage to our business by reducing gearing highest.
Our occupancy and rental growth prospects are further ahead of price falls, by exceptional balance sheet and debt enhanced by active asset management to hone our buildings structuring and by moving our property portfolio to reduce exposure customer appeal.
to assets with weaker occupancy and growth prospects.
None of these actions came at the cost of future growth.
12 The British Land Company PLC Business Review However, despite our actions, activity at the customer and investment market level clearly slowed as the year progressed.
And market declines hit our asset valuations which we strive to keep realistic in the face of significant adverse moves.
We have every confidence in our strategies and the Companys robustness in the face of external stress.
Growth and upside will return and we plan to capture it.
But for the present, we need to weather the passing storm.
The commentary in this Review highlights the actions we have taken in our aim to outperform, in line with the strategy we describe above.
These actions rest on the effectiveness of our people and as before, much work has gone into building still further our human capital and a performance culture with which to execute our business plans.
Under Sector and asset selection we report on over 3.7 billion gross property purchases and sales.
These reduced our total exposure to a property market we judged expensive.
We also adjusted holdings in market sectors and individual assets where we forecast weaker customer demand and reinforced our market leadership positions where prospects are strong.
It also shows how, even in favoured markets, we keep capital working hard by investing in property best placed to capture demand trends, whilst reducing our holdings in more mature assets where we cannot do much more to improve them.
We update on our newer initiatives in Europe which leverage our existing retail market skills into areas where customer demand can drive growth and we perceive rental growth prospects to be attractive.
Under Asset management we show the range of work we undertake to better tailor our existing buildings to areas of greatest customer demand.
In turn this results in the above market rental growth we delivered again this year.
The Development section reviews one of our more distinctive added-value areas.
By creating new buildings at the forefront of modern service industry needs, we use our property skills and The Willis Building, EC3 financial strength to target incremental return.
Under Portfolio valuation we report on the valuation movement stressed financial market times.
And by working with others, inter of each sector, together with data regarding occupancy and yields alia through Joint Ventures and Unit Trusts, we earn valuable extra across the portfolio.
income, leverage our skills and capital and increase manoeuvrability Our Retail Sector and Office Sector market commentaries in the property markets.
explain in more detail the implementation of strategy and its rationale.
We also highlight, in our Corporate Responsibility Report, our In the Financial performance, Financing and capital structure actions on sustainability including the commitment to lead our and Partnerships sections, the ways we have added value to industry and become carbon neutral.
We are a business of the built supplement our property activity are described alongside an environment.
Our careful use of scarce resources and our buildings explanation of the financial results of this activity and the KPIs that impact in improving our communities and facilitating growth remain show its effectiveness.
Our balance sheet and debt management integral to our business success.
The CR Report may be viewed in continue to be distinctive strengths, particularly relevant in these full on our website www.
com crReport 2007 The British Land Company PLC 13
