Business Review Strategy Our strategy is to concentrate our portfolio in industrial and warehousing property in prime strategic UK locations with an emphasis on West London.
We aim to meet our customers needs for industrial and warehousing property whilst maximising returns for our shareholders.
Market Prime industrial Customer service & Joint ventures specialisation property portfolio asset management Joint ventures enable Brixton Brixton is a single sector We own nearly 90 estates B-Serv is Brixtons wholly to leverage its skills, increase focused UK real estate with over 1,300 units and owned subsidiary responsible its occupational market share investment trust REIT and approximately 860 customers for asset management and and use capital more effectively.
is the largest operator in the direct tenants.
Units range in customer service and was West London industrial and size from approximately 1,000 established in 2001.
Brixton operates two distinct warehouse market.
sq ft to over 450,000 sq ft. joint venture vehicles, Equiton 78% of our portfolio is in The management of the lease and Heathrow Big Box.
We concentrate on strategic Greater London with Heathrow expiry and break prole is a key locations where land supply comprising 37% and Park part of our asset management Equiton was set up in 1999 is constrained, where demand Royal representing 35% of strategy.
Through providing and we are discussing with is likely to be the strongest and the total portfolio.
The tables the combination of the right our partners the options for where returns are expected on pages 12 and 13 show properties, a exible approach this vehicle which invests in to be in excess of our target the analysis of the portfolio to leasing and excellent smaller lot size, multi-let for an acceptable level of risk.
customer service we can industrial and warehousing work with our customers to estates in the South East.
Property is a long term Due to the simplicity of persuade them to remain in It presently comprises 42 investment and we believe our industrial buildings there is our properties and mitigate industrial and warehouse strategic aims should create generally less obsolescence the effect of vacancies.
Our estates totalling 2.8m sq ft a durable business model with in the type of industrial parks service culture fosters closer with 227 tenants and produces attractive long term economics.
that Brixton owns in Greater relationships with our customers rental income of 19.8m London than in the other and provides opportunities per annum.
We believe it is through commercial property sectors to enhance value in all specialisation in a certain and we have a preference market conditions.
Heathrow Big Box is a 50:50 sector and well selected to upgrade buildings through joint venture set up in 2004 markets that superior capital refurbishment and only Customer satisfaction has with the Prudential.
It allocation decisions can be redevelop where buildings improved from around 50% comprises two prime made and outperformance become functionally obsolete before B-Serv was launched industrial warehousing estates, generated over the longer term.
and returns are expected to levels consistently in Heathrow Corporate Park and The markets that have been to be greater.
Axis Park, totalling 1.2m sq ft selected are part of or adjacent with 13 tenants and currently to areas of significant economic Our top 100 tenants make up In December 2008 Brixton produces rental income of generation being London, 64% of our total income and launched a new dedicated 14.5m per annum.
our top 20 tenants, with many leasing centre operated by Our occupiers are typically of whom we have long term B-Serv whereby potential locationally sensitive because relationships, include The Royal occupiers have the choice of their need to service their Mail, Delifrance, BSkyB, Heinz, of dealing with our appointed customers within those areas.
Morgan Stanley, B&Q and agents or contacting us directly.
Whichever option is chosen we Within our chosen markets offer lease exibility and a range we seek to provide for our Income growth of options.
customers: Our strategy is to drive income growth through The best choice of proactive asset management quality properties.
The exibility to have their We will focus on increasing our lease on terms that suit occupancy levels and letting their business needs.
space on current market terms.
A high level of Given the decline in the customer service.
economy this may result in future lettings being less than the previous valuations ERV in certain markets.
uk n o i t a s i l a i c e p S t e C k u r a s t M o m J o e i n r t V S e The Brixton Value Generator Prime Industrial Portfolio Annual Report and Accounts 2008 9 n e t u r r e v s i h c t e w o r G e m o c n I
