Sustained investment by both the Mayor of London Our strategy and Westminster City Council in recent years has Our strategy is to focus our investment only in the greatly improved public transport as well as the most central and lively districts of Londons West End.
quality of streets and the public realm in the West End.
Completion of current works on Long Acre, Our determination to confine ourselves to such St Martins Cross and on Shaftesbury Avenue are a specific investment policy located in this tightly creating important pedestrian-friendly routes defined geographical area originated from our between Piccadilly Circus and Covent Garden.
experiences during the recession in the early 1990s.
Once the Crown Estates Quadrant scheme at At that time, we found that whilst there was little the south end of Regent Street is completed, the demand for property investments and capital values pedestrianised routes will extend to Oxford Circus fell, tenant demand continued and rents remained via our Carnaby village.
This public private stable in the 32 buildings in Chinatown we then investment has encompassed many of the streets owned.
With that experience and local knowledge, in our villages.
and the support of our institutional shareholders and banks, we took advantage of market uncertainty Since the setbacks of the early 1990s, the from 1993 to buy properties in Chinatown, Carnaby Government, the Mayor and local authorities have and Seven Dials, acquisitions which today form the encouraged large new commercial developments nucleus of our unique portfolio of over 400 properties such as Paddington and Kings Cross as well as new in the West End.
shopping centres such as Lakeside, Bluewater and Westfield White City.
Initially such large schemes Although the continuing current downturn has with their purpose built space and controlled indoor already seen values fall even faster than the recession environments can appear to pose a direct threat to of the early 1990s, there remains a healthy demand the continued prosperity of the West End.
This has from prospective tenants to rent shops and restaurants not been our experience.
Indeed, we have found that in our areas.
These uses now represent over 70% of these new developments often serve different needs our business.
Experience has shown that the unique and segments of Londons population and when taken qualities of Londons West End, when combined with together, they enhance what London as a whole has our approach to estate management, contribute to to offer to both residents and visitors.
the out-performance of our investments, including in periods of downturn.
These major investment projects, as well as the terrorist incidents in July 2005, have brought closer We expect that current uncertainties will offer co-operation between public authorities, business us opportunities for further strategic property and cultural groups with an interest in central purchases, which are scarce in more buoyant London.
New organisations such as London First, markets.
In anticipation, we have increased our the New West End Company, the West End bank facilities by 75 million since the year end, Marketing Alliance, the Heart of London Business so that we now have committed unutilised facilities Alliance and The Cultural Quarter Group now play in the order of 135 million.
an important role in promoting London to visitors Our strategy is underwritten by Londons strong and commerce in the UK and internationally.
economy and wealth as well as the heritage and unique cluster of leisure and cultural assets within the West End.
Over the past 15 years Central London has benefited, in particular, from considerable public and private investment, and continues to do so.
With over 40 theatres, the UKs premier cinemas, World class galleries, museums and palaces as well as the best shops and restaurants, many more visitors are attracted to the West End than any other city, knowing that they will have an experience that they are unlikely to find elsewhere.
This in turn stimulates further development which is very apparent today, for example in the new hotels currently under construction in the West End and Covent Garden.
This year the number of visitors from overseas, and particularly the Eurozone area, has increased significantly as a result of the relative weakness of the pound against the euro, US dollar and other currencies.
Business review 15 All our investments are located within walking Portfolio activity distance of our head office and we are on-site every In our chosen areas the supply of suitable properties day.
We have a detailed understanding of our markets which are of interest to us has been very limited in 2008. and specialist knowledge of how to get the most value In the year as a whole, we bought eleven freeholds at from clusters of older buildings in Conservation a cost of 24 million.
All either adjoin or are close to Areas.
Our approach to estate management, which is our existing holdings.
We remain very selective in evident across all our villages, is well proven: what we buy.
We seek to acquire un-modernised properties Capital expenditure totalled 11.7 million in the wholly which have potential for predominantly retail and owned group, equivalent to approximately 1% of its restaurant use.
Through clustering our capital value.
Whilst we are always actively improving our ownerships over time and making physical portfolio, this continuing modest level of expenditure improvements, we aim to regenerate areas to reflects our strategy of retention and improvement of create distinctive destinations.
existing buildings as opposed to redevelopment.
Also We identify locations which are close to streets our emphasis on shops and restaurants, where we only traditionally regarded as prime and which have provide accommodation in shell form, means that both good access to public transport.
We encourage the fit out costs we incur and obsolescence we suffer alternative shops and individual restaurants are both low.
which when combined with offices and apartments In the Longmartin Joint Venture, demolition, provide lively districts on a traditional pattern with construction and refurbishment works for the St vibrant street life.
Martins Courtyard scheme commenced during the We work closely with local authorities and community year.
Our share of capital expenditure this year groups to co-ordinate our plans and combine totalled 5.1 million and we expect that our share resources so that the best environments are created.
over the next two financial years will be in the order We give high priority to promoting improvements of 25 million.
to streets, pavements, lighting and security.
During the year we sold 4.4 million of assets, which We carry out refurbishments of high quality with included two offices and two apartments.
As we an emphasis on mixed and multiple uses to meet buy only those properties which are central to our changing needs of occupiers.
Where possible, we strategy, it is rare that we have assets for disposal.
expand shops and restaurants into upper floors and Most of our sales are to special purchasers.
In any often introduce new residential accommodation in event, we expect few sales in the coming year whilst place of offices, as we find there is strong demand the property market remains so inactive and in such central locations for living accommodation.
This in turn adds life to our villages.
We have been increasingly active in negotiating surrenders of tenants leases where we have identified opportunities to increase income over the long term through change of use, reconfiguration of the space or new trading concepts.
16 In the year to 30 September 2008, we let commercial Our wholly owned portfolio space with a rental value of 3.2 million per annum Our wholly owned portfolio at 30 September 2008 comprising 1.8 million of shops, 0.8 million of included 301 shops extending to 375,000 sq.
They restaurants and 0.6 million of offices.
These levels produce 42% of current income with an average of letting activity are very similar to the previous year.
unexpired lease term of seven years.
Strong demand Whilst rental growth has slowed since the summer, for our shops continues across all villages.
Of the 22 demand for shops, restaurants and apartments vacant units, six larger shops represented 61% 1.1 remains good.
The more experienced and better million by rental value: three were in builders financed retailers and restaurateurs continue to hands, two under offer and one to let.
take advantage of weaker competitors to secure the best locations through assignment and lease We have 163 restaurants, bars and clubs with a total acquisition.
In contrast, office area of 396,000 sq.
ft. which produce 28% of current vacancies are showing signs of increasing as demand income.
118 of these over 70% are located close to reduces.
This is leading to increasing incentives theatres and cinemas in Chinatown and Covent Garden.
and downward pressure on rental levels.
Offices At the year end we had one restaurant to let and one represent only 23% of our estimated rental value.
The latter has now been let.
The rental value of wholly owned vacant commercial The supply of restaurants and bars in the best West space at 30 September 2008 was 3.3 million, which End locations is very limited due to strict planning represents 4.6% of the estimated rental value of our and licensing regulations.
With consistent good wholly owned portfolio.
With 1.2 million under demand, vacant units go under offer quickly.
As refurbishment and 1.0 million under offer, only considerable initial investment by our tenants is 1.1 million 1.5% of estimated rental value was needed to fit out any good quality venture, we favour available to let at the year end.
experienced operators who see present financial restrictions as an excellent opportunity to secure the In addition, at the year end 29 new apartments best locations on long leases, usually 25 years.
with a rental value on completion of 0.7 million were under conversion from space which was Our office space continues to reduce in area and formerly offices or derelict.
ft. of offices are in Covent Garden.
across 333 tenancies, which provide 22% of our income.
Average office suites are small 1,200 sq.
ft. At Longmartin, our Joint Venture with The Mercers and leases are short average unexpired term four Company, our 50% share of the rental value of years.
As the office market tends to be more space now under construction in the St Martins cyclical than our other uses we seek to reduce this Courtyard project subject to completion, was risk wherever possible by letting our offices to approximately 5.9 million at the year end.
businesses which are associated with the character of our villages: fashion in Carnaby and Far Eastern businesses in Chinatown.
Also, we take every opportunity to convert our least valuable offices to other less volatile commercial and residential uses.
Our 279 apartments represent 7% of our income.
126 of these are in Covent Garden.
Whilst the capital value of apartments has fallen sharply, demand to rent is good.
Analysis of Wholly Owned Vacant Commercial Space at 30 September 2008 Restaurants Shops and leisure Offices Total Estimated Rental Value 000 000 000 000 Under refurbishment 780 35 394 1,209 Ready to let 429 200 477 1,106 Under offer 573 275 165 1,013 Total 1,782 510 1,035 3,328 Number of units 22 2 33 Area - sq.
ft. 31,000 12,000 28,000 71,000 17 Carnaby Carnaby is our largest village: it represents 40% of our property assets and contains 46% of our shops and 62% of our offices by floor area.
With Carnaby now acknowledged to be a retail location of international renown, this year has seen strong demand from experienced retailers such as Levis, Diesel and VF Corporation to open more concept stores.
Also, existing retail tenants are keen to take more trading space as their businesses are prospering in this popular destination.
The opening of Cha Cha Moon, the 6,000 sq.
ft restaurant fronting Ganton Street and Kingly Court, has been a great success.
It has brought an even livelier atmosphere to the courtyard throughout the day.
ft. nightclub underneath the courtyard has been relet following the failure of the previous tenant during the summer.
In August we took a significant step by relocating Boots within Carnaby Street to a 10,000 sq.
Obtaining vacant possession of their unit at 36 38 Carnaby Street has unlocked the potential to reconfigure and extend this large, under-utilised site, which has frontages to Carnaby Street and Kingly Street.
ft. but the present buildings comprise only 21,500 sq.
We have sub-divided the unit and are securing short term lettings while we investigate a number of exciting opportunities.
Elsewhere, along Kingly Street, we are creating new shops in anticipation of Westminster City Councils intention to pedestrianise the street in January 2009.
Carnaby Statistics Valuation 30 September 2008 477.7 million Percentage of portfolio 40% Acquisitions during year 10.1 million Capital expenditure in year 6.2 million Valuation deficit 98.2 million Valuation reduction 17.0% Area % of current Number sq.
ft. gross income Shops 139 194,000 48 Restaurants and leisure 37 78,000 13 Offices tenancies 193 255,000 35 Residential 64 45,000 4 18 19 Covent Garden When our interest in the Longmartin Joint Venture is included, our total holdings in Covent Garden represent 33% of our property assets.
In Seven Dials, a most distinctive village, all 89 shops, 23 restaurants and offices are fully let with the exception of 4,000 sq.
ft. of retail space in the Thomas Neals Centre.
Here vacant possession will enable us, subject to planning and listed building consent, to reconfigure parts of the Centre with the object of creating larger units, which are in limited supply in Seven Dials.
The Opera Quarter is now attracting new, high quality restaurants and food shops, which are appropriate for this location, next to seven of Londons largest and busiest theatres and close to some famous hotels.
Most of the derelict upper floors have been or are in course of refurbishment, with a significant portion going to residential use.
During the year we created fifteen new apartments, of which thirteen have been let, with ten more due to be completed in the first half of the current financial year.
Current progress indicates that the Opera Quarter will be substantially established by the end of 2009.
Covent Garden Statistics wholly owned Valuation 30 September 2008 331.2 million Percentage of portfolio 27% Acquisitions during the year 11.5 million Capital expenditure in year 4.2 million Book value of disposals 2.2 million Valuation deficit 63.4 million Valuation reduction 16.0% Area % of current Number sq.
ft. gross income Shops 103 121,000 50 Restaurants and leisure 59 124,000 23 Offices tenancies 62 106,000 16 Residential 126 78,000 11 Longmartin Joint Venture Our Longmartin Joint Venture with The Mercers Company, owns an Island Site of 1.9 acres in Covent Garden, and close to Leicester Square and its important underground station.
Its holdings comprise two elements: St Martins Courtyard, a mixed use project of 191,000 sq.
ft. now underway to create 25 shops 69,000 sq.
ft. of offices and 37 apartments.
This is probably the first major mixed use scheme in Covent Garden since the Piazza and Market Buildings were converted over 20 years ago.
Completion will take place in phases until Summer 2010.
In November 2008, we confirmed lettings and advanced negotiations extending to half of the 70,000 sq.
ft. 60% by rental value of retail space planned for the scheme.
Demand for the five restaurants and remaining retail is encouraging, even though the Courtyard will not be open to the public until Spring 2010.
A number of buildings adjacent to the Courtyard project, which have a total of 81,000 sq.
We have commenced a programme of phased vacancy and refurbishment.
Comprehensive street improvements to Long Acre are close to completion.
The creation of new pedestrian crossovers at St Martins Cross, scheduled for completion in early in 2009, will greatly enhance pedestrian access from Leicester Square and its important transport links.
Longmartins Portfolio Restaurants Shops and leisure Offices Residential Total St Martins Courtyard Scheme Estimated rental value 000 4,478 1,350 4,201 1,335 11,364 Area sq.
ft. 5,000 17,000 30,000 26,000 78,000 Number of units 23 - 37 Shaftesbury Group has a 50% interest in the figures shown above 20 21 22 23 Chinatown Chinatown comprises 25% of our assets.
Unique in its central location, our 59 restaurants and 57 shops provide 86% of our current income from this village.
Our strategy is to assist in emphasising its Far Eastern culture and improving the diversity and quality of what is offered.
To this end, we have welcomed the interest of The Princes Foundation, whose consultants endorse many of our initiatives.
Over the last three years, every street around Chinatown has been subject to major infrastructure works.
At present Shaftesbury Avenue is undergoing major improvement works and the up-grading of Wardour Street to the south is due to start in March 2009.
Whilst these works cause considerable short term disruption both to access and trading, they are of long term benefit to the whole area.
Chinatown Statistics Valuation 30 September 2008 306.9 million Percentage of portfolio 25% Acquisitions during year 2.6 million Capital expenditure in year 1.0 million Valuation surplus 38.4 million Valuation uplift 11.0% Area % of current Number sq.
ft. gross income Shops 57 57,000 27 Restaurants and leisure 59 177,000 60 Offices tenancies 70 48,000 7 Residential 71 45,000 6 24 25 26 Net interest payable was covered 1.48 times by Results operating profit before investment property disposals Our profit before taxation for the year, adjusted as and valuation movements 2007: 1.41 times.
Based shown on page 8 to eliminate the surplus realised on on the interest cover covenants and definitions property disposals and the fair valuation movements contained in our banking agreements, net interest in respect of investment properties and financial payable was covered 1.69 times by net property income derivatives, amounted to 15.3 million, an increase 2007:1.65 times, compared with the minimum ratio of 20.2%, compared with an adjusted profit of 12.7 of 1.5 times we are required to maintain.
REIT million in the previous year.
The loss on ordinary legislation requires us to maintain a minimum ratio activities before taxation reported in the Income of net rental income for properties in the REIT group Statement amounted to 220.9 million 2007: profit against attributable interest payable of 1.25 times.
The ratio this year was approximately 1.8 times.
Our rental income has continued to rise, with rents The tax charge on the adjusted profit for the year was receivable across the Group adjusted for lease 0.4 million, compared with 1.2 million last year, and incentives increasing from 55.6 million to 57.8 arises mainly in our Joint Venture.
Longmartin remains million, a net increase of 2.2 million.
For the wholly outside of the Groups REIT election, so that our share owned Group, eliminating the impact of property of its profit continues to be subject to corporation tax acquisitions and disposals, rents invoiced increased and deferred tax continues to be recognised in respect by 7.2% this year compared with the previous year.
of our share of its property revaluation movements.
Our share of rental income in the Longmartin Joint The taxation credit reported in the Income Statement Venture has declined by 1.1 million to 1.8 million of 4.8 million includes a release of deferred taxation this year as vacant possession of a large part of its in respect of property revaluations of 5.3 million in portfolio was secured in advance of the major works the Joint Venture.
Last years taxation credit of now underway.
140.6 million included both the charge incurred in Accounting standards require us to recognise lease converting to REIT status of 27.5 million and the incentives over the expected term of the lease under release of net deferred tax liabilities of 171.4 which they arise, which means we account for income million as a result of conversion.
in advance of its receipt in cash.
Where a lease Adjusted diluted post-tax earnings per share for the terminates earlier than expected, for example as a current year amounted to 10.95p compared with 8.55p result of a surrender or a tenant default, there may last year, an increase of 28.1%.
The unadjusted diluted be an element of previously recognised income post-tax loss per share shown in the Group Income which has to be reversed.
Statement for the current year amounted to 159.00p This year, the Income Statement includes a charge compared with earnings of 196.92p last year.
The for lease incentives of 0.8 million 2007: credit 0.3 decline is largely attributable to property and million, of which 0.7 million arose as a result of financial derivative valuation movements.
The largest default, Unadjusted shareholders funds at the year end shown which gave rise to a write off of 0.5 million, arose in the Group Balance Sheet totalled 642.3 million, when a nightclub tenants business failed as a result equivalent to a diluted net asset value of 4.71 per of the suspension of their late night licence following share, a decrease over the year of 224.5 million, a disturbance in the club, rather than as a consequence or 1.70p per share.
Virtually all of this decline is of current economic conditions.
The lease was attributable to falling property values.
Adjusting terminated in September 2008 and the premises these amounts to exclude the deferred tax liability have now been relet to a new operator.
As the arising on the valuation of investment properties trading environment for our tenants becomes more and the fair value of financial derivatives and its challenging, there is a risk that tenant defaults associated deferred tax, our adjusted net asset increase, which may result in further accounting value becomes 656.8 million equivalent to a diluted charges of this nature.
net asset value per share of 4.82 per share 2007: Property outgoings have increased this year by 0.4 872.7 million - 6.46 per share, a reduction of million to 6.5 million 2007: 6.0 million.
The Groups 215.9 million or 1.64 per share.
share of property outgoings in the Longmartin Joint Venture amounted to 0.5 million 2007: 0.4 million.
Dividends We do not capitalise property outgoings of a revenue nature incurred in refurbishment schemes.
Following our conversion last year to REIT status, the level of our dividends must now reflect the requirement This years administration expenses include a charge of REIT legislation to distribute a minimum of 90% of of 0.1 million 2007: 1.1 million in respect of equity income arising from our rental business calculated settled remuneration.
The accounting charge in respect by reference to tax rather than accounting rules.
of share options has reduced by 0.6 million to 0.4 million, as the likelihood of performance-based Our interest in Longmartin is not currently within options vesting has diminished.
As a consequence, our REIT election, so that our share of its rental and coupled with the decline in our share price, the income and the cost of financing our investment in potential employers national insurance liability on the Joint Venture are excluded from the calculation share awards and share options has reduced, resulting of taxable rental profits for REIT purposes.
During in a credit of 0.2 million 2007: charge 0.1 million.
the initial stages of this major scheme, Longmartins net rental income is reduced and is less than the cost Interest payable showed a modest increase of of financing our investment.
As the calculation of 0.4 million to 30.7 million during the year.
The taxable profits for the REIT group excludes this move during the year to long term, fixed rate interest deficit the amount we are currently required to swaps has resulted in amounts receivable under distribute to meet our REIT obligations is almost these contracts increasing to 2.4 million this year equal to our distributable accounting profits for the 2007: 0.8 million.
This has limited the increase in year.
We expect our interest in Longmartin will be overall interest charges despite higher interest rates included in our REIT group with effect from 1 which prevailed throughout the year, and increased October 2009. borrowings to finance recent investment in our portfolio.
27 Our principal future expenditure commitments at Finance the year end comprised 18 million to settle the Our strategy is to secure flexible long and medium balance of our REIT conversion charge, to be paid by term debt finance together with non-speculative January 2011, 25 million to fund our share of hedging of the interest rate exposure on a Longmartins capital expenditure by mid 2010, and substantial portion of our floating rate debt.
This regular annual capital expenditure on our portfolio, finance strategy is intended to match our funding which is usually in the region of 10 million per with our assets which are held for long term annum.
These commitments total 73 million over investment, and provide reasonable certainty of the next three years.
Our annual dividends are finance costs whilst limiting the Groups exposure to funded principally from our property revenue less adverse movements in interest rates.
The Board keeps under review the level of current The average margin over LIBOR we paid on our and forecast debt and the Groups strategies facilities at the year end was 0.67%.
The scarcity of regarding the appropriate levels of debt and equity finance following the upheaval in financial markets finance, the maturity profile of loan facilities and is resulting in lenders requiring higher margins on interest rate exposure and hedging.
the facilities they are prepared to provide.
The margin we will be paying on our additional facilities The nominal value of debenture and bank borrowings is higher, so that, the average margin we expect to at the year end totalled 517.5 million, an increase be paying will rise to 0.80%.
The repricing of finance of 29.8 million over the previous year end.
Cash may extend to existing as well as new facilities in the outflows during the year on acquisitions less future.
In the short term, these additional costs will disposals of investment properties amounted to 7.4 be offset to a degree by recent falls in LIBOR rates.
million and expenditure on refurbishments totalled 15.0 million.
Revenue operations after interest and At the year end, the weighted average cost of our taxation produced a net cash surplus of 6.4 million, borrowings including margin was 6.10%, compared compared with 13.5 million in the previous year.
with 6.54% at the previous year end.
The turbulence The reduction of 7.1 million reflects the first years in financial markets has resulted in LIBOR rates instalments of the REIT conversion charge paid in remaining at levels much higher than base rate the year, which totalled 9.6 million.
throughout the year, and particularly at the end of September 2008.
As a result of recent easing in Gearing at the year end, calculated by reference to LIBOR markets since the year end, by mid November our adjusted net assets referred to above and the our average cost of borrowings had fallen to 5.76% nominal rather than book value of our debenture and net bank debt, was 79% 2007: 56%.
The ratio At the year end, 421 million of borrowings, of the nominal value of debenture and net bank debt equivalent to 81% of our bank and debenture debt to the market value of our property assets was 43% was either at fixed rate or hedged at fixed rates.
have restructured our hedging portfolio during the year to take advantage of attractive long term swap We monitor our overall committed facilities at all times rates.
At the year end, the weighted average fixed to ensure we have sufficient resources to meet our rate of our interest rate swaps excluding margin future cash flow commitments with comfortable was 5.06%, with a weighted average maturity of 19.6 headroom.
Any new prospective commitments, such years.
Further restructuring since the year end has as property acquisitions, are considered in the light reduced the weighted average rate of our swaps to of funding currently available to the Group.
4.93% excluding margin and increased their At the year end, committed bank facilities totalled weighted average maturity to 23 years.
525 million with a weighted average maturity of 8.9 years 2007: 9.9 years.
Committed unutilised facilities at the year end totalled 68 million 2007: 98 million.
Our facilities are provided by five lenders, but this will reduce to four once the merger of Lloyds TSB and HBOS goes ahead, as expected, in the coming months.
Since the year end, we have increased two of our facilities, to provide us with an additional 75 million, taking our total committed facilities to 600 million, with around 135 million currently undrawn.
In addition, we have agreed terms in principle with a third lender to add a further 25 million to our committed facilities.
28 At 30 September 2008, the fair value of the Groups Performance and benchmarking interest rate derivatives contracted at that date The table on page 5 summarises our performance represented a liability of 14.5 million 2007: 0.6 this year against our chosen benchmarks.
Our strategy of taking long term, fixed rate swaps will lead to greater volatility in this non-cash As explained in previous years, we have been unable mark-to-market calculation.
However, we consider to identify a published property performance index the benefit of fixing our interest costs on a substantial which relates specifically to a portfolio of mixed use portion of our debt at rates we believe will prove buildings such as ours, or recognises restaurant attractive over the long term, outweighs this uses as a component, an important element of our inevitable volatility.
We have therefore used for comparison purposes the IPD UK Monthly Indices The deficit arising on the fair value of the Groups which tracks movements across all main commercial long term debenture debt, which is not reflected in property categories on a monthly basis.
Shaftesbury the IFRS results, amounted to 11.3 million 2007: is a constituent of the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index.
The reduction in the deficit has arisen primarily as a result a widening in credit spreads.
As shown in the Performance Summary on page 5, against a background of falling property values, our The Group has no legal obligation to crystallise capital value and total returns declines have been these fair value deficits by further early refinancing significantly less than those shown by the IPD of its fixed rate debt or the early termination of its Monthly indices.
interest rate hedges but may consider doing so where there is a clear economic benefit to the We recorded a negative total shareholder return for business.
the year ended 30 September 2008 of 12.8% compared with the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index which recorded The Board monitors both actual and forecast a negative return of 27.6% over the year.
It is unlikely performance against the financial covenants that investor sentiment in our sector will improve contained in the Groups bank facilities and until there is evidence of stability in financial and Debenture trust deed.
Each of our facilities is property markets and the wider economy.
secured against designated property assets and in addition all the lenders, including the Debenture trustee, have a shared floating charge over the assets of the parent company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
The outstanding Debenture stock of 61 million is secured by a first charge on property assets, where we must maintain a minimum value of 150% of the stock outstanding, and where the net rental income has to cover the coupon of 8.5% by at least 1.25 times.
We are comfortably within these ratios based on assets currently charged.
Our banking covenants are structured on a Groupwide basis and are broadly similar for each of our facilities.
The financial covenants, together with their status at 30 September 2008, were as follows: Financial covenants Status at 30 September 2008 Net property income to be at least 150% Net property income represents 169% of net of net interest payable interest payable Actual borrowings not to exceed 67% of value Actual borrowings represent 42% of gross of charged assets property assets Borrowings not to exceed 125% of shareholders funds Gearing 79% at the year end Our lenders are well secured by these current arrangements.
Based on current income projections and interest rate expectations, net property income could fall by 11 million equivalent to 21% of this years Group net property income before the interest cover covenant is reached.
Based on the year end values and our current expectation of future debt levels, property values across the Group would have to decline by around 27% before we reach our loan to value covenant limit.
Even at these covenant limits, our lenders would still have the security of 50% more income from our properties than is needed to service their loans, and the value of the security they have would exceed our debt by 50%.
The borrowing covenant which was in place at the year end would have been reached with a further 17% fall in property values in addition to the 15.6% decline already seen, as the impact of gearing amplifies the effect of changes in values.
Recognising that this position would be reached far earlier than the loan to value covenant, our lenders have already agreed either to reset the covenant, so that in effect it would be reached in the event that values across the Group fall by a further 27% i. e. in line with the loan to value covenant, or they have confirmed they expect to do so before the 125% limit is reached.
This will mean the gearing covenant is or will be reset to at least 175%.
We believe that, with our good income interest cover, gearing and future expenditure commitments which are modest relative to the value of our portfolio and the overall security structure, our lenders will continue to view us to be a secure customer.
Their support for us has been clearly evident in the last two months, with two of our banks increasing our facilities by a total of 75 million and a third lender offering us an additional 25 million.
29 All of the Groups properties are located within the Principal risks and uncertainties facing jurisdictions of Westminster City Council and the the business London Borough of Camden.
Although the Group Operational and financial risks facing the business are works closely in many aspects of day-to-day business monitored through a process of regular assessment with these local authorities, changes to their policies, by the executive team and reporting and discussion particularly those relating to planning and licensing, at meetings of the Audit Committee and the Board.
could have a significant impact on the Groups ability to maximise the long term potential of its assets.
The valuation of all property assets includes assumptions regarding income expectations and yields that investors would expect to achieve on Key performance indicators those assets over time.
Many external economic and The key financial objective of the Group is to deliver market factors, such as interest rate expectations, to shareholders sustained out-performance in the bond yields, the availability and cost of finance and long term growth in its net asset value.
Fundamental the relative attraction of property against other to this objective is the growth in value of the Groups asset classes, could lead to a reappraisal of the property assets.
The Group measures its overall assumptions used to arrive at current valuations.
In portfolio performance against the publicly-available adverse conditions, this reappraisal can lead to a IPD UK Monthly Index which, as explained above, reduction in property values and a loss in net asset tracks movements across all main commercial value, amplified by the effect of gearing.
property categories on a monthly basis.
The Groups Whilst the economy in the West End has so far been performance against this Index is set out on page 5. more resilient than other parts of the UK, the current The rental growth prospects of the Groups portfolio exceptional disruption in financial markets is now are the key driver of its long term performance.
The affecting the wider business environment.
Restricted income-related key performance indicators used availability of credit for consumers and businesses within the business measure: is expected to lead to lower levels of spending, a higher level of business failures and difficulties for - the extent to which rental levels are achieved in new ventures in raising start-up capital.
The West excess of the market rental values assessed by the End cannot be immune from these trends.
Groups external valuers at their last valuation and: The Group has in place procedures to monitor and - the ability of management to minimise the time that react to the impact of these deteriorating conditions properties are vacant and not producing income.
In the on its tenants and to ensure it has sufficient committed case of properties being refurbished, the void period resources to enable its business to continue.
being monitored includes time spent in designing schemes, obtaining planning consents, carrying The Group has some 800 commercial tenants, so out physical works and marketing up to the point of that the risks associated with the default of individual completing lettings.
For vacant properties ready to tenants are well spread.
Our 40 largest tenants by let, marketing periods are monitored and assessed.
current passing rent provide approximately 29% of current income.
No single tenant currently pays a The Board is satisfied that the key performance rent in excess of 950,000 per annum.
indicator of rental growth is meeting its expectations.
Void periods have generally remained at an acceptable A commentary on the Groups financial position, level, largely unchanged from last year.
Where delays including matters relating to its bank financing have occurred, these are often due to problems beyond arrangements, is contained in this Business Review the Groups control, such as delays in the planning under the heading Finance on pages 28 to 29. process or the failure of utility companies to meet The Groups assets are concentrated in the centre of their service obligations.
Although occupier demand the West End of London.
The prosperity of the West in the West End has been good, the widely-predicted End economy, and therefore of the Groups retail and economic downturn is likely to lead to more vacancies restaurant occupiers, which account for 70% of our in the portfolio and longer void periods.
rental income, is heavily dependent on large numbers of domestic and overseas visitors to this high profile Prospects area.
In our experience, the diversity of this visitor base means that overall visitor numbers and spending are At present the West End economy remains buoyant, less influenced by UK economic conditions than in with good visitor numbers and spending being other domestic retail and leisure locations.
This is reflected in good occupier demand any external events in our high profile locations, such for retail, restaurant and residential accommodation as threats to security, public safety or health or across each of our villages.
The diversity of the visitor transport disruption, which might result in a sustained base means the local economy is less affected by and significant reduction in visitor numbers could, over UK economic conditions than the rest of the country, time, lead to a reduction in occupier demand and but it cannot be immune from the effects of the the rental potential of the Groups property assets.
exceptional turbulence we have seen over the last year, and particularly since the summer.
The St Martins Courtyard scheme in the Longmartin Joint Venture is now underway.
Our partner, the The deterioration in the wider economy is leading Mercers Company is a long established City livery to an acceleration in property yield increases and company, with substantial assets and no borrowings.
We believe that, Both partners have sufficient financial resources to despite the poor near term outlook for property and complete the scheme now underway, and intend to the economy, our well-located, mixed use portfolio hold Longmartins portfolio as a long term investment.
will prove once again to be resilient in the short The scheme, which is being developed on a speculative term and deliver out-performance in rental growth basis, represents approximately 8% of the Groups and capital values over the longer term.
As a result of deteriorating economic conditions, there is a risk that letting targets may not be met, particularly those related to Jonathan S. Lane Chief Executive the office elements of the scheme.
Wherever possible, Brian Bickell Finance Director pre-lettings are being sought and secured to mitigate the Groups risk.
3 December 2008 Note: The information required by the Companies Act 2006 in respect of environmental matters, the Groups employees, social and community issues and business relationships with customers and suppliers, is contained in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 52 to 54.
