qxd 7 4 09 09:25 Page 6 06 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW 78% 9locations Funeral services represent 78 The Group acquired 9 new funeral per cent of the Groups revenues.
locations in the period and continues to seek well established, respected businesses that can contribute to the Groups future growth.
DELIVERING CONTINUED GROWTH BY Introduction Funeral services The Groups operations are managed across three main areas: funeral services, crematoria and pre-arranged Overview funeral plans, which respectively represent 78 per cent, The Group operates a network of 544 2007: 540 funeral 17 per cent and 5 per cent of the Groups revenues.
locations throughout the United Kingdom, trading under Funeral services revenues relate to the provision of local established names.
During the period, the Group funerals and ancillary items, such as memorials and conducted 68,700 funerals 2007: 66,500.
Crematoria revenues arise from cremation 1 per cent of these funerals were conducted in Northern services and the sale of memorials and burial plots at the Ireland.
Excluding Northern Ireland, these funerals represent Groups crematoria and cemeteries.
Pre-arranged funeral approximately 12.3 per cent 2007: 12.0 per cent of total plan income represents amounts to cover the costs of estimated deaths in Britain.
marketing and administering the sale of plans.
Developments Ofce for National Statistics data Underlying operating profits were 46.3 million 2007: Some of the Groups key performance indicators rely 42.1 million, an increase of 10 per cent.
This reects on the total number of estimated deaths for each period.
good growth in our core portfolio arising from increased This information is obtained from the Ofce of National spend per funeral and continued cost control, together Statistics ONS.
with the incremental benets from acquisitions made in 2008 and acquisitions made in 2007 having a full year In 2007, the ONS changed their reporting systems.
effect for the first time.
Consequently, there is possibly a lack of comparability between 2007 and 2008 estimated deaths.
Nonetheless, Reported operating profits were 47.4 million 2007: the gures continue to give a good general background 42.2 million, an increase of 12 per cent.
The difference to the Groups performance.
between statutory amounts and underlying amounts is represented by profit on sale of xed assets of 1.1 million The initial publication of recorded total estimated deaths 2007: 0.1 million.
Historically the ONS has updated these estimates from The vast majority of our funeral locations comprise time to time.
As in previous years, the Group does not those owned and operated by the Group for many years.
restate any of its key performance indicators when these These locations have continued to perform well and have gures are restated in the following year.
benefited from the continued investment in our funeral locations and eet, with a total of approximately 6.9 million being invested in the period.
This investment has resulted in the acquisition of a further 31 new hearses and limousines, 99 other vehicles and the refurbishment of approximately one fifth of our property portfolio.
WORKING TOGETHER TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE From our support staff working behind the scenes to our staff caring for bereaved families, every employee is an essential part of the Dignity team.
By working together we are able to make a real difference to the communities we serve.
Left: Nick Bibby, Funeral Service Manager and Nicola Bradley, Funeral Service Arranger at Middleton & Wood, Wigan, Lancashire.
qxd 7 4 09 09:25 Page 7 07 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 REPUTATION RELATIONSHIPS RESPONSIBILITIES The Group provides direct support to employees through both in-house training at centres such as this one at Middleton & Wood in Wigan and external training courses.
It operates in a traditional market where people use our services based on previous experience, recommendation and reputation.
Consequently, maintaining high quality and consistent delivery of client service excellence is of key importance to the Groups continued success and lies at the very heart of our strategy for growth.
We carry out close monitoring of survey results and provide regular training and detailed procedures to ensure our managers have the knowledge to embed Group policies at a local level and we empower them to make decisions and respond appropriately to clients needs.
Above: From left to right: Paul Lambert, Community Manager, Scales Funeral Services, Blackburn, Lancashire: Maureen Smith, Funeral Service Arranger, Scales Funeral Service, Blackburn, Lancashire: Jacqueline Wilkinson, Funeral Service Arranger, Middleton & Wood, Hindley, Lancashire: Barry Crawford, Business Development Manager and Diane Rushworth, Funeral Service Arranger, Sankey Monks, Leigh, Lancashire.
qxd 7 4 09 09:25 Page 8 08 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED 70% 25 locations Over 70 per cent of our business is The Group is the largest private Approximately 89 per cent of generated by previous experience, operator of crematoria, with recommendation and reputation.
25 locations serving families responding families would definitely across Britain.
The operating results also demonstrate our high level of Crematoria client service, which has been supported for another year by our client survey results.
Approximately 89 per cent Overview of responding families would definitely recommend our The Group operates 25 crematoria and performed 39,600 services and a further 9 per cent would probably do so.
This represents These statistics speak volumes about the quality of service 7.2 per cent 2007: 7.0 per cent of deaths in Britain and provided by our staff to the families we help at their reects the Groups position as the largest single operator time of need.
Sometimes, changing demographics or market conditions Developments in local areas mean that individual funeral locations can Revenues of 29.2 million 2007: 25.7 million have become unprofitable.
The Group has closed five 2007: resulted in operating profits of 14.6 million 2007: two such locations in the period.
14.0 million, an increase of 4 per cent.
This reects a consistent performance by the division, which has Acquisition spend has again been higher than average experienced some cost pressures during the period, such annual spend since otation in the period, with 16.3 as an increase in utility prices and some anticipated million invested in acquiring nine funeral locations in operating losses at the start of the Rotherham contract.
the United Kingdom, including six funeral locations in Northern Ireland.
During the period, the Group has acquired two crematoria from private operators and started to develop and operate Each of these acquisitions met the Groups criteria of the crematorium in Rotherham on behalf of Rotherham being larger than average, long-established businesses Metropolitan Borough Council.
The site was initially closed that t well within the Groups existing network.
The Group for two days a week to allow redevelopment work to begin.
will also continue to acquire businesses that meet the During this period, the site was loss making.
However, Groups stringent acquisition criteria.
No acquisitions work is nearing a close, the site is open five days a week have been completed since the end of 2008. and became profitable in December.
The funeral business is built on the reputation of each In addition, the Group acquired the property interest in of our funeral locations.
Consequently, client service five crematoria.
At present, the sites are leased to a third will continue to be a key priority in 2009 and the party not connected to the Group.
Three of these locations coming years.
were fully operational at the year end with a further one having since become operational and the fifth one expected to become operational in the second quarter of 2009.
The leases expire by 2039, at which point the Group will take over operational control of the locations.
These properties are not counted within the 25 reported crematoria that we operate.
PROVIDING GREATER CHOICE FOR FAMILIES We have invested in our crematoria so that bereaved families have a wider choice of memorials and can pay their respects in our peaceful gardens of remembrance.
Left: Natasha Precious, Crematorium Manager and Ivor Lawrence, Head Gardener, Exeter Crematorium.
qxd 7 4 09 09:25 Page 9 09 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 REPUTATION RELATIONSHIPS RESPONSIBILITIES The Group continues to seek opportunities to build valuable relationships with local authorities to manage their crematoria and cemeteries using our established knowledge and expertise, stability and depth of resources.
As the largest single operator of crematoria in the UK, Dignity has a proven track record and infrastructure to deliver these vital added-value services to the community.
In 2008, Dignity was appointed by Rotherham Metropolitan Borough Council to upgrade and operate their crematorium and nine cemeteries across the borough.
This innovative Public Private Partnership concession is the first of its kind in the UK and will include a 3.5 million investment by Dignity in the refurbishment and improvement of facilities.
Above: Adrian Barbour, Regional Manager and Clare Chisholm, Liaison officer, Rotherham Crematorium.
qxd 7 4 09 09:25 Page 10 10 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED 2acquisitions 204,000 The Group acquired two crematoria The Group has 204,000 unfulfilled from private operators.
The Group has spent 0.8 million improving the Central overheads facilities at its operational locations.
Overview The Group continues to look at opportunities to work Head ofce costs relate to central services that are not with local authorities.
In addition, the Group is, in specically attributed to a particular operational division.
conjunction with the developer of the five sites recently These include the provision of IT, finance, personnel and acquired, evaluating a number of locations for potential Directors emoluments.
In addition and consistent with new build crematoria.
previous periods, the Group records the costs of incentive bonus arrangements, such as Long Term Incentive Pre-arranged funeral plans Plans LTIPs and annual performance bonuses, which are provided to over 50 managers working across Overview the business.
The Group continues to have a strong market presence in this area.
unfulfilled pre-arranged funeral plans were Developments 204,000 at the end of the period 2007: 197,300.
Costs in the period were 11.3 million 2007: 10.9 These plans represent future incremental business for million, an increase of 4 per cent.
This year on year increase the funeral division, as the Group expects to perform principally reects the additional cost of bonuses paid to the majority of these funerals.
the operational managers of the business.
Developments The Group has continued to work hard at developing its portfolio of afnity partners and has formed a number of new partnerships in the period with organisations in the retail and financial services arena.
This activity has been complemented by continued development and marketing of plans endorsed by the actor Christopher Timothy, together with good sales via our funeral locations.
The Group is in discussion with a number of new potential partners with tests planned for 2009.
HELPING PEOPLE PLAN FOR THE FUTURE Pre-arranged funeral plans represent future incremental business as the Group expects to perform the majority of these funerals.
Left: Annette Smith and Steve Silver at the Customer Service Centre, Spencer House, Sutton Coldeld.
qxd 7 4 09 09:25 Page 11 11 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 REPUTATION RELATIONSHIPS RESPONSIBILITIES Dignity continues to have a strong market presence in pre-arranged funeral plans.
Good progress has been made in developing plan sales, with two substantial new partnerships launched in 2008.
We have also seen continued growth in the sales of our Dignity Funeral Plan, endorsed by the actor Christopher Timothy, and in sales through our IFA channel.
Developing further marketing and distribution relationships with reputable afnity partners is a key part of the growth plan in our Pre-Arrangement business.
We have substantially invested in our client services team, ensuring that our training, coaching and development programme reects ongoing product training, telephone skills and the delivery of excellent customer service to our clients at all times.
Above: Paul Toghill, Head of Business Development and Diane Prescott, Head of Marketing Pre-Need at Plantsbrook House, Sutton Coldeld.
