Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 Business Review This Business Review has been prepared solely to provide additional information to shareholders.
The Business Review contains statements 10 that are forward looking.
These statements are made by the directors in good faith based on the information available to them up to the time Business Review of approval of this report.
Such statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties and risks associated with forward looking information.
Business overview Domino Printing Sciences plc DPS develops, manufactures and sells a comprehensive range of products and solutions that enable manufacturers to code, identify, mark or personalise their products and packaging.
These decisions are driven by legislation, industry directives or company mandates and typically require variable information to be applied in real time directly onto products or their primary, secondary and tertiary packaging.
Codes and marks include a mixture of human and machine-readable data, which records information about product identity and provenance.
The recent focus on product safety in the food and pharmaceutical industries worldwide Domino supplies has continued to increase demand for product identification and coding in particular.
We expect this trend to continue.
extensive after sales Our available market is diverse and widely spread.
We supply customers operating in a range of market sectors: the largest support globally ones being food producers, dairies, beverage manufacturers, the pharmaceutical industry, building products, automotive and components manufacturers.
Our customers are spread across the globe and range from the largest multinational companies in each of these sectors down to smaller regional or niche product suppliers.
We tailor our product offering to address the diversity of our customer portfolio.
DPS is a global group capable of selling to and supporting customers anywhere in the world.
The Group has direct sales and service operations in many of the major industrial countries: elsewhere we have an extensive distributor partnership network, working to the same high standards as our direct offices, ensuring we cover the globe.
The business has two main revenue streams: sales of new equipment and sales of after market products and services.
In 2008, 42 per cent of our revenue was derived from the sale of new equipment including printers, controllers and air purifiers.
Equipment sales are made to new customers and for new applications, increasing the installed base of DPS products around the world, and to existing customers who are upgrading and replacing equipment approaching the end of its useful life.
The balance of new to existing customers varies by country and industry.
The remaining 58 per cent of our turnover comes from after market products the inks, spares, services and maintenance that are required in day-to-day operation.
The installed base of DPS printers worldwide is now well in excess of 200,000 units and continues to grow each year.
In 2008, 8 per cent of our turnover was derived from the UK, 42 per cent from the rest of Europe, 24 per cent from the Americas and 26 per cent from Asia.
Group strategy The Groups goal is to continue to increase market share and extend our leadership position in the coding and marking business.
We have three main strands to the strategy to deliver this goal: Firstly, we seek to provide our customers with the most comprehensive and industry-leading range of products.
From the early days of DPS when we were a single technology company supplying Continuous Ink Jet CIJ printers and associated after market products we have grown, through a long term commitment to research and development and through technology acquisitions, into a group supplying a comprehensive range of products.
The product range is characterised by its high performance and strong reputation for reliability and value for money.
The Group has products that are suitable for applications ranging from low speed simple coding using stand alone devices to applications requiring fully integrated coding and data management capabilities.
With a full range of technologies Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 at our disposal we are able to provide our customers with choice, optimising solutions to best meet their needs.
11 Secondly, we back up our superior product range with a technical and customer support organisation that we aim to be second to none in our industry.
We offer our customers a consistent and high quality level of support wherever they are in the world.
Our service organisations operate to a common Group standard, which is highly valued by customers who have manufacturing facilities in multiple locations and by the equipment suppliers who install manufacturing lines anywhere in the world.
This commitment to service is at the heart of our strategy to grow our revenues from our existing customer base, whether it is through sales of more printers and equipment or developing more after market revenues through value adding services.
Thirdly, we seek to bring product and services together by focusing on particular applications within a defined set of market sectors.
Our product offerings are tailored to provide total solutions rather than just a printing capability and in so doing we seek to differentiate ourselves from our competitors through the added value of a solutions approach.
This differentiation is further enhanced by our sales organisation, where we have specialists for specific market sectors and also for specific technology solutions.
This approach is particularly successful in working as partners with the larger multinational businesses whose needs are often more complex and demanding.
Thirty years of growth During 2008 we marked the 30th anniversary of the Company.
Incorporated in April 1978, the business was listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1985 and achieved FTSE 250 status for the first time this year.
Over the past 30 years the Company has produced uninterrupted sales growth.
DPS was founded on CIJ technology but over the past In order to increase the quality and speed of case three decades has developed a comprehensive product portfolio, label printing, Glenmorangie has recently invested sold under a number of brands and addressing a full spectrum of in two M-Series print and apply labellers.
variable coding and marking applications across the three main stages The M-Series offers high quality printing of barcodes of product packaging primary direct onto the product or first stage and product information, ensuring supply chain pack bottle, can, wrapper, blister, etc, secondary carton, outer compliance for Glenmorangie at a throughput of case or tray and tertiary pallet or container and a defined set 40 cases per minute.
of applications in numbering and addressing in the Commercial Printing sector.
The M-Series was introduced to enable Domino to provide a range of end-to-end coding solutions, There are four principal digital technologies used in primary package delivering accurate information and label placement coding products: CIJ, Laser, Thermal Transfer Overprinting TTO without compromising production line speeds.
DPS has developed and acquired products in each of these technology areas and as a result is able to provide solutions suitable for virtually any application.
This wide range of capability means we are well placed to grow our overall share of the business.
CIJ remains the most adaptable of all primary coding technologies and is used in well over half of all primary coding applications.
DPS has three brands of CIJ in the market, each with its own distribution network.
The highest volume brand and world leader is Domino.
Wiedenbach, our second brand is a low volume, high value specialist brand sold into specific industry niches such as cable and wire and Response Analysis & Mailing RAM extrusion.
This business was acquired in 2004 and has given DPS has added a Domino K100 to its access to a number of new market sectors and applications.
Citronix, portfolio of Domino equipment.
The our third brand, was acquired in 2005 and is growing rapidly by new ink jet printers provide an ideal addressing the simpler applications with a low cost business model solution for printing address details suitable for some customers.
In combination our three brands of onto mailers without the need for CIJ have enabled the Group to grow its overall market share in this outer wrappers.
RAM, part of the Westex Group, has been working with the In 1994, DPS first offered gas laser coding as an alternative to CIJ.
government to raise awareness of Our early entry to the market with laser technology has enabled us to how even small changes can have build a strong global position and share.
Early products all used dot an effect on climate change.
The matrix technology, which we still supply to a small number of major purchase of the K100 will assist customers for very high speed applications.
However, nearly all the RAM in their objective of reducing business today is scribing steered beam laser coding and marking.
waste and increasing efficiency In 2003, DPS completed the acquisition of Sator Laser after taking wherever possible.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 Business Review a majority equity stake in 2001.
Sator provides the competence to develop and manufacture high quality scribing laser products, 12 which are sold under both the Sator and Domino brands.
Located in Hamburg, Sator is now the centre of our gas laser business.
In 2008, Business Review continued DPS acquired a further laser business, the Photon Energy Group based in Nuremberg.
Recognising growing opportunities for solid state lasers in product and package marking, the acquisition of Photon Energy provides DPS with significant growth potential.
The business also increases our technology competence and provides opportunities to combine know-how with Sator.
Demonstrating our commitment to total solutions, not just printing, in 2004 DPS acquired Purex, a business supplying fume extraction equipment, an essential component of a professional laser coding installation.
Fume extraction and air purification are required where substances released during the laser coding process must be captured and eliminated from the environment for health and safety or contamination reasons.
In addition to being sold as a component in a laser system, Purex devices are also sold for use with DPS ink jet and, through separate dedicated sales channels, for other industrial applications.
The Purex product portfolio was expanded further during 2008 with the acquisition of certain trade and assets from PAT Technology Systems Inc. PAT.
Purex now owns the products and know-how associated with purification devices used in computer to plate printing systems and in wide format ink jet printers.
The resources of PAT have been combined with Purex to create a North American Purex operation based in Montreal, Canada.
DPS entered the TTO business through the acquisition of a Danish company, Easyprint, in 2006.
By volume and value, the market for TTO products is smaller than either CIJ or laser, but it is growing more quickly.
TTO is particularly capable of meeting coding needs where flexible packaging materials are used.
The increase in use of plastics, pouches and film for both durability and decorative impact means increasing numbers of customers are turning to TTO.
The Easyprint brand, while well regarded, had a relatively low overall market share at the time of acquisition.
Now distributed through a combination of Easyprints own and Dominos distributors, the Groups TTO Sandwich and snack salads retailers are constantly products offer excellent growth prospects.
During 2008 we transferred looking to differentiate their products through the production of TTO printers from Denmark to our main site in innovative packaging.
To help its customers respond Cambridge, generating operational savings for the future and ensuring to this challenge, Buckingham Foods has recently we can provide increased capacity as sales volumes grow.
installed six Domino V200 thermal transfer printers.
Dave Courtney, Chief Engineer for Buckingham TIJ is the most recent technology being deployed for primary package Foods, explains: We have been impressed by the coding.
Initially used purely in office printers, the capability of TIJ has quality of the technology, the technical knowledge been extended to better meet the more demanding requirements of our partners at Domino and the excellent service of industrial applications.
While the deployment of this technology back up.
Domino is clearly the leading player in the is in its infancy in primary package coding, DPS has taken an coding market.. early entry position as we believe the technology has the potential to penetrate and grow its share of the total market.
TIJ has the advantages of simplicity and low maintenance relative to other technologies as well as being an economic solution for some applications.
The range and type of fluids with which existing TIJ head technology can operate limits its applications, but we expect future developments to increase rapidly the addressable market.
In 2008 DPS acquired aps Alternative Printing Services GmbH APS based Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 near Stuttgart, Germany, an integrator of the technology into a high quality range of products.
APS has two wholly owned subsidiaries 13 in France and Australia as well as its own global distribution network.
A Domino branded TIJ printer based on APS technology has recently been launched and we believe both brands have significant growth potential.
Primary packaged products are often aggregated into a secondary pack a carton, shrink-wrap tray or outer case cardboard box.
The coding requirements for secondary packaging are quite different from primary packaging, often on slower lines, with a need for larger size print and machine-readable codes such as bar codes.
For these applications DPS offers three principal technologies: valve based Drop on Demand DOD ink jet, high resolution piezo DOD ink jet and Print and Apply Labelling Machinery PALM.
DPS position in secondary packing is less mature than in primary package coding and represents a significant growth opportunity for the future.
The Macrojet and Casecoder valve based DOD ink jet products have been part of the Domino product portfolio for many years, sold for both primary and secondary package coding applications, but it was in 2001 with the acquisition of Alpha Dot Limited based in the UK that the Group made a strategic move to broaden its product range and actively develop business in secondary packaging applications.
The Alpha Dot product range was combined with that of Domino and a new range of high resolution piezo ink jet products was developed using Xaar print head technology.
The Alpha Dot business is now fully integrated within Dominos core operations.
PALM is a more recent addition to our product portfolio.
DPS acquired a Swedish PALM company, Mectec, in 2006.
Mectec has excellent products and technical skills with significant opportunities for growth through the sales channels of Domino.
PALM technology is also used for coding tertiary packaging.
Mectec offers a range of pallet labelling systems.
In many supply chains, the requirement to integrate coding across all stages of product packaging is increasing.
Legislation and industry mandates are appearing, requiring manufacturers to identify and authenticate products, as well as trace provenance and, in some cases, maintain full tracking capability as the products move from factory to point of use.
We have broadly described this business Krombacher Brewery, one of Germanys oldest and opportunity as Track and Trace and over the past two years the largest privately owned breweries, has emerged as an industry leader in product coding for beer, Group has invested in capability to provide customers with fully thanks in part to the installation of a variety of integrated solutions to meet these requirements.
Domino equipment, including the dot matrix and scribing laser ranges as well as A300 high quality The Group acquired Enterprise Information Systems, now Domino CIJ systems.
Integrated Solutions Group DISG based in Texas, USA in 2006.
DISG is a systems integrator specialising in RFID enabled Track Seven Krones Topmatic lines, each with a throughand Trace solutions.
Applications are typically in manufacturing put of up to 66,000 bottles per hour, operate or warehouse environments and include product identification and around the clock to fulfil production requirements.
Most of DISGs business is in the USA.
Bottles are labelled front and back, with the back label coded to show the best-before date, along with data to facilitate traceability.
In response to specific requirements that are emerging in particular in the food and pharmaceutical industries, the Group made a further acquisition of Control Information Technology GmbH Control in 2007.
Global cosmetics and beauty company, Yves Rocher, has virtually eliminated wastage generated from label printing, thanks to the recent installation of four linerless versions of Dominos M-Series print and apply labeller.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 Business Review Control is a software business based in Koblenz, Germany that has developed a product able to meet the requirements of manufacturers 14 to manage the unique identification and authentication of their products.
Control has specific capability in the pharmaceutical sector and is Business Review continued able to provide solutions that fully comply with the stringent validation standards of the industry.
The principal driver for the unique identification of prescription drugs is patient safety.
Governments in many countries have implemented, or are in the process of implementing, legislation requiring pharmaceutical manufacturers to code drugs at the smallest unit level typically a tablet or individual blister which allow either authentication at point of use, or in some cases full traceability throughout the supply chain.
This requires not only management of the coding itself but also handling and organisation of a massive amount of data.
The Control product enables this process to be managed efficiently and with complete integrity.
The Group has further invested over the past two years in resources to build a capability in its core business to market and implement Track and Trace solutions.
While the opportunity for these solutions The installed base of remains, customer investments in this area have been slower than we expected.
Legislation that has had near term implementation dates the Domino Groups has been delayed during 2008 and, with the recent changes in the economic environment, we now expect customer investment cycles to be extended and the profit opportunity in this area to be longer printers is now term.
The Groups Track and Trace division has to date been loss making and in light of this, and with reduced prospects for short term improvements, the internal investment in Track and Trace capabilities well in excess of has been reduced as part of the Groups restructuring in October 2008.
Resources are now focused in the businesses of DISG and 200,000 units Control and each of these is operating on a stand alone basis within the Group.
The Group has a range of products sold into Commercial Printing markets for use in numbering and addressing applications.
The Bitjet binary continuous ink jet product combines the benefits of high speed with near letter quality printing for more complex web based applications, and the A400 variant of Dominos A-Series single head CIJ product range is used to meet simpler and lower speed requirements.
Domino also offers two DOD based systems for both web and mailing applications.
The K-Series range uses piezo DOD ink jet technology for high performance applications and the Domino L-Series uses TIJ technology for applications in mailing.
In Commercial Printing the Group has focused on specific applications in a limited number of geographies, notably in North America and western Europe.
In addition to the printers themselves, systems are often sold incorporating computer controllers for the management of data and in some cases production line processes.
The Group has manufacturing operations in Europe, the Americas and Asia.
The principal manufacturing sites for ink jet printers are in the UK, China, USA and Europe.
There is also an assembly operation serving the local market in Delhi, India.
Laser products are manufactured in Germany, the USA and, since October 2008, the UK.
There are small manufacturing operations attached to each of the businesses of Mectec, Purex and Citronix.
APS TIJ products are manufactured in Germany.
The Group operates four ink manufacturing facilities with the largest being in the UK and USA.
Each of these two facilities has sufficient potential capacity to meet worldwide requirements for fluids should supply be interrupted from one or the other.
Additional ink manufacturing plants are located in Shanghai and Delhi.
Research and Development R&D is carried out across the businesses of the Group and it is our policy to retain R&D resources close to the manufacturing operations for each range of products.
We operate an integrated approach to development with supplier management and manufacturing engineering resources forming a key part of our multi-functional approach.
Product developments are all managed under the auspices of a detailed product creation process, established to ensure a commercial focus to all our activities and process and product quality.
The ability to innovate and develop new products enhancing performance while lowering total cost remains a key component of the Groups strategy for growth.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 DPS has reached its 30th anniversary in excellent shape for the next phase of its development.
The Group has a broad technology base 15 and an excellent product range with good growth potential.
We continue to watch technology developments carefully and seek to acquire relevant ones as we identify opportunities for their deployment in our business.
Our global distribution capability is a major strength and we now have in excess of 200 distributor partners worldwide helping to grow the sales of the various DPS subsidiaries.
Trading during 2008 Sales grew by 9 per cent over prior year.
Large movements in exchange rates have impacted the reported numbers significantly.
At constant exchange rates our sales growth for the year was 4 per cent.
The year was very much one of two distinct phases.
In our interim results we reported sales growth at the half year of 12 per cent.
This was fuelled by the growth in our newer businesses, Easyprint and Mectec, and strong regional growth in Asia, the Middle East and South America.
As the second half year unfolded and the magnitude of the crisis in the banking industry and credit markets became evident, we saw a marked slow down in order intake rates for new equipment.
As a result, second half sales compared to the same period in 2007 grew by only 6 per cent, all of which was attributable to currency movements.
While the Group has experienced depressed market conditions from low economic growth in certain regions in the past, the slow down witnessed in the second half of this year has been more widespread and not confined to any particular geographic region or market sector.
These conditions persist as we enter our new financial year.
Geographic regions Europe remains the strongest market for the Group contributing 127.2 million, 50 per cent of revenues in 2008, and growth of 6 per cent including the effect of currency movements and acquisitions.
The trend in recent years in European markets has been one of modest growth in the mature markets and more rapid growth in the developing markets including those in eastern Europe.
In 2008, sales in the UK, France and Germany, which combined represent 25 per cent of Group revenues, were 3 per cent below the prior year in local currency Revenue terms.
Elsewhere sales in Scandinavia, southern and eastern Europe million 9% continued to make satisfactory progress with overall growth of 2 per cent in local currency.
In November 2007, we acquired the trade and certain assets of the 2008 coding business of our former distributor in Belgium.
This business 253.4 has been successfully integrated with existing operations based in the 2007 231.5 Netherlands and we now operate a direct subsidiary operation serving the Benelux market.
Sales in Benelux in 2008 were 11.3 million.
2006 208.4 DPS European operations were further bolstered by the acquisitions of Photon Energy in June 2008 and APS in August 2008.
These Underlying profit before tax businesses contributed 2.1 million to Group revenues in the period million 7% since acquisition.
Sales in the Americas were 7 per cent ahead of prior year with strong growth in both the USA and South America.
Growth in both the 2008 coding and marking and Commercial Printing sectors helped US 35.3 revenues to 7 per cent growth.
Revenues in South America were 2007 33.0 13 per cent higher with strong sales in Brazil in particular, and sales in Canada and Mexico were collectively 3 per cent ahead of prior year.
2006 30.8 Sales in Asia grew by 13 per cent in local currency.
China and India are the Groups largest markets in the region and both recorded strong growth over the year.
Domino is the leading brand in many Underlying earnings per share pence 9% Asian markets and we have consolidated our position with both strong printer volume growth and increasing after market revenues.
Products Printer volume growth was 4 per cent in the full year including the 2008 22.95 effect of acquisitions.
Strong growth in volumes of CIJ printers at the half year were offset by slower order intake in the second half, leaving 2007 21.04 total volumes for the year less than 1 per cent ahead of 2007.
Laser 2006 equipment volumes grew by 3 per cent, and TTO printer volumes grew 20.33 by 61 per cent benefiting from the introduction of Domino branded continued on page 18 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 Business Review 16 Intelligent solutions Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 The Domino Group is able to meet 17 the ever increasing needs of its customers and the marketplace through a broadening range of technologies offered.
Coupled with networking capabilities, Domino companies provide a range of Intelligent Solutions.
Track and Trace, remote diagnostics and remote access to the user interface are just a few examples of the improved capabilities that we now offer to meet the demanding needs of the marketplace.
Data management is one aspect of coding on products that has, in more recent times, become an essential ingredient to any solution.
The Domino Group offers full data management capability and a full suite of machine readable codes including Data Matrix, QR Codes and Intelligent Bar Codes.
Intelligent solutions Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 Business Review V-Series products sold through Domino sales channels.
Volumes of outer case coding, PALM and commercial printing products were all 18 ahead of prior year.
Business Review continued Printer average selling prices for the year as a whole have fallen slightly, in part a result of product and channel mix and in part a reflection of the competitive position in a tightening market.
Printer revenues, before the effects of currency, were slightly ahead of those in 2007.
The installed base of printers worldwide is now well in excess of 200,000 and revenues from the supply of fluids, spares and services to the existing customer base represents approximately 58 per cent of Group turnover.
This revenue stream continues to grow in line with expectations.
Operations The Group undertook a number of actions during the second half of the year to restructure the business and reduce its cost base in anticipation of more difficult trading conditions.
The total cost to the Group of these actions is 5.2 million.
This has been taken as an exceptional charge against the operating profits of the business.
The annualised benefit of this programme is expected to be 10.0 million.
In October 2008, we closed our production facility in Denmark for TTO products and transferred production to our facility in Cambridge with the loss of 15 jobs.
In October 2008, we commenced production of laser products at our main facility in Cambridge and subsequently announced the full closure of our operation in Anaheim, USA with the loss in California of 60 jobs.
The closure is expected to be complete by February 2009.
In October 2008, we also announced a further reduction in our general workforce of 125 jobs.
This reduction is spread across the whole Group and represents a small percentage of the staff in any one location.
It does not impair our ability to drive forward the Group in line with our strategy above, but it does reflect lower demand in the short term.
Research and Development R&D expenditure before exceptional costs grew by 13 per cent in 2008 over the previous year, 1 per cent of this growth coming from new acquisitions.
DPS spends around 5% of turnover on R&D to support its strategy of leading products and broad technology portfolio.
During 2008 we introduced a number of new products across the Group including extensions to the A-Series plus CIJ range: a new range of lasers, the D-Series: a new TIJ printer, the G-Series: extensions to our secondary packaging product offering and a number of new after market products.
Looking ahead, we expect to launch new products in 2009 in most subsidiaries.
Key Performance Indicators We continue to monitor the progress of the Group with reference to Key Performance Indicators.
Comparative performance in the current and past three years is as follows: 2008 2007 2006 2005 Sales growth 9% 11% 9% 8% Gross margin before exceptional costs page 42 47.6% 48.1% 49.2% 48.9% 1 Operating return on sales 13.8% 13.9% 14.5% 14.2% 2 Operating cash flow operating profit 115% 112% 120% 109% 3 Return on capital employed 22.6% 23.0% 24.6% 26.9% 1 Ratio of operating profit before amortisation of intangibles arising on business combinations 2008: 1,283,000: 2007: 770,000 and exceptional costs 2008: 8,329,000: 2007: nil as a percentage of total Group sales.
2 Ratio of net cash inflow from operating activities before taxation to operating profit before exceptional costs.
3 Ratio of operating profit before exceptional costs as a percentage of average total assets less current liabilities before deferred and contingent consideration on acquisitions due in less than one year.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 It is our goal to maintain an appropriate balance between sales growth and profit improvement while seeking to convert at least 100 per cent 19 of operating profit into cash and retaining a return on capital employed in excess of 20 per cent.
Financial performance Sales of 253.4 million were 9 per cent ahead of last year.
Organic growth from the core business was 2 per cent, growth from businesses acquired during the year was 2 per cent and gains from movements in average exchange rates were 5 per cent.
The gross margin rate of the business before exceptional costs was 47.6 per cent in the year compared to 48.1 per cent in 2007.
Gross margins across product groups have remained relatively stable as our programme to deliver improved efficiencies in manufacturing operations and reduction in total product costs continues to yield positive results.
We expect the recent announcement of consolidation in our Laser manufacturing operations to benefit the gross margin of the Group in 2009 and beyond.
Selling, distribution and administrative expenses increased by 8 per cent before exceptional costs.
Growth was attributable to costs in businesses acquired in the period of 3 per cent and currency translation effects of 5 per cent.
The Group increased its investment in R&D before exceptional costs by 13 per cent in the year and, along with a number of new products already introduced during the year, has a full pipeline of new developments for launch in 2009 and 2010.
Operating profit before amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional costs was 34.9 million, an increase of 8 per cent on 2007.
This represents a return on sales of 13.8 per cent 2007: 13.9 per cent.
The Group has incurred exceptional costs in the year totalling 8.3 million, summarised as follows: m Relocation of manufacturing operations 1.8 Provisions for redundancies 3.4 Total restructuring costs 5.2 Impairment of goodwill and acquisition intangibles relating to Control 3.1 Total exceptional costs 8.3 During the year, the Group consolidated the manufacture of TTO printers with its other printer manufacturing operations in the UK.
Blue tube laser technology pioneered by The manufacturing facility acquired with Easyprint in Denmark has Domino has proved key to meeting increasing been closed.
The Group has announced the decision to close its production demands for German car care Laser manufacturing operations in Anaheim to further consolidate products manufacturer Sonax GmbH & Co. KG.
The laser technology provides Sonax with an manufacturing at its main printer plant in the UK.
Full provision has  solution for high-speed, been made in the 2008 results for the 1.8 million of costs associated quality coding of PET spray bottles.
with the transfer of operations and closure of the plants.
Annualised benefits of these changes are expected to be 3.0 million.
Having benchmarked the Domino solution against other providers, Georg Haus, Project The Group has further responded to changes in economic Manager at Sonax, was impressed by the conditions and the resulting impact on new printer business by technology which is used to produce a single reducing headcount across the business.
This move has eliminated line of data including batch codes, dates and approximately 125 positions, taking the total positions eliminated in machine numbers at a speed of up to 240 metres per minute.
restructuring and cost reduction actions to approximately 200.
A provision of 3.4 million has been made and is expected to cover the costs of the redundancies in full.
Annualised benefits of these changes and other efficiency gains, including non-replacement of open positions, are expected to be 7.0 million.
This, together with the 3.0 million annualised savings in manufacturing operations, totals 10.0 million.
The value to Domino of the business of Control, the supplier of Track and Trace and line control software to the pharmaceutical and other industries, has been reviewed in light of changes in the economic environment.
Legislation covering item level serialisation and authentication of pharmaceutical products expected to take full effect in 2009 has now been delayed, in some key territories by up to six years.
We have therefore taken a conservative view of the value of the Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 Business Review goodwill and acquired intangibles associated with Control and, under the requirements of IAS 36, have reduced the carrying value of the 20 business in the Groups balance sheet.
The non-cash charge to profits is 3.1 million.
The Control business remains focused on opportunities Business Review continued in serialisation and Track and Trace.
It is, however, our expectation that the speed of development of the business will be slower than originally anticipated at the time of acquisition.
Operating profits of the Group were 25.3 million for the year 2007: 31.5 million.
Interest and tax The Group has remained in a net cash positive position during the year.
Cash used in making acquisitions and in the purchase of the Companys own shares reduced average net balances when compared to the prior year and as a consequence interest income generated of 0.8 million was below the 1.1 million generated in 2007.
Other financing charges include interest paid of 0.4 million on gross debt where short term overdrafts or borrowings have been used around the Group, and 0.5 million of notional interest on deferred consideration associated with acquisitions.
The tax charge of 8.5 million reflects an effective rate of 33.9 per cent on reported pre-tax profits.
Tax applicable to the profits before exceptional costs is 10.0 million, an effective rate of 30 per cent.
The tax effects of the exceptional costs reflect the fact that no deduction is available against profits for the impairment of goodwill and no deduction has been made for the costs associated with the closure of the Laser manufacturing operations in the USA.
The exceptional costs associated with this restructuring have exceeded underlying operating profits of the US group in the period.
Uncertainty in the outlook for underlying profits in the US group coupled with existing deferred tax assets means the recoverability of any additional deferred tax asset is uncertain and therefore no provision has been made.
If profits of the US group improve, there may be benefit derived from this in future years.
Earnings and earnings per share Earnings after tax and before minority interest were 16.6 million 2007: 22.2 million.
Underlying profits before tax were 35.3 million, growth of 7 per cent on prior year 2007: 33.0 million.
The Group purchased and cancelled 3.6 million shares during the year, 3.2 per cent of opening issued share capital.
This, coupled with movements associated with share schemes, resulted in a reduction in the weighted average number of shares in issue over the period of 1.2 per cent.
Basic earnings per share was 15.33 pence.
Underlying earnings per share see note 14 was 22.95 pence, an increase of 9 per cent 2007: 21.04 pence.
Diluted earnings per share was 15.26 pence 2007: 19.93 pence.
Dividends The Board is recommending a final dividend of 7.68 pence per share, which together with the interim dividend of 4.15 pence makes a total of 11.83 pence for the year as a whole, an increase of 20 per cent over dividends declared in 2007 9.86 pence.
Dividends paid in the year were 10.55 pence per share, an increase of 20 per cent on 2007 8.79 pence.
Cash The Group remains strongly cash generative at the operational Premier Foods manufactures 50 per cent of the UKs annual level.
Net cash inflow from operating activities before taxation consumption of jams, jellies and preserves.
The recent installation of was 38.5 million.
five Domino A300 CIJ coders is helping to improve efficiencies by addressing the main causes of downtime.
The overall consumption of working capital in the year was 2.1 million.
The Group has maintained tight control over average collection An expansion programme at Premier Foods is helping the company periods for trade receivables, which remained at levels consistent with to satisfy increasing demand from the UK and overseas.
Inventory was reduced by 3.5 million, excluding the effect has been a Domino customer for over 25 years, with the latest of acquisitions.
This reflects improvements in the management of the installations replacing time-served Domino coders.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 Capital expenditure was 4.9 million compared to 3.8 million in 2007.
This is a result of investments in new and enhanced production 21 capability in the Laser business and in upgrades to the Groups Information Technology platform.
Non-cash items that were a deduction from operating profits of 15.3 million 2007: 6.5 million included amortisation of intangible assets, share scheme charges, movements in redundancy and restructuring provisions and the write down of goodwill and acquisition intangibles associated with the Control business.
The Group made four acquisitions during the year.
In November 2007, the Group, through its wholly owned subsidiary operation in the Netherlands, acquired certain trade and assets from its former distributor in Belgium.
The price paid was 4.4 million including costs.
Net assets acquired were 0.5 million.
This business was immediately combined with existing operations to form an enlarged Benelux operation.
Results from this business were in line with expectations for the year and increased Group sales by 1.6 million.
In June 2008, the Group acquired Photon Energy GmbH and its wholly owned subsidiary NWL Lasertechnologie GmbH the Photon Energy Group.
The Photon Energy Group is based near Nuremberg in Germany and specialises in the development, manufacture and sale of solid state laser systems used in marking, coding and other applications.
The price paid was 4.5 million after costs, with the Group also assuming 2.4 million in net debt.
Intangible assets acquired have been valued at 2.0 million.
The results of the Photon Energy Group since acquisition date have been in line with expectations.
In August 2008, the Group acquired 95 per cent of the equity in aps Alternative Printing Services GmbH APS.
APS is based near Stuttgart in Germany and develops and markets TIJ printers and consumables.
Initial cash consideration was 14.0 million including costs.
Additional consideration is payable over a three year period based upon the results Bacardi Limiteds German subsidiary in Buxtehude of the business.
Werner Schaffer, the former majority shareholder and boasts a production area measuring some 3,000 Managing Director holds the 5 per cent minority stake.
Mr Schaffer metres and operates three filling lines over two has a put option over these shares, the terms of which allow him to shifts.
This demanding schedule means that sell his remaining stake to Domino at any point up to 2015, at a price Bacardi only utilises the most reliable components determined by the performance of the business subject to a cap.
The value of the additional consideration payable, including the value Increasing production volumes were the catalyst of the minority shares has been estimated at 13.7 million, discounted for a review of coding system requirements on to 12.1 million.
Intangible assets acquired have been valued at the companys Variopac and Krones lines.
many years experience in the integration of coding systems with a variety of OEM equipment, Domino In October 2008, the Group purchased certain trade and assets Deutschland GmbH was identified as a suitable pertaining to the business of PAT Technology Systems Inc. PAT, a supplier and its A-Series small character CIJ Canadian company specialising in the development, manufacture and system as the ideal coding machine.
sale of air purification equipment and consumables.
This business is complementary to that of Purex International Limited, the Groups UK based subsidiary, and will be fully integrated with Purex operations.
Initial consideration paid was C$2.2 million including costs.
Wayne Baird, majority shareholder of PAT, has joined the Group as a part of the transaction.
Additional consideration is payable to Mr Baird subject to the results of the business over a two year period and is subject to a cap.
The value of additional consideration has been estimated at C$0.3 million.
Goodwill arising from the acquisition is C$2.2 million.
Cash was also utilised during the year to make interim payments of deferred consideration relating to the acquisitions of Easyprint 0.1 million, Citronix 0.8 million and On-Line Coding 0.1 million.
The Group purchased 3.6 million of its own shares for cancellation during the year at an average price per share of 284 pence.
In addition, 1.0 million shares were purchased at an average price per share of 302 pence on behalf of the Trust holding shares used to fulfil obligations under the Groups employee share schemes.
Total cash utilised including costs was 13.2 million.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 Business Review The net cash outflow after all investing and financing activities was 6.7 million.
Short term borrowings increased by 13.4 million.
These 22 were principally utilised to fund the purchase of recent acquisitions in Germany.
Net Group cash and short term debt at year end was Business Review continued 11.9 million 2007: 32.6 million.
Treasury The Group is exposed to changes in interest rates and movements in rates of exchange between currencies.
The Group holds cash deposits and has short term overdraft and debt facilities with a variety of UK and overseas banks.
The Board approves Treasury policy and receives monthly reports upon cash and debt and upon the impact of prevailing interest rates and currency movements.
The Group maintains committed debt facilities available in both sterling and multi-currency and has recently entered into agreements to secure a new three year revolving term facility which commenced in December 2008.
Fixed costs of these facilities are not materially different to those incurred in previous years.
We remain committed Interest payable on drawn facilities will be subject to fluctuations in LIBOR.
to further development The Group manufactures products in the UK, Europe, the USA and in Asia and sells its products and services across global markets in a of the Group organically range of currencies.
This creates an exposure to both transactional and translational risk as rates of exchange fluctuate.
and through acquisition The main currencies to which the Group is exposed include the US dollar and the euro.
The Group utilises forward exchange contracts and look forward to the placed on a rolling 12 month basis to hedge transaction risk in these currencies.
Small contracts are also placed, typically over no more than three months, covering net cash receipts in a variety of other future with confidence currencies in which the Group trades.
The average rates at which contracts matured during 2008 were 1:$1.98 and 1:1.46.
These had the effect of decreasing net sterling receipts by 1.7 million compared to prevailing month end rates.
Friesland Foods, one of the largest dairy Reported results are subject to translation from local currencies to companies in the world, has made improvements to its Track and Trace process with the installation sterling at prevailing rates.
The Group takes no action to hedge these of Domino technology.
During 2008, movements in exchange rates resulted in an increase in reported profits of approximately 4.8 million In the search for a new, reliable and cost-effective when compared to results translated at rates of exchange prevailing coding solution, Friesland Foods purchased in 2007.
10 Domino A400 and eight A200 printers, having been impressed by Dominos proven ability and The Group does not take action to hedge the impact of movements experience in a number of similar applications.
in exchange rates on the value of investments denominated in foreign currencies.
The value of currency translation gains or losses is taken directly to reserves.
In 2008, this resulted in an increase in the value of reserves of 9.2 million.
Adoption of accounting standards The Group has adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and has made additional disclosures in the notes to the financial statements.
Risk management The Group has an established risk management process, which has been maintained throughout the year.
Risks and uncertainties are assessed and formally evaluated and actions to mitigate adverse effects are reviewed and monitored by executive management through a formal Risk Management Committee.
The Group operates an internal audit function.
All internal audits include a formal risk assessment relevant to the business or function being audited.
The Board receives a report on each internal audit and also receives regular reports on risk and control matters.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 The key risks to which the business is exposed include: 23 Loss of a key supplier or disruption to the supply chain for key components and materials.
The Group has an active supplier management and quality assurance programme and maintains either dual sources of supply or appropriate strategic stock of materials to mitigate against supply chain failure.
Formal disaster recovery plans are maintained in all manufacturing locations and, for fluids manufacture, include the ability to rapidly increase manufacturing capacity in sister plants in the UK and USA.
Product failure impacting our customers ability to continue production.
The Group operates comprehensive quality control mechanisms for all products and regularly monitors field performance of all products.
The Group has an active programme of evaluating competitor products and maintains an overview of developments in coding, marking and other identification technologies.
Legislation affecting materials or business processes.
The Group has an active programme monitoring use of materials, in particular changes in permitted chemicals used in fluids.
Fluids are reformulated to ensure compliance with latest standards.
Deterioration in general economic conditions.
The Board remains cognisant of the fact that the operational gearing of the Group places short term profitability at risk due to a marked slow down in capital spend.
Future outlook We expect that the changing market conditions experienced over the second half of financial year 2008 and their impact on customers buying behaviour will continue in 2009.
Actions have been taken to reduce the cost base of the business to help offset the effect that reduced sales volumes will have on underlying profits.
The Group retains an extensive global customer base and we expect that our strategy of adding value to customer operations will help our retention of after market sales.
Despite taking action to restructure operations and reduce costs we do not anticipate any diminution in our capacity Quad Graphics, the worlds largest privately or capability to innovate and develop new products and we have a full owned printing company, has named Domino programme of development planned for 2009 and beyond.
Capital Equipment Supplier of the Year as part of its annual Supplier of the Year programme.
The Group has a strong balance sheet, is cash positive and generates Quad Graphics currently has around 1,000 significant cash from operations.
We remain committed to further Domino printers in its manufacturing portfolio.
development of the Group organically and through acquisition of Bill Grauschar, vice-president of finishing at appropriate products and technologies and look forward to the future Quad Graphics, presented the prestigious with confidence.
Gold Award to Jonathan Phillips, Business Development Director for Dominos Commercial Printing Division in North America.
The award recognises Dominos contribution of key valueadded services to USA-based Quad Graphics in a partnership that began over 20 years ago.
