Business Review Definition of Key Per for mance Indicators Used INTERNATIONALLY TRADED COAL PRICES RETURN ON GROSS CAPITAL EMPLOYED As published by, and used with the This is a measure of performance relative to permission of, the McCloskey Group amounts invested.
It is calculated by Limited, the coal industry recognised market dividing operating profit before amortisation analysis and trade reporting company.
of intangible assets acquired and These bi-weekly prices reflect the delivered exceptional items by gross capital to port price of coal for the two major coal employed.
Gross capital employed is importing markets.
defined as the average of the opening and closing non-current assets excluding SALES PER EMPLOYEE deferred tax, inventories, trade and other Total annual third party revenue at constant receivables and trade and other payables.
exchange rates divided by the average number of employees derived from a simple total head count with no distinction between full time, part time, temporary or casual employees.
Where employees are employed for part of a year, the average number is calculated on a pro-rata basis.
LOST TIME INCIDENTS The number of incidents connected with work which result in an injured person being away from work or unable to do the full range of their normal duties, not including the day of the incident.
ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE This is a measure of performance and growth.
It is calculated by dividing the profit for the year before amortisation of intangible assets acquired and exceptional items by the weighted average number of shares in issue and ranking for dividend.
INTEREST COVER This measure provides an indication of whether the Groups profit is sufficient to cover its interest obligations.
It is calculated by dividing the operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets acquired and exceptional items by net interest payable on bank overdrafts and loans, other loans and bank interest receivable.
NET DEBT TO EBITDA This is a measure of the Groups ability to service its debt obligations.
It is calculated by dividing net debt, defined as short and long term borrowings less cash and cash equivalents, by the profit for the year after adding back net finance costs, taxation, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items.
