In December 2007, Spliceline in Australia Services Corporation group of companies, was acquired by CB, expanding our service including Loadout Services, principally coverage in the Northern Territory.
The initial located across the US, with a majority consideration was 0.7m with 0.2m interest in Conveyor Services, SA in Chile, deferred to a later period.
and Solid Systems Engineering, LLC in Wyoming.
The total initial consideration was In February 2008, Prodesco, Inc in the US 31.0m with estimated contingent and was acquired by AEP for an initial deferred consideration payable of 22.0m consideration of 24.2m and estimated based on the exchange rates at the dates of contingent deferred consideration at the year completion.
These acquisitions extend the end of 8.1m, over a five year period.
range and scope of services offered to our Prodesco, Inc comprises two businesses: customers and represents an important Prodesco and Secant Medical.
Prodesco further step towards our goal of building a produces a range of highly specialised world class mining service operation which woven, knitted and braided fabrics which are makes Fenner Dunlop Conveyor Services the used in the industrial, aerospace and leader in its field in the Americas.
Secant Medical specialises in the design, development and Our organic capital investment programmes manufacture of complex implantable fabrics advanced during the year.
The integration of for the medical device industry.
The our seals business in Houston onto a single acquisition enhances our core expertise in site was completed ahead of schedule whilst textile engineering and provides an exciting our major projects in the CB Division opportunity to expand our product portfolio continued to progress and will contribute to into a growth segment of the medical market.
In March 2008, Winfield Industries in the US OPERATIONS was acquired by AEP for 6.9m.
Winfield is a The CB Divisions result was strong as leading supplier of performance critical demand levels benefited from buoyant rollers for digital imaging applications and is mining conditions in its major markets.
In a natural fit with our Precision business.
Asia Pacific, the continuing expansion and wider geographical coverage enabled us to Also in March, our geographical coverage in further develop our product and service South Australia was enhanced when offerings.
In Europe, the focus on developing Northern Belting Specialists Pty Ltd was new markets and leveraging our strong acquired by CB for 2.3m.
The business Dunlop brands was rewarded with higher specialises in belt splicing, rubber lining, volumes.
In North America, demand mechanical and technical servicing and remained high while some anticipated belting sales.
margin decline was evident in the latter months of the year as raw material costs In April 2008, the business of King Energy increased significantly.
The growth of our Services in New Mexico, US was acquired service businesses through the acquisitions by CB for 2.9m followed in August 2008 by completed to date has enhanced our the acquisition of the business of King capability to offer a complete engineered Energy Services in Colorado, US for 3.5m.
These businesses, which are now integrated into Fenner Dunlop Conveyor Services, The AEP Division traded well, overcoming enable us to offer a full service capability in uncertainty and some softer markets in the the south west mining region of the US.
Our newly acquired businesses performed strongly and Our non-core lightweight PVC conveyor assisted in the penetration of growth belting business in the US was divested in markets.
The Advanced Sealing July 2008 for 5.0m excluding costs.
Technologies businesses made solid progress with continuing strength in the oil Post year end, in October 2008, the Group and gas and mining sectors.
acquired the businesses of the Conveyor Fenner PLC 3
