12 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Financial trends and ratios 2008 Growth 2007 Growth 2006 Total results m CER% % m CER% % m 24,352 3 7 22,716 2 2 23,225 Turnover Cost of sales 6,415 13 21 5,317 8 6 5,010 7,656 2 10 6,954 4 7,257 Selling, general and administration Research and development 3,681 4 11 3,327 1 4 3,457 541 475 307 Other operating income Operating profit 7,141 20 6 7,593 3 3 7,808 6,659 24 11 7,452 2 4 7,799 Profit before taxation Profit after taxation for the year 4,712 25 11 5,310 3 3 5,498 110 96 109 Profit attributable to minority interests Profit attributable to shareholders 4,602 5,214 5,389 Basic earnings per share pence 88.6p 21 6 94.4p 5 1 95.5p Diluted earnings per share pence 88.1p 93.7p 94.5p Results before major restructuring Turnover 24,352 3 7 22,716 2 2 23,225 Cost of sales 5,776 4 11 5,206 6 4 5,010 Selling, general and administration 7,352 8 6,817 2 6 7,257 Research and development 3,506 2 8 3,237 3 6 3,457 Other operating income 541 475 307 Operating profit 8,259 10 4 7,931 8 2 7,808 Profit before taxation 7,782 14 7,790 6 7,799 Profit after taxation for the year 5,551 14 5,571 8 1 5,498 Profit attributable to minority interests 110 96 109 Profit attributable to shareholders 5,441 5,475 5,389 Basic earnings per share pence 104.7p 9 6 99.1p 10 4 95.5p Diluted earnings per share pence 104.1p 98.3p 94.5p Research and development total Pharmaceuticals 3,557 3,215 Consumer Healthcare 124 112 Total 3,681 3,327 Net finance cost cover total Net finance costs 530 191 Cover 14 times 40 times Net finance cost cover is profit before tax plus net finance costs, divided by net finance costs.
Tax rate total 29.2% 28.7% Tax rate before major restructuring 28.7% 28.5% Borrowings Net debt 10,173 6,039 Gearing 122% 61% The gearing ratio is calculated as net debt as a percentage of total equity.
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.
Sterling% or % represents growth at actual exchange rates.
The calculation of results before major restructuring, is described in Note 1 to the financial statements, Presentation of the financial statements.
GSK Annual Report 2008 13 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors The Report of the Directors provides users of the financial Directors remuneration statements with a more complete picture of GSK.
It supplements This sets out the remuneration policies operated for our the information in the financial statements with a discussion of Directors and the Corporate Executive Team CET members.
other aspects of our activities, our future and the environment There are disclosures on Directors remuneration including those in which we operate.
required by The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
The sections cover: The report is divided into a number of sections.
These are: Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 78 Business review Remuneration policy 80-87 This discusses our financial and non-financial activities, Executive Director terms, conditions and remuneration 87 resources development and performance during 2008 and Non-Executive Director terms, conditions and fees 88 outlines the factors including the trends and the principal risks Directors and Senior Management remuneration 89 and uncertainties which are likely to affect future development.
Annual remuneration 90 This is sub divided into: Non-Executive Directors remuneration 91 Financial trends and ratios 12 Directors interests 92 2008 Performance overview 14 Share options 92 Products, intellectual property and competition 17 Incentive plans 94 Global manufacturing and supply 20 Pensions 97 Research and development 21 Directors and Senior Management 98 Our employees 26 Directors interests in contracts 98 Our responsibility 27 Accounting presentation Regulation 32 This report is prepared in accordance with International Financial Economy, world market and outlook 33 Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union Financial review 2008 34 and also with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Financial position and resources 43 Standards Board.
Risk factors 50 Financial review 2007 54 Data for market share and market growth rates are GSK estimates based on the most recent data from independent external sources, and where Corporate governance appropriate, are valued in Sterling at relevant exchange rates.
Figures This discusses our management structures and governance quoted for product market share reflect sales by GSK and licensees.
It includes disclosures on compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial Reporting Council Exchange rates Combined Code and with US laws and regulation.
The Group operates in many countries and earns revenues and Biographies of our Board 60 incurs costs in many currencies.
The results of the Group, as Biographies of our Corporate Executive Team 62 reported in Sterling, are affected by movements in exchange rates Governance and policy 64 between Sterling and other currencies.
Average exchange rates Dialogue with shareholders 68 prevailing during the period are used to translate the results and Share capital and control 68 cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures Donations to EU political organisations and EU into Sterling.
Period end rates are used to translate the net assets political expenditure 70 of those entities.
Annual General Meeting 71 Currencies Internal control framework 71 The currencies that most influence the Groups results remain Committee reports 73 the US dollar, the euro, the yen and the pound.
The Combined Code 76 US law and regulation 76 In 2008 the pound weakened by 28% against the dollar, to $1.44 1 at year-end.
In addition, the pound weakened by 24% against the euro and by 40% against the yen.
A new record low of 1.02 was set in December.
14 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors 2008 Performance overview Key performance indicators Our strategies Turnover bn CER growth % During 2008 we set out three new strategic priorities.
Full details are given on pages 4 to 11.
2008 24.4 3 2007 22.7 2 2006 23.2 9 Grow a diversified global business Broadening and balancing our portfolio, diversifying into new product areas while also fully capturing opportunities for our products Earnings per share before major restructuring across all geographic boundaries.
pence CER growth % 2008 104.7 9 99.1 10 2007 2006 95.5 19 Total shareholder return 175 Deliver more products of value 150 Transforming R&D to ensure we not only deliver 125 the current pipeline but are also able to sustain 100 the flow of products for years to come.
75 31 12 03 31 12 04 31 12 05 31 12 06 31 12 07 31 12 08 GlaxoSmithKline Total Return Index GlaxoSmithKline Pharma Peers Return Index FTSE 100 Total Return Index Free cash flow m 5,000 4,679 4,000 Simplify the operating model 3,857 3,000 Simplifying our operating model to ensure that 2,000 2,623 it is fit for purpose and able to support our business in the most efficient and effective way.
1,000 0 2006 2007 2008 The calculation of results before major restructuring is described in Note 1 to the financial statements, Presentation of the financial statements.
Free cash flow is described on page 46.
GSK Annual Report 2008 15 Report of the Directors Our measures Progress in 2008 We are developing a number of measures to track We made good progress during the year, with our progress against the strategic priorities over the a number of notable successes medium to long term.
These include the following: Performance of core pharmaceuticals business, Excluding genericised products, Avandia and pre-pandemic including growth in vaccines preparations, our core pharmaceuticals business had turnover of 16.4 billion and grew by 10%.
Growth of Consumer Healthcare market share Consumer Healthcare sales grew 3% to nearly 4 billion.
Continued market share growth in Oral healthcare and Nutritional healthcare but sales fell in OTC due to lower sales of smoking cessation products.
Contribution of Emerging Markets to our overall Sales in Emerging Markets grew 12% to 2.3 billion.
sales and growth Transactions with Aspen and BMS executed to build broader and more geographically diverse portfolio.
Expansion of Japanese business Major recent approvals in Japan for Lamictal for epilepsy and Adoair for COPD.
Around 40 new product opportunities in development.
Sales in Japan fell by 3% as a result of price cuts mandated by government.
Contribution to sales of new products New product launches in the last two years contributed sales of almost 0.8 billion in 2008.
Number of reimbursable product approvals and filings 12 key product launches, including Tyverb, Volibris and Avamys in Europe and Treximet, Entereg, Promacta, Kinrix and Rotarix in the USA.
Secured 17% of all FDA approvals for new chemical entities and vaccines.
Sustaining late-stage pipeline of around 30 assets Late stage pipeline maintained at around 30 assets.
Five new assets moved into phase III development during 2008, including darapladib for atherosclerosis and Syncria for type 2 diabetes.
Enhanced productivity and increased externalisation for Created 35 Discovery Performance Units, small teams Drug Discovery each with three-year funding in place.
Entered or expanded 21 new drug discovery alliances.
Delivery of major restructuring programme Annual cost savings of 390 million already achieved.
Programme expanded to deliver annual savings of 1.7 billion by 2011.
Evolution of our commercial model Rescaled and redeployed US pharmaceuticals sales force.
Sales forces expanded in Emerging Markets.
Reshaping of Global Manufacturing and Supply Manufacturing network rationalisation continuing with multiple site exits ongoing.
Reduction in working capital Delivered more than 500 million of cash flow benefits from the working capital reduction programme which started in September 2008.
16 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors History and development of the company Business segments GlaxoSmithKline plc is a public limited company incorporated on GSK operates in two industry segments: 6th December 1999 under English law.
Its shares are listed on the Pharmaceuticals prescription pharmaceuticals and vaccines London Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange.
Consumer Healthcare OTC medicines, Oral healthcare and On 27th December 2000 the company acquired Glaxo Wellcome plc Nutritional healthcare.
and SmithKline Beecham plc, both English public limited companies, by way of a scheme of arrange ment for the merger of the two Results before major restructuring companies.
GSK and its subsidiary and associated undertakings In October 2007, the Board approved the implementation of a constitute a major global healthcare group engaged in the creation, detailed formal plan for, and GSK announced, a significant new discovery, development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaOperational Excellence restructuring programme.
A second formal ceutical and consumer health-related products.
plan, representing a significant expansion of the Operational GSK has its corporate head office in London and has its US Excellence programme, was approved by the Board and announced headquarters in Research Triangle Park, with operations in in February 2009.
With an estimated total cost of approximately 3.6 some 114 countries, and products sold in over 150 countries.
billion, the expanded programme is expected to deliver annual pre-tax savings of approximately 1.7 billion by the time it is substantially Annual Report and Summary complete in 2011.
GSK presents the restructuring costs incurred This report is the Annual Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the solely as a direct result of the Operational Excellence programme in a year ended 31st December 2008, prepared in accordance with separate column in the income statement titled Major restructuring.
It was approved by the Board of In addition to the restructuring costs of the Operational Excellence Directors on 3rd March 2009 and published on 4th March 2009. programme, the major restructuring column in the income statement includes restructuring costs incurred solely as a direct result of A summary of the year, intended for the shareholder not needing any restructuring programmes that follow, and relate to, material the full detail of the Annual Report, is produced as a separate acquisitions where the operations of the acquired business overlap document and issued to all shareholders.
The summary does extensively with GSKs existing operations.
The $1.65 billion 814 not constitute a set of summary financial statements as defined million acquisition of Reliant Pharmaceuticals in December 2007 is by section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
The Annual Report the only acquisition since October 2007 that meets these criteria.
is issued to shareholders who have elected to receive it.
Both documents are available on GSKs website.
The Groups results before the costs of the Operational Excellence programme and acquisition-related restructuring programmes In this Report GlaxoSmithKline, the Group or GSK means meeting the criteria described above are described as Results GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings: the company before major restructuring.
This presentation, which GSK intends means Glaxo SmithKline plc: GlaxoSmithKline share means an to apply consistently to future major restructuring programmes Ordinary Share of GlaxoSmithKline plc of 25p: American Depositary that have a material impact on GSKs operating results and on Shares ADS each represents two GlaxoSmithKline shares.
the manner in which GSKs business is conducted, has been adopted to show clearly the Groups results both before and Brand names after the costs of these restructuring programmes.
Management Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report are trademarks believes that this presentation assists shareholders in gaining a either owned by and or licensed to GlaxoSmithKline or associated clearer understanding of the Groups financial performance and in companies, with the exception of Baycol and Levitra, trademarks of making projections of future financial performance, as results that Bayer, Boniva Bonviva, a trademark of Roche, Citrucel, a trademark include such costs, by virtue of their size and nature, have limited of Merrell Pharmaceuticals, Entereg, a trademark of Adolor comparative value.
This presentation is also consistent with the Corporation in the USA, Volibris, a trademark of Gilead, NicoDerm, a way management assesses the Groups financial performance.
trademark of Sanofi-Aventis, Pfizer Canada, Elan, Novartis, Merrell or GlaxoSmithKline, and Vesicare, a trademark of Astellas Pharmaceuticals CER growth in many countries and of Yamanouchi Pharmaceuticals in certain In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Groups countries, all of which are used in certain countries under licence practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange rate by the Group.
This represents growth calculated as if the exchange rates used to determine the results of overseas companies in Sterling had remained unchanged from those used in the previous year.
% represents growth at actual exchange rates.
All commentaries in this Report are presented in terms of CER unless otherwise stated.
GSK Annual Report 2008 17 Report of the Directors Products, intellectual property and competition Within the pharmaceutical industry, the introduction of new Pharmaceutical products products and processes by our competitors may affect pricing or GSKs principal pharmaceutical products are currently directed to eight result in changing patterns of product use.
There is no assurance main therapeutic areas.
A description of the products is on pages 18 that products will not become outmoded, notwithstanding patent to 19 and an analysis of sales by therapeutic area, is on page 35. or trademark protection.
In addition, increased government and other pressures for physicians and patients to use generic Competition pharmaceuticals, rather than brand-name medicines, may increase Our principal pharmaceutical competitors range from small to competition for products that are no longer protected by patent.
large pharmaceutical companies often with substantial resources.
Some of these companies are: Intellectual property Abbott Laboratories Intellectual property is a key business asset for our company, and the effective legal protection of our intellectual property via Amgen patents, trademarks, registered designs, copyrights and domain AstraZeneca name registrations is critical in ensuring a reasonable return on Bristol-Myers Squibb investment in R&D.
Eli Lilly Patents Johnson & Johnson It is our policy to try to obtain patents on commercially important, Merck protectable inventions discovered or developed through our R&D Novartis activities.
Patent protection for new active ingredients is available in Pfizer most major markets and patents can also be obtained for new drug Roche Holdings formulations, manufacturing processes, medical uses and devices for administering products.
Although we may obtain patents for Sanofi-Aventis our products, this does not prevent them from being challenged Schering-Plough before they expire.
Further, the grant of a patent does not provide Wyeth assurance that the issued patent will be held valid and enforceable by a court.
Significant litigation concerning such challenges Pharmaceuticals may be subject to competition from other is summarised in Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal products during the period of patent protection and, once proceedings.
If a court determines that a patent we hold is invalid, off patent, from generic versions.
The manufacturers of non infringed or unenforceable, it will not protect the market from generic products typically do not bear significant research and third party entry prior to patent expiry.
development or education and marketing development costs and consequently are able to offer their products at considerably The life of a patent in most countries is 20 years from the filing date.
lower prices than the branded competitors.
As a research and Patents protecting new active ingredients are generally applied for development based company we will normally seek to achieve a early in the development process.
The long development time for sufficiently high profit margin and sales volume during the period pharmaceutical products may result in a substantial amount of this of patent protection to repay the original investment, which is patent life being used up before launch.
In some markets including generally substantial, and to generate profits and fund research the USA and in Europe it is possible to have some of this lost time for the future.
Competition from generic products generally occurs restored and this leads to variations in the amount of patent life as patents in major markets expire.
Increasingly patent challenges actually available for each product we market.
Further, certain are made prior to patent expiry, claiming that the innovator patent countries provide a period of data or market exclusivity that prevents is not valid and or that it is not infringed by the generic product.
a third party company from relying on our clinical trial data to enter For details of some of the challenges to our products see legal the market with its copy for the period of exclusivity.
Following the loss of patent The patent expiry dates for our significant products are in the protection, generic products rapidly capture a large share of the following table.
Dates provided are for expiry of patents in the market, particularly in the USA.
USA and major European markets on the active ingredient, unless We believe that remaining competitive is dependent upon the otherwise indicated, and include extensions of patent term including discovery and development of new products, together with for paediatric use in the USA where available.
effective marketing of existing products.
18 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Products, intellectual property and competition continued Product Compounds Indication Major Patent expiry dates competitor brands USA EU Respiratory 2 Seretide Advair salmeterol xinafoate asthma COPD Singulair, Symbicort, 2010 2013 fluticasone propionate Spiriva, Asmanex, Pulmicort combination combination Flixotide Flovent fluticasone propionate asthma COPD Qvar, Singulair expired expired Serevent salmeterol xinafoate asthma COPD Foradil, Spiriva expired expired Veramyst fluticasone furoate rhinitis Nasacort 2021 2023 Flixonase Flonase fluticasone propionate rhinitis Nasonex, Rhinocort expired expired Anti-virals 2016 2019 Epzicom Kivexa lamivudine and abacavir HIV AIDS Truvada, Atripla combination combination Combivir lamivudine and zidovudine HIV AIDS Truvada, Atripla 2012 2013 combination combination Trizivir lamivudine, zidovudine and HIV AIDS Truvada, Atripla 2016 2016 abacavir combination combination Agenerase amprenavir HIV AIDS Prezista, Kaletra, Reyataz 2013 2014 Lexiva fosamprenavir HIV AIDS Prezista, Kaletra, Reyataz 2017 2019 Epivir lamivudine HIV AIDS Truvada, Atripla 2010 2011 Ziagen abacavir HIV AIDS Truvada, Atripla 2012 2014 Valtrex valaciclovir genital herpes, coldsores, Famvir 2009 2009 shingles Zeffix lamivudine chronic hepatitis B Hepsera 2010 2011 Relenza zanamivir influenza Tamiflu 2013 2014 Central nervous system Lamictal lamotrigine epilepsy, bipolar disorder Keppra, Dilantin expired expired Imigran Imitrex sumatriptan migraine Zomig, Maxalt, Relpax expired expired Seroxat Paxil paroxetine depression, various Effexor, Cymbalta, expired expired anxiety disorders Lexapro Wellbutrin SR bupropion depression Effexor, Cymbalta, expired 2009 Lexapro Requip ropinirole Parkinsons disease, Mirapex expired 2011 restless legs syndrome use in treating Parkinsons disease Treximet sumatriptan and naproxen migraine Zomig, Maxalt, Relpax 2017 NA combination and use Cardiovascular and urogenital Avodart dutasteride benign prostatic hyperplasia Proscar, Flomax, finasteride 2015 2017 Lovaza formulation of omega-4 acid very high triglycerides Tricor 2017 ethyl esters Formulation 1 Coreg CR carvedilol phosphate mild-to-severe heart failure, Toprol XL 2023 NA hypertension, left ventricular dysfunction post MI Fraxiparine nadroparin deep vein thrombosis, expired expired pulmonary embolism Lovenox Arixtra fondaparinux deep vein thrombosis, Lovenox, Fragmin expired expired pulmonary embolism Innohep Vesicare solifenacin overactive bladder Detrol, Detrol LA, Enablex, 2018 NA Sanctura 1 Generic competition possible in 2010 as a result of patent settlement 2 The UK patent has been revoked by the UK courts GSK Annual Report 2008 19 Report of the Directors Products, intellectual property and competition continued Product Compounds Indication Major Patent expiry dates competitor brands USA EU Metabolic Avandia rosiglitazone maleate type 2 diabetes Actos, Januvia 2012 2013 Avandamet rosiglitazone maleate and type 2 diabetes Competact, Janumet 2012 2013 metformin HCI Actoplus met Bonviva Boniva ibandronate osteoporosis Actonel, Fosamax 2012 2011 Anti-bacterials Augmentin amoxicillin clavulanate common infections expired expired potassium Altabax retapamulin skin infections 2021 2022 Oncology and emesis Hycamtin topotecan ovarian cancer, small cell Doxil, Gemzar 2010 2011 lung cancer Zofran ondansetron nausea and vomiting Kytril, Emend, Aloxi expired expired from cancer Tykerb lapatanib advanced and metastatic Herceptin 2020 2023 breast cancer in HER2 positive patients Vaccines Infanrix Pediarix diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, Pentavac, Pentaxim, 2017 2016 polio, hepatitis B HepB, polio, hepatitis B HepB, Pediacel, Pentacel inactivated antigens Fluarix split inactivated influenza virus seasonal influenza Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, Fluzone, none none subtypes A and type B antigens Influvac, Aggripal, Fluad FluLaval split inactivated influenza virus seasonal influenza Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, Fluzone, none none subtypes A and type B antigens Influvac, Aggripal, Fluad Cervarix HPV 16 & 18 virus like particles human papilloma virus Gardasil, Silgard 2026 2019 VLPs, AS04 adjuvant MPL type 16 & 18 aluminium hydroxide Rotarix live attenuated rotavirus rotavirus gastroenteritis Rotateq 2022 2020 strain G1P 8 Trademarks All of GSKs commercial products are protected by registered trademarks in major markets.
There may be local variations, for example, in the USA the trademark Advair covers the same product sold in the EU as Seretide.
Trademark protection may generally be extended as long as the trademark is used by renewing it when necessary.
GSKs trademarks are important for maintaining the brand identity of its products.
GSK enforces its trademark rights to prevent infringements.
Consumer Healthcare products Our portfolio comprises three main categories: OTC medicines, Oral healthcare and Nutritional healthcare.
Sales of key Consumer Healthcare products in 2008 are shown on page 37.
Our leading Consumer Healthcare products include the following: OTC medicines alli, the first licensed weight loss medicine to be available without a prescription, launched in the USA in 2007 and has now won approval to launch across Europe in 2009 Panadol, the global paracetamol acetaminophen analgesic Smoking control products NicoDerm, NiQuitin CQ, Nicabate and in the USA, Nicorette Other brands include Breathe Right nasal strips, Tums, Citrucel, Contac and FiberChoice.
20 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Products, intellectual property and competition continued Oral healthcare Global manufacturing and supply GMS Aquafresh, a range of toothpastes, toothbrushes More than 31,000 people work in GMS across our network of and mouthwashes 78 sites in 37 countries.
GMS supports the commercial ambition of GSK by delivering quality medicines and consumer products to Sensodyne, a range of toothpastes and toothbrushes, including patients and customers around the world.
Pronamel to protect from acid erosion The scale of manufacturing in GSK is staggering, with the Biotene, acquired late in 2008 and the leading treatment for manufacture of over 4 billion packs per year in 28,000 different dry mouth presentations including tablets, creams ointments, inhalers, Polident, PoliGrip and Corega, the denture care cleansers and injections, liquids and steriles, which are then supplied to over adhesives 150 markets.
Over 3.6 billion is spent on production each year.
Other brands include Odol, Macleans and Dr Best.
GMS operates a procurement operation on behalf of the Group.
We spend over 2 billion annually with external suppliers, Nutritional healthcare purchasing active ingredients, chemical intermediates, packaging Lucozade, a range of energy and sports drinks components and part-finished and finished products.
Horlicks, a range of milk-based malted food and chocolate drinks During 2008, as our commercial customers sought every Ribena, a blackcurrant juice-based drink.
opportunity to grow their business, we focused on the costcompetitive supply of quality product to meet their ambition.
We Consumer Healthcare competition began adapting to the emerging commercial model by leveraging GSK holds leading global positions in all its key consumer product our network of sites and contractors to give us built-in flexibility areas.
Worldwide it is the third largest in Oral healthcare and to sustain future growth and adapt to emerging commercial in OTC medicines.
In Nutritional healthcare it holds the leading business models.
In an increasingly rigorous external regulatory position in the UK, India and Ireland.
environment, we have continued to leverage technology in support of process understanding, control, and capability.
The environment in which the Consumer Healthcare business operates has become ever more challenging: Our Primary supply sites supply high quality, competitively priced bulk actives and focus on improvements in primary technologies consumers are demanding better quality, better value and and processes.
Our new product and global supply sites work closely improved performance with R&Ds development teams to ensure that the right technical retailers have consolidated and globalised which has competencies are in place to support rapid and successful new product strengthened their negotiation power introduction.
These sites serve as the focal point for developing and introducing new secondary manufacturing technologies.
The sites in our cycle times for innovation have reduced.
Regional Pharma supply division focus on reducing costs, allowing GSK The main competitors include the major international companies to compete more effectively in all its markets.
Our Consumer Healthcare Colgate-Palmolive, Johnson & Johnson, Procter & Gamble, Unilever sites deliver high-quality, competitively priced products and support and Wyeth.
In addition, there are many other smaller companies rapid new product introduction in a highly innovative and competitive that compete with GSK in certain markets.
New technologies have become a fundamental platform for driving innovation, lowering costs, and providing flexibility in operations.
The major competitor products in OTC medicines are: in the USA: Metamucil laxative, Pepcid indigestion and private We are embedding new ways of working that are simplifying label smoking control products the business and achieving greater efficiencies.
It is our focus on customer service, including support for new product launches, our in the UK: Lemsip cold remedy, Nurofen and Anadin strong compliance culture, our commitment to health, safety and analgesics, and Nicorette and Nicotinell smoking control the environment, and our commitment to developing our people treatments.
that have delivered strong results for GSK even as the external In Oral healthcare the major competitors are Colgate-Palmolives environment has become more demanding.
Colgate and Procter & Gambles Crest.
Vaccine manufacturing is particularly complex as it requires the use In Nutritional healthcare the major competitors to Horlicks of innovative technologies and living micro-organisms.
Sophisticated are Ovaltine and Milo malted food and chocolate drinks.
The quality assurance and quality control procedures are in place to competitors to Ribena are primarily local fruit juice products, ensure the vaccines quality and safety.
This includes animal use while Lucozade competes with other energy drinks.
according to health authorities requirements.
Due to their biological nature, individual health authorities may subject vaccines to a second control to guarantee the highest quality standards.
GSK Annual Report 2008 21 Report of the Directors Research and development We continue to identify compounds from other companies Research and development Pharmaceuticals that would enhance the portfolio and to create innovative GSK R&D is striving to build one of the strongest pipelines of collaborations to ensure that we are seen as a partner of choice potential new medicines in the industry.
In 2008, Pharmaceutical for large and small companies.
Our internal R&D expertise allows R&D was actively managing over 150 projects in human clinical us to have a strong position in business development, and makes trials across the globe.
Delivering this pipeline to patients safely us able to complement our internal pipeline with acquisitions, and efficiently is the number one goal.
in-licensing, co-marketing co-promotion deals, or future options collaborations.
Discovering potential medicines Late Stage The early research identifies the biological targets interfering Project Team MDC Development with a particular disease, and creates small molecules or biopharmaceuticals that interact with these disease targets.
Drug Discovery DD is formed of the Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery CEDDs, groups focused around defined Therapy Areas.
A Therapy Area Review exercise conducted in 2007 and early 2008 helped R&D refocus its discovery effort around well identified promising areas of science that are more likely to deliver products R&D Unit of value.
R&D invested in growth areas such as ophthalmology and ceased less promising areas of science such as urology.
The focus of Drug Discovery at GSK is summarised in the table below.
Following this Therapy Area Review, a major transformation of Drug Discovery was conducted in our company in 2008 to create an even more nimble, creative, and entrepreneurial environment, building Discovery CEDD Drug on the success of the existing CEDD model.
Each CEDD created Performance Discovery Discovery Performance Units DPU, gathering small integrated and Unit empowered groups of scientists size ranging from 5 to 70 people, Delivering these medicines to patients focusing on a particular disease or pathway, taking the CEDD model Progression into late-stage development consists of optimising one step further.
The number of DPUs in each CEDD varies according both the physical product properties of the medicine, the to the science, and some standalone DPUs were created to explore chemical steps and formulation required to manufacture and new therapy areas such as Ophthalmology, or new ways of working.
deliver it, as well as the much larger scale studies in humans Each of the CEDDs and standalone DPUs submits a 3-year business confirming efficacy and safety.
The combination of the results of plan with overall budget and clearly defined objectives.
The CEDDs these two steps into a regulatory file for submission to regulatory are accountable for the production of quality proofs of concept, agencies and approval for patient use is the responsibility of the and are tackling this challenge through internal discovery as well regulatory team.
as extensive collaborations with academia and biotech companies.
Medicines Development is the collection of four therapeutically aligned Medicine Development Centres MDCs : Cardiovascular Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery CEDD and Metabolic CVM, Infectious Diseases ID, Neurosciences All include several Discovery Performance Units DPU and Respiratory.
Each MDC has ultimate accountability for Immuno-Inflammation developing experimental drugs into regulatory-approved Infectious Diseases medicines for patients.
The MDCs are responsible for creating Metabolic Pathways value through the execution of full product development plans Neurosciences and ensuring strong partnerships with the rest of R&D and GSK, Respiratory in particular the CEDDs, preclinical development, the regulatory Centre of Excellence for External Drug Discovery CEEDD and commercial groups, and manufacturing.
Additional standalone Discovery Performance Units DPU In 2008, emphasis was put on the creation of strongly Macrolides empowered project teams, with the creation of Medicine Opthiris focusing on ophthalmology Development Leader roles for all the key late stage assets.
Virtual PoC The Centre for Clinical Study Excellence was also created as a Sirtris professional organisation providing study operations capabilities Academic DPU which, in partnership with the MDCs and the CEDDs, delivers GSK clinical trials.
22 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Research and development continued Major opportunity in oncology creation of an R&D employees R&D employs staff with a wide variety of educational backgrounds, Oncology R&D unit in 2008 with biologists, chemists, clinical scientists and physicians being In 2008, we created an integrated Oncology unit, spanning from some of the more prominent qualifications.
Given the number of drug target identification through to late stage development.
Its structural changes in 2008, we are ensuring that staff retention is strong pipeline of cancer medicines, as well as unique aspects of a top priority, through personal development programmes, staff oncology medicines development, were behind the creation of the engagement strategies and active talent management.
Oncology is an important investment area for GSK and 2008 has seen its late stage pipeline flourish.
Diseases of the developing world Continued investment in research into diseases of the developing Future growth in biopharmaceuticals creation of a world is essential if there is to be a long-term improvement in Biopharm R&D unit in 2008 the health of people who live in these regions.
As part of our With the goal of becoming a leader in biopharmaceuticals, we response to this challenge, we operate a drug discovery unit based created the Biopharm R&D unit in 2008.
Biopharmaceuticals are at Tres Cantos Spain, which focuses on malaria and tuberculosis.
large molecules such as antibodies, proteins or peptides which are Additional R&D sites in the USA and the UK are focused on manufactured using living cells.
Because they are very different the development of new medicines to treat HIV AIDS and drug to small molecules which are made by chemical synthesis, the resistant bacteria, while vaccine research is conducted in R&D process requires quite specific treatment from a discovery, Rixensart Belgium.
The Biopharm R&D unit brings all of these functions together in a single cohesive Through these R&D efforts, we are addressing the prevention and group with discovery, biopharmaceutical process development and treatment of all three of the World Health Organizations WHO late stage development forming part of one organisation.
Investment in global R&D: growth of R&D China Public Private Partnerships PPPs remain essential to fund research In line with our aim to access the best science and to ensure GSK where there is no commercially viable market for a potential is a truly global company, we announced in 2007 the creation of product.
We remain a leader in working in PPPs and continue to R&D China.
In 2008, this group grew to 200 employees focusing collaborate closely with many governments, academic centres, on neurodegeneration and has created three DPUs during the year.
United Nations agencies and other global funding bodies in this R&D China is currently focusing on discovery, but as the unit grows area, to maximise expertise and knowledge.
and the pipeline matures, it will expand its capabilities to be a fully integrated R&D centre.
Governance Key projects reaching significant milestones are reviewed each month by the Product Management Board PMB, which is responsible for determining if a medicine has met criteria for passing into the next phase of development.
GSKs Chief Medical Officer, working with the Global Safety Board, is ultimately accountable for oversight of all major decisions regarding patient safety.
Our Global Safety Board is responsible internally for approving pivotal studies and investigating any issues related to patient safety arising during the development programme.
Information from GSK clinical trials is widely and easily available at the Clinical Trial Register on GSKs website.
The oversight of strategic issues, organisation choices and budget management across R&D is owned by RADEX, the R&D Executive team.
GSK Annual Report 2008 23 Report of the Directors Research and development continued Vaccines R&D Animals and research For ethical, regulatory and scientific reasons, research using GSK is active in the fields of vaccine research, development and animals remains a small but vital part of research and development production and has a portfolio of over 30 vaccines approved of new medicines and vaccines.
We only use animals where there for marketing.
We have over 1,600 scientists devoted to is no alternative and only in the numbers required for each test.
discovering innovative vaccines that contribute to the health and We strive to exceed regulatory standards in the care and use of the well-being of people of all generations around the world.
The animals used and undertake internal and external review to assure discovery and development of a new vaccine is a complex process these standards.
requiring long-term investment and with more than 20 vaccines in clinical development, we have one of the strongest vaccine The vast majority of the experimental methods do not use animals.
Although vaccines have traditionally We are actively engaged in research to develop and validate more been used to ward off illness, GSKs vaccine division is developing tests that either avoid the use of animals in research or reduce the therapeutic immunotherapeutics aimed at educating the patients numbers needed.
When animals are used in research, unnecessary immune system to identify and attack cancer cells in a highly pain or suffering is scrupulously avoided.
We decided not to initiate funding of studies using great apes Vaccine discovery involves many collaborations with academia after 28th October 2008.
This is a voluntary decision and provides and the biotech industry to identify new vaccine antigens which a tangible demonstration of our commitment to the 3Rs of are then expressed in yeast, bacteria or mammalian cells and animal research, which advocates the replacement and reduction purified to a very high level.
This is followed by formulation of of animals in research and refining of experiments to improve the clinical lots of the vaccine.
This may involve mixing antigens animal welfare.
with selected GSK novel proprietary adjuvant systems, which are We understand that use of animals for research purposes combinations of selected adjuvants designed to elicit the most commands a high level of public interest.
Our Public Policy Position appropriate immune response to a specific antigen.
The right The care and ethical use of animals in research, and further combination of antigen and adjuvant system can help the body information and reports, are available on our website.
mobilise the most effective immunological pathway, which is designed to provide maximum protection against specific diseases Research and development in targeted populations.
Consumer Healthcare Once formulated, the candidate vaccine is evaluated from a safety The continuous creation and development of innovative and efficacy perspective through the different phases of preclinical products keeps our brands relevant, vibrant and valuable.
Our testing, then through the clinical trials involving healthy individuals.
portfolio spans three major categories: over-the-counter OTC These will range from safety analysis in a small group of volunteers medicines, Oral healthcare and Nutritional healthcare.
For our in phase I, dose adjustment and proof of concept in phase II to major brands, dedicated R&D teams partner with and work large-scale safety and efficacy analysis in phase III.
The results alongside their commercial brand team colleagues in office-free obtained during clinical trials and data regarding the development hub environments that foster collaboration and fast decisionof a quality and large-scale production process and facilities making.
Hubs have quickly become a preferred way of working at are then combined into a regulatory file which is submitted our Innovation Centres in Weybridge, UK and Parsippany, USA.
to the authorities in the countries where the vaccine will be made available.
After launch, post marketing studies of considerable size are set up to assess vaccination programmes and to monitor vaccine safety.
24 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Research and development continued Therapeutic area Compound 1 We have a full and diverse product development pipeline.
Biopharmaceuticals belimumab Systematic lupus erythematosus 1 Our key late stage projects are highlighted here, comprising both otelixizumab Type 1 diabetes new chemical entities and new combinations and formulations of Syncria Type 2 diabetes 1 existing assets.
The most advanced status is shown and includes ofatumumab 1.
Follicular lymphoma 2008 approvals in at least one major market.
Refractory chronic lymphocytic leukaemia Key: Bosatria mepolizumab Hypereosinophilic syndrome 3 Phase III Large comparative study compound versus placebo and or Cardiovascular & Metabolic Avandamet XR Type 2 diabetes extended release established treatment in patients to establish clinical benefit Avandia simvastatin Type 2 diabetes 1 and safety.
darapladib Atherosclerosis Arixtra Treatment of acute coronary syndrome F Filed Following successful Phase III trials, we file the product for approval 1 Neurosciences almorexant Insomnia by the regulatory authorities.
1 retigabine Epilepsy partial seizures A Approval rosiglitazone XR Alzheimers disease Only when approval is granted can we begin to market the Lamictal XR Epilepsy partial seizures, once-daily 1 medicine or vaccine.
Lunivia Insomnia 1 Solzira 1838262 Restless legs syndrome Our full pipeline is on pages 199 to 202 and on our website www.
com Oncology Avodart Reduction in the risk of prostate cancer.
1 2 elesclomol Metastatic melanoma pazopanib Tyverb Tykerb Inflammatory breast cancer Tyverb Tykerb 1.
Breast cancer, first line therapy 3.
Head & neck squamous cell carcinoma resectable disease pazopanib 1.
Renal cell cancer Duodart Avodart alpha blocker Benign prostatic hyperplasia - fixed dose combination Zunrisa Rezonic Chemotherapy-induced & postoperative nausea & vomiting Revolade Promacta 1.
Chronic liver disease induced thrombocytopaenia 2.
Idiopathic thrombocytopaenic purpura Vaccines Hib-MenCY-TT Neisseria meningitis groups C & Y disease & Haemophilus influenzae type b disease prophylaxis MAGE-A3 ASCI 1.
Treatment of non-small cell lung cancer 2.
Treatment of melanoma MenACWY-TT Neisseria meningitis groups A, C, W & Y disease prophylaxis New generation flu vaccine Seasonal influenza prophylaxis for the elderly Simplirix Genital herpes prophylaxis Synflorix Streptococcus pneumoniae disease prophylaxis in infants and children 1 Cervarix Human papilloma virus infection prophylaxis 1 Prepandrix Flu pre-pandemic Pre-pandemic influenza prophylaxis 1 In-licence or other alliance relationship with third party.
2 See Note 40 to the financial statements, Post balance sheet events Approved Filed Phase 3 GSK Annual Report 2008 25 Report of the Directors Research and development continued Indication 1 3 Biopharmaceuticals belimumab Systematic lupus erythematosus 1 3 otelixizumab Type 1 diabetes 3 Syncria Type 2 diabetes 1 3 ofatumumab 1.
Refractory chronic lymphocytic leukaemia F Bosatria mepolizumab Hypereosinophilic syndrome 3 Cardiovascular & Metabolic Avandamet XR Type 2 diabetes extended release 3 Avandia simvastatin Type 2 diabetes 1 3 darapladib Atherosclerosis A Arixtra Treatment of acute coronary syndrome 1 3 Neurosciences almorexant Insomnia 1 3 retigabine Epilepsy partial seizures 3 rosiglitazone XR Alzheimers disease F Lamictal XR Epilepsy partial seizures, once-daily 1 F Lunivia Insomnia 1 F Solzira 1838262 Restless legs syndrome 3 Oncology Avodart Reduction in the risk of prostate cancer 1 2 3 elesclomol Metastatic melanoma 3 pazopanib Tyverb Tykerb Inflammatory breast cancer 3 Tyverb Tykerb 1.
Breast cancer, first line therapy 3 3.
Head & neck squamous cell carcinoma resectable disease 3 pazopanib 1.
Renal cell cancer F Duodart Avodart alpha blocker Benign prostatic hyperplasia - fixed dose combination F Zunrisa Rezonic Chemotherapy-induced & postoperative nausea & vomiting 3 Revolade Promacta 1.
Chronic liver disease induced thrombocytopaenia 3 2.
Idiopathic thrombocytopaenic purpura 3 Vaccines Hib-MenCY-TT Neisseria meningitis groups C & Y disease & Haemophilus influenzae type b disease prophylaxis 3 MAGE-A3 ASCI 1.
Treatment of non-small cell lung cancer 3 2.
Treatment of melanoma 3 MenACWY-TT Neisseria meningitis groups A, C, W & Y disease prophylaxis 3 New generation flu vaccine Seasonal influenza prophylaxis for the elderly 3 Simplirix Genital herpes prophylaxis F Synflorix Streptococcus pneumoniae disease prophylaxis in infants and children 1 A Cervarix Human papilloma virus infection prophylaxis 1 A Prepandrix Flu pre-pandemic Pre-pandemic influenza prophylaxis 26 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Our employees Face to face communications activities town hall presentations Recruitment, talent management and led by senior executives, lunches with CET and senior executives.
leadership development In 2008, as with every year, recruiting, retaining and developing To ensure our communications activities are effective and to our employees was critical to enhancing and sustaining our enable us to continue to improve, there are a number of performance and reputation.
Some areas of focus: evaluation processes.
Feedback and monitoring mechanisms are part of every major communication event, and Q&A and feedback Our recruiters proactively identify, engage and attract top external facilities are a core feature of our web communications channels.
talent and assess their potential fit with the organisation.
This Other broader processes include a Global Leadership Survey takes places across all functions, businesses and geographical every two to three years.
The survey asks over 10,000 managers areas.
Our assessment process is aligned to a core set of worldwide to comment on critical issues such as culture and competencies, of which ethics and integrity are central.
Our streamlined annual performance and development planning As our business evolves, there will be changes that affect PDP process means employees have business-aligned objectives employees and we remain committed to consulting on these and behavioural goals.
With regular reviews, the progress is changes via a number of internal consultation forums and ongoing, culminating with an end-of-year review.
discussions with the European Employee Consultation Forum and We have an annual talent management cycle to identify the similar bodies in countries where this is national practice.
highest performing people in each business, followed up with 6 5 Employee numbers by region tailored management and leadership programmes for key talent.
1 4 1 USA 21,176 Performance and reward 2 Europe 44,677 Our reward systems support high performance and help to attract 3 Emerging Markets 8,631 and retain the best people.
Performance-based pay and bonuses, 4 Asia Pacific 18,983 3 share rewards and share options align employee interests with 5 Japan 3,174 business targets.
6 Canada 2,362 Communication and employee involvement 2 When new full-time employees join our organisation, they have Diversity the opportunity to take part in the GSK Experience, an interactive We are committed to employment policies free from discrimination induction programme offered at many locations across the UK against existing or potential employees on the grounds of age, and USA.
Programme modules are also provided to support race, ethnic and national origin, gender, sexual orientation, faith local induction and awareness seminars around the world.
GSK is committed to offering people with disabilities experience gives employees a flavour of the communications and access to the full range of recruitment and career opportunities.
engagement activities on offer throughout GSK.
Every effort is made to retain and support employees who become Our communication channels are designed to keep employees disabled while working at GSK.
For more details on diversity informed, engaged and involved in activities across all areas of measures, see our Corporate Responsibility Report.
We encourage two-way, open and honest communication with employees, and in 2008 web technology was Healthy high performance used increasingly to engage more employees in a more immediate To be able to meet our mission and strategy, our Employee Health way.
New or updated communication channels in 2008 include: and Performance initiatives focus on the health factors that enable employees to perform at the highest level by sustaining myCEO an area on the GSK intranet that allows employees to energy and engagement.
The programmes developed to engage directly with the CEO via discussion and Q&A deliver this health strategy range from the traditional such as The Ambassador community provides slides, statements and immunisations, smoking control, and weight management to films which give employees company information and keep cutting-edge programmes in the areas of team and personal them up-to-date on the issues affecting GSK and the resilience, ergonomics and Energy for Performance.
These pharmaceutical industry programmes, available in many languages, are designed to address the root causes of excessive work pressure and low energy and GSKtv a web-based library of all GSKs video assets including engagement at work and at home.
They are complimented by our presentations on strategy and employee broadcasts commitment to flexible working that enables employees to do Interactive multimedia events such as web broadcasts, multi-site their best work in an environment that helps them integrate their Q&A sessions give regular updates globally from CEO, business work and personal lives.
For more details on scope and impact of or function leaders these programmes, see our Corporate Responsibility Report.
GSK Annual Report 2008 27 Report of the Directors Our responsibility Programmes in other countries Improving access to medicines We have also introduced Orange Cards providing discounts Access to healthcare in the developing world on certain GSK prescription medicines for eligible patients in There are no easy solutions to the challenge of providing a number of other countries.
The nature of the discounts sustainable access to healthcare in developing countries.
Poverty varies between countries and the ways in which the healthcare is the single biggest barrier.
In many countries people do not have systems operate.
enough food, access to a clean water supply, hospitals or clinics in which to receive treatment and healthcare professionals to care Patient Advocacy for them.
The Patient Advocacy initiative has demonstrated significant We are committed to playing a full part in addressing the progress since its inception in 2002.
Initially launched as a US healthcare challenges of the developing world by taking an programme, it is now a critical initiative throughout GSK.
Patient innovative, responsible and, above all, sustainable approach.
GSK Advocacy teams in the USA and Europe share best practices and is making a vital contribution to developing country healthcare established processes to optimise interaction with patient groups.
through action in a number of areas including: preferential Typically these relationships provide mutual opportunities: to pricing of our anti-retrovirals and anti-malarials: tiered pricing of learn about patient needs and priorities and for patient groups our vaccines: investing in R&D that targets diseases particularly to develop an understanding of drug development challenges.
affecting the developing world see page 28 : community In 2008, we continued to partner with patient groups on investment activities and partnerships that foster effective common issues: advocating for access to medicines and treatment, healthcare see page 29 : and seeking innovative partnerships increasing funding for health programs and improving health and solutions.
We cover our contribution to improving access to care delivery.
We are considered to be a trustworthy partner with medicines extensively in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
patient groups and we have worked with patient groups and In 2008, we were a clear leader in the first Access to Medicines our trade associations to increase the transparency of all of Index produced by the ATM Foundation.
We will continue to build our interactions.
on our product, pricing and partnership commitments to help improve healthcare in the developing world.
In February 2009, Our work with communities we announced a new approach to pricing in the UN defined list We work as a partner with under-served communities in the of least developed countries.
However, a significant increase in developed and developing world supporting programmes that funding from the global community is still needed to support are innovative, sustainable and bring real benefits to these R&D and to provide access to the resultant medicines communities.
Our global community investment in 2008 was and vaccines.
This compares with 109 million in 2007 on a like for like basis, an increase of 13%.
This comprised product While much has been achieved, sustainable progress will only donations valued at 68 million, cash giving of 37 million, occur if the significant barriers that stand in the way of better in-kind donations of 4 million plus costs of 15 million to access to healthcare are tackled as a shared responsibility by all manage and deliver community programmes in over 100 sectors of global society governments, international agencies, countries.
The product donations include 56 million for GSKs charities, academic institutions, the pharmaceutical industry patient assistance programmes, 7 million worth of albendazole and others.
for the Lymphatic filariasis LF programme and 5 million for Access to medicines in the developed world humanitarian product donations.
Product donations are for the Programmes in the USA first time valued at cost average cost of goods rather than We are working to provide access to medicines for people wholesale price WAC.
Our new approach to valuing donations with limited financial resources and without prescription is a more accurate reflection of the cost to GSK and is therefore drug insurance.
We believe we are the first pharmaceutical company to adopt this practice.
For comparative purposes the For uninsured Americans who do not qualify for Medicare or total value of donations in 2008 using WAC for products would Medicaid, GSK and 11 other pharmaceutical companies created be 343 million compared with 282 million in 2007.
Together Rx Access, a programme for qualified individuals offering reductions in the pharmacy cost on more than 300 medicines.
We do not operate a single charitable foundation for our Over 820,000 Together Rx Access cardholders saved about community investment programmes, but have a number of $24 million in 2008. country based foundations and their 2008 grants are included in the investment total.
28 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Our responsibility continued Our cash giving was targeted primarily at health and education PHASE initiatives as follows: The PHASE programme Personal Hygiene And Sanitation Education, initiated by us in 1998, is now providing education to thousands of 5 school children in 13 countries to improve their health and hygiene to 4 fight infectious diseases.
In 2008, we committed three years funding 1 Health 55% 3 of 320,000 to extend the programme into India.
2 Education 22% 3 Arts and Culture 5% 1 Humanitarian product donations 4 Environment 2% During 2008, we donated essential products, such as antibiotics, 5 Other 16% 2 through non-profit partners including AmeriCares, Direct Relief International, MAP International and Project HOPE, to support humanitarian relief efforts and community healthcare.
The total value of our international humanitarian product donations was Global Health Programmes 5 million at average cost.
Eliminating lymphatic filariasis Community initiatives Our effort to eliminate the disabling disease, LF from the world, We are dedicated to strengthening the fabric of communities continued in close partnership with the governments of countries through providing health and education initiatives and support where the disease is endemic, the WHO and over 40 partner for local civic and cultural institutions that improve the quality organisations.
We are committed to donating as much of the of life.
In the UK, we contributed 6 million in 2008 to our anti-parasitic drug albendazole as required to treat the one continuing programme of charitable activities supporting over 70 billion people at risk in over 80 countries.
In 2008, 266 million organisations in health, medical research, science education, the albendazole treatments were donated to 30 countries.
We have arts and the environment.
donated over one billion albendazole treatments since the global Programmes in North America at a national and local level focused elimination programme started in 2000. on improving public education, increasing access to healthcare Positive Action on HIV AIDS for children and healthcare prevention and access for breast or Positive Action is our pioneering global programme working gynaecologic cancers.
Funding for these was of $24 million.
with communities affected by AIDS.
Started in 1992, it supports GSK was one of 21 companies, and the only manufacturing community-based organisations to deliver effective HIV and AIDS company, to be awarded the new CommunityMark, following education, prevention and healthcare services.
The Mark created by Business in the Positive Action worked with 16 partners to support programmes Community BitC was given for our work at local and national in 21 countries.
Positive Actions larger programmes operate in level in the UK as well as for our larger international programmes.
Mexico, Kenya, India, China, Cambodia and Vietnam.
The GlaxoSmithKline African Malaria Partnership Our malaria advocacy programme Mobilising for Malaria has launched country Coalitions Against Malaria in the UK, Belgium, France, Ethiopia and Cameroon to increase awareness of malaria and mobilise resources.
During 2008, GSK co-sponsored The Guardian International Development Journalism Awards to recognise the work of NGOs in addressing the UN Millennium Development Goals which included a focus on malaria.
GSK Annual Report 2008 29 Report of the Directors Our responsibility continued Health initiatives Our contribution to improve healthcare included the following grants: Non Profit partner Amount in 2008 Purpose of grant Childrens Health Fund $888,000 To extend the Referral Management Initiative RMI which ensures USA continuity of specialist medical care for high-risk children who are often homeless Pittsburgh Mercy Foundation $450,000 To provide access to healthcare for homeless men and women in USA Pittsburgh, USA GSK IMPACT Awards 489,000 To recognise excellence in non-profit community health UK and Philadelphia organisations.
Charities receive unrestricted grants for their work dealing with diverse and difficult social issues Medical Research Charities 449,000 To support medical research programmes UK Education initiatives Non Profit partner Amount in 2008 Purpose of grant Institute for a Competitive Workforce $100,000 To improve education and create a skilled workforce for the future, USA working in partnership with a broad business coalition and staffed by the US Chamber of Commerce Science in the Summer $575,000 To teach basic scientific concepts and inspire school children Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and North Carolina through a library-based science education programme Project ENTHUSE 200,000 To support Continuing Professional Development CPD for science UK teachers and ultimately encourage children to engage with science and pursue careers in science and technology CREST Star Investigators 120,000 To provide science activities and awards for after school clubs in UK 5,000 UK primary schools, working in partnership with the British Association for the Advancement of Science Further information about GSK grants and programmes are available on gsk.
Employee involvement Our employees are encouraged to contribute to their local communities through employee volunteering schemes.
Support includes employee time, cash donations to charities where employees volunteer and matching gift programmes.
Through the US GSK Matching Gift Program, we matched 17,000 employee and retiree gifts at a value of $5 million in 2008 plus $1 million to the United Way campaign.
GSKs GIVE programme provided grants of over $416,000 to 437 organisations where US employees volunteered and 244,000 to 400 UK-based non-profit organisations via the GSK Making a Difference programme.
30 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Our responsibility continued Responsibility for environment, health EHS and sustainability strategy and plan and safety The 10-year strategic plan for EHS that extends to 2015 is aligned with our strategic priorities and includes management objectives Caring for the environment and the health and safety EHS of with performance measures and targets.
In 2008, GSKs progress employees is a key part of our drive to be a sustainable company.
was evaluated against the targets set in 2006.
Traditional environmental control programmes address risks and The focus for 2008 was embedding EHS in the business which impacts from wastes generated by manufacturing and other is fundamental to making GSK a sustainable business.
We meet this responsibility with treatment and waste caring for the present while thinking to the future in making disposal systems that comply with laws, regulations and our own decisions.
This supports all three aspirations in the 2006 to 2015 standards of performance.
This was the standard of practice for plan embedding EHS in the business, environmental sustainability most companies beginning in the 1970s and 1980s.
Even now and open and transparent stakeholder relations.
In 2008 we we continue to improve our handling of waste but we recognise reviewed our EHS and sustainability priorities with our external and that these changes are incremental rather than transformative.
This review identified the following In the early 1990s, the concept of sustainability was emerging.
key issues: Sustainability means we need to be concerned not only with Manufacturing efficiency: The mass efficiency of processes in the short term impacts of pollution but also with the long term development continues to improve and progress is being made impact of resource consumption, the types of materials used to achieve the target to double mass efficiency and thereby halve and the persistence of waste in the environment.
Our journey the waste per unit of product for the manufacturing processes to sustainability started with looking holistically at continuing to for all phase III compounds by 2010.
Late stage products have treat the waste while also finding ways to prevent waste from been evaluated since 2005 for efficiency and we are making being produced.
This requires what is now called sustainable progress toward our goal.
technologies more efficient chemistries and more efficient processes.
We recognise that sustainability principles apply to Climate change: A comprehensive strategy on climate change all aspects of our operations.
They apply to minimising waste and energy efficiency was approved and is available on GSKs and consumption of natural resources and possibly using website.
A climate change and energy reduction team has been renewable materials in discovering, manufacturing, packaging formed to manage a special fund which is used to support and selling our products and even the impacts from consumers climate change projects.
The team identified more than 400 use of our products.
projects for 2007 and 2008 to reduce energy consumption and to increase our use of renewable energy.
While traditional environmental programmes are seen as a cost without a financial return, a sustainable approach, using Pharmaceuticals in the Environment: We apply product less resource, being concerned with the social impact of our stewardship principles to the issue of pharmaceuticals in operations, also has a financial benefit.
By using less resource, the environment principally unmetabolised drugs excreted we spend less money on operations.
We need to continue to address traditional environmental issues at Process safety: Our Process Safety Management System is the same time as we integrate sustainability into all aspects of our being enhanced, with new engineering standards and training business from discovering and developing to manufacturing and programmes under development.
The standards will be used selling pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products, all of to design new process plant and to upgrade existing plants which use energy and resources and produce emissions and waste.
The training programmes will increase process safety awareness and competencies for engineers, chemists and managers.
GSK Annual Report 2008 31 Report of the Directors Our responsibility continued In 2008, GSK remained on track to eliminate the use of CFCs by EHS management 2010 and to meet its target for water consumption.
Progress was Responsibility for EHS is at the highest level.
The Corporate made to meet its 2010 targets for wastewater pollution, disposal Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors provides of waste and emissions of volatile organic compounds to air oversight and a Sustainability Council was formed in 2008 with due to a combination of conservation programmes and reduced representatives from all areas of the company.
There is a corporate production of several products.
The rate of injuries and illnesses department reporting to the Chief of Staff that has overall also improved in line with the target due to continued emphasis responsibility for providing governance and leadership on EHS and on employee safety behaviours.
The head of this department makes regular reports to the Corporate Executive Team CET and the Audit and There was no progress towards the 2010 energy and related Corporate Responsibility Committees of the Board.
Within the greenhouse gas emissions targets and therefore our carbon businesses all executives and managers are responsible for EHS and footprint remained unchanged.
Our energy efficiency projects are supported by site-based EHS and occupational medical staff.
continue with 171 projects completed in 2008 and another 600 identified.
The gains from the 2008 projects will be fully realised As part of our governance responsibility, we conduct EHS audits in 2009 and beyond.
The gains experienced in 2008 in some parts of our sites, operating entities and key suppliers, assessing the of the business were offset by the continued expansion of the management of key risks and impacts and performance against vaccines business.
This includes providing audited sites and suppliers with quantitative performance information as well as Final EHS performance data for 2008 with explanations of the highlighting areas for risk reduction and improvement.
trends will be published in the Corporate Responsibility report.
EHS targets Sustainability As part of the EHS plan, targets are set every five years with 2006 In working towards sustainability, we are addressing the economic, as the baseline year for the targets to 2010. environmental and social issues in research, manufacturing, sales and distribution of our medicines and consumer healthcare We selected our measures of performance improvement based products.
Sustainability starts with healthcare solutions found by on the potential for adverse impact on people, the environment, R&D and continues with innovations to improve the efficiency of business continuity or business reputation.
manufacturing processes for new products.
This reduces resource Most of the measures selected are similar to those reported use which in turn lowers waste and cost.
With lower costs our by other companies and are recommended by the Global products may be available to a wider population around the world.
Reporting Initiative, a long-term, multi-stakeholder, international In the future, the EHS plan for excellence proposes investigating undertaking, to develop and disseminate globally applicable the use of renewable resources in manufacturing.
We seek dialogue with external stakeholders and consider their Targets have been set to eliminate chlorofluorocarbons CFCs from views when developing approaches to sustainable development.
all uses by 2010 and each year to reduce non-hazardous waste More information on EHS programmes and performance may be disposed by 1%, reduce water use and volatile organic compound found on GSKs website.
VOC releases to air by 2%, reduce pollution of wastewater, measured as chemical oxygen demand, by 3% and reduce energy usage and related greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2010 and 45% by 2015.
All targets are normalised by sales based on constant exchange rates.
32 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Regulation Generally, national regulatory authorisation is also required Regulation Pharmaceuticals to approve the switch of products from prescription to OTC.
GSK operates within a highly regulated environment.
Regional and However, in a history-making first for the OTC industry, the country-specific laws and regulations define the data required to weight loss medicine alli received a centralised European positive show safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products, as well as opinion from the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human govern testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing Use CHMP in October.
This resulted in approval to market alli of drugs.
These regulatory requirements are a major factor in across all 27 EU member countries as the first licensed weight loss determining whether a marketable product may be successfully treatment available without a prescription.
developed and the amount of time and expense associated with the development.
Price controls Drug safety remains a primary focus of the FDA and US In many countries the prices of pharmaceutical products are congressional oversight committees and, as in Europe, evaluation controlled by law.
Governments may also influence prices through of benefit and risk continues to be a paramount consideration for their control of national healthcare organisations, which may bear approval of a new drug.
The FDA Amendments Act, US legislation a large part of the cost of supplying medicines to consumers.
passed in 2007, renewed the User Fee system for drug reviews Recent government healthcare reforms in countries such as France, and mandates a rigorous FDA review of safety from approval Spain and Germany may restrict pricing and reimbursement.
through the post-marketing phase of the product.
The legislation also provides the FDA with the authority to convene Advisory In the USA, recent legislative proposals on healthcare reform, Committees to review all new drugs prior to approval decisions by cross-border trade, the acceleration of generics to market and FDA, to require sponsors to complete post-marketing studies and comparative effectiveness have further increased the focus on to direct companies to make product labelling changes.
Currently, there are no government price controls over are routinely exercising these new authorities.
private sector purchases, but federal law requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay prescribed rebates on certain drugs to be Regulations requiring development of prescription drugs and eligible for reimbursement under Medicaid and other state and biologics for paediatric populations are now in place in the US and federal healthcare programmes.
GSK fully supports the objective of ensuring the development domestic issue.
During the 2008 US Presidential elections the of better medicines for children.
candidates focused on health reforms to address chronic disease In Europe, proposals for further legislative change were announced as the primary healthcare cost driver, rather than focusing on drug by the European Commission during 2008.
These aim to prices alone.
strengthen the EU system for the safety monitoring of medicines, improve citizens access to reliable information on medicines and Medicare strengthen EU laws to protect citizens better from the threats From 2006, the US Medicare program, a federally funded posed by fake medicines.
healthcare insurance programme benefiting senior citizens and certain disabled Americans, included coverage for prescription The regulatory environment in Emerging Markets and Asia-Pacific medicines.
The coverage is voluntary, includes brand-name and continues to evolve, with a number of countries continuing to generic drugs and is open to the 41 million Americans with develop their regulatory review systems.
GSK actively participates Medicare coverage.
in a number of specific regional and national regulatory initiatives, which provide opportunities for meaningful scientific and regulatory Value for money dialogue between industry, agencies and other stakeholders.
GSK Payers around the world are concerned about the cost of continues to include broader sets of patient populations from a healthcare and the pricing of medicines.
The requirement to number of these countries in medicine development programmes in satisfy healthcare purchasers on value for money is becoming order to increase global patient access to new innovative medicines an additional hurdle for product acceptance over and above the and optimise regulatory approvals.
regulatory tests of safety, efficacy and quality.
Regulation Consumer Healthcare The consumer healthcare industry is subject to national regulation comparable to that for prescription medicines for the testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing of products.
High standards of technical appraisal frequently involve a lengthy approval process before a new product is launched.
GSK Annual Report 2008 33 Report of the Directors Economy, world market and outlook World economy World market pharmaceuticals The world economy deteriorated sharply during 2008 as the financial Global pharmaceutical sales in 2008 were 366 billion compared crisis deepened, particularly following the bankruptcy of Lehman with 329 billion in 2007.
Despite aggressive cuts in official interest rates, fiscal stimulus measures and national initiatives to support World market by Value % of Growth geographic region bn total % the international banking system, the International Monetary Fund forecasts that global growth will slow from an estimated 3.4% in USA 145 39 1 2008 to a mere 0.5% in 2009, the lowest rate since World War II.
Europe 112 31 18 The advanced economies are expected to contract by 2% in 2009, France 21 6 18 Germany 20 6 20 the first annual contraction in the post-war period.
Italy 13 3 19 The slump in global demand led to a collapse in equity prices, with UK 12 3 2 the FTSE 100 Index falling by 31% and the Dow Jones Industrial Rest of World 109 30 19 Average by 33% in 2008, and also a collapse in commodity Emerging markets 49 13 24 prices.
Weak economic activity and lower commodity prices have Asia Pacific 17 5 16 dampened inflationary pressures.
In the advanced economies the Japan 33 9 16 headline inflation rate is forecast by the IMF to decline from an Canada 10 3 17 estimated 3.5% in 2008 to a record low of 0.3% in 2009.
Total 366 100 11 In order to engender economic recovery, the Federal Open Market The US market has increased by 1%.
This represents 39% of the Committee FOMC decided in December to cut the target for the global prescription pharmaceutical market compared with 30% federal funds rate from 1% to 0-0.25%.
The decision signalled a decade ago.
that the FOMC would effectively target the supply of credit rather than the price of credit.
Nonetheless, the IMF forecasts that real At 30th September 2008, GSK held second position in the world GDP in the USA will contract by 2% in 2009.
The housing market pharmaceutical market with a market share of 5.3%, behind Pfizer remains of particular concern.
GSK had three of the worlds top 60 pharmaceutical products.
These were Lamictal, Seretide Advair Like the FOMC, the Monetary Policy Committee of the Bank of England and Valtrex.
aggressively eased its monetary stance in 2008, cutting the bank rate from 5.5% to 2%.
The bank rate has already been cut further World market Value % of Growth top six therapeutic classes bn total % in 2009 to 1%.
To reinforce the impact of the cuts in the bank rate, the Government has empowered the Bank of England to purchase Central nervous system 60 16 11 Cardiovascular 54 15 4 high quality assets like corporate bonds and commercial paper from Alimentary tract and metabolic 44 12 10 commercial banks.
The IMF forecasts that real GDP in the UK will Antineoplastic Immunomodulatory 40 11 20 contract by 2.8% in 2009, more than in any other advanced economy.
Anti-infectives bacterial, 38 10 11 The European Central Bank maintained a more cautious approach viral and fungal excluding to monetary relaxation, cutting the refinancing rate from 4.25% to vaccines 2.5% in 2008.
The refinancing rate was cut another 0.5 percentage Respiratory 25 7 8 point in January 2009.
Additional monetary easing is anticipated.
Note: data based on 12 months to 30th September 2008 The IMF forecasts that real GDP in the euro-zone will contract by 2% in 2009, with real GDP in Germany plunging by 2.5%.
Outlook Like the other major industrialised economies, Japan fell into recession 2008 marked a turning point and those factors which impacted in 2008.
The prime factor was the downturn in external demand.
our performance, in particular declines in Avandia sales, are The Bank of Japan cut the overnight call money rate from 0.5% to now starting to reduce.
2008 also saw the first steps towards 0.1%.
Real GDP is forecast by the IMF to contract by 2.6% in 2009. a radical transformation of our business model.
We enter 2009 with confidence and expect to make further good progress in China and India remained on a path of economic expansion implementing our strategic priorities that will enable us to meet in 2008.
However, the pace of expansion decelerated.
Further our long-term objective of reducing risk and delivering sustainable deceleration is expected in 2009.
Economic activity in Brazil growth to shareholders.
remained buoyant in 2008 but is expected to slow markedly in 2009.
Uncertainties surrounding the economic outlook are unusually large, with downside risks continuing to dominate.
34 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Financial review 2008 CNS Pharmaceutical turnover CNS sales decreased 21% to 2.9 billion.
All growth rates included in the review of turnover are at constant exchange rates CER unless otherwise stated.
Sterling growth The majority of GSKs CNS franchise is now impacted by generic rates may be found in the tables of pharmaceutical turnover by competition in the USA, as generic competition to Lamictal, Imigran therapeutic areas on page 35 and by geographic region on page 36. and the remaining presentation of Wellbutrin started during the course of 2008.
There was, however, some positive news as Total pharmaceutical turnover declined 3% for the year to Treximet was approved for migraine by the FDA in April 2008.
20.4 billion, driven largely by US performance, down 11% to 8.9 billion, which was impacted by expected generic competition Cardiovascular and urogenital to several mature brands and further declines in Avandia Cardiovascular and urogenital sales increased 8% to 1.8 billion.
Sales in Asia Pacific and Japan fell 1% to 1.9 billion, reflecting lower government only for Relenza and the impact of Strong growth across most of the portfolio of products was partly pharmaceutical price cuts in Japan.
These declines were partly offset by generic competition to Coreg IR.
Lovaza, for very high offset by growth in Europe, up 3% to 6.5 billion, and Emerging triglycerides, which was acquired from Reliant Pharmaceuticals Markets, up 12% to 2.3 billion.
In sterling terms, pharmaceutical in 2007, grew 71% on a proforma basis to 290 million and turnover grew by 6%, reflecting the weakness of Sterling against grew its US market share by 33%.
Avodart, for benign prostatic most major currencies.
hyperplasia enlarged prostate, grew 27% to 399 million taking a further percentage point of market share, Arixtra, for deep vein Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, grew 53% to 170 million and Coreg CR grew 73% to 165 million.
GSK turnover declined by 3% in 2008 as the impact of lower Avandia sales, US generic competition to a range of GSKs Metabolic products and lower flu pre-pandemic sales was partly offset by Metabolic sales decreased 28% to 1.2 billion.
strong growth of key products such as Advair, Valtrex, Epzicom, Avodart, Lovaza and the vaccines franchise.
Strong growth of Bonviva Boniva, for postmenopausal osteoporosis, up 34% to 237 million was not enough to offset a full year impact Respiratory to Avandia whose sales started to fall in May 2007 see Financial Respiratory sales increased 5% to 5.8 billion.
Avandia product sales declined 40% during the year to 805 million, with US sales falling 49% to Sales of Seretide Advair for asthma and COPD rose 8% to 434 million and European sales down 22% to 198 million.
In the USA, Advair sales rose 6% to 2.2 billion, with Emerging Markets, Avandia product sales returned to growth in the a return to volume growth in the second half of the year.
During second half of the year Q4 sales were up 12%.
2008, the FDA granted Advair an indication in COPD for prevention of exacerbations and this has helped grow the COPD segment of Oncology and emesis our Advair business.
In Europe, sales increased by 4% Oncology and emesis sales decreased 6% to 0.5 billion.
Advair performance was particularly strong in Emerging Markets, up 26% to 215 million, and Japan, where Tykerb, for breast cancer, continued to grow following approval sales of the product more than doubled to 83 million following in the USA last year.
Approvals in other countries were achieved its launch in 2007. throughout 2008, with the European approval being achieved in June.
Anti-virals Anti-virals decreased 4% to 3.2 billion.
Vaccines Vaccine sales increased 15% to 2.5 billion.
GSKs HIV business continues to experience strong competition.
Epzicom Kivexa grew by 23% to 442 million but this was more Within the vaccines portfolio, there were strong performances than offset by declines across the rest of the portfolio.
Sales of from Hepatitis vaccines up 14% to 665 million and combination Valtrex, for herpes, rose 16% to 1.2 billion with US sales up paediatric vaccines Infanrix Pediarix up 12% to 682 million.
Sales of flu anti-viral Relenza fell Rotarix, for rotavirus gastroenteritis, rose 71% to 167 million, 80% to 57 million reflecting fewer government orders for largely driven by government tender orders in Latin America and pre-pandemic stockpiling.
the launch of the product in the USA in August.
New cervical cancer vaccine, Cervarix, recorded sales of 125 million for the year, following several tender wins, including national government orders in the UK and the Netherlands.
Turnover by quarter is given in the Financial record on pages 190 to 193.
36 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Financial review 2008 continued The following table gives the adjustments made in order to Regional analysis restate the turnover for markets within Europe on a turnover created basis.
Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic region in 2008 on an invoiced basis 2008 2007 The turnover reported in the table below represents sales invoiced Region Invoiced Adjustment Created Invoiced Adjustment Created by GSKs local entity to its customers in the local market plus major markets m m m m m m co-promotion income within each market.
Management believes that this turnover Other Europe 2,350 1,920 6 22 created basis of reporting turnover by market provides a better reflection of the performance of the businesses in each market Rest of World 24 5,004 4,330 5 16 within Europe.
Emerging Markets 2,290 1,895 12 21 Japan 1,027 867 3 18 The total turnover for the Europe region is unaffected by Asia Pacific 891 834 1 7 these adjustments.
Canada 503 477 4 5 Other 293 257 4 14 Parallel trade occurs occasionally elsewhere in the world, but it is not sufficiently material to affect significantly the turnover data 100 20,381 19,163 3 6 by market presented on an invoiced basis.
% represents growth Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic region in 2008 at actual exchange rates.
on a turnover created basis Individual governments determine the pricing of medicines in most Turnover by market within Europe has been adjusted for the countries within Europe, which can result in wide price variations effects of parallel trade to show turnover on the basis of the for the same product.
Parallel trade occurs when third parties country where the product is finally consumed, not where the exploit this price differential by purchasing products in markets product was sold by GSK.
where low prices are enforced and selling them to governments and other purchasers in those markets where higher prices have Growth Region % of 2008 2007 been agreed.
This parallel trade is permitted under the single major markets total m m CER% % market rules in the European Union.
GSK does not derive any USA 44 8,894 9,273 11 4 benefit from the profit on resale at the higher price.
Europe 32 6,483 5,560 3 17 As a result, management believes that within the European region, France 1,014 948 8 7 turnover by market, on an invoiced basis as presented above, UK 983 923 7 7 does not properly represent the consumption of the products Italy 738 606 5 22 within each market.
GSK employees based in each market are Germany 814 689 2 18 Spain 690 593 1 16 instrumental in the promotion of the Groups products within the Other Europe 2,244 1,801 7 25 market, thereby creating a product sale and final consumption in that market.
GSK Annual Report 2008 37 Report of the Directors Financial review 2008 continued USA OTC medicines Sales in the USA declined 11% to 8.9 billion, principally reflecting OTC product sales declined 2% to 1.9 billion in 2008, with sales of a full year impact on Avandia down 49% and generic competition smoking cessation products down 12% to 299 million.
Panadol sales to significant products such as Lamictal down 26%, Imigran down grew 12% to 324 million, twice the global average in 2008.
9%, Wellbutrin XL down 45%, Requip down 60% and Coreg IR Oral healthcare down 93%.
These declines were partly offset by Advair up 6%, Sales of Oral healthcare products rose 6% to 1.2 billion, whereas the Valtrex up 20% and Lovaza up 71% on proforma basis.
There were strong performances from Sensodyne, Europe up 12% to 363 million, and Aquafresh, up 3% to 452 million.
Sales in Europe increased 3% to 6.5 billion with continued growth Sensodynes growth represented 35% of world toothpaste growth in of Seretide and particularly strong vaccines growth offsetting 2008 in markets where GSK competes.
the impact of generic competition to a number of products and Nutritional healthcare continued price cuts from governments across the region.
Within Nutritionals, Horlicks sales rose 13% to 204 million, Lucozade Emerging Markets sales rose 7% to 382 million and Ribena sales were flat at 161 million, Sales in Emerging Markets increased 12% to 2.3 billion with strong although sales of Lucozade and Ribena in the second half of the year growth in Russia up 36%, China up 22% and Latin America up declined slightly, largely as a result of poor weather in the UK.
The growth was fuelled primarily by vaccines, up 32% to 0.5 billion, and the respiratory franchise, up 16% to 0.4 billion.
Results before major restructuring and total results Asia Pacific Japan In October 2007 the Board approved the implementation of Increased sales of Seretide Advair up 48% to 204 million were a detailed formal plan for, and GSK announced, a significant offset by lower Government orders for Relenza in Japan and some new Operational Excellence restructuring programme.
A second formal plan, representing a significant expansion of the Operational Excellence programme, was approved by the Consumer Healthcare turnover Board and announced in February 2009.
This restructuring Growth programme, comprising these detailed formal plans, covers all % of 2008 2007 total m m CER% % areas of GSKs business, including manufacturing, selling, R&D Over-the-counter medicines 49 1,935 1,788 2 8 and infrastructure.
With an estimated total cost of approximately Panadol franchise 324 263 12 23 3.6 billion, the expanded programme is expected to deliver Smoking cessation products 299 314 12 5 annual pre-tax savings of approximately 1.7 billion by the time Tums 91 88 5 3 it is substantially complete in 2011.
Approximately 40% of these Cold sore franchise 89 79 3 13 costs were incurred by 31st December 2008, and approximately Breathe Right 81 63 17 29 35% are expected to be incurred in 2009, 20% in 2010 and the alli 75 150 53 50 balance mostly in 2011.
In total, approximately 75% of these Oral healthcare 31 1,240 1,049 6 18 costs are expected to be cash expenditures and 25% are expected Aquafresh franchise 452 398 3 14 to be accounting write-downs.
Uncertainties exist over the exact Sensodyne franchise 363 293 12 24 amount and timing of cash outflows, as a result of potential Dental care 271 222 8 22 future exchange rate fluctuations and as many elements of the restructuring programme are subject to employee consultation Nutritional healthcare 20 796 716 8 11 procedures, making it difficult to predict with precision when Lucozade 382 347 7 10 these procedures will be completed.
However, the majority Horlicks 204 174 13 17 of the remaining cash payments are expected to be made in Ribena 161 156 3 2009 and 2010.
Given the extent and cost of the Operational 100 3,971 3,553 3 12 Excellence programme, management believes it has a material CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.
% represents growth impact on GSKs operating results and on the manner in which at actual exchange rates.
Turnover by quarter is given in the Financial record GSKs business is conducted.
GSK presents the restructuring costs on pages 194 to 195. incurred solely as a direct result of the Operational Excellence Total Consumer Healthcare sales for the year rose 3% to 4 billion.
programme, which in 2008 amounted to 1,089 million before This compares with growth of 14% in 2007, which benefited from tax 2007 338 million, in a separate column in the income launch stocking of new anti-obesity treatment alli.
2008 sales of alli statement titled Major restructuring.
Excluding alli, Consumer Healthcare sales rose 5% in 2008 up 9% in 2007.
38 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Financial review 2008 continued In addition to the restructuring costs of the Operational Excellence The remaining costs of 236 million in 2008 arose from programme, the major restructuring column in the income miscellaneous expenditures incurred solely as a direct result of statement includes restructuring costs incurred solely as a direct the restructuring programmes, including consultancy and project result of any restructuring programmes that follow, and relate management fees, the termination of leases, site closure costs and, to, material acquisitions where the operations of the acquired with respect to 2008, the recognition of foreign exchange losses business overlap extensively with GSKs existing operations.
following the liquidation of a subsidiary in Puerto Rico.
No costs arising from GSKs ongoing operating activities have been reported The restructuring activities that follow, and relate to, such in the major restructuring column.
acquisitions are of the same nature as those undertaken under the Operational Excellence programme and are also carried out Any restructuring costs that do not arise solely as a direct result following a detailed formal plan.
Management therefore considers of the Operational Excellence programme and restructuring it appropriate to present the costs of these restructuring activities programmes following, and relating to, acquisitions meeting the in the same manner.
The $1.65 billion 814 million acquisition criteria described above continue to be reported in operating of Reliant Pharmaceuticals Inc. in December 2007 is the only expenses within results before major restructuring.
These costs acquisition since October 2007 that meets the criteria set out included restructuring costs related to minor acquisitions and above and thus is the only acquisition where the costs incurred 20 million of costs in 2008 2007 92 million that related to as a direct result of a related restructuring programme have restructuring activity initiated before the commencement of the been included within the major restructuring column.
The total Operational Excellence programme.
None of this restructuring restructuring costs incurred as a direct result of this acquisition activity had a material impact on GSKs operating results or on the were 34 million, all of which have been charged and paid manner in which its business is conducted.
During the anticipated duration of the Operational Excellence The Groups results before the costs of the Operational Excellence programme, GSK does not currently expect to incur any material programme and acquisition-related restructuring programmes restructuring costs except those related to that programme and meeting the criteria described above are also presented in a acquisitions meeting the criteria described above.
If any further, separate column in the income statement and are described as unanticipated material restructuring costs were to arise during Results before major restructuring.
This presentation, which this period, GSK would expect also to include them in the major GSK intends to apply consistently to future major restructuring restructuring column.
programmes that have a material impact on GSKs operating GSKs operating profit, profit before taxation, taxation and profit results and on the manner in which GSKs business is conducted, for the year are discussed below in terms of both total results, has been adopted to show clearly the Groups results both which include major restructuring costs, and results before major before and after the costs of these restructuring programmes.
Management believes that this presentation assists shareholders in gaining a clearer understanding of the Groups financial Operating profit total results performance and in making projections of future financial Total results include restructuring costs related to the new performance, as results that include such costs, by virtue of their Operational Excellence programme, which commenced in size and nature, have limited comparative value.
This presentation October 2007, and the Reliant restructuring programme.
is also consistent with the way management assesses the Groups financial performance.
2008 2007 Growth m % m % CER% % Only the restructuring costs incurred solely as a direct result of Turnover 24,352 100 22,716 100.0 3 7 the Operational Excellence programme and the restructuring Cost of sales 6,415 26.3 5,317 23.4 13 21 programme following the Reliant acquisition have been reported Selling, general in the major restructuring column in the income statement.
and administration 7,656 31.4 6,954 30.6 2 10 These restructuring costs principally have arisen from impairments Research and to property, plant and equipment and the termination of the development 3,681 15.2 3,327 14.7 4 11 employment contracts of staff made redundant as part of the Other operating restructuring activities.
As set out in Note 7 to the financial income 541 2.2 475 2.1 11 14 statements, Major restructuring programmes, asset impairments Operating profit 7,141 29.3 7,593 33.4 20 6 and staff redundancies together accounted for 887 million of the 1,123 million restructuring costs incurred in 2008 and reported in the major restructuring column 2007 338 million.
GSK Annual Report 2008 39 Report of the Directors Financial review 2008 continued Cost of sales Profit before taxation total results Cost of sales increased to 26.3% of turnover 2007 23.4%.
At constant exchange rates, cost of sales as a percentage of turnover Net finance costs increased by 3.8 percentage points to 27.2%, reflecting charges 2008 2007 Finance income m m related to the major restructuring programmes of 639 million Interest and other finance income 322 255 2007 111 million and unfavourable product and regional Fair value adjustments and hedges 9 7 mix compared with 2007, partly offset by savings from the restructuring programmes.
313 262 Selling, general and administration Finance costs SG&A costs, including legal charges, were 31.4% of turnover Interest costs 829 434 2007 30.6%, a increase of 0.8 percentage points.
At constant Unwinding of discount on liabilities 16 27 exchange rates, the increase was 1.4 percentage points.
Legal Fair value adjustments and hedges 2 8 costs of 611 million 2007 255 million included a 843 453 278 million charge announced in January 2009 related to the US investigation into GSKs marketing and promotional practices Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures which originated in Colorado.
SG&A costs included charges of The share of after tax profits of associates of 48 million 304 million 2007 137 million related to the major 2007 50 million arises principally from the Groups holding restructuring programmes.
Excluding legal costs, SG&A decreased in Quest Diagnostics Inc. by 1.6%.
Profit before taxation total results Research and development Taking account of net finance costs and the share of profits of R&D expenditure increased 4% and included charges related to associates, total profit before taxation was 6,659 million compared the major restructuring programmes of 175 million with 7,452 million in 2007, a 24% CER decline and an 11% 2007 90 million.
Excluding these charges, R&D expenditure sterling decline.
increased 2% in CER terms as investment in the late stage pipeline was partly offset by restructuring savings.
Operating profit results before major restructuring Other operating income The results before major restructuring are set out below: Other operating income of 541 million 2007 475 million included strong growth in royalty income to 307 million 2008 2007 Growth 2007 216 million.
Product, intellectual property and equity m % m % CER% % investment disposals realised 230 million in 2008 compared with Turnover 24,352 100 22,716 100.0 3 7 90 million in 2007.
The Roche litigation settlement was included Cost of sales 5,776 23.7 5,206 22.9 4 11 in 2007.
Selling, general and administration 7,352 30.2 6,817 30.0 8 Operating profit total results Research and Total operating profit of 7,141 million decreased by 6% in sterling development 3,506 14.4 3,237 14.3 2 8 terms and 20% in CER terms compared with 2007.
Pharmaceuticals Other operating operating profit was 6,331 million, down 21%, while Consumer income 541 2.2 475 2.1 11 14 Healthcare operating profit fell by only 2% to 810 million.
Operating profit 8,259 33.9 7,931 34.9 10 4 In the year, gains from asset disposals and settlements were 293 million 2007 213 million, costs for legal matters were Cost of sales 611 million 2007 255 million, fair value movements on financial Cost of sales increased by 0.8 percentage points to 23.7% of instruments resulted in a charge of 10 million 2007 income turnover.
At constant exchange rates the increase was 1.5 percentage of 41 million and charges relating to previous restructuring points of turnover, principally reflecting the impact of generic programmes were 20 million 2007 92 million.
Charges competition to higher margin products in the USA, lower Avandia related to the major restructuring programmes were 1,118 million sales and a higher proportion of sales generated in lower margin 2007 338 million.
The impact of all these items on total vaccines, brands sold in Emerging Markets and Consumer operating profit was a 1,466 million charge in 2008 compared Healthcare products.
This was partly offset by savings from with a 431 million charge in 2007. the restructuring programmes.
40 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Financial review 2008 continued Selling, general and administration Profit before taxation results before SG&A costs, including legal charges, were 30.2% of turnover major restructuring 2007 30.0%.
At constant exchange rates, SG&A costs increased by 0.7 percentage points to 30.7% of turnover.
Legal costs of Net finance costs 611 million 2007 255 million included a 278 million charge 2008 2007 Finance income m m announced in January 2009 related to the US investigation into GSKs marketing and promotional practices which originated in Interest and other income 322 255 Fair value adjustments and hedges 9 7 Colorado.
Excluding legal costs, SG&A as a percentage of turnover fell 1.2 percentage points to 27.7% 2007 28.9%.
This was a 313 262 3% growth in sterling terms, but a 4% reduction at constant exchange rates, reflecting the benefits of the restructuring Finance costs programmes.
Selling and distribution fell by 1%, advertising and Interest costs 829 434 promotion by 5% and general and administration expenditure, Unwinding of discount on liabilities 11 27 excluding legal charges, by 7%.
Fair value adjustments and hedges 2 8 838 453 Research and development R&D expenditure increased by 2% to 14.4% of turnover Taking account of net finance costs and the share of profits of 2007 14.3% as investment in the late stage pipeline was partly associates, profit before tax before major restructuring was offset by restructuring savings.
7,782 million compared with 7,790 million in 2007, a 14% CER decline but flat in sterling terms.
Other operating income Other operating income of 541 million 2007 475 million Taxation included strong growth in royalty income to 307 million 2008 2007 2007 216 million.
Product, intellectual property and equity m m investment disposals realised 230 million in 2008 compared UK corporation tax 289 452 with 90 million in 2007.
The Roche litigation settlement was Overseas taxation 1,589 1,962 included in 2007.
Current taxation 1,878 2,414 Operating profit results before major restructuring Deferred taxation 69 272 Operating profit before major restructuring of 8,259 million for Taxation on total profits 1,947 2,142 the year increased by 4% in sterling terms but decreased by The charge for taxation on profit before major restructuring 10% in CER terms compared with 2007.
Pharmaceuticals charges, amounting to 2,231 million 2007 2,219 million, operating profit was 7,427 million, down 11%, while Consumer and represents an effective tax rate of 28.7% 2007 28.5%.
Healthcare operating profit was flat in CER terms at 832 million.
The charge for taxation on total profits amounted to Excluding legal costs, operating profit decreased by 6%, which 1,947 million 2007 2,142 million and represented an was greater than the turnover decline of 3%, primarily due to effective tax rate of 29.2% 2007 28.7%.
The Groups balance higher cost of sales as a percentage of turnover.
sheet at 31st December 2008 included a tax payable liability of In the year, gains from asset disposals and settlements were 780 million and a tax recoverable asset of 76 million.
293 million 2007 213 million, costs for legal matters The Groups main open tax issues are in the USA, Canada and Japan.
were 611 million 2007 255 million, fair value movements on financial instruments resulted in a charge of 10 million In July, following discussions with HMRC, the Group settled 2007 income of 41 million and charges relating to previous substantially all outstanding UK tax issues for all periods up to and restructuring programmes were 20 million 2007 92 million.
The impact of these items on operating profit before major Following its audit of the period 2001 to 2003, the IRS issued restructuring was a 348 million charge in 2008 Statutory Notices of Deficiency to GSK asserting income 2007 93 million.
and withholding tax deficiencies, and associated penalties, arising from its reclassification of an intercompany financing arrangement in those years from debt to equity, and its consequent recharacterisation of the amounts paid as dividends subject to withholding tax under the US UK treaty.
All amounts due under the financing arrangement were timely paid, with the final payment made in April 2008.
GSK Annual Report 2008 41 Report of the Directors Financial review 2008 continued The IRS commenced its audit of the period 2004 to 2006 in June Total results including restructuring costs produced a basic EPS 2008, and is examining the issue for these years.
GSK disagrees of 88.6p compared with 94.4p in 2007.
This was a 21% decline with the IRSs position and, in August 2008, initiated actions in at CER and a 6% decline in sterling terms.
Excluding major the United States Tax Court to contest the Statutory Notices of restructuring costs, EPS was 104.7p compared with 99.1p.
GSK estimates that the IRS claim for tax, penalties, and This was a 9% decline at CER but a 6% increase in sterling terms.
interest at 31st December 2008, net of federal tax relief, for 2001 The 15 percentage point currency benefit arose from the weakness through 2003 is $864 million.
GSK believes that this claim has no of Sterling against most major currencies.
merit and that no adjustment is warranted.
If, contrary to GSKs Dividend view, the IRS prevailed in its argument before a court in respect The Board has declared a fourth interim dividend of 17 pence of the years 2001-2003, GSK would expect to have an additional per share resulting in a dividend for the year of 57 pence, a four liability for the five year period 2004-2008 in the amount of pence increase over the dividend of 53 pence per share for 2007.
$1,059 million in tax, penalties, and interest at 31st December The equivalent fourth interim dividend receivable by ADR holders is 2008, net of federal tax relief for those years.
In the event that 49.4564 cents per ADS based on an exchange rate of 1 $1.4546.
the company is not able to resolve this issue with the IRS, a court The ex-dividend date will be 11th February 2009, with a record decision would not be expected before 2011. date of 13th February 2009 and a payment date of 9th April 2009.
Lower courts in Japan have upheld claims by the tax authorities for Yen 39 billion 177 million relating to Japanese CFC Critical accounting policies legislation.
The company has paid and fully provided for the full The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance tax but is pursuing a claim for refund to the Japanese Supreme with IFRS, as adopted for use in the European Union, and also Court.
In Canada a court decision in respect of transfer pricing with IFRS as issued by the IASB, following the accounting policies in the early 1990s was completed in May 2008.
GSK filed an approved by the Board and described in Note 2 to the financial appeal in June and a court date is awaited.
statements, Accounting principles and policies.
Management GSK continues to believe that it has made adequate provision is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the for the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments.
The amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in the ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts financial statements.
Actual amounts and results could differ from provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation those estimates.
The critical accounting policies adopted relate to proceedings and negotiations with the relevant tax authorities.
the following areas: Turnover Profit for the year Taxation Growth 2008 2007 Legal and other disputes m m CER% % Property, plant & equipment Total profit after taxation for the year 4,712 5,310 25 11 Goodwill Total profit attributable to Other intangible assets shareholders 4,602 5,214 26 12 Pensions and other post-employment benefits.
Basic earnings per share pence 88.6p 94.4p 21 6 Basic earnings per ADS US$ $3.28 $3.77 Information on the judgements and estimates made in these areas is given in Note 3 to the financial statements, Key accounting Results before major restructuring judgements and estimates.
profit after taxation for the year 5,551 5,571 14 Results before major restructuring In respect of the Turnover accounting policy, the Groups largest profit attributable to shareholders 5,441 5,475 15 1 business is US pharmaceuticals, and the US market has the most Adjusted earnings per share pence 104.7p 99.1p 9 6 complex arrangements for rebates, discounts and allowances.
Adjusted earnings per ADS US$ $3.87 $3.96 The following briefly describes the nature of the arrangements in Weighted average number existence in the Groups US pharmaceuticals business.
of shares millions 5,195 5,524 GSK has arrangements with certain indirect customers whereby Diluted total earnings per share pence 88.1p 93.7p the customer is able to buy products from wholesalers at Diluted total earnings per ADS US$ $3.26 $3.75 reduced prices.
A chargeback represents the difference Diluted weighted average number between the invoice price to the wholesaler and the indirect of shares millions 5,226 5,567 customers contractual discounted price.
Accruals for estimating chargebacks are calculated based on the terms of each agreement, historical experience and product growth rates.
42 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Financial review 2008 continued Customer rebates are offered to key managed care and group Chargebacks have decreased in 2008 as a result of sales of purchasing organisations GPO and other direct and indirect products into US government stockpiles during 2007, which did customers.
These arrangements require the customer to achieve not arise in 2008.
Managed care, Medicare Part D and GPO rebates certain performance targets relating to value of product purchased, were flat in dollar terms, despite additional Tricare prescription formulary status or pre-determined market shares relative to rebates.
In January 2008, the National Defense Authorisation Act competitors.
Rebates given under Medicare, Part D are included in this was approved, which authorises the Department of Defense to category.
The Medicare, Part D programme was introduced in 2006 access discounted federal pricing on drugs dispensed at Tricare and replaced the Government Medicaid subsidies for some individuals network retail pharmacies to members of the US armed forces, with subsidised coverage provided through private prescription plans.
their dependants and military retirees.
Rebates given under the The accrual for these rebates is estimated based on the specific terms US government and state programmes have risen in 2008 mainly in each agreement, historical experience and product growth rates.
due to pricing adjustments on Imitrex and Lamictal following the introduction of generic competition, together with the inclusion of The US Medicaid programme is a state-administered programme new products from the Reliant Pharmaceuticals acquisition.
providing assistance to certain poor and vulnerable patients.
In 1990, the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program was established to The total accruals for rebates, discounts, allowances and returns reduce state and federal expenditure on prescription drugs.
GSK in the US pharmaceuticals business were as follows: participates by providing rebates to states.
Accruals for Medicaid At 31st At 31st rebates are calculated based on the specific terms of individual December December 2008 2007 state agreements using a combination of historical experience, m m product and population growth, anticipated price increases and Chargebacks 50 38 the impact of contracting strategies.
Managed care, Medicare Part D Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage prompt and GPO rebates 474 340 payment.
These are accrued for at the time of invoicing and US government and state programmes 345 240 Cash discounts 25 21 adjusted subsequently to reflect actual experience.
Customer returns 259 194 Where there is historical experience of customer returns, Other 50 37 GSK records an accrual for estimated sales returns by applying Total 1,203 870 historical experience of customer returns to the amounts invoiced, together with market related information such as stock levels at Sterling values have increased largely as a result of exchange wholesalers, anticipated price increases and competitor activity.
In dollar terms, the 2008 provision is largely unchanged from 2007.
A monthly process is operated to monitor A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for the US inventory levels at wholesalers for any abnormal movements.
pharmaceuticals business is as follows: This process uses gross sales volumes, prescription volumes based on third party data sources and information received 2008 2007 2006 m % m % m % from key wholesalers.
The aim of this is to maintain inventories Gross turnover 11,602 100 11,826 100 13,131 100 at a consistent level from year to year based on the pattern of consumption.
On this basis, US pharmaceutical inventory levels at Chargebacks 892 8 917 8 846 6 wholesalers and in other distribution channels at 31st December Managed care, Medicare 2008 were estimated to amount to approximately one month of Part D and GPO turnover.
This calculation uses third party information, the accuracy rebates 764 6 727 6 912 7 of which cannot be totally verified, but is believed to be sufficiently US government and reliable for this purpose.
state programmes 554 5 481 4 507 4 Cash discounts 207 2 208 2 248 2 Customer returns 126 1 131 1 140 1 Prior year adjustments 38 73 69 Other items 203 1 162 1 194 1 Total deductions 2,708 23 2,553 22 2,778 21 Net turnover 8,894 77 9,273 78 10,353 79 Sterling values have increased by approximately 8% compared with 2007 as a result of exchange rate movements.
GSK Annual Report 2008 43 Report of the Directors Financial position and resources Financial position Property, plant and equipment GSKs business is science-based, technology-intensive and highly 2008 2007 m m regulated by governmental authorities.
The Group allocates significant Assets financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of its property, Non-current assets plant and equipment to minimise risks of interruption of production Property, plant and equipment 9,678 7,821 and to achieve compliance with regulatory standards.
A number of its Goodwill 2,101 1,370 processes use chemicals and hazardous materials.
Other intangible assets 5,869 4,456 The total cost of the Groups property, plant and equipment Investments in associates and joint ventures 552 329 at 31st December 2008 was 18,987 million, with a net book Other investments 478 517 Deferred tax assets 2,760 2,196 value of 9,678 million.
Of this, land and buildings represented Derivative financial instruments 107 1 3,756 million, plant and equipment 3,644 million and assets in Other non-current assets 579 687 construction 2,278 million.
In 2008, GSK invested 1,444 million in new and renewal property, plant and equipment.
This is mainly 22,124 17,377 Total non-current assets related to a large number of projects for the renewal, improvement Current assets and expansion of facilities at various worldwide sites.
Property is 4,056 3,062 Inventories mainly held freehold.
New investment is financed from Group liquid Current tax recoverable 76 58 resources.
At 31st December 2008, GSK had capital contractual Trade and other receivables 6,265 5,495 commitments for future expenditure of 489 million and operating 856 475 Derivative financial instruments lease commitments of 448 million.
GSK believes that its facilities are Liquid investments 391 1,153 adequate for its current needs.
Cash and cash equivalents 5,623 3,379 2 4 Assets held for sale The Group observes stringent procedures and uses specialist skills Total current assets 17,269 13,626 to manage environmental risks from these activities.
Environmental issues, sometimes dating from operations now modified or Total assets 39,393 31,003 discontinued, are reported under Responsibility for environment, Liabilities health and safety page 30 and in Note 44 to the financial Current liabilities statements, Legal proceedings.
956 3,504 Short-term borrowings Trade and other payables 6,075 4,861 Goodwill Derivative financial instruments 752 262 Goodwill has increased during the year from 1,370 million at 780 826 Current tax payable 31st December 2007 to 2,101 million.
The increase primarily reflects Short-term provisions 1,454 892 the goodwill arising on the acquisition of Sirtris Pharmaceuticals 10,017 10,345 Total current liabilities Inc. of 242 million and that arising on the acquisition of the BMS Egypt business of 52 million as well as a significant strengthening Non-current liabilities 15,231 7,067 of overseas currencies on the translation of existing foreign currency Long-term borrowings Deferred tax provision 714 887 goodwill balances.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 3,039 1,383 1,645 1,035 Other intangible assets Other provisions Derivative financial instruments 2 8 Other intangible assets include the cost of intangibles acquired from Other non-current liabilities 427 368 third parties and computer software.
The net book value of other intangible assets as at 31st December 2008 was 5,869 million Total non-current liabilities 21,058 10,748 2007 4,456 million.
The increase in 2008 reflects additions of Total liabilities 31,075 21,093 847 million and currency movements partly offset by the amortisation Net assets 8,318 9,910 and impairment of existing intangibles.
The largest element of Equity the additions is 106 million relating to the acquisition of Sirtris Share capital 1,415 1,503 Pharmaceuticals Inc. reflecting the existence of the technology and a Share premium account 1,326 1,266 large patent application portfolio covering areas of sirtuin biology.
Retained earnings 4,622 6,475 Other reserves 568 359 Shareholders equity 7,931 9,603 Minority interests 387 307 Total equity 8,318 9,910 44 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Financial position and resources continued Investments Pensions and other post-employment benefits GSK held investments, including associates and joint ventures, The Group accounts for pension and other post-employment with a carrying value at 31st December 2008 of 1,030 million arrangements in accordance with IAS 19.
The market value at 31st December 2008 before allowing for deferred taxation were 1,736 million was 1,883 million 2007 1,517 million.
The largest of these 2007 411 million on pension arrangements and 1,303 million investments is in an associate, Quest Diagnostics Inc. which 2007 972 million on unfunded post-employment liabilities.
had a book value at 31st December 2008 of 463 million The pension liabilities increased following declines in asset values and 2007 299 million.
The investments include equity stakes a negative impact of exchange movements only partially offset by in companies where the Group has research collaborations, which further special funding contributions to the UK pension funds provide access to biotechnology developments of potential interest of 200 million 2007 285 million to the UK pension schemes : or interests in companies that arise from business divestments.
a strengthening of long-term interest rates, including an increase in the rate used to discount UK pension liabilities from 5.75% to 6.20% Derivative financial instruments: assets and a decrease in the estimated long term inflation rate in the UK.
GSK had both non-current and current derivative financial instruments held at fair value of 963 million 2007 476 million.
The increase Net debt primarily reflects fluctuations in far forward valuations on foreign 2008 2007 exchange contracts hedging inter-company loans and deposits.
m m Exchange movements are largely due to changes in Euro, Cash, cash equivalents and US dollar and Yen market rates.
liquid investments 6,014 4,532 Borrowings repayable within one year 956 3,504 Inventories Borrowings repayable after one year 15,231 7,067 Inventory of 4,056 million has increased by 994 million during Net debt 10,173 6,039 the year.
The majority of this increase arises from a strengthening of overseas currencies, with the remainder caused partly by Net debt increased by 4,134 million primarily due to share strategic stock building to support growth in specific products.
repurchases, further acquisition of businesses and a significant strengthening of the foreign currencies in which group debt Trade and other receivables is denominated, partly offset by increased cash inflows from Trade and other receivables of 6,265 million have increased from operating activities.
2007 reflecting the impact of strengthening overseas currencies on the translation of foreign currency receivables partly offset by the Total equity completion of non-recourse factoring arrangements in Japan and A summary of the movements in equity is set out below.
reductions in overdue receivables in certain European markets.
2008 2007 m m Derivative financial instruments: liabilities GSK held both non-current and current derivative financial Total equity at beginning of year 9,910 9,648 instruments held at fair value of 754 million 2007 270 Total recognised income and expense for the year 4,829 6,134 million relating primarily to hedging exchange on translation of Dividends to shareholders 2,929 2,793 currency assets on consolidation.
The increase again reflects the Ordinary Shares issued 62 417 impact from Euro, US dollar and Yen currency fluctuations.
Ordinary Shares purchased and held as Treasury shares 3,537 Trade and other payables Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled 3,706 213 Trade and other payables amounting to 6,075 million have Consideration received for shares transferred increased from 2007 primarily reflecting the strengthening of by ESOP Trusts 10 116 overseas currencies.
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts 19 26 Share-based incentive plans 241 237 Provisions Tax on share-based incentive plans 1 4 The Group carried deferred tax provisions and other short-term and Distributions to minority interests 79 77 non-current provisions of 3,813 million at 31st December 2008 Total equity at end of year 8,318 9,910 2007 2,814 million in respect of estimated future liabilities, of which 1,903 million related to legal and other disputes.
Provision At 31st December 2008, total equity had decreased from 9,910 has been made for legal and other disputes, indemnified disposal million at 31st December 2007 to 8,318 million.
The decrease liabilities and the costs of restructuring programmes to the extent arises principally from actuarial losses on defined benefit pension that at the balance sheet date an actual or constructive obligation plans in the year and further share repurchases, partially offset by existed and could be reasonably estimated.
recognised income and expenses for the year.
GSK Annual Report 2008 45 Report of the Directors Financial position and resources continued Share purchases Contractual obligations and commitments In 2008, the Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP Trusts acquired The following table sets out the Groups contractual obligations and 19 million of shares in GSK plc 2007 26 million.
Shares are held commitments at 31st December 2008 as they fall due for payment.
by the Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and awards under Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs the Group share option and award schemes.
A proportion of the m m m m m shares held by the Trusts are in respect of awards where the rules of Loans 16,051 911 703 4,600 9,837 the scheme require GSK to satisfy exercises through market purchases Interest on loans 11,868 782 1,525 1,339 8,222 rather than the issue of new shares.
The shares held by the Trusts are Finance lease obligations 136 48 62 19 7 matched to options and awards granted.
Finance lease charges 18 5 7 4 2 Operating lease At 31st December 2008, the ESOP Trusts held 129 million GSK shares commitments 448 140 185 76 47 against the future exercise of share options and share awards.
The Intangible assets 13,048 660 1,269 1,556 9,563 carrying value of 1,445 million 2007 1,617 million has been Property, plant & equipment 489 388 100 1 deducted from other reserves.
The market value of these shares was Investments 56 46 10 1,657 million 2007 1,721 million.
Purchase commitments 145 70 74 1 GSK repurchased 3,706 million of shares for cancellation in 2008 Business combinations 227 227 2007 213 million and nil of shares to be held as Treasury shares Pensions 597 334 132 131 2007 3,537 million.
In order to ensure that GSK has sufficient Other commitments 46 17 19 5 5 flexibility to deliver its strategic priorities the company does not expect Total 43,129 3,628 4,086 7,732 27,683 to make any significant repurchases under the existing share buy-back Commitments in respect of loans and future interest payable on loans programme during 2009.
The exact amount and timing of future are disclosed after taking into account the effect of derivatives.
The purchases, and the extent to which repurchased shares will be held as Group has entered into a number of research collaborations to develop Treasury shares rather than being cancelled, will be determined by the new compounds with other pharmaceutical companies.
The terms of company and is dependent on market conditions and other factors.
these arrangements can include up-front fees, equity investments, loans At 31st December 2008, GSK held 474.2 million shares as Treasury and commitments to fund specified levels of research.
In addition, the shares 2007 504.2 million shares, at a cost of 6,286 million Group will often agree to make further payments if future milestones 2007 6,683 million, which has been deducted from are achieved.
As some of these agreements relate to compounds in retained earnings.
the early stages of development, milestone payments will continue for There have been no purchases since 31 December 2008 under the a number of years if the compounds move successfully through the existing programme.
Generally the closer the product is to marketing approval the greater the possibility of success.
The payments shown above Commitments and contingent liabilities within intangible assets represent the maximum that would be paid if all Financial commitments are summarised in Note 39 to the financial milestones are achieved.
Other contingent liabilities and obligations in respect of short and long-term debt are set out in Note 31 to the A number of new commitments were made in 2008 under financial statements, Contingent liabilities and Note 32 to the financial licensing and other agreements, including arrangements with statements, Net debt.
Actelion Pharmaceuticals Limited, Archemix Corporation, Dynavax Technologies Corporation, and Mpex Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
The Amounts provided for pensions and post-retirement benefits are set commitments relating to business combinations reflect agreements to out in Note 28 to the financial statements, Pensions and other postacquire the issued share capital of Genelabs Technologies, Inc. Bristol employment benefits.
Amounts provided for restructuring programmes Myers Squibb Pakistan Private Limited and AZ Tika SNC, the latter and legal, environmental and other disputes are set out in Note 29 to being subject to clearance by the Swedish Competition Authority.
the financial statements, Other provisions.
In 2006, GSK formalised an agreement with the trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions, in addition to the normal contributions, over a four year period ending 31st December 2009 in order to eliminate the then funded pension deficits on an IAS 19 basis by that point.
The table above shows this commitment, net of 166 million of additional contributions made in 2008, but excludes the normal ongoing annual funding requirement of approximately 150 million.
GSK has also committed to eliminate any future deficits that may arise over a rolling five-year period.
This agreement will be reviewed during 2009.
For further information on pension obligations, see Note 28 to the financial statements, Pensions and other post-employment benefits.
46 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Financial position and resources continued The net cash outflow from investing activities was 1,149 million, a Contingent liabilities decrease of 1,899 million which reflected marginally lower capital The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising discounted expenditure, repayments of liquid investments and a reduced cost of bills, performance guarantees, letters of credit and other items arising business purchases during 2008, including Sirtris Pharmaceuticals for in the normal course of business, and when they are expected to expire.
324 million, net of cash acquired of 52 million, and the Egyptian Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs business of BMS for 130 million, net of deferred consideration of m m m m m 10 million.
In 2007, the comparable acquisitions comprised of Reliant Guarantees 98 73 14 11 Pharmaceuticals for 794 million and Domantis for 218 million, net Other contingent liabilities 36 3 12 3 18 of cash acquired.
Total 134 76 26 3 29 Free cash flow Free cash flow In the normal course of business GSK has provided various m indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals in which 5,000 legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen.
A provision 3,751 3,706 4,679 is made where a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely 4,000 outcome of the dispute and this is included in Note 29 to the 3,857 3,000 financial statements, Other provisions.
2,000 It is the Groups policy to provide for the settlement costs of asserted claims and environmental disputes when a reasonable estimate 1,000 may be made.
Prior to this point no liability is recorded.
Legal and 0 environmental costs are discussed in Risk factors on pages 50 to 53 2008 2007 and Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings.
GSK Free cash flow is the amount of cash generated by the business after continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the meeting its obligations for interest, tax and dividends paid to minority liabilities likely to arise from open taxation assessments.
The ultimate interests, and after capital expenditure on non-current tangible and liability for such matters may vary significantly from amounts provided intangible assets.
It was 4,679 million, an increase of 21% over 2007, and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings and principally reflecting the higher operating profit before non-cash charges, negotiations with the relevant tax authorities.
This is discussed further primarily from the major restructuring programmes, and working capital in Note 14 to the financial statements, Taxation.
improvements, partly offset by higher levels of interest paid as a result of Cash flow the significant debt issuances during the year of US $9 billion under the A summary of the consolidated cash flow is set out below.
US shelf registration and 0.7 billion under the EMTN programme.
Free cash flow is used by GSKs management for planning and reporting 2008 2007 m m purposes and in discussions with and presentations to investment analysts Net cash inflow from operating activities 7,205 6,161 and rating agencies.
GSKs free cash flow measure is not defined in IFRS.
Net cash outflow from investing activities 1,149 3,048 This measure may not be directly comparable with similarly described Net cash outflow from financing activities 4,908 1,702 measures used by other companies.
A reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating activities, which is the closest equivalent IFRS measure, to Increase decrease in cash and bank overdrafts 1,148 1,411 free cash flow is shown below.
Exchange adjustments 1,103 48 Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 3,221 1,762 Reconciliation of free cash flow Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 5,472 3,221 2008 2007 m m Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year Net cash inflow from operating activities 7,205 6,161 comprise: Purchase of non-current tangible assets 1,437 1,516 Cash and cash equivalents 5,623 3,379 Purchase of non-current intangible assets 632 627 Overdrafts 151 158 Disposal of non-current tangible fixed assets 20 35 5,472 3,221 Interest paid 730 378 Interest received 320 247 The net cash inflow from operating activities after taxation paid was Dividends received from joint ventures and 7,205 million, an increase of 1,044 million over 2007 reflecting an associated undertaking 12 12 unchanged profit before tax excluding the impact of the significant Dividends paid to minority interests 79 77 increase in non-cash charges made in the year, primarily from the major restructuring programmes, together with improved working capital Free cash flow 4,679 3,857 management.
GSK Annual Report 2008 47 Report of the Directors Financial position and resources continued Movements in net debt Payment policies 2008 2007 Group companies are responsible for monitoring and managing m m their working capital.
The terms of sales collections and supplier Net debt at beginning of year 6,039 2,450 payments reflect local commercial practice.
Increase in cash and bank overdrafts 1,148 1,411 In the UK, the company and each of its UK subsidiaries have Cash inflow outflow from liquid investments 905 39 policies to ensure that suppliers are paid on time.
In particular, Net increase in long-term loans 5,523 3,276 the UK companies seek: Net repayment of increase in short-term loans 3,059 1,632 Exchange movements 1,918 88 to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the Other movements 5 43 terms of the transaction Net debt at end of year 10,173 6,039 to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the agreed terms of payment Investment appraisal GSK has a formal process for assessing potential investment to abide by the terms of payment.
proposals in order to ensure decisions are aligned with the The policy permits arrangements for accelerated payment to Groups overall strategy.
This process includes an analysis of small suppliers.
the impact of the project on earnings, its return on invested capital and an assessment of the return based on discounted Payment performance cash flows.
The discount rate used to perform financial analysis At 31st December 2008, the average number of days payable is decided internally, to allow determination of the extent to oustanding represented by trade payables of the parent company which investments cover the Groups cost of capital.
For specific was nil 2007 nil and in respect of the company and its UK investments the discount rate may be adjusted to take into subsidiaries in aggregate was 20 days 2007 21 days.
account country or other risk weightings.
Treasury policies Capital expenditure and financial investment Cash payments for tangible and intangible fixed assets GSK reports in Sterling and pays dividends out of Sterling profits.
amounted to 2,069 million 2007 2,143 million, The role of Corporate Treasury is to manage and monitor our 2006 1,590 million.
Disposals realised 191 million external and internal funding requirements and financial risks 2007 44 million, 2006 218 million.
Cash payments to in support of our corporate objectives.
Treasury activities are acquire equity investments of 87 million 2007 186 million, governed by policies and procedures approved by the Board of 2006 57 million were made in the year and sales of equity Directors, most recently on 25th September 2008. investments realised 42 million 2007 45 million, A Treasury Management Group TMG chaired by our Chief 2006 32 million.
Financial Officer, meets on a monthly basis to review treasury activities.
Its members receive management information relating Future cash flow to treasury activities.
The Group expects that future operating cash flow will be sufficient to fund its operating and debt service costs, to satisfy normal levels Capital management of capital expenditure, to meet obligations under existing licensing Our operations are global, primarily through subsidiary companies agreements, to meet the expenditure arising from the major established in the markets in which we trade.
With significant restructuring programmes the precise timing of which is uncertain levels of patent protection, our products compete largely on outlined in Note 7 to the financial statement, Major restructuring product efficacy rather than on price.
Selling margins are sufficient programmes and to meet other routine outflows including tax and to cover normal operating costs and our operating subsidiaries are dividends, subject to the Risk factors discussed on pages 50 to 53. generally cash generative.
GSK may from time to time have additional demands for finance, such as for acquisitions.
It has access to other sources of liquidity Operating cash flow is used to fund investment in research and from short and long-term capital markets and banks and other development of new products.
It is also used to make the routine financial institutions, in addition to the cash flow from operations, outflows of capital expenditure, tax, dividends, repayment of for such needs.
maturing debt and, to the extent determined by the Board, share repurchases.
Our policy is to borrow centrally using a variety of capital market issues and borrowing facilities to meet anticipated funding requirements.
48 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Financial position and resources continued These borrowings, together with cash generated from operations, At 31st December 2008, we had centrally available cash reserves are on-lent, contributed as equity to certain subsidiaries or used to of 4.3 billion and committed undrawn bank facilities of pay dividends, make acquisitions or fund share buy-backs.
As at that date we had short-term debt and bank overdrafts and loans repayable within one year of 1.0 billion.
For further details of GSKs share buy-back programme, please see Note 33, Share capital and share premium account.
We manage our net borrowing requirements through a portfolio of long-term borrowings, including bonds, together with shortLiquidity term finance under a $10 billion commercial paper programme.
As at 31st December 2008, our cash and liquid investments were During the year, our committed undrawn bank facilities reduced held as follows: from $5 billion to $3.9 billion as a consequence of Royal Bank of Scotlands acquisition of ABN AMRO and the collapse of Lehman 2008 2007 Brothers.
The facilities were renewed in October 2008.
We m m consider this level of committed facilities to be adequate given our Bank balances and deposits 3,778 1,431 current cash holdings.
For further information on these facilities, Treasuries and treasury-repo only money please refer to Note 32 to the financial statements, Net debt.
We market funds 1,852 1,713 also benefit from strong positive cash flow from operating units.
Corporate debt instruments 75 1,170 Government securities 309 218 We have a European Medium Term Note programme of 6,014 4,532 10 billion.
At 31st December 2008, we had 7.9 billion of notes in issue under this programme.
We also have a US shelf 4.3 billion of this amount is managed centrally and available registration statement.
At 31st December 2008, we had within three months.
We had net debt at 31st December 2008 of $11.1 billion 7.7 billion of notes in issue under this programme.
The table below summarises cash and gross debt.
The TMG monitors the cash flow forecast on a monthly basis.
2008 2007 The long-term borrowings mature at dates between 2010 and m m 2042.
Our long-term debt ratings have remained stable since Cash and liquid investments 6,014 4,532 February 2008.
Currently we are rated A stable outlook by Gross debt fixed 13,814 6,254 Standard and Poors and A1 negative outlook by Moodys.
Our floating 2,373 4,317 short-term debt ratings are A-1 and P-1 with Standard and Poors 6,039 Net debt 10,173 and Moodys respectively.
The maturity profile of gross debt is shown in the table below: MATURITY PROFILE OF GROSS DEBT m equivalent 3,500 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2025 2033 2034 2038 2039 2042 USD EUR GBP Other GSK Annual Report 2008 49 Report of the Directors Financial position and resources continued We use an interest rate swap to redenominate one of our external Treasury operations borrowings into the interest rate coupon required by GSK.
The The objective of treasury activity is to manage the post-tax net duration of this swap matches the duration of the principal cost or income of financial operations to the benefit of earnings.
Interest rate derivative instruments are accounted for Corporate Treasury does not operate as a profit centre.
We use a as fair value or cash flow hedges of the relevant assets or liabilities.
variety of financial instruments, including derivatives, to finance our operations and to manage market risks from those operations.
Counterparty risk management Our policy on counterparty risk management is to work with a Derivatives, principally comprising forward foreign currency select group of relationship banks.
Global counterparty limits are contracts, interest rate and currency swaps, are used to swap assigned to each of GSKs banking and investment counterparties borrowings and liquid assets into our required currencies and based on long-term credit ratings from Moodys and Standard to manage exposure to funding risks from changes in foreign and Poors.
Corporate Treasurys usage of these limits is monitored exchange and interest rates.
daily by a Corporate Compliance Officer CCO independent of We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for Corporate Treasury.
Any breach of these limits is reported to the speculative purposes.
Our treasury policies specifically prohibit CFO immediately.
The CCO also monitors the credit rating of such activity.
All transactions in financial instruments are these counterparties and, when changes in ratings occur, notifies undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business Corporate Treasury so the appropriate amendment can be made activities, not for speculation.
A full counterparty analysis is presented to the TMG annually for approval.
Foreign exchange management Since July 2007, we have tightened our criteria for holding cash Foreign currency transaction exposure arising on internal and equivalents and liquid investments in response to the credit crisis.
external trade flows is not hedged.
The exposure of overseas operating subsidiaries to transaction risk is minimised by matching On 15th September 2008, Lehman Brothers filed for Chapter local currency income with local currency costs.
11 proceedings in the USA and appointed administrators in the UK.
Although Lehman was one of GSKs relationship banks, For this purpose, our internal trading transactions are matched our exposure to Lehman at the time of the collapse was limited centrally and we manage intercompany payment terms to reduce to immaterial costs on foreign exchange contracts and the risk.
Exceptional foreign currency cash flows are hedged selectively termination of the Quest Collar referred to in more detail under the management of Corporate Treasury.
in Note 20 to the financial statements, Investments in associates We manage the short-term cash surpluses or borrowing and joint ventures.
requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward Financial assets and liabilities contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating currency.
An analysis of net debt is given in Note 32 to the financial statements, Net debt.
An analysis of financial assets and liabilities We seek to denominate borrowings in the currencies of our at carrying value and fair value is given in Note 41 to the financial principal assets and cash flows.
These are primarily denominated statements, Financial instruments and related disclosures.
in US dollars, Euros and Sterling.
Certain borrowings are swapped into other currencies as required.
We continue to benefit from strong positive cash flow from operating activities.
Our net debt would have decreased in the Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies year to 31st December 2008, but for our purchase of our that match investments in our overseas assets are treated as a hedge own shares in the market of 3.7 billion and acquisitions of against the relevant assets.
Forward contracts are also used in major approximately 0.5 billion.
currencies to reduce our exposure to our investment in overseas Group assets see Net Investment Hedges section of Note 41 for The financial assets and liabilities at 31st December 2008 are further details.
The TMG review the ratio of borrowings to assets representative of our treasury policies and strategies applied since for major currencies.
GSK raised 8.0 billion in the Capital Markets between December 2007 and May 2008 of which 2.4 billion was raised in Interest rate risk management 2007.
We do not expect to make any significant share repurchases The policy on interest rate risk management requires the minimum in 2009. amount of net borrowings at fixed rates to increase with the ratio of forecast interest payable to trading profit.
The fixed to floating ratio is reviewed monthly by the TMG.
50 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Risk factors Generic drug manufacturers are seeking to market generic versions Risk factors of many of the Groups most important products, prior to the There are risks and uncertainties relevant to the Groups business, expiration of the Groups patents, and have exhibited a readiness financial condition and results of operations that may affect future to do so for other products in the future.
The US launch of generic performance.
These include R&D, anticipated sales growth and products competing with Lamictal, Imitrex, Paxil CR, Requip and expected earnings.
The factors below are among those that the Wellbutrin XL had a significant impact on the Groups overall Group thinks could cause its actual results to differ materially turnover and earnings for 2008. from expected and historical results.
There are other risks and Potential changes in intellectual property laws and regulations uncertainties not currently known to the Group or which are Proposals to change existing patent and data exclusivity laws deemed immaterial.
The management and mitigation of risk is and regulations in major markets in which the Group sells its discussed on page 72 Corporate Governance.
products are a continuing feature of the political process in those The major risks that might affect GSKs business are: countries.
These include proposals that could have the effect of making prosecution of patents for new products more difficult and Risk that R&D will not deliver commercially successful time-consuming or adversely affecting the exclusivity period for new products the Groups products, including biological products.
Should such Continued development of commercially viable new products as well proposals be enacted they could have an adverse impact on the as the development of additional uses for existing products is critical Groups future sales and results of operations.
to the Groups ability to replace sales of older products that decline Weakness of intellectual property protection in upon expiration of exclusive rights, and to increase overall sales.
certain countries Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain process.
In some of the countries in which the Group operates, patent A new product candidate can fail at any stage of the process, and protection may be significantly weaker than in the USA or the one or more late-stage product candidates could fail to receive European Union.
In an effort to control public health crises, some regulatory approval.
developing countries, such as South Africa, Thailand and Brazil, have considered plans for substantial reductions in the scope New product candidates may appear promising in development but, of patent protection for pharmaceutical products.
In particular, after significant investment, fail to reach the market or have only limited these countries could facilitate competition within their markets commercial success.
This, for example, could be as a result of efficacy from generic manufacturers who would otherwise be unable to or safety concerns, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, introduce competing products for a number of years.
difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture, erosion of patent term as a result of a lengthy development period, infringement of patents or Any loss of patent protection, including abrogation of patent other intellectual property rights of others or inability to differentiate the rights or compulsory licensing, is likely to affect adversely the product adequately from those with which it competes.
Groups operating results in those national markets but is not expected to be material to the Group overall.
Absence of adequate Health authorities such as the US FDA, the European Medicines patent protection could limit the opportunity to look to such Agency and the Japan Pharmaceuticals and Medicines Device markets for future sales growth.
Agency have increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit risk balance of drugs.
Payers are also becoming increasingly Risk of substantial adverse outcome of litigation more demanding with regard to the incremental benefit required and government investigations to gain reimbursement and secure appropriate pricing.
See Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings, Risk of unplanned loss of patents for a discussion of proceedings and governmental investigations involving matters which if proven could give rise to civil and Patent infringement litigation or criminal liabilities in which the Group is currently involved.
The Groups patents, in common with all patents, can be challenged Unfavourable resolution of these and similar future proceedings or at any time.
Efforts by generic manufacturers may involve challenges investigations may have a material adverse effect on the Groups to the validity or enforceability of a patent or assertions that financial condition and results of operations.
The Group has their generic product does not infringe the Groups patents.
If made material provisions in 2006, 2007 and 2008 related to legal GSK is not successful in defending an attack on its patents and proceedings and investigations which reduced its earnings.
maintaining exclusive rights to market one or more of its major products, particularly in the USA where the Group has its highest The Group may also make additional significant provisions related turnover and margins, the Groups turnover and margins would to legal proceedings and investigations in the future, which would be adversely affected.
See Note 44 to the financial statements, reduce its earnings.
In many cases the practice of the plaintiff bar is to Legal proceedings, for a discussion of patent-related proceedings claim damages in amounts that bear no relationship to the underlying in which the Group is involved and page 18 for a description of harm.
Accordingly it is potentially misleading to quantify the potential resolution of prior proceedings which affect the dates on which exposure to claims, proceedings and investigations of the type generic versions of the Groups products may be introduced.
described in Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings.
GSK Annual Report 2008 51 Report of the Directors Risk factors continued Recent insurance loss experience, including pharmaceutical In the USA, for example, the Group is responding to federal product liability exposures, has increased the cost of, and and state governmental investigations into pricing, marketing narrowed the coverage afforded by, insurance for pharmaceutical and reimbursement of its prescription drug products.
These companies generally, including the Group.
investigations could result in related restitution or civil false claims act litigation on behalf of the federal or state governments, as well In order to contain insurance costs in recent years the Group has as related proceedings initiated against the Group by or on behalf continued to adjust its coverage profile, accepting a greater degree of consumers and private payers.
Such proceedings may result in of un-insured exposure.
In addition, where claims are made under trebling of damages awarded or fines in respect of each violation of insurance policies, insurers may reserve the right to deny coverage law.
Criminal proceedings may also be initiated against the Group.
If denial of coverage is ultimately upheld on these claims, this could result in material additional charges.
Risks of competition, price controls and limitations Product liability litigation on sales Third party competition Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the The Group operates in highly competitive markets.
In the development of potential products to determine the safety and pharmaceuticals business, it faces competition both from proprietary efficacy of products for use by humans following approval by products of large international manufacturers and producers of regulatory bodies.
Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and generic pharmaceuticals.
Significant product innovations, technical vaccines are introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated side advances or the intensification of price competition by competitors effects may become evident.
could adversely affect the Groups operating results.
The Group In other instances third parties may perform analyses of published cannot predict the timing or impact of competitive products or clinical trial results which, although not necessarily accurate or their potential impact on sales of the Groups products.
Continued meaningful, may raise questions regarding safety of pharmaceutical consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry could adversely affect products which may be publicised by the media and may result the Groups competitive position, while continued consolidation in product liability claims.
The Group is currently a defendant in a among the Groups customers may increase pricing pressures.
number of product liability lawsuits, including class actions, that The Group had eight products with over 500 million in annual involve substantial claims for damages related to the Groups global sales in 2008.
Among these products are Augmentin IR, Imitrex pharmaceutical products.
Litigation, particularly in the USA, is and Lamictal for which there is generic competition, and Avandia inherently unpredictable and excessive verdicts that are not justified by and Valtrex, with respect to which the Groups intellectual property the evidence can occur.
Class actions that sweep together all persons rights in the USA are currently the subject of litigation or settlement who were prescribed the Groups products can inflate the potential agreements related to such litigation.
liability by the force of numbers.
Claims for pain and suffering and punitive damages are frequently asserted in product liability actions If any of the Groups major products were to become subject to a and, if allowed, can represent potentially open-ended exposure.
problem such as unplanned loss of patent protection, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or Anti-trust litigation patient confidence or pressure from competitive products, or if a In the USA it has become increasingly common that following new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the adverse publicity around government investigations or an adverse outcome impact on the Groups revenues and operating results could be in prosecution of patent infringement actions, the defendants and significant.
In particular, the Group faces intense competition direct and indirect purchasers and other payers initiate anti-trust from manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products in all actions as well.
Claims by direct and indirect purchasers and other of its major markets.
Generic products often enter the market payers are typically filed as class actions.
The relief sought may upon expiration of patents or data exclusivity periods for the include treble damages and restitution claims.
Damages in adverse Groups products.
Introduction of generic products typically leads anti-trust verdicts are subject to automatic trebling in the USA.
to a dramatic loss of sales and reduces the Groups revenues Similarly, anti-trust claims may be brought following settlement and margins for its proprietary products.
The expiration dates of patent litigation, alleging that such settlements are antifor patents for the Groups major products and a description of competitive and in violation of anti-trust laws.
litigation settlements which may affect the dates on which generic Sales, marketing and regulation versions of the Groups products may be introduced are set out on The Group operates globally in complex legal and regulatory page 18.
Legal proceedings involving patent challenges are set out environments that often vary among jurisdictions.
The failure in Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings.
to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations in these Governmental and payer controls jurisdictions may result in civil and criminal legal proceedings.
Pharmaceutical products are subject to price controls or pressures As those rules and regulations change or as governmental and other restrictions in many markets, including Japan, Germany, interpretation of those rules and regulations evolve, prior conduct Spain, France and Italy.
Some governments intervene directly in may be called into question.
52 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Risk factors continued In addition, in some markets major purchasers of pharmaceutical Risk of interruption of product supply products whether governmental agencies or private health care The manufacture of pharmaceutical products and their constituent providers have the economic power to exert substantial pressure materials requires compliance with good manufacturing practice on prices or the terms of access to formularies.
The Groups manufacturing sites are subject to review and approval by the FDA and other regulatory agencies.
Compliance The Group cannot predict whether existing controls, pressures or failure by suppliers of key services and materials or the Groups own restrictions will increase or new controls, pressures or restrictions manufacturing facilities could lead to product recalls and seizures, will be introduced that will reduce the Groups margins or affect interruption of production and delays in the approvals of new products adversely its ability to introduce new products profitably.
pending resolution of manufacturing issues.
Non-compliance can also For example, in the USA, where the Group has its highest margins result in fines and disgorgement of profits.
and the most sales for any country, pricing pressures could Any interruption of supply or fines or disgorgement remedy could significantly increase as experience develops under the outpatient materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
For pharmaceutical programme covering Medicare beneficiaries that example, during resolution of FDA observations of deficiencies in began in 2006.
The private insurers through which coverage is manufacturing practices at the Groups Cidra, Puerto Rico facility, as offered, through their enormous purchasing power under the referred to in Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings, programme, could demand discounts that may implicitly create supplies of certain products manufactured at that site were curtailed or price controls on prescription drugs.
constricted which had an adverse impact on sales in 2005 and 2006.
Changes to the enabling legislation could afford the US government Although the Group undertakes business continuity planning, a direct role in negotiating prices under the Medicare programme.
single sourcing for certain components, bulk active materials Additionally, a number of states have proposed or implemented and finished products creates a risk of failure of supply in the various schemes to control prices for their own senior citizens event of regulatory non-compliance or physical disruption at the programmes, including importation from other countries and bulk manufacturing sites.
The growth in the number of patients covered through large managed care institutions in the USA, which has Risk from concentration of sales to wholesalers increased with implementation of the Medicare benefit, also increases In the USA, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the Group pricing pressures on the Groups products.
These trends may adversely sells its products through a small number of wholesalers in addition affect the Groups revenues and margins from sales in the USA.
to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups.
Sales to Regulatory controls the three largest wholesalers amounted to approximately 84% The Group must comply with a broad range of regulatory controls on of the Groups US pharmaceutical sales.
At 31st December 2008 the testing, approval, manufacturing and marketing of many of its the Group had trade receivables due from these three wholesalers pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products, particularly in the totalling 1,067 million 31st December 2007 915 million.
The USA and countries of the European Union, that affect not only the Group is exposed to a concentration of credit risk in respect of these cost of product development but also the time required to reach the wholesalers such that, if one or more of them is affected by financial market and the uncertainty of successfully doing so.
Health authorities difficulty, it could materially and adversely affect the Groups have increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit risk financial results.
balance of drugs in the context of not only initial product approval but Reliance on information technology also in the context of approval of additional indications and review of The Group is increasingly dependent on information technology information regarding marketed products.
Stricter regulatory controls systems, including Internet-based systems, for internal also heighten the risk of changes in product profile or withdrawal communication as well as communication with customers and by regulators on the basis of post-approval concerns over product suppliers.
Any significant disruption of these systems, whether due safety, which could reduce revenues and can result in product recalls to computer viruses or other outside incursions, could materially and product liability lawsuits.
There is also greater regulatory scrutiny, and adversely affect the Groups operations.
especially in the USA, on advertising and promotion and in particular on direct-to-consumer advertising.
Global political and economic conditions In addition, in some cases the Group may voluntarily cease As described on page 33, many of the worlds largest economies, marketing a product or face declining sales based on concerns including the major markets in which the Group operates, and about efficacy or safety for example, declines in sales of Avandia in financial institutions currently face extreme financial difficulty, 2007 following publicity around questions regarding risks associated including a decline in asset prices, liquidity problems and limited with the product, whether or not scientifically justified, even in the availability of credit.
It is uncertain how long this crisis will last, but absence of regulatory action.
The development of the post-approval many countries are concerned that their economies may enter a adverse event profile for a product or the product class may have a deep and prolonged recession.
major impact on the marketing and sale of the product.
GSK Annual Report 2008 53 Report of the Directors Risk factors continued Such a decline in economic activity may have a material adverse Failure to manage properly the environmental risks could result in effect on the Groups sales, results of operations, financial additional remedial costs that could materially and adversely affect the condition and ability to raise capital.
Some of the Groups Groups operations.
See Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal businesses, including Consumer Healthcare, may be particularly proceedings, for a discussion of  proceedings in sensitive to declines in consumer spending.
In addition, the which the Group is involved.
financial crisis may result in a lower return on the Groups financial Accounting standards investments and may cause the value of the Groups investments New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations in its pension plans to decrease, requiring the Group to increase its circulated from time to time by an international standard setting board funding of those pension plans.
could result in changes to the recognition of income and expense that may adversely impact the Groups reported financial results.
The Group conducts a substantial portion of its operations outside International standard changes in the market valuation of certain the UK.
The Groups management of foreign exchange rates is financial instruments are reflected in the Groups reported results discussed in Business Review, Foreign exchange management before those gains or losses are actually realised and could have a see page 49.
Fluctuations in exchange rates between Sterling significant impact on the income statement in any given period.
and other currencies, especially the US dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen, could materially affect the Groups financial results.
Accounting for deferred taxation on inter-company inventory may give rise to volatility depending upon the ownership of the The Group has no control over changes in inflation and interest inventory.
Regulators regularly review the financial statements of rates, foreign currency exchange rates and controls or other listed companies for compliance with accounting and regulatory economic factors affecting its businesses or the possibility of requirements.
political unrest, legal and regulatory changes or nationalisation in jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The Group believes that it complies with the appropriate regulatory requirements concerning its financial statements and disclosures.
Taxation However, other companies have experienced investigations The effective tax rate on the Groups earnings benefits from the fact into potential non-compliance with accounting and disclosure that a portion of its earnings is taxed at more favourable rates in some requirements that have resulted in restatements of previously jurisdictions outside the UK.
Changes in tax laws or in their application reported results and sometimes significant penalties.
with respect to matters such as transfer pricing, foreign dividends, controlled companies or a restriction in tax relief allowed on the Human resources interest on intra-Group debt, could increase the Groups effective tax The Group has approximately 99,000 employees globally and is rate and adversely affect its financial results.
The Group has open issues subject to laws and regulations concerning its employees ranging with the revenue authorities in the USA, Japan and Canada.
These from discrimination and harassment to personal privacy to labour matters are discussed in Note 14 to the financial statements, Taxation.
relations that vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
The Group faces intense competition for qualified individuals from Disruption from pandemic influenza other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, In the event of pandemic influenza, the Group could be subject to governmental entities and other research institutions.
Failure to disruption from a range of factors.
National governments may be continue to recruit and retain the right people and maintain a more willing to abrogate intellectual property rights for medicines culture of compliance may have a significant adverse effect.
that might otherwise be in short supply.
Failure of third party providers In a country afflicted by pandemic flu, there would be a risk that Unaffiliated third-party suppliers provide a number of goods and employees and their families will be affected with the consequence services to the Groups operations.
Many of these services, for that sales and distribution and manufacturing activities could example services provided by clinical research organizations to support be shut down and supply continuity for active ingredients and development of key products, are very important to the operations of finished goods affected.
Materials provided by third-party suppliers are Environmental liabilities necessary for the commercial production of our products, including The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual and speciality chemicals, commodities and components necessary for potential obligations on the Group to remediate contaminated sites.
the manufacture, fill-finish and packaging of many of the Groups The Group has also been identified as a potentially responsible party pharmaceutical and consumer health products.
While the Group does under the US Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation not believe that any of these third-party relationships are individually and Liability Act at a number of sites for remediation costs relating to significant in the context of the overall Group, the failure of any thirdthe Groups use or ownership of such sites.
party supplier to fulfil its contractual obligations in a timely manner may result in delays or service interruptions which could constrain the sales of the Groups products.
54 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Financial review 2007 In accordance with US SEC disclosure requirements, the following In sterling terms total pharmaceutical turnover decreased 4%, four discussion compares results for the year to 31st December 2007 percentage points less than CER, principally due to the strength of with the results for the year to 31st December 2006.
Sterling against the US dollar.
In 2008, the Group realigned the regional reporting structure Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area within the Pharmaceuticals business and reallocated entities and expenses between the Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Healthcare Turnover in 2007 was in line with 2006 as high-value growth businesses.
Comparative information for 2007 and 2006 below products were offset by lower Avandia sales and US generic has been restated on a consistent basis.
See Note 2 to the financial competition to Coreg IR, Flonase, Wellbutrin XL and Zofran.
The high-value growth products included Seretide Advair, vaccines, Lamictal, Valtrex, Requip, Avodart and Boniva.
Exchange Respiratory The currencies that most influence the Groups results are the US We continued to be a global leader in respiratory pharmaceuticals dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
with sales of our three key products, Seretide Advair, Flixotide Flovent and Serevent amounting to 4.4 billion, up 8%.
Total In 2007, the US dollar fell by 2% against the pound, to $1.99 at sales of Seretide Advair, for asthma and COPD, rose 10% to 3.5 the year-end.
The year-end rates for the Euro strengthened by 8% billion.
In the USA, sales grew 9% to 1.9 billion.
In Europe sales and the Japanese yen by 5% against Sterling.
grew 8.1% to 1.2 billion and in Rest of World markets sales grew 24% to 393 million, enhanced by its launch in Japan in June.
World market pharmaceuticals Global pharmaceutical sales in 2007 were 329 billion compared CNS with 328 billion in 2006.
CNS sales decreased 2% to 3.3 billion.
Sales decreased in the USA and Europe, reflecting generic competition to Seroxat Paxil World market by Value % of Growth in both regions.
Rest of World sales grew 6% which included bn total % geographic region 4% growth in Paxil in Japan.
Total Seroxat Paxil sales declined USA 140.8 43 3 6% to 553 million.
Total Wellbutrin sales declined 37% to 529 Europe 97.6 30 5 million, owing to US generic competition to Wellbutrin SR IR and Rest of World 90.4 27 1 Wellbutrin XL 300mg tablet.
Total 328.8 100 Sales of Lamictal, for the treatment of epilepsy and bipolar disorder, The US market has decreased by 3%, but it still represents 43% grew 18% to 1.1 billion, driven by sales in the USA which were up of the global prescription pharmaceutical market compared with 26% to 892 million, benefiting from its new indication.
Sales of Requip, for Parkinsons disease and Restless Legs At 30th September 2007, GSK held second position in the world Syndrome RLS, grew 36% to 346 million.
pharmaceutical market with a market share of 5.9%, behind Pfizer with a market share of 7%.
GSK had four of the worlds top 60 Anti-virals pharmaceutical products.
These were Avandia, Lamictal, Seretide Total sales of HIV products were 1.4 billion, down 1%.
Competition to older products, Combivir down 10% to 455 million and Epivir down 20% to 156 million, was largely offset World market Value % of Growth by strong sales growth of new products Epzicom Kivexa, which bn total % top six therapeutic classes grew 39% to 324 million and Lexiva Agenerase, up 13% to Central nervous system 54.4 17 1 141 million.
Cardiovascular 50.7 15 6 Sales of Valtrex, for herpes, rose 18% to 934 million, with US Alimentary tract and metabolic 39.7 12 1 sales up 20% to 668 million driven by increased use of the Antineoplastic Immunomodulatory 35.6 11 8 Anti-infectives bacterial, 32.9 10 1 product for prevention of disease transmission.
Sales in Europe viral and fungal excluding grew 9% to 115 million and in Rest of World grew 14% to vaccines 151 million.
Sales of Relenza, an antiviral treatment for flu, were Respiratory 22.1 7 2 262 million 2006 91 million, driven primarily by one-off government orders for stockpiling against a possible flu pandemic.
Note: data based on 12 months to 30th September 2007.
Metabolic Pharmaceutical turnover In 2007, sales of the Avandia product group, for type 2 diabetes, Total pharmaceutical turnover in 2007 was 19,163 million declined 22% to 1.2 billion.
In the USA sales fell 29% to 780 compared with 20,013 million in 2006, in line with 2006 million, with fourth quarter sales down 55% to 130 million.
56 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Financial review 2007continued This followed publication of an article in the New England Consumer Healthcare turnover Journal of Medicine.
This article suggested that there may be Growth cardiovascular risk associated with Avandia.
Despite GSKs efforts, % of 2007 2006 total m m CER% % doctors became reluctant to start new patients on Avandia without Over-the-counter medicines 50 1,788 1,561 20 15 further guidance from the FDA.
Following clarification from the Panadol franchise 263 234 14 12 FDA in October, there was a new approved label for Avandia.
Smoking cessation products 314 353 6 11 Outside the USA, sales in Europe grew 3% to 225 million, and in Tums 88 93 2 5 Rest of World markets, sales declined 6% to 214 million.
Cold sore franchise 79 69 19 14 We recorded in turnover a 161 million share of co-promotion Breathe Right 63 2 100 100 income for Boniva Bonviva, a once-monthly oral bisphosphonate alli 150 for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis.
Oral healthcare 30 1,049 993 8 6 Aquafresh franchise 398 374 9 6 Vaccines Sensodyne franchise 293 257 16 14 Vaccine sales increased 20% to 2.0 billion, with good Dental care 222 217 6 2 performances in all regions: US sales rose 44% to 628 million: Nutritional healthcare 20 716 658 9 9 European sales grew 14% to 800 million and sales in Rest of Lucozade 347 301 16 15 World were up 7% to 565 million.
Sales of hepatitis vaccines Horlicks 174 156 12 12 grew 14% to 529 million, driven by US growth of 33%.
Sales of the new two-dose vaccine, Rotarix, to CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.
% represents growth prevent rotavirus gastroenteritis, doubled to 91 million, with at actual exchange rates.
strong growth in both Europe and Rest of World.
Sales of Cervarix, GSKs vaccine to prevent cervical cancer, were 10 million.
Oral healthcare Oral healthcare sales grew 8% to over 1 billion.
Sales of Cardiovascular and urogenital Aquafresh were up 9% to 398 million, helped by the success of Sales of Coreg, for heart disease, fell 18% to 587 million, the new Aquafresh White Trays.
Sensodyne also grew strongly, up following the introduction of US generic competition to Coreg IR 16% for the year to 293 million, driven by a successful launch of in September.
Sales of Coreg CR, which was launched in March Sensodyne ProNamel.
Avodart, for benign prostatic hyperplasia enlarged prostate, continued to perform strongly with sales up Nutritional healthcare 38% to 285 million.
Nutritional healthcare product sales grew 9% to 716 million.
Lucozade grew 16% to 347 million, and Horlicks grew 12% to Anti-bacterials 174 million.
Ribena sales were down 7% to 156 million.
Anti-bacterial sales declined 1% to 1,323 million reflecting generic competition in all regions.
Operating profit total results Oncology and emesis Total results include restructuring costs related to the new Tykerb achieved sales of 51 million in its first year, 36 million Operational Excellence programme, which commenced in of which arose in the USA following its launch in March.
Sales October 2007. of Zofran declined 77% to 196 million, reflecting generic 2007 2006 Growth competition in the USA, Europe and Rest of World where sales m % m % CER% % declined 88%, 34% and 21% respectively.
Turnover 22,716 100.0 23,225 100.0 2 2 Cost of sales 5,317 23.4 5,010 21.6 8 6 Consumer Healthcare sales Selling, general and administration 6,954 30.6 7,257 31.2 4 OTC medicines Research and Over-the-counter medicine sales grew 20% to 1.8 billion, with development 3,327 14.7 3,457 14.9 1 4 Panadol up 14% to 263 million and alli sales of 150 million Other operating since launch in the USA in June.
Smoking control products income 475 2.1 307 1.3 declined 6% to 314 million due to strong competition in the US Operating profit 7,593 33.4 7,808 33.6 3 3 market.
Breathe Right and FiberChoice, added to the portfolio with the acquisition of CNS in December 2006, achieved combined sales of 81 million.
GSK Annual Report 2008 57 Report of the Directors Financial review 2007continued The total operating profit impact of these items was a 535 million Cost of sales charge in 2007 340 million charge in 2006.
Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover increased by 1.8 percentage points.
At constant exchange rates, cost of sales as a percentage of turnover increased by 1.3 percentage points, Profit before taxation total results reflecting charges related to the new Operational Excellence Net finance costs programme of 111 million 2006 nil and unfavourable product and regional mixes compared with 2006.
2007 2006 Finance income m m Selling, general and administration Interest and other income 255 285 Selling, general and administration SG&A costs as a percentage Fair value adjustments and hedges 7 2 of turnover reduced 0.6 percentage points.
At constant exchange 262 287 rates, the decrease was 0.7 percentage points, reflecting flat expenditure compared with the prior year on a turnover growth of Finance costs 2%.
SG&A costs included charges related to the new Operational Interest costs 434 314 Excellence programme of 137 million 2006 nil.
Advertising Unwinding of discount on liabilities 27 36 and promotion increased by 2%, selling and distribution increased Fair value adjustments and hedges 8 2 by 2%, and general and administration expenditure declined 5%.
453 352 Research and development Finance costs increased owing to increased levels of debt to R&D expenditure declined 1% and included charges related to finance the share buy-back programme.
the new Operational Excellence programme of 90 million 2006 nil.
The benefit arose from lower impairment charges and the Share of after tax profits of associates and winding-down of previous restructuring activities.
Excluding these joint ventures items, R&D expenditure declined 2% on last year.
Pharmaceutical The share of profits of associates arises principally from the Groups R&D expenditure represented 16.7% 2006 16.7% of holding in Quest Diagnostics Inc. pharmaceutical turnover.
Profit before taxation total results Other operating income Taking account of net finance costs and the contribution from Other operating income includes royalty income, equity associates, total profit before taxation was 7,452 million investment disposals and impairments, product disposals and compared with 7,799 million in 2006, an increase of 2% at fair value adjustments to financial instruments.
Other operating constant exchange rates, but a 4% sterling decline.
income was 475 million in 2007 2006 307 million.
The increase is primarily due to higher royalty income 216 million Major restructuring programmes in 2007 compared with 94 million in 2006, favourable fair In October 2007, GSK announced a significant new 1.5 billion value movements on financial instruments 41 million in 2007 Operational Excellence programme to improve the effectiveness compared with 29 million in 2006, and the Roche litigation and productivity of its operations.
settlement relating to carvedilol, partially offset by lower asset disposal profits.
An expansion to the programme was announced in February 2009 and this programme is now expected to deliver annual pre-tax Operating profit total results savings of 1.7 billion by 2011.
One-off charges of 338 million Overall, the operating profit margin decreased 0.2 percentage before tax relating to the programme were recorded in Q4 2007. points as operating profit decreased 3% in sterling terms to There were no significant acquisition-related restructuring costs 7,593 million.
Operating profit increased 3% at constant incurred in 2006 or 2007. exchange rates and the CER margin increased 0.5 percentage Because of the extent and cost of the Operational Excellence points, reflecting flat SG&A expenditure and higher other programme, a columnar presentation has been adopted in the operating income, partially offset by an increase in cost of sales.
The analysis below of operating profit and In 2007, gains from asset disposals were 109 million the subsequent discussion excludes restructuring costs related 169 million in 2006, costs for legal matters were 255 million to the new Operational Excellence programme.
Management 333 million in 2006, fair value movements on financial believes that this presentation assists shareholders in gaining a instruments resulted in an income of 41 million income of clearer understanding of the Groups financial performance and 29 million in 2006, charges related to old restructuring activity is consistent with the way management assesses the Groups were 92 million 205 million in 2006 and charges related to the financial performance.
new Operational Excellence programme were 338 million 2006 nil.
58 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Financial review 2007continued Operating profit results before major restructuring Operating profit results before major Overall, the operating profit margin increased 1.3 percentage restructuring points as operating profit increased 2% in sterling terms to 2007 2006 Growth 7,931 million.
Operating profit increased 8% at constant m % m % CER% % exchange rates and the margin increased 2 percentage points, Turnover 22,716 100.0 23,225 100.0 2 2 reflecting declines in SG&A and R&D expenditure on turnover Cost of sales 5,206 22.9 5,010 21.6 6 4 growth of 2%, and higher other operating income.
Selling, general In 2007, gains from asset disposals were 109 million 2006 and administration 6,817 30.0 7,257 31.2 2 6 169 million, costs for legal matters were 255 million 2006 Research and 333 million, fair value movements on financial instruments development 3,237 14.3 3,457 14.9 3 6 resulted in an income of 41 million 2006 29 million and Other operating charges related to old restructuring activity were 92 million income 475 2.1 307 1.3 2006 205 million.
The operating profit impact of these items Operating profit 7,931 34.9 7,808 33.6 8 2 was a 197 million charge in 2007 2006 340 million.
Cost of sales Profit before taxation results before major Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover increased by 1.3 restructuring percentage points.
At constant exchange rates, cost of sales as a percentage of turnover increased by 0.8 percentage points, Net finance costs reflecting unfavourable product and regional mix.
2007 2006 Finance income m m Selling, general and administration Interest and other income 255 285 Selling, general and administration SG&A costs as a percentage Fair value adjustments and hedges 7 2 of turnover reduced 1.2 percentage points and at constant 262 287 exchange rates, the decrease was 1.3 percentage points, reflecting a 2% decline in expenditure compared with prior year on a Finance costs turnover growth of 2%.
SG&A costs were down 2% due to lower Interest costs 434 314 selling and general and administration expenditure partly offset Unwinding of discount on liabilities 27 36 by higher advertising and promotion.
Advertising and promotion Fair value adjustments and hedges 8 2 increased 2% and accounted for less than a 1% increase in total SG&A.
Selling and distribution declined 1% and general 453 352 and administration expenditure declined 7%.
Collectively these Profit before taxation results before major items accounted for a 2% decline in total SG&A, of which one restructuring percentage point was due to lower charges related to Taking account of net finance costs and the contribution from legal matters.
associates, results before major restructuring, profit before taxation was 7,790 million compared with 7,799 million in 2006, an Research and development increase of 6% CER, but flat in sterling terms.
R&D expenditure decreased 3% partly as a result of lower impairment charges and the winding-down of previous restructuring activities.
Excluding these items, R&D expenditure Taxation was flat.
Pharmaceutical R&D expenditure represented 16.2% 2007 2006 2006 16.7% of pharmaceutical turnover.
m m UK corporation tax 452 400 Other operating income Overseas taxation 1,962 2,310 Other operating income was 475 million in 2007 2006 Current taxation 2,414 2,710 307 million.
The increase is primarily due to higher royalty Deferred taxation 272 409 income 216 million in 2007 compared with 94 million in 2006, favourable fair value movements on financial instruments Taxation on total profits 2,142 2,301 41 million in 2007 compared with 29 million in 2006, and the Roche litigation settlement relating to carvedilol, partially The charge for taxation on total profit amounting to 2,142 offset by lower asset disposal profits.
million, represents an effective tax rate of 28.7% 2006 29.5%.
The charge for taxation on results before major restructuring profit, amounting to 2,219 million, represents an effective tax rate of 28.5% 2006 29.5%.
GSK Annual Report 2008 59 Report of the Directors Financial review 2007continued The Group balance sheet at 31st December 2007 included a tax Results before major restructuring profit for the year were payable liability of 826 million and a tax recoverable asset of 5,571 million, an increase of 8% 1% in sterling terms.
attributable to minority interests was 96 million and profit attributable to shareholders was 5,475 million, an increase of The integrated nature of the Groups worldwide operations, 8% 2% in sterling terms.
The interest cost of the share buy-back involving significant investment in research and strategic programme adversely impacts the Groups profits but benefits manufacture at a limited number of locations, with consequential EPS.
Results before major restructuring EPS increased 10%, cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets, gives rise reflecting higher profits and also the reduction in the weighted to complexity and delay in negotiations with revenue authorities average number of shares resulting from the Groups share as to the profits on which individual Group companies are liable buy-back programme.
At actual rates of exchange, earnings per to tax.
Disagreements with, and between, revenue authorities as share increased 4%.
The unfavourable currency impact on EPS to intra-Group transactions, in particular the price at which goods of six percentage points reflected a strengthening of Sterling should be transferred between Group companies in different against the US dollar and compared with a four percentage point tax jurisdictions, can produce conflicting claims from revenue unfavourable currency impact on turnover.
authorities as to the profits to be taxed in individual territories.
Resolution of such issues is a continuing fact of life for GSK.
Dividend In 2007, our main open tax issues were in the UK, USA, Canada The Board declared a fourth interim dividend of 16 pence per and Japan.
share resulting in a dividend for the year of 53 pence, a five pence increase over the dividend of 48 pence per share for 2006.
For the latest position on Taxation see Taxation in the 2008 Financial Review on page 40.
Profit for the year Growth 2007 2006 m m CER% % Total profit after taxation for the year 5,310 5,498 3 3 Total profit attributable to shareholders 5,214 5,389 3 3 Basic earnings per share pence 94.4p 95.5p 5 1 Basic earnings per ADS US$ $3.77 $3.53 Results before major restructuring 5,571 5,498 8 1 profit after taxation for the year Results before major restructuring profit attributable to shareholders 5,475 5,389 8 2 Adjusted earnings per share pence 99.1p 95.5p 10 4 Adjusted earnings per ADS US$ $3.96 $3.53 Weighted average number of shares millions 5,524 5,643 Diluted total earnings per share pence 93.7p 94.5p Diluted total earnings per ADS US$ $3.75 $3.50 Weighted average number of shares millions 5,567 5,700 Total results including restructuring costs related to the new Operational Excellence programme produced a basic EPS of 94.4p compared with 95.5p in 2006.
This was a 5% increase in CER terms compared with 2006, but a 1% decline in sterling terms.
60 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors The Board 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 1 Sir Christopher Gent Aged 60 4 Dr Stephanie Burns Aged 54 Appointed on 1st June 2004.
Sir Christopher was the Appointed on 12th February 2007.
Chief Executive Officer of Vodafone Group plc, until his retirement Dr Burns is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of in July 2003.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Lehman Brothers Dow Corning Corporation.
She is also a member of the American Holdings Inc, a Non-Executive Director of Ferrari SpA, a member Chemical Society and sits on the Executive Committee of the of KPMGs Chairmans Advisory Group, a Senior Adviser at Bain Society of Chemical Industry, America Section, serves on the Board & Co. and a member of the Advisory Board of Reform.
of Directors of the American Chemistry Council, and on the Board of Directors for the Society for Womens Health Research.
Dr Burns 2 Andrew Witty Aged 44 holds a PhD in organic chemistry from Iowa State University.
5 Lawrence Culp Aged 45 Mr Witty was named Chief Executive Officer Designate for GSK in Appointed on 1st July 2003.
October 2007 and was appointed Chief Executive Officer CEO on Mr Culp is President and Chief Executive Officer of Danaher 21st May 2008.
He joined the Group in 1985 and has held senior positions in Asia, Africa and the USA.
Immediately prior to being Corporation.
Prior to joining Danaher, he held positions in appointed CEO, Andrew was President, Pharmaceuticals Europe, a Accenture, previously Andersen Consulting.
position he held from January 2003.
He is a member of the Business 6 Sir Crispin Davis Aged 59 Council for Britain, a Board Member of PhRMA, a Vice-President Appointed on 1st July 2003.
of EFPIA and a Member of the Singapore Economic Development Sir Crispin is Chief Executive Officer of Reed Elsevier PLC.
Prior to Boards International Advisory Council.
that, he was Chief Executive of Aegis Group plc, which he joined 3 Professor Sir Roy Anderson Aged 61 from Guinness plc, where he was a member of the main Board and Appointed on 1st October 2007.
Group Managing Director of United Distillers.
He spent his early Professor Anderson is Professor of Infectious Disease Epidemiology career with Procter & Gamble.
in the Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College, London, and is Rector 7 Julian Heslop Aged 55 of Imperial College.
He is a fellow of the Royal Society and a Foreign Appointed on 1st April 2005.
Associate Member of the Institute of Medicine at the US National Mr Heslop joined Glaxo Wellcome as Financial Controller in April Academy of Sciences.
In January 2001 he was appointed Senior Vice President, was the Chief Scientific Adviser at the Ministry of Defence in the UK.
Prior to joining the Group he held senior finance roles at Grand Metropolitan.
GSK Annual Report 2008 61 Report of the Directors 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 8 Sir Deryck Maughan Aged 61 12 Dr Moncef Slaoui Aged 49 Appointed on 1st June 2004.
Chairman, Research & Sir Deryck is a Partner of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co, Development.
Dr Slaoui joined GSK Biologicals in 1988 where and a Non-Executive Director of Thomson Reuters and BlackRock he engineered the development of a robust vaccines pipeline Inc.
He was formerly Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of and subsequently led Worldwide Business Development for Citigroup International and of Salomon Brothers Inc. pharmaceuticals before his appointment to lead R&D.
He is a member of the Board of the Agency for Science, Technology 9 Dr Daniel Podolsky Aged 55 & Research A STAR and has a PhD in Molecular Biology and Appointed on 1st July 2006.
Immunology from Universit Libre fide Bruxelles.
Dr Podolsky is President of the University of Texas Southwestern Medical 13 Tom fide Swaan Aged 62 Center in Dallas and holds the Phillip OBryan Montgomery, Jr. M. D. Appointed on 1st January 2006.
Distinguished Presidential Chair in Academic Administration, and the Mr fide Swaan is a member of the Board of Directors of Zurich Financial Doris and Bryan Wildenthal Distinguished Chair in Medical Science.
He is a member of the Board of the Southwest Medical Foundation, Services and Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board and Chairman and is also Chairman of the Board and Scientific Co-Founder of the of the Audit Committee of Royal Ahold, a member of the Supervisory GI Company.
Board of Royal DSM, and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of VanLanschot Bankiers.
Until January 2006, he was a member of the 10 Sir Ian Prosser Aged 65 Managing Board and Chief Financial Officer of ABN AMRO.
Sir Ian was formerly a Non-Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham 14 Sir Robert Wilson Aged 65 plc.
He is Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of BP plc, Chairman of Appointed on 1st November 2003.
the Navy, Army and Air Force Institutes NAAFI, a Non-Executive Sir Robert is Non-Executive Chairman of BG Group plc and The Director of Sara Lee Corporation and a member of the CBI Economist Group and was previously Executive Chairman of Rio Tinto.
James Murdoch Aged 36 11 Dr Ronaldo Schmitz Aged 70 To join the Board on 20th May 2009.
Mr Murdoch is Chairman and Chief Executive of News Corporation, Dr Schmitz was formerly a Non-Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome Europe and Asia.
He is also Non-Executive Chairman of BSkyB plc.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Legal & General Group plc, a and a member of the Board of News Corporation.
He served as member of the Board of Directors of Rohm and Haas Company and Chief Executive Officer of BSkyB from 2003 to 2007 and was also Cabot Corporation and of the Supervisory Board of SICK AG.
previously Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Star TV.
He also serves on the Leadership Council of The Climate Group.
Other Directors Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier, formerly Chief Executive Officer, retired from the Board on 21st May 2008.
Mr Christopher Viehbacher, formerly Details of membership of the Board Committees may be found on President, North American Pharmaceuticals, who was appointed page 66. to the Board on 31st January 2008, resigned from the Board with effect from 8th September 2008.
62 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors The Corporate Executive Team CET 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1 Andrew Witty 6 Eddie Gray Chief Executive Officer.
Andrew succeeded JP Garnier as Chief President, Pharmaceuticals Europe.
Eddie became responsible Executive Officer in May 2008.
During for the Groups operations in Europe in January 2008.
He joined his career with the company he has held the roles of Managing Beecham in 1988 and, prior to his current appointment, was Senior Director South Africa, Vice President and General Manager Vice President and General Manager, Pharmaceuticals UK.
Marketing in the US and Senior Vice President, Asia Pacific.
7 Julian Heslop He was appointed President, Pharmaceuticals Europe for Chief Financial Officer.
Julian became Chief Financial Officer GlaxoSmithKline in January 2003. in April 2005.
As head of the finance function he is responsible for activities such as financial reporting and control, tax and treasury, 2 Simon Bicknell finance systems, internal audit and insurance.
He joined Glaxo Senior Vice President, Company Secretary and Compliance Wellcome as Financial Controller in April 1998.
Simon ensures that compliance and risk management are effectively embedded within the business and oversees corporate 8 Abbas Hussain governance for the Group.
Simon joined the Corporate Secretariat President, Emerging Markets.
Abbas joined GSK in June 2008 in 1984.
He was appointed Deputy Company Secretary of from Eli Lilly and Company, where he spent 20 years overseeing Glaxo Wellcome in 1995 and Company Secretary of markets throughout Europe, Africa Middle East and Australasia.
9 Duncan Learmouth 3 John Clarke Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications and President, Consumer Healthcare.
John is responsible for the Community Partnerships.
Duncan is responsible for the Groups Consumer Healthcare business which produces oral healthcare, investor relations, internal and external communications, its image over-the-counter and nutritional healthcare products.
He joined and partnerships with communities.
He joined Glaxo in 1991 and Beecham in 1976 and was the President of the Futures Group was Vice President, Global Investor Relations, before appointment before his current appointment in January 2006. to his current position in July 2006.
4 Deirdre Connelly 10 Bill Louv President, North American Pharmaceuticals.
Deirdre joined GSK Chief Information Officer.
Bill was appointed Chief Information in February 2009 after working at Eli Lilly and Company for 24 years.
He is responsible for information She held a variety of positions including sales professional, General technology across GSK.
Bill joined Glaxo in 1994 as Vice President, Manager of Puerto Rico, Executive Director of Human Resources and Medical Data Sciences.
Prior to his current role, Bill was Senior Vice most recently President of US operations.
5 Marc Dunoyer President, Pharmaceuticals Asia Pacific Japan.
Marc was appointed President, Pharmaceuticals Asia Pacific Japan in May 2008.
He joined the Group in 1999 and was President, Pharmaceuticals Japan from January 2000 until his current appointment.
GSK Annual Report 2008 63 Report of the Directors 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 11 Dan Phelan 15 Jean Stphenne Chief of Staff.
Dan is responsible for Corporate Strategy and President and General Manager, Biologicals.
Jean has led Development, IT, HR, Real Estate and Facilities, Environmental GSKs global vaccines business since 1989.
Previously he was Vice Health and Safety, and Global Security.
He joined Smith Kline President of Human Vaccines Research and Development and & French in 1981 and previously held the role of Senior Vice Production.
He joined the company in 1974 as Head of Bacterial and President Human Resources until his appointment as Chief of Viral Vaccines production.
Jean was named Baron by King Albert II Staff in May 2008. of the Belgians in 2000 in recognition of his leading contribution to R&D and industry in Belgium.
12 David Pulman President, Global Manufacturing and Supply.
David is 16 Claire Thomas responsible for the Global Manufacturing and Supply organisation Senior Vice President, Human Resources.
Claire leads the global and Global Procurement.
He has broad Human Resources HR function.
Previously, she oversaw HR in experience of manufacturing operations having previously led Pharmaceuticals International and in Pharmaceuticals Europe.
Claire the Primary Supply, European manufacturing, North American joined the company in 1996 and was appointed Director of Human manufacturing, Global Logistics and Manufacturing Strategy Resources for UK Pharmaceuticals in 1997.
Claire was honoured as organisations.
an Outstanding European Woman of Achievement in 2007.
13 David Redfern 17 Dan Troy Chief Strategy Officer.
David is responsible for proactive Senior Vice President and General Counsel.
Dan joined GSK exploration of new business opportunities and strategic planning.
as Senior Vice President and General Counsel in September 2008.
He began his career with GSK in 1994 in Corporate Development Previously he was a Partner at the Washington law firm Sidley before being appointed Finance Director of Europe Pharmaceuticals Austin LLP and Chief Counsel for the FDA where he served as a in 1999.
He was appointed Area Director for Central Europe in primary liaison to the White House and the US Department of 2003 and Northern Europe in 2005.
Health and Human Services HHS.
14 Moncef Slaoui Other members Chairman, Research & Development.
Moncef leads the Groups Bob Ingram continues to act as a special consultant to the Group drug discovery and development activities.
He joined the Group in and attends some CET meetings in that capacity.
1988 and was a key player in building GSKs vaccines pipeline.
In Changes to the CET in 2008 2003 he was appointed Senior Vice President, Worldwide Business JP Garnier, Chief Executive Officer, retired from GSK in May 2008.
Development until his current appointment in June 2006.
Rupert Bondy, Senior Vice President and General Counsel, left GSK in March 2008.
Russell Greig, President, Pharmaceuticals International, left the CET in May 2008 for a new role as President of the GSK Venture Fund.
Chris Viehbacher, President, US Pharmaceuticals, left GSK in December 2008.
