S St tra rate teg gy y a an nd d G Gro rou up p o ov five er rv viie ew w 10 10 IIn nt te er rn na at tiio on na al l P Po ow we er r A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 08 8 S St tr ra at te eg gy y a an nd d G Gr ro ou up p o ov five er rvi vie ew w W We e c cr re ea at te e v va allu ue e b by y t th he e e efffi fic ciie en nt t o op pe er ra at tiio on n, fi fin na an nc ciin ng g, a an nd d t tr ra ad diin ng g o of f o ou ut tp pu ut t ffr ro om m o ou ur r p po ow we er r g ge en ne er ra at tiio on n fl fle ee et t, w wh hiills st t m ma aiin nt ta aiin niin ng g t th he e h hiig gh he es st t lle ev five ells s o of f s sa affe et ty y a an nd d e en nv viir ro on nm me en nt ta al l p pe er rffo or rm ma an nc ce e.. IIn nt te er rn na at tiio on na al l P Po ow we er r iis s a a lle ea ad diin ng g iin nd fide ep pe en nd fide en nt t O Ou ur r s st tr ra at te eg gy y iis s t to o d fide elliiv five er r g gr ro ow wt th h p po ow we er r g ge en ne er ra at tiio on n c co om mp pa an ny y w wiit th h iin nt te er re es st ts s iin n iin n s sh ha ar re eh ho olld fide er r v va allu ue e t th hr ro ou ug gh h p po owe wer r 3 33 3, 2 21 11 1M MW W g gr ro os ss s o of f p po ow we er r g ge en ne er ra at tiin ng g c ca ap pa ac ciit ty y, g ge en ne er ra at tiio on n, e en ns su ur riin ng g a a b ba alla an nc ce ed d llo oc ca at te ed d iin n 2 21 1 c co ou un nt tr riie es s a ac cr ro os ss s fi fiv five e c co or re e r re eg giio on ns s iin nt te er rn na at tiio on na all p po or rt tf fo olliio o iin n t te er rm ms s o of f m ma ar rk ke et ts, s, N No or rt th h A Am me er riic ca a, E Eu ur ro op pe e, M Miid dd dlle e E Ea as st t, A Au us st tr ra alliia a fu fue ell, c co on nt tr ra ac ct t t typ ype e and and t tec echn hno ollo og gy y.. W We e a an nd d A As siia a.. c cr re ea at te e v va allu ue e b by y t th he e e ef ffi fic ciie en nt t o op pe er ra at tiio on n, fi fin na an nc ciin ng g, a an nd d t tr ra ad diin ng g o of f o ou ut tp pu ut t f fr ro om m A A p po or rt tf fo olliio o a ap pp pr ro oa ac ch h o ou ur r p po owe wer r g ge en ne er ra at tiio on n fl fle ee et t, w wh hiills st t W We e m ma an na ag ge e o ou ur r b bu us siin ne es ss s t th hr ro ou ug gh h a a p po or rt tffo olliio o m ma aiin nt ta aiin niin ng g t th he e h hiig gh he es st t lle ev five ells s o of f s sa af fe et ty y m man anag age em me en nt t app appr ro oa ac ch h, w wh hiic ch h iin nv vo ollv five es s m ma aiin nt ta aiini ning ng a a b ba alla an nce ce iin n t th he e p po or rt tffo olliio o iin n t te er rm ms s o of f g ge eo og gr ra ap ph hiic ca al l a an nd d e en nv viir ro on nm me en nt ta al l p pe er rf fo or rm ma an nc ce e.. W We e s sp pr re ea ad d, ffu ue el l d diiv five er rs siit ty y, t te ec ch hn no ollo og gy y a an nd d c co on nt tr ra ac ct t e ex xe er rc ciis se e r riig go or ro ou us s fi fin na an nc ciia al l c co on nt tr ro ol l iin n t ty yp pe e.. T Th hiis s a ap pp pr ro oa ac ch h g giiv five es s u us s a acce cces ss s t to o m mu ullt tiip plle e a allll o our ur iin nv five es st tme men nt t d fide ec ciis siio on ns s, a an nd d iin nv five es st t o op pp po or rt tu un niit tiie es s t to o c cr re ea at te e v va allu ue e w wh hiills st t m miit tiig ga at tiin ng g iin n t th he e d fide ev five ello op pm me en nt t o of f o ou ur r p pe eo op plle e f fo or r t th he e r riis sk ks s a as ss so oc ciia at te ed d w wiit th h o ov five er r e ex xp po os su ur re e t to o a an ny y t th he e llon ong g- -t te er rm m.. p pa ar rt tic icu ulla ar r m ma ar rk ke et t, f fu ue ell, t te ec chn hnolog ology y o or r c con ont tr ra ac ct t t ty yp pe.
e. B Bu usi sine fines ss s o ov five er rv viie ew w 11 11 IIn nt te er rn na at tiio on na al l P Po ow we er rs s 9 91 13 3M MW W C CC CG GT T p po ow we er r s st ta at tiio on n a at t H Ha ay ys s, U US S Strategy and Group overview 12 International Power Annual Report 2008 Our geographic spread gives us access to growth Portfolio by geography opportunities whilst reducing the potential impact, Asia 8% on the overall business, of adverse performance in Europe 34% any particular market.
The portfolio approach also Middle East 12% extends through to our operational capabilities.
We are able to operate a range of power plant technologies, including thermal, hydro, pumped Australia 15% storage and renewables.
These technologies produce electricity using different fuel types that North America 31% include gas, oil, coal and renewable sources such as wind, water and solar.
This multi-technology expertise allows us to capture opportunities that are best suited to the market in question.
Portfolio by fuel type Hydro 0.5% As electricity is critical for any economy, Wind 6% governments carefully decide whether or not Oil 3% Pumped storage 7% they wish to liberalise this key sector.
Several governments have retained full control of the sector while others have fully liberalised both the production and supply of electricity.
The skills Coal 23.5% Gas 60% required for operating in liberalised merchant or non-liberalised contracted markets are very different and we have both.
The , contracted markets typically offer opportunities to sell power to Portfolio by contract type government bodies via long-term Power Purchase Wind 6% Agreements PPAs that offer stable returns.
Assets in the merchant markets are subject to the forces Long-term Pumped storage 7% contracted 34% of supply and demand, and these markets are Short-term generally more volatile.
Both these markets offer contracted 24% attractive risk reward environments for investments.
International Power maintains a balanced presence Uncontracted 29% in both types of markets, providing the business with a stable platform of long-term contracted Rolling one-year average earnings and cash flow, overlaid by merchant Note: generation which offers greater potential for All charts presented based on net MW, excluding assets under construction, superior returns when market conditions are as at 10 March 2009. favourable.
We also ensure that lessons learnt in any particular market for example, experience of the environmental legislation in Europe relating to Carbon Dioxide CO emissions trading are 2 shared across the business.
Maximising the value of our existing portfolio Our specific strategies for value enhancement in each country and for each individual plant are tailored to local requirements, but generally we seek to achieve the following: Optimise the operations of our power plants We optimise the operation of our power plants TNP Pluak Daeng, Thailand through several means including: managing all of our sites to high standards of safety and operating performance: managing our business on a portfolio basis: closely co-ordinating plant operations with trading to maximise the value of our output: standardising management reporting for all investments: and investing in improved plant efficiency.
Maximise the return from our portfolio We optimise operations as described above and we leverage our investments, particularly by using non-recourse finance at the project company level.
We sell businesses if this generates a higher rate of return.
Oyster Creek, US Business overview 13 Our growth 21.3 18.8 18.5 15.9 Canunda, Australia 15.3 10.5 10.6 8.9 8.3 Asia Australia Middle East Europe North America 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Portfolio growth Note: Chart presented based on net MW, excluding Net GW assets under construction, as at 31 December Growth in 2008 Project Location MW Acquisition Contract type net greenfield Uch additional % Pakistan 177 Acquisition PPA to 2023 Elecgas Portugal 415 Greenfield under 25-year tolling agreement construction Portfolio of peaking plants North America 1,857 Acquisition Merchant Turbogs additional % Portugal 403 Acquisition PPA to 2024 1 IPR European Wind Portfolio Italy Germany 104 Greenfield under Various France construction T-Power Belgium 140 Greenfield under 15-year tolling agreement construction Note: 1 81MW in operation and 23MW under construction.
Board review approval Completion integration Continuous performance appraisal postinvestment review Strategy and Group overview 14 International Power Annual Report 2008 If projects pass this review, they are allocated a Our growth budget for detailed due diligence.
The project then The Group has grown significantly in the last five undergoes further analysis during the due diligence years, increasing its net operational capacity by process, at the end of which a detailed review is 10,719MW through both successful acquisitions carried out by the ICOM.
Only then is the decision and greenfield developments.
International Power taken as to whether to proceed with the opportunity, now has an operational interest in over 45 power subject to Board approval.
This process ensures that stations, with 33,211MW of gross capacity, and we fully evaluate all the risks and returns of a project owns net operating capacity of 21,342MW.
prior to making a commitment and that we proceed Growth is an important part of International with only the most value-enhancing deals.
Powers strategic objectives, and we have clear The ICOM review process determines resource investment criteria to ensure that our acquisitions allocation and evaluates the costs of due diligence and greenfield projects deliver value for our at an early stage, so as to avoid potential expenditure shareholders.
Clearly in the current economic on projects that are less likely to succeed.
In addition, climate where capital availability is constrained, financial prudence is key and we will be very the process encourages healthy internal competition selective in our capital allocation programmes, for capital across regions and functions.
and will invest our capital even more carefully.
The cross-regional and cross-functional Our geographic footprint and in-depth market membership of the ICOM ensures that only knowledge present us with multiple growth the most attractive investments are presented to opportunities, both new-build and acquisition.
The due diligence teams, Wherever possible we seek to source opportunities which comprise employees from our functional through our regional knowledge, our extensive and regional teams and external advisors where industry contacts and our existing relationships.
appropriate, use their varied experiences and skill sets to assess thoroughly all potential projects Investment process before they are presented to the ICOM.
We subject The capital allocation process is centred on a new investment opportunities to rigorous detailed review by the Investment Committee evaluation criteria, with a focus on the elements ICOM which comprises the Chief Executive Officer shown opposite.
CEO, Chief Financial Officer CFO, all Regional Directors and all corporate function heads.
Of the opportunities evaluated by regional and corporate business development teams each year, only the best projects are submitted to the ICOM for initial review and to ensure they are consistent with the Groups strategic plan.
Opportunity sources Continuous knowledge sharing across portfolio Local knowledge relationships Investment Investment Detailed due Committee initial Committee diligence Regional M&A and business review review approval development teams Cross-regional and cross-functional Government private representation invitations Other e. g. investment advisors banks Follow-on opportunities Business overview 15 Investment evaluation criteria Area Considerations include returns in excess of our investment thresholds, which are continually assessed in Financial light of changing market conditions contribution measured by financial Key Performance Indicators KPIs Profit From Operations PFO, Earnings Per Share EPS and free cash flow quality and sustainability of earnings availability of project finance and an appropriate degree of gearing payback period efficient financial structuring age, plant type and operational history of the plant Operational health and safety performance maintenance record and likely capital expenditure requirements ability to have a major controlling stake in Operations and Maintenance activities synergy potential potential to increase output availability of plant market fundamentals demand supply balance Market forward market prices and history new entrant economics and impact on long-term forecast prices analysis of incumbent players and market dynamics market track record of respecting foreign direct investment opportunity for future investment and growth contractual position Commercial offtake arrangements security of offtake security of fuel supply counterparty credit rating correlation between power and fuel price portfolio benefits of merchant assets environmental obligations and pricing environmental regulation and potential changes Environmental environmental performance market regulation Legal regulatory potential regulatory changes any outstanding historical legal or contractual issues historical staff management relationships People staffing requirements for acquisition and integration potential to acquire new knowledge and skills degree of control focus on investments where we are able to contribute Ownership directly to the realisation of projected returns plant operations structure and management opportunities for future expansion or development Property We ensure that all acquisitions and greenfield projects are quickly and efficiently integrated into our regional business structures.
The forecast returns from investments are built into regional business performance targets and we measure delivery against these targets at a regional and Group level through our financial and non-financial KPIs, which are set out on pages 28 to 31.
The ICOM conducts post-investment reviews for all major projects to ensure we improve the quality of future investment decisions by feeding back lessons learned from past evaluations.
Our overarching criterion, irrespective of the market structure in which we operate, is that our investments create value for our shareholders over the long-term.
Strategy and Group overview 16 International Power Annual Report 2008 Core capabilities International Powers financing strategy and overall Our core capabilities for implementing our strategy capital structure, as this provides the opportunity can be categorised into the following seven areas: to raise an appropriate level of debt for individual businesses and represents excellent risk mitigation for the Group.
Acquisitions Asset management All our investments are expected to deliver specific performance targets.
Through regular and robust technical, commercial and financial reviews, the regional offices and corporate headquarters together monitor the Greenfield Financing performance of each asset in the portfolio.
We development work to ensure that we maximise fleet efficiencies and where we operate plants with similar technologies.
construction management In addition, we have a global Health, Safety and Environment HS&E management committee which co-ordinates the Groups activities and enables best Plant Asset practice to be adopted at all plants.
This co-ordinated operations management approach helps us manage operational risk and extract the full portfolio benefits.
Plant operations We have comprehensive power station operational experience and skills.
Trading Long-term Through-life engineering and maintenance plans, power meticulously implemented, ensure maximum contracts availability and efficiency in the operation of our expertise plants and are key for delivering value in both our merchant and long-term contracted markets.
Effective plant operations are enhanced by an International Powers high quality asset portfolio, integrated Operations and Engineering team together with the capabilities of our teams across the Group, ensuring information is shared around the world, forms a strong combination across the portfolio and key operational staff are for performance optimisation, effective risk rotated on a regular basis.
Safe behaviour and management and future growth in earnings environmental best practice are cornerstones and cash flow.
of International Powers operations, and we share International Power has in-depth experience in best practices across the portfolio to ensure plant operations and engineering which is shared all of our plants operate to the highest possible throughout the portfolio.
This not only helps to safety and environmental standards.
Shuweihat, UAE ensure excellent plant operations, but also that Trading We operate in a number of merchant we understand all operational and technical issues markets.
We have the skills necessary to maximise relating to the potential acquisition and upgrade our returns in these markets, with a practical focus of existing assets or development of new power on closely co-ordinating trading and plant plants.
The Group has skills to execute power operations to optimise value.
For us, trading projects from inception right through to the predominately means selling the physical output delivery of power in the most advanced and generated by our plants, which we call asset-backed complex traded markets of the world.
Our traders operate within strict guidelines Greenfield development and construction and risk policies to ensure our traded position is management We have excellent experience of carefully monitored and managed.
This includes developing large capital-intensive infrastructure matching fuel purchases with power sales within projects from selecting the appropriate site, pre-defined limits and carrying out only a limited securing multiple government stakeholder amount of non asset-backed trading.
We forward approvals, project managing the entire sell our output when we consider the commercial construction programme right through returns are favourable, but we often retain some to successful commercial operation.
uncontracted capacity as mitigation against unplanned outages and to benefit from upsides Acquisitions We have demonstrated our ability in the short-term market.
to execute acquisitions at the right time and at the Kwinana, Australia right value, together with the capability to integrate Long-term power contracts expertise We have newly acquired assets quickly and seamlessly into strong commercial skills to structure and negotiate the portfolio.
Historically, International Power has long-term power and water contracts in regulated executed a number of successful acquisitions which markets such as Asia and the Middle East.
Under have met or exceeded financial and operational these contracts, the majority of our income is performance targets.
delivered from having our plant available, and key cost risks such as fuel and turbine maintenance Financing Given the very capital-intensive nature are very significantly mitigated through long-term of our business we maintain access to multiple hedging and supply arrangements.
Availability sources of finance, which include strong free cash bonuses incentivise us to keep the plant well flow generation from our portfolio, project finance, maintained in order to generate superior returns.
corporate borrowing facilities, and capital from our Overall, the contracts provide visibility and stability partners.
Non-recourse project finance is key to of earnings and cash generation over the long-term.
