Interserve text 2009 24 3 09 09:59 Page 9 Directors report Business review The directors of Interserve Plc present they are in.
Our culture and Key performance indicators their report and the audited financial organisational flexibility allows us to statements and notes for the year transfer expertise across our activities.
It 2008 2007 Change ended 31 December 2008. also gives us the potential to grow into Revenue 1,800.0m 1,738.0m 3.6% new markets and services where we can Headline earnings 46.7p 39.9p 17.0% per share Principal activities provide additional value to our existing 1 Cash conversion 98.7% 118.6% 19.9 % pts Interserve is a services, maintenance and clients.
2 Future workload 6.2bn 5.7bn 8.8% building group operating in the public 3 Staff turnover 8.6% 9.9% 1.3 % pts and private sectors in the UK and Strategic progress: UK all-employee accident internationally.
We offer advice, design, Sector teams have now been formed to incidence rate per 100,000 429 444 3.4 % construction and facilities management give enhanced focus on specialist end workforce services for societys infrastructure and markets, working across our functional provide a range of plant and equipment organisational structure.
2008 was another successful year for in specialist fields.
Interserve, with headline earnings per We successfully integrated the Madina share rising 17.0 per cent.
Noteworthy Group which we purchased in 2007, Strategy achievements during the year included: giving us significant and complementary Interserves vision is to be The Trusted new services in Qatar.
Our future workload grew to a record Partner of all our stakeholders, bringing level of 6.2 billion.
together all of our capabilities to create Develop new markets and models: innovative solutions that support longOur Middle East operations achieved We have extensive sectoral and term relationships with our customers, significant growth, including the geographic reach in our existing offering rewarding careers for our staff successful integration of the Qatarbusinesses: however, our markets are and underpinning sustained value based Madina Group in which we constantly evolving and we seek to creation for shareholders.
Our strategy acquired a 49 per cent stake in 2007 develop into related skills, sectors and for fulfilling this vision consists of three and which is already exceeding geographies as part of our growth core elements: expectations.
We developed new growth sectors, Develop and maintain long-term Strategic progress: notably in waste treatment and client relationships: We developed our relationship with sustainability.
Our well-established client relationships United Utilities to create a new have been cultivated over a long period We expanded into new markets in Abu venture in waste treatment, a new of time and have withstood previous Dhabi construction and equipment sector for us with substantial growth business and economic cycles.
As a result services and northern Europe potential.
we have become the trusted partner for facilities management.
Around twoWe identified a requirement for thirds of our business comprises services leadership across the government to the public and privatised sectors sector on issues such as sustainability whose long-term contracts and high level and carbon management.
We created a of repeat business confers strong visibility new business unit delivering advice in during uncertain economic periods.
these areas, which aided us in winning significant new work with Defra.
Strategic progress: Our strong presence in the Middle East Improved revenue visibility to 79 per gives us a platform from which to cent of anticipated 2009 revenues explore new market opportunities for compared to a corresponding prior- 1 Cash conversion is calculated as the percentage our Facilities Management operation of cash generated by operations of 58.6m 2007: year figure of 70 per cent.
UAE and Equipment Services business 65.0m divided by the sum of: operating profit of We were awarded new, long-term Saudi Arabia, and our contract with 54.4m 2007: 51.0m : plus amortisation of acquired intangible assets of 5.0m 2007: 4.8m : less profit contracts with Defra, the Foreign the Foreign and Commonwealth Office on disposal of property and investments of nil and Commonwealth Office and the has taken our facilities management 2007: 1.0m.
2 Future workload comprises contracted work plus work that has been settled and on which final terms are Build a well-balanced Group, active Given that our core skills and capabilities being agreed principally PFI projects at preferred across the asset life cycle: are transferable across sectors and bidder stage.
The balanced nature of the Groups geographies, we expect more examples 3 Staff turnover measures the proportion of managerial, businesses across the asset life cycle of such strategic developments to arise, technical and office-based staff leaving the Company enables us to select the best underpinning our confidence in the and its subsidiaries voluntarily over the course of the year.
opportunities whichever market or sector Groups future.
