20 Business review ITEs business ITE is an organiser of exhibitions and conferences ITEs sector brands are a key asset.
The brands have been specialising in emerging and developing markets.
ITE established through a sustained record of presenting high organises high-quality events of an international standard quality events which meet customer expectations.
ITE throughout the 15 countries in which it operates.
The events serve key industries including construction & business is managed in five main geographic sectors: interiors, oil & gas, food & drink, travel & leisure, motor & Russia, Central Asia & Caucasus, Eastern & Southern transport, fashion, medical & healthcare and IT & telecoms.
Europe, UK & Western Europe and Rest of World see Divisional review on pages 22 to 25 and the Highlights ITE has an extensive o ce network, covering both the section on pages 2 and 3. territories where our events are held and international sales o ces in other countries.
ITE is able to operate at As an exhibition organiser, ITE hires venues at which it national level where local sta are close to local industry stages its events and markets the events to both exhibitors trends and at an international level where our sales teams and visitors.
Exhibitions and conferences provide an are in regular communication with key industry suppliers opportunity for participants from national and international in our sectors.
The Group has 22 o ces across the world, companies to meet, network and transact business.
each of them employing local sta.
New international sales The exhibition media is the best media for suppliers to o ces were opened in Spain, Malaysia and the UAE at the display and demonstrate their products to potential buyers end of the year to help drive increased sales from these and this is particularly true in emerging and developing markets across our portfolio of shows.
% of 2008 Group ITEs strength derives from its focus on organising B2B Region O ces Sta Events revenues exhibitions and conferences, the development of strong Russia 3 416 52 60% brands in key industry sectors and the regional expertise Central Asia & Caucasus 7 182 74 20% in the markets in which it operates.
ITE has been operating Eastern & Southern Europe 2 102 25 8% in these markets for over 15 years and its experience and UK & Western Europe 5 164 5 11% local knowledge are unique.
Rest of World 5 34 3 1% Total 22 898 159 100% ITEs principal business of organising B2B trade exhibitions accounts for over 90% of the Groups revenues.
Consumer The o ces of the Group co-operate in a unique way.
Each exhibitions account for 3% of ITEs revenue, conferences o ce sells its own exhibitions, but participates with equal circa 2% and other activities relating to the core exhibition levels of commitment in the exhibitions organised by other business mostly publishing account for 2% of revenue.
This holistic approach has been carefully cultivated through the years and enables ITEs business to follow long-established trading patterns.
ITEs top 50 events in 2008 By gross pro t categorised by market and by sector Construction Travel Motor Food IT Medical & interiors Oil & gas & leisure & transport & drink Fashion & telecoms & healthcare Other Total Moscow 16 St Petersburg 2 Kazakhstan 10 Azerbaijan 6 Uzbekistan 4 Ukraine 4 Turkey 2 UK & Western Europe 3 Turkmenistan 1 Tajikistan 1 Georgia 1 Total 8 10 3 3 6 3 4 5 8 50 0.5 million revenue 0.5 million revenue ITE Group plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 21 Our customers exhibitors, visitors, Business to delegates, sponsors and speakers business are looking for opportunities to meet face-to-face to discuss, promote and conduct business.
ITE events unite buyers with suppliers in exhibition pavilions, B2B or trade conference halls, meeting rooms and exhibitions and informally at networking events.
conferences are Our success continues because the mainstay of people want to do face-to-face business with people.
Over many years, we have developed Established events that consistently deliver results for our customers.
With careful brands management and e ective promotion, our brands have become trusted, respected and recognised as valuable marketplaces A key strength for business.
The principles that shape behind our our market leading events can often be replicated in several regions, allowing us business is the to o er business opportunities in a range ability to produce of emerging markets.
successful events Our business is strengthened by the year after year.
reputation of our established brands.
We believe that the best way to organise Strong successful international events in a large number of countries is through locally network based organisers that are supported by a network of sales o ces and agents around the world.
A collective spirit combined Our global with communication and co-operation network provides cements the links throughout the group and the network is the result of a longan unparalleled term commitment that cannot be easily level of support replicated.
Local knowledge and global expertise produces e ective international events.
ITE Group plc Annual Report 2008
