Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 29 Business review Risks & uncertainties The Group identi es and monitors the key risks and uncertainties a ecting the Group and runs the business in a way that minimises the impact of such risks where possible.
Operational risks Potential impact Mitigation Political uncertainty The Groups business is principally carried ITE has reduced its risk by establishing and regulatory risk out in Russia and the CIS.
Changes in law its business as independent Russian or the regulatory environment could have and CIS companies fully contributing to an e ect on some or all of the exhibitions the local economy, and the diversity of of the Group.
businesses across sectors and geography provides protection for the longer-term prospects of the Group.
Economic instability Reduced demand for exhibition space ITE operates across a wide range of reduces demand for would reduce the pro ts of exhibitions.
sectors and countries to minimise the exhibition space exposure to any single market, and is constantly looking at opportunities to diversify further.
Commercial The Group has key commercial These key relationships are regularly relationships relationships with venues which secure reviewed and the Group seeks to maintain the Groups rights to run its exhibitions in its exhibition rights for at least three years the future.
forward for signi cant exhibitions.
Venue availability Damage to or unavailability of a particular The Group carries business interruption venue could impact the Groups short-term insurance which protects pro ts against trading position.
such an event in the short term.
Competitor risk Competition has existed in ITEs markets In all of its overseas markets, ITE has for some years.
ITE faces competitive a strong position as an international pressures on a market-by-market basis.
organiser, achieved through e ective use of its international sales network and its established brands for major events.
A single exhibition or sector in a market could have its prospects a ected by a strong competitor launch: however, the breadth of ITEs portfolio of events, with its geographic and sector diversity, reduce the risk of a competitive threat to the overall business of the Group.
People ITEs employees have long-standing ITE has sought to build loyalty in its sta relationships with customers and a unique by ensuring remuneration is competitive knowledge of the exhibitions business.
and through a wide distribution of the Loss of key sta could impact the shortGroups long-term incentive plans.
ITE has term prospects of a speci c event or sector.
a good record of retaining its key sta.
Financial risk The Group is exposed to movements in The Group seeks to minimise exposure by: foreign currency risk foreign exchange rates against Sterling for both trading transactions and for the Limiting balances in soft currency translation of overseas operations.
principal exposure is to the Euro exchange Securing forward contracts against its rate, which form the basis of invoicing.
ITE Group plc Annual Report 2008
