15494WOLVERHA:Layout 2 10 12 08 14:58 Page 8 8 MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW Overview of results for the 53 weeks to 4 October 2008 Turnover increased by 2.0% to 666.1 million 2007: 652.8 million.
Underlying operating profit of 161.6 million was 1.0% below last year 2007: 163.2 million.
Profit before taxation and exceptional items was 85.1 million 2007: 98.0 million, 13.2% below last year, and underlying basic earnings per share was 25.6 pence 2007: 26.2 pence, 2.3% below last year.
Net debt at the year-end was 1,268.1 million 2007: 1,189.1 million.
The 2008 financial year saw the first full year of the smoking ban, a weakening economy and significant increases in input costs.
Trading in the second half was also impacted by poor weather over the summer months.
Overall however, the sales performance of our trading divisions was resilient as described in the divisional performance sections.
Our preparations for the smoking ban included investment of approximately 20 million in outside areas: the disposal of pubs with the greatest exposure to the ban and limited growth potential: and the continued development of our food offers.
The impact of the ban has been consistent with our expectations.
In general, food-led businesses have performed more strongly than wet-led pubs: well-located pubs with good outside areas have performed better than those with limited amenities: and food sales have increased as drinks sales and income from gaming machines have declined.
The reduced operating margin of 24.3% 2007: 25.0% reflects 1 higher input costs and the change in sales mix, with food sales generating slightly lower margins than drinks sales and income from gaming machines.
Energy, utilities, brewing ingredients and food prices increased by approximately 6 million in 2008 and, as previously The industry anticipated, are forecast to rise by up to 12 million in 2009, although We operate around 2,250 pubs in a UK pub sector comprising around we now expect inflationary pressures to reduce from the second half 63,000 pubs.
Our products account for approximately 9% of the UK ale of 2009.
We aim to offset most of these increases through tight cost market with our share of the premium ale market in pubs around 20%.
Our share of the premium bottled ale market is approximately 18%, increasing from around 8% last year following the acquisition of the In the current trading environment, we have sought to minimise any Wychwood Brewery.
increase to the retail price of beer and food and to the wholesale price of beer.
Operating costs have been reduced by improved purchasing Changes in consumer habits, the smoking ban and investment in pubs terms with a range of suppliers, and through cutting overheads by and pub food have altered the nature of pub usage.
More pub visits by combining training, credit control, trade marketing, finance and women, families and an increasingly mature population led to our administration services of Marstons Beer Company and Marstons development of the F Plan in our managed pubs an increased focus Pub Company to improve efficiency.
on food, females, families and forty fifty-somethings.
We estimate that 65% of all pub visits in Marstons Inns and Taverns are food related, with The exceptional cost of reducing overheads was around 4 million and food sales representing 36% of all retail sales.
the resulting cost savings are expected to be over 4 million per year from 2009 onwards.
15494 10 12 2008 Proof 11 15494 15494WOLVERHA:Layout 2 10 12 08 14:58 Page 9 9 MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2008 2 3 Intensifying competition, the smoking ban, aggressive price discounting The pub sector has become dominated by a small number of large, by supermarkets and the weak economy have led to increased specialist pub operators in recent years.
The Group is one of a small polarisation in the marketplace.
Some 2,000 pubs are expected to number of vertically integrated pub operators and brewers, and we have closed in 2008, with a similar number likely to close in 2009. believe that this business model has clear advantages.
We have greater In anticipation of this trend Marstons Pub Company has churned its economies of scale, as we distribute to over 4,000 pubs and clubs: we pubs aggressively in recent years and as a result we have a high quality brew our own ales and control our own supply chain: and we can estate.
At the same time, we have been careful to ensure that rents are employ overheads more efficiently as demonstrated by the creation of set at sustainable levels.
the Centre of Excellence for Marstons Beer Company and Marstons Pub Company.
In brewing, real ale has been increasing in popularity as consumers have become more interested in beers with taste and provenance.
Business and Enterprise Committee Inquiry Marstons Beer Company offers an outstanding range of own beers The Department for Business, Enterprise & Regulatory Reform from five different breweries and saw premium ale volumes increase by is currently investigating the response of pub companies to the 17.5% in 2008. recommendations of the 2004 Trade and Industry Select Committee TISC inquiry into the nature of the relationship between pub operators Beer consumption in pubs has been declining overall for many years, but and their tenants and lessees.
there has been consistent growth in the volume of beer sold in the offtrade.
Marstons Beer Company is the largest supplier of premium Pictured: bottled ale in the UK market and the largest brewer of organic ale.
3 Inn on the Furlong, Ringwood.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS 15494 10 12 2008 Proof 11 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE DIRECTION BUSINESS REVIEW 15494WOLVERHA:Layout 2 15 12 08 18:26 Page 10 10 MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW In recognising that the general economic situation has changed significantly in recent months, our priorities for this coming year reflect a greater emphasis on managing the business in challenging conditions and on ensuringthat when the trading environment does improve we are in a good position to benefit.
Our priorities for 2009 are in 8 key areas as described below: Optimising pricing and promotions.
Retail pricingthroughout 2009 will reflect our continuing aim to offer outstanding value in all formats.
Approximately 90% of our managed pubs offer promotions on food or drink, with around 35% of sales being promoted lines.
Key trading periods such as Christmas will attract early bookingdiscounts and other targeted 1 promotions.
We will also conduct range reviews to ensure that we Following the TISC inquiry, Marstons Pub Company issued a clear Code are offering value by retailing good, price-competitive brands.
of Practice which has been approved by the British Institute of Innkeeping and we believe that we have complied with the In brewing, we are focused on building value through higher margin recommendations of the Committee.
brands and trade channels, such as premium cask ale and premium bottled ale.
Beer duty As part of the April 2008 Budget, the Chancellor of the Exchequer A focus on innovation and current consumer increased duty on beer by around 9% and introduced a formula whereby trends.
duty will increase by at least 2% more than inflation over the next two Our managed pub design continues to reflect contemporary styling years.
In the recent Pre-Budget Report, beer duty was increased by a including the use of open kitchens in new developments, with an further 8%.
emphasis on fresh and freshly prepared.
Recent examples include the opening of Bluu Bar Brasserie, Moorgate London: Pitcher & This additional tax burden is extremely onerous for small owner managed Piano, Chester: and the Stags Leap, Rugeley.
In our view it is contributing to the increasing disparity in prices between pubs and the off-trade and is The future development of our accommodation business will include threateningthe positive contributions that many pubs make to partnerships with other lodge operators where appropriate.
We have communities throughout the country.
We strongly support industry bodies, recently completed the refurbishment of rooms for accommodation including the British Beer & Pub Association, in campaigning fora in our managed pubs.
Following the launch of online booking and reduction in beer dutythrough the launch of the Axe The Beer Tax the Marstons Inns website www.
co. uk we have seen campaign.
Recent additions to our portfolio of ales give us access to an SUMMARY OF STRATEGIC unrivalled range of beers to offer to consumers and retailers.
During OBJECTIVES 2009 we will exploit the strength of this portfolio in all areas of our business.
Our strategy has six key elements: 1.
Target growth through the development of a In 2008 we introduced a variable rent agreement suitable for high national, high quality pub estate: turnover food-led pubs.
In 2009 we plan to offer more flexible new 2.
Develop greater food skills and extend our agreements including a variable rent agreement whereby rent is appeal to new customer groups: linked to sales volumes.
We believe that this will prove attractive to tenants in smaller, wet-led pubs, and reduce risk for tenants.
Recruit skilled tenants and lessees better able have also conducted retail price-support trials in some wet-led to compete in a developing market: tenanted pubs which contributed towards increasing trade where 4.
Increase distribution of our ale brands: price reductions were accompanied by significant improvements in retail standards.
These trials will be extended and incorporated in 5.
Create greater value for shareholdersthrough the development of new agreements.
Match freehold assets with long term fixed rate financing.
15494 10 12 2008 Proof 11 154 15494WOLVERHA:Layout 2 10 12 08 14:58 Page 11 11 MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2008 The risk in energy and utility costs has increased significantly in A rigorous approach to pub standards.
We now have fixed electricity and gas contracts in Customer perceptions of the attractiveness and value of the pub our pubs until at least September 2010.
We will also be able to experience are strongly influenced by the level of attention paid to manage energy usage more efficiently as all of our managed pubs service, hygiene, and the standard of maintenance of the pub and will have automated electricity meters installed during 2009. external areas.
Whilst not all of these factors are under our operational control in tenanted and leased pubs, we will emphasise Ensure customer consumer knowledge is current their importance in tenant recruitment, training and communications.
We will continue to conduct regular quantitative and qualitative Improved management of our beer brand analysis to test customer consumer opinion.
We will extend the distribution of our range of ales such that all Aim to reduce net debt.
key brands will be available to all our managed pubs, tenants and We will do this by reducing capital investment from 117 million in lessees, and free trade customers.
This will be to the benefit of the 2008 to below 60 million in 2009 whilst continuing to invest Bankss, Marstons and Mansfield brands as well as to those maintenance capital at historic levels.
We will also target the acquired more recently.
selective disposal of smaller tenancies and leasehold sites and expect to sell 5075 pubs and unlicensed properties during 2009.
In the off-trade our bottled ale portfolio will be focused on Marstons Pedigree, Marstons Old Empire, Hobgoblin, Wychcraft, Brakspear Maintain high ethical and environmental Oxford Gold, Ringwood Old Thumper and Jennings Cumberland Ale.
Tightly controlled costs and continued delivery of The Company is an active supporter of a number of industry excellent customer service.
bodies and will continue to actively promote the responsible retailing of alcohol.
The Company is a member of the FTSE4Good Combining certain support functions will reduce overheads by 4 Index and was recognised by the Carbon Trust for work on million per year and further improve operational efficiency.
labour scheduling and stock control systems will benefit our managed pubs.
2 A selection from our Ringwood portfolio.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS 15494 10 12 2008 Proof 11 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE DIRECTION BUSINESS REVIEW
