OTHER INFORMATION The Companies Act 2006 requires Acacias Directors Directors indemnity and insurance In accordance with Acacias Articles of Association and to the extent to prepare a Directors Report for the financial year permitted by the Companies Act 2006, Acacia may indemnify its under review.
The UKLAs Listing Rules and Disclosure Directors out of its own funds to cover liabilities incurred as a result Rules and Transparency Rules also require Acacia of their office.
The relevant provision contained in the Articles can be to make certain other disclosures.
The information categorised as a qualifying third-party indemnity provision under contained on pages 84 to 89 inclusive together the Companies Act 2006.
Acacia has adopted Directors and Officers liability insurance, which provides insurance cover for any claim brought with all other information in the Annual Report which against Directors or officers for wrongful acts in connection with their has been specifically incorporated into these pages positions.
The insurance provided does not extend to claims arising from by reference constitutes Acacias Directors Report.
fraud or dishonesty and it does not provide cover for civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed by law.
Legal form of the Company Acacia is a public listed company incorporated in England and Wales with Global GHG emissions data for period 1 January 2015 the registered number 7123187.
It conducts limited business activities to 31 December 2015 itself and trades principally through its subsidiaries and subsidiary According to the GHG Protocol developed by the World Business Council undertakings in various jurisdictions.
Further information as regards for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute, GHG Acacias subsidiaries is provided in Note 1 to the consolidated financial emissions are classified as either direct or indirect, and from there are statements on page 104. divided further into Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions.
Direct GHG emissions are emissions from sources that are owned or controlled Strategic report by the reporting entity.
Indirect GHG emissions are emissions that are The requirements of the Companies Act 2006 as regards the production a consequence of the activities of the reporting entity but that occur at of a strategic report are satisfied in the Strategic report contained sources owned or controlled by another entity.
Each scope is classified at pages 2 to 23.
The Strategic report provides an overview of the as follows: development and performance of Acacias business for the financial Scope 1 emissions: direct emissions from sources owned or operated year ending 31 December 2015 and also provides information relevant by our Company.
to likely future developments in the business.
Scope 2 emissions: indirect emissions attributable to our Company In addition, for purposes of compliance with the Disclosure and due to its consumption of purchased electricity, notably our Transparency Rules, the required content for the Management report consumption of electricity from TANESCO.
can be found in the Strategic report and the Directors Report.
Scope 3 emissions: all other indirect emissions associated with activities that support or supply our Companys operations.
Directors The names and biographies of the Directors serving as at 31 December For 2015, in light of practicalities, we have calculated Acacias Scope 1 2015 are provided on pages 50 to 51.
An overview of Directors and Scope 2 emissions footprint on the basis of carbon dioxide emissions appointments, by reference to current terms under appointment only and will look to measure and report on other greenhouse gases in letters, for the duration of the year under review is provided below: future reporting years.
Going forward, we will also look at opportunities to monitor and calculate Scope 3 emissions.
Date of appointment Date of termination Executive Director Year-on-year Percentage of total percentage, Brad Gordon 21 August 2013 N A Total tonnes of CO emissions % change % 2 Non-Executive Directors 2015 2014 2015 2014 Kelvin Dushnisky 6 June 2015 N A Scope 1 210,233 228,997 57 62 -8.2 Peter Tomsett 26 April 2013 N A emissions Graham Clow 26 April 2013 N A Scope 2 159,860 142,511 43 38 12.2 Rachel English 23 October 2013 N A emissions Andre Falzon 18 April 2013 N A Total 370,092 371,508 -0.4 Stephen Galbraith 18 April 2013 N A Michael Kenyon 18 April 2013 N A Total CO emissions for 2015 amounted to 370,092 tonnes, a 0.4% 2 Steve Lucas 23 October 2013 N A decrease on 2014 371,508 CO.
The reduction in Scope 1 emissions 2 Ambassador Juma V. was offset by increased consumption of purchased electricity from Mwapachu 13 July 2014 N A hydropower sources as part of our energy conservation strategy.
In addition, the Company monitors its GHG emissions ratio on Save for Graham Clow all other Directors will put themselves forward the basis of CO produced per tonnes of ore milled.
For 2015 this for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of Director re-election 2 equated to 0.0399 per tonne of ore milled, this being a 10% decrease requirements are provided on page 53. on 2014 0.0444, due to increased throughput at Bulyanhulu.
84 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Directors interests Acacias Articles of Association provide the authority for the Company to Details of the interests of Directors and their connected persons in purchase its own shares including any redeemable preference shares, Acacias Ordinary Shares or in related derivatives or financial instruments provided that it complies with any applicable requirements contained in are outlined in the Directors Remuneration Report.
the Companies Act 2006, the CREST regulations or any other applicable law.
As part of resolutions passed at the 2015 AGM, the Company obtained Employee share schemes shareholder approval to make market purchases of up to 41,008,550 Details of Acacias employee share plans and long-term incentive plans of its Ordinary Shares, equivalent to 10% of the issued share capital are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The authority was granted subject to stated upper and lower limits in accordance with Listing Rule requirements and Employee diversity expires at the forthcoming AGM.
The authority was not exercised during An overview of female representation percentages across our workforce the year under review.
An equivalent shareholder resolution will be is provided on page 46.
In addition, the total breakdown of male and sought as a matter of ordinary business at the forthcoming AGM.
Details female employees as at 31 December 2015 was as follows: of Acacias issued share capital and any movements during the year are included in Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements on page 130.
Female Male Board of Directors 1 9 Major shareholdings Executive Leadership Team 1 5 The following persons as at 31 December 2015 are interested in the Other employees 349 3,543 following percentages of Acacias issued Ordinary Share capital: Percentage Dividends Number of of issued An interim dividend of US1.4 cents per share was paid to shareholders Name shares share capital 1 on 25 September 2015.
The Directors recommend the payment of Barrick International Barbados Corp 179,609,530 43.80 a final dividend of US2.8 cents per Ordinary Share.
This represents 1 PDG Sona Cayman Ltd 45,258,970 11.04 a total dividend of US4.2 cents for 2015.
Subject to the shareholders 1 PDG Bank Limited 37,378,450 9.11 approving this recommendation at the AGM, the final dividend will be Blackrock Investment Management 23,774,462 5.80 paid on 27May 2016 to shareholders on the register at 6May 2016.
M&G Investment Management 20,974,524 5.11 The ex-dividend date is 5May 2016.
Acacia will declare the final dividend Total 301,915,075 73.62 in US dollars.
Unless a shareholder has elected or elects to receive dividends in US dollars, dividends will be paid in pounds sterling with 1 Members of the Barrick Group.
the US dollar amount being converted into pounds sterling at exchange Following year end, Blackrock Investment Management decreased rates prevailing on or around 9May 2016.
Currency elections must be its interest in Acacias issued share capital to 23,624,931 shares, made by return of currency election forms.
The deadline for the return equivalent to 5.76%.
There were no other changes as of 1 March 2016. of currency election forms is 9May 2016.
Relationship with major shareholder Share capital An overview of Acacias relationship with Barrick and the Relationship As at 31 December 2015, the Companys issued share capital Agreement that has been executed in respect of their ongoing comprised 410,085,499 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each.
The voting relationship is provided on page 55. rights of all Acacia Ordinary Shares are identical, with each share carrying the right to one vote.
The Company holds no Ordinary Shares Political and charitable donations in Treasury and does not have any class of share other than its Ordinary Acacia does not make political donations.
Further details on voting rights and rights relating to the transfer Acacias social and community contributions for the year is provided of shares are provided below.
as part of our Sustainability and Financial reviews.
4R There is no information required to be disclosed under LR 9.8.
4R 10 Contracts of significance with controlling shareholder in which director interested, LR 9.8.
4R 11 Contracts for the provision of services by a controlling shareholder and LR 9.8.
4R 14 Relationship Agreement with controlling shareholder which can be found on pages 55 and 86 of this Annual Report.
Details of interest capitalised by the Group are provided in Note 12 of the consolidated financial statements.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 85 OTHER INFORMATION CONTINUED Policy on derivatives, financial instruments and financial Certain employment contracts for members of the Companys Executive risk management Leadership Team, excluding the current CEO, contain change of control Acacias policies on financial risk management, derivatives, financial provisions, which provide entitlements to severance payments in the instruments and information on its exposures to foreign currency, event of being dismissed without cause or resigning for good reason in commodity prices, credit, equity, liquidity and interest rates can be found the 12 months following a change of control.
Any payment made under in Notes 2 and 32 to the consolidated financial statements contained these arrangements would replace the entitlement to receive payment on pages 105 and 136 of this Annual Report.
All such information under applicable contractual notice periods in each case.
Special is incorporated by reference into this Directors Report and is deemed provisions also allow the early exercise of awards made under the to form part of this Directors Report.
Companys Stock Option Plan SOP and early vesting of awards made under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, in the event of a takeover, Material agreements containing change of control reconstruction or winding up.
In such circumstances, the Compensation provisions significant agreements with Directors Committee determines whether and to what extent options or awards Controlling Shareholders become exercisable, by taking into account all relevant facts and The Directors consider the following as material agreements circumstances including, but not limited to, satisfaction of any applicable arrangements for Acacias business and operations, which alter or performance condition.
When determining the vesting of LTIP awards or terminate on a change of control of Acacia and or significant agreements options, the Compensation Committee may proportionately reduce the with Directors Barrick: award depending on the time which has elapsed between the first day of the performance period and the date of change of control.
Alternatively, Relationship Agreement: see page 55 of this report for an overview of awards may be exchanged for new equivalent awards where appropriate.
In addition to the Relationship Agreement, Acacia entered into a Services Agreement with Barrick in February Going concern 2010 as part of arrangements for the IPO, under which Barrick The Directors statement on Going Concern is contained on page 41 provides certain services to the Acacia Group for the ongoing of this Annual Report.
These services include support for information technology, technical services and other administrative Corporate governance compliance and corporate functions.
The agreements termination events include The corporate governance statement as required by Rule 7.2.
1 of a basis for either party to terminate the agreement with immediate the UKLAs Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules is set out in the effect in the event of specified breaches of the agreement, insolvency, corporate governance report on pages 48 to 62 of this Annual Report.
analogous events or a change of control.
Whilst this agreement All information detailed in the corporate governance statement is remains in force, limited services are provided under it and no incorporated by reference into this Directors Report and is deemed services provided are deemed to be material or significant.
to form part of this Directors Report.
Credit Agreement: an overview of the Credit Agreement between, among others, the Company and Citibank International plc as Articles of Association administrative agent, is provided in Note 30 to the consolidated The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special financial statements on page 134.
A change of control is a mandatory resolution of the shareholders.
prepayment event under the Credit Agreement and, subject to certain exceptions, a termination event.
Shareholder rights The rights and obligations attaching to the Ordinary Shares contained Acacias mining concessions are held by its operating companies in in the Articles of Association are as follows: Tanzania.
Under applicable law, a change of control of the operating companies requires the consent of the Minister of Energy and Minerals Voting rights in Tanzania.
In addition, each Acacia Group operating mine has a Mineral Subject to any special rights or voting restrictions contained in the Development Agreement MDA with the Tanzanian Government.
The Articles of Association for any class of share, at any general meeting material terms and conditions of each MDA are substantially similar and every member who is present in person or by proxy shall, on a show of include provisions governing royalty payments, taxes and other charges, hands, have one vote and every member present in person or by proxy banking arrangements, local procurement obligations, and import rights.
shall, on a poll, have one vote for each share of which he or she is the The MDAs also provide for no expropriation or nationalisation rights.
A resolution put to a vote of the meeting shall be decided on a Broadly, these rights provide that the Tanzanian Government will not show of hands, unless a poll is duly demanded.
Subject to the provisions nationalise or compulsorily acquire the whole or any part of Acacias of the Companies Act 2006, a poll may be demanded by the Chairman: interest in the applicable special mining licences or any of its property by at least five members who have the right to vote at the meeting: by or its contractors or subcontractors property used for the purpose of a member or members representing not less than one-tenth of the total mining operations or in relation to the applicable special mining licences, voting rights of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting: without adequate compensation.
Each MDA is governed by Tanzanian or by a member or members holding shares conferring a right to vote law.
Adherence to the terms and conditions of the MDAs is of significant at the meeting, being shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid importance to Acacias business, given the agreements overall up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the importance to our operations.
Unless the Directors otherwise determine, 86 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION a shareholder is not entitled to vote at a shareholders meeting, either All transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form shall, unless the in person or by proxy, or to exercise any other right conferred by CREST regulations otherwise provide, be effected on a relevant system.
membership in relation to a shareholders meeting, unless and until all calls or other sums presently payable by him or her in respect of that The Directors may, in their absolute discretion and without giving any share with interest and expenses if any have been paid to the Company reason, refuse to register any transfer of a share in certificated form or if he she or any other person appearing to be interested in shares has or renunciation of a renounceable letter of allotment unless: been issued with a notice pursuant to Section 793 of the Companies Act i it is in respect of a share which is fully paid up: 2006 requiring disclosure of interest in shares and has failed to provide ii it is in respect of only one class of shares: the required information within 14 days from the service of the notice.
iii it is in favour of not more than four joint transferees: Dividend rights iv it is lodged duly stamped if so required at the transfer office: The Board may declare and pay dividends on any class of shares carrying v it is accompanied by the relevant certificate for the shares to which a fixed dividend expressed to be payable on fixed dates and may from it relates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably time to time pay interim dividends as it thinks fit.
Final dividends shall require to prove the title of the transferor and the due execution be declared by ordinary shareholder resolution, in accordance with Board of the transfer or, if the transfer is executed by some other person recommendations.
No dividend declared by shareholders shall exceed on his behalf, the authority of that person to do so: and the amount recommended by the Board.
Provided that the Board acts in vi in the case of partly paid shares listed on the London Stock good faith, it shall not incur any liability to shareholders for any loss that Exchange, such refusal would prevent dealings in such shares from they may suffer by the lawful payment of any fixed or interim dividend taking place on an open and proper basis.
on any shares ranking after or pari passu with those shares.
Except as otherwise provided by the rights attached to shares, all dividends shall Unless the Board otherwise determines, a transfer of shares will not be apportioned and paid proportionately to the amounts paid up on the be registered if the transferor or any other person appearing to be shares during any portion or portions of the period in respect of which interested in the transferors shares has been issued with Section 793 the dividend is paid, but if any share is issued on terms providing that it shares in respect of shares representing at least 0.25% of their class shall rank for dividend as from a particular date, it shall rank for dividend and the relevant information has not been supplied within 14 days.
No amount paid up on a share in advance of the date on restriction on transfer will not automatically apply if the member is not which a call is payable shall be treated as paid up on the share.
personally in default as regards supplying the information required and the proposed transfer is only part of the members holding, provided that Payment of any dividend declared may be satisfied wholly or partly by certain requirements are satisfied at the time of presenting the transfer the distribution of specific assets, and in particular of paid up shares or for registration.
debentures of the Company, with shareholder approval.
The Directors may retain any dividend or other money payable on or in respect of a share on Division of assets on a winding up which the Company has a lien and may apply the same towards satisfaction If the Company is wound up the liquidator may, with the sanction of of the monies payable to the Company in respect of that share.
a shareholder special resolution, divide the whole or any part of the Companys assets between shareholders.
In such circumstances Unless the Directors otherwise determine, the payment of any dividend the liquidator may value any assets and determine how the division or other money that would otherwise be payable in respect of shares shall be carried out as between the shareholders or different classes will be withheld, and the Company shall have no obligation to pay of shareholder.
Subject to certain requirements, the liquidator may also interest on it, if such shares represent at least 0.25% of the nominal vest any part of the assets in trustees on such trusts for the benefit value of the issued share capital of their class and the holder, or any of the shareholders, but no shareholder shall be compelled to accept other person appearing to be interested in those shares, has been any assets on which there is a liability.
issued with a Section 793 notice and has failed to supply the information required by such notice within 14 days.
Furthermore, such a holder Variation of rights shall not be entitled to elect to receive shares instead of a dividend.
If at any time the share capital of the Company is divided into shares The payment by the Board of any unclaimed dividend or other monies of different classes, rights attached to a class may only be varied in on or in respect of a share into a separate account shall not constitute such manner if any as may be provided by prescribed rights or, in the Acacia a trustee in respect thereof.
All dividends unclaimed for a period absence of any such provision, either with the consent in writing of the of 12 years after having been declared or become due for payment holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shall be forfeited and shall revert to Acacia.
shares of the class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of shares of the class duly Transfer of shares convened and held.
Subject to any applicable restrictions, each member may transfer all or any of his or her shares, which are in certificated form, by instrument of transfer in writing in any usual form or in any other form acceptable to the Board and may be under hand only.
Such instrument shall be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and in the case of a transfer of a share which is not fully paid up by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall be deemed to remain the holder of such share until the name of the transferee is entered in the register in respect of it.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 87 OTHER INFORMATION CONTINUED Powers of Directors These authorities have not been exercised during the reporting Managing the business period and will expire on the date of the forthcoming AGM.
Equivalent Acacias business is managed by the Board, and the Articles of resolutions for a renewal of these authorities will be put to the Association permit the Board to exercise all of the Companys powers shareholders at the forthcoming AGM, as amended to reflect the in this regard.
These powers may be exercised by any meeting of the Pre-Emption Groups revised Statement of Principles that provide Board at which a quorum of two Directors is present.
The power of the for certain non-pre-emptive allocations in the context of acquisitions Board to manage the business is subject to any limitations imposed and specified capital investments.
by the Companies Act, the Articles of Association or any directions given by special resolution of the shareholders applicable at a relevant Appointment and replacement of Directors time.
The Articles contain an express authority for the appointment Shareholders may appoint any person who is willing to act as a Director of Executive Directors and provide the Directors with the authority to by ordinary resolution and may remove any Director by ordinary resolution.
delegate or confer upon such Directors any of the powers exercisable The Board may appoint any person to fill any vacancy or as an additional by them upon such terms and conditions and with such restrictions Director, provided that they are submitted for re-election by the as they see fit.
The Articles contain additional authorities to delegate shareholders at the AGM following their appointment.
powers and discretions to Board committees and subcommittees.
Specific conditions apply to the vacation of office, including cases where Borrowing powers a Director becomes prohibited by law or regulation from holding office, Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the CREST or is persistently absent from Directors meetings, or if three-quarters regulations and any other applicable law, the Directors may exercise of appointed Directors request his or her resignation or in the case of all the powers of the Company to borrow money, guarantee, indemnify, mental incapacity or bankruptcy.
Barricks rights to appoint Directors mortgage or charge its undertaking, property present and future and are summarised on page 55.
Additional information regarding Director uncalled capital or any part or parts thereof and issue debentures and re-election requirements is provided on page 53 as part of the corporate other securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, governance report.
liability or obligation of Acacia or of any third party up to a maximum amount of two times the aggregate of the Groups adjusted total equity, Related party transactions calculated in accordance with the procedure contained in the Articles Details of related party transactions undertaken during the year are of Association.
Borrowings in excess of this amount require prior contained in Note 35 on page 142 of the consolidated financial statements.
Post-balance sheet events New issues of shares Particulars of any important events affecting the Company or the Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the CREST Group since the year end are contained in Note 37 on page 143 of the regulations and every other enactment for the time being in force relating consolidated financial statements.
Such information is incorporated to the Directors authority to allot shares and or the disapplication into this Directors Report and is deemed to be part of it.
of pre-emption rights and to any resolution of the Company in general meeting regarding the same, the Directors may allot with or without Audit information conferring a right of renunciation, grant options over or otherwise Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors are aware, dispose of them to such persons, at such times and on such terms there is no relevant audit information as defined by Section 418 3 as they think appropriate.
of the Companies Act 2006 of which the auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as Acacias shareholders passed the following resolutions relating to a Director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information the allotment and pre-emption right disapplications at the 2015 AGM: and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
i The Directors were granted authority to allot new shares or grant Auditors rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares up to a The Companys auditors are  LLP PwC.
nominal value of 13,532,821, equivalent to approximately 33% A resolution to reappoint PwC as auditors will be proposed at the of the total issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company, exclusive forthcoming AGM.
Refer to page 94 as part of the consolidated financial of treasury shares, at the time of passing the resolution.
In addition statements for the Independent Auditors report on such statements.
to this, the Directors were also granted authority to allot additional new shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares up to a further nominal amount of 13,532,821, but only in connection with a rights issue.
ii Pre-emption rights were disapplied over new shares allotted for cash pursuant to the authority granted at i above, but only: a in connection with a pre-emptive offer or rights issue: or b otherwise up to a nominal value of 2,050,427 equivalent to approximately 5% of the Companys total issued Ordinary Share capital at the time of passing the resolution.
88 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
