AUDIT COMMITTEE Activities in 2015 and plans for 2016 Our activities during the year were wide ranging, comprising in particular the following: Reviewing Committee composition based on succession planning, skill set and qualification requirements Reviewing our terms of reference and our remit of responsibilities in light of corporate governance developments Reviewing the external auditors terms of engagement, plans, scope of work, compensation, the findings arising from all external audit work and external auditor performance Reviewing Acacias periodic financial reporting Andre Falzon Reviewing key accounting policies and developments in financial Committee Chairman reporting and regulatory environment Membership Reviewing the internal audit plan together with internal audit reports, Percentage findings and monitoring related action plans Meetings of meetings attended attended Reviewing enterprise risk registers, tax disputes and other litigation Andre Falzon Chair 5 100% Reviewing the progress of the annual Anti-Corruption Compliance Peter Tomsett 5 100% Programme Rachel English 5 100% Reviewing whistleblowing arrangements to support reporting requirements under Acacias Code of Conduct and Anti-Fraud and Anti-Corruption policies and other reports from the Companys compliance function Introduction Receiving periodic risk management reports and updates as regards I am the Chairman of the Committee and have over 25 years of the principal risks for which the Committee has delegated oversight financial and management experience within the mining industry.
on behalf of the Board I am a CPA, CA, CGA Canada, and together these provide me with the relevant financial experience required for my position under Participating in the risk management governance and framework applicable corporate governance standards.
Rachel English and review conducted by the Board with the assistance of Deloitte LLP Peter Tomsett act as the other members of the Committee.
Details Participating in the Committees annual performance assessment of members experience and qualifications are provided on pages 50 to 51 as part of the Board of Directors biographies.
Our terms of In 2016, the Committee will continue to focus on the majority of the reference require us to meet at least four times a year, and in 2015 above matters, these being core to its remit of responsibilities.
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Compliance Officer, the Head of Risk and Internal Audit, members of the Companys finance function and the external auditors also attend Committee meetings on a regular basis by invitation.
We also hold individual meetings with Acacias external auditors and the Head of Risk and Internal Audit without management present to discuss matters within our remit of responsibilities.
Key responsibilities Our key responsibilities include oversight of financial reporting and internal controls over financial reporting, overseeing the Groups relationship with its external auditors and Acacias internal audit function, overseeing the external and internal audit processes generally and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control, including its risk management framework.
In addition, this year the Company appointed a Chief Compliance Officer who reports to the Committee and as a result our remit of responsibilities has been extended to include oversight of this function in the context of anti-fraud, anti-bribery and anti-corruption work by the Company, these being directly related to our oversight of whistleblowing arrangements and related policy reviews.
Further details regarding the Committee and its terms of reference are available for inspection on Acacias website: www.
com 58 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Significant issues considered by the Committee in 2015 Inventory level assessments In addition to carrying out the activities referred to above, we reviewed As part of ongoing cost control and inventory management reviews, and considered the following in the context of significant issues relating the Committee has reviewed and scrutinised managements inventory to Group financial statements: level maintenance processes, existing inventory carrying values and the approach taken to ascertain write-downs, particularly with respect Indirect tax recoverability to inventory at Buzwagi.
Management reported to the Committee on As part of ongoing monitoring and review of taxation matters, we have the procedures undertaken to determine and monitor inventory levels reviewed the status, recoverability and classification of the Companys across the Group and overall supply chain procedures required to indirect tax receivables relating to VAT charged on imports and the achieve optimal inventory levels.
In addition, management reported domestic supply of goods and services.
In this regard, we have received to the Committee on all adjustments required to be made to inventory reports from management on the status of discussions and negotiations calculations, something which was further expanded through discussions of such matters between management and the Tanzanian Revenue with the external auditors as regards their analysis and consideration Authority TRA : we have reviewed managements ongoing calculations of these issues.
Based on this process the Committee is satisfied that of amounts so outstanding: the procedure established to recover refunds managements valuation and presentation of the Companys inventory and amounts due under the escrow account established to fund refunds and related costs are suitable in the circumstances.
due in respect of portions of the receivable: the audit process followed to confirm such refunds: and the overall time frame for the receipt Going concern review of such refunds against amounts outstanding under the receivable In addition to the matters stated above, all of which are relevant to from time to time.
The Committee has also taken into account the the Boards assessment of Acacias position as a going concern, the views and contributions of the external auditors regarding recoverability statement relating to which is provided at page 41, the Committee also and classification of relevant indirect tax receivables.
Based on the reviewed other matters relevant to Acacias liquidity, namely the ongoing foregoing, the Committee has satisfied itself that the Companys availability of net cash balances, Acacias hedging strategy and policy, indirect tax receivables are recoverable and appropriately classified and the availability of funds under existing credit facilities.
Management in the circumstances and is satisfied with the suitability of the related reported to the Committee on each of these matters and was questioned disclosures contained in this Annual Report.
In this regard, the Committee has also taken into account the views of the external auditors in order to satisfy itself of the position Uncertain tax positions taken by the Board as regards to the appropriateness of the going A number of tax assessments have been raised by the TRA in prior years concern assumption contained in this Annual Report.
which have been challenged by members of the Group.
We have reviewed the basis of these assessments and discussed with management their Risk reviews views as to why the assessments are incorrect, along with the status As mentioned elsewhere in this Annual Report, during the year the of appeals and recent correspondence with the TRA.
We also discussed Board conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of the Companys these matters with the external auditors.
Based on this review the risk management and internal control systems for the reporting period Committee concluded that the Company had sufficiently provided for with the assistance of Deloitte LLP.
This assessment took into account any uncertain tax positions and that any material contingent liabilities the enhanced assessment requirements introduced by the 2014 edition had been adequately disclosed.
In addition, the Committee reviewed of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the FRCs Guidance on the amount of deferred tax recognised with respect to losses incurred Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business in previous periods and was comfortable with the amounts recognised.
Following this assessment and from a risk governance perspective it was determined that the Committee would continue to Impairment assessment have delegated oversight of certain financial-related principal risks and As part of ongoing monitoring of impairment assessments, during would also have continuing oversight of the Companys risk management the year the Committee has reviewed and examined key assumptions framework itself, as a component of internal controls systems generally.
used by management for impairment testing, in particular the long-term Further information regarding risk management and risk governance average gold price used and the factors relevant to this selection, is provided on pages 22 to 23. such as: the Companys operating cash cost levels, the basis on which these assumptions were made, and related factors underpinning relevant Fair, balanced and understandable review mine planning, budgets and forecasts.
Views and contributions of At the request of the Board, the Committee has also reviewed the external auditors as regards the impairment testing procedures the narrative content of the Annual Report in order to make a and key assumptions used formed part of the Committees review of recommendation that the report satisfies revised narrative reporting all impairment test calculations.
Following these reviews, the Committee requirements in that the Annual Report, when taken as a whole, is fair, satisfied itself that key assumptions used to ascertain the carrying balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary value of the Companys cash generating units had been appropriately for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, reviewed and challenged and were therefore sufficiently robust for use.
In this regard the Committee has taken The Committee also reviewed the disclosure contained in this Annual advice from the Companys legal function to satisfy itself of the relevant Report and, in particular, the disclosure contained in the notes to legal and regulatory framework underpinning this disclosure standard.
the consolidated financial statements as regards impairment in order to satisfy itself of the accuracy and suitability of the disclosures so made.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 59 AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Internal and external audit reviews The auditors are precluded from engaging in non-audit services As regards internal audit, throughout the year the Committee received that would compromise their independence, objectivity or violate any regular reports on matters under review by the internal audit function, professional requirements or regulations affecting their appointment and has reviewed such matters and raised questions with the Head as auditors.
The auditors may, however, provide non-audit services which of Risk and Internal Audit accordingly.
We also reviewed the internal do not impair their independence, and where their skills and experience audit charter, mandate and performance in order to assess ongoing make them a logical supplier, subject to pre-approval by the Committee.
effectiveness, following which the Committee concluded that the For example, this may include the conduct of certain matters relating to internal audit function remains effective and performs in accordance taxation, given the materiality of taxation considerations to the financial with requirements of the business.
assessment and external audit of the Company.
The Companys procedures require that any non-audit services proposed to be provided We have also assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process by the auditors be supported by a justification as to why the appointment via responses to surveys received from the Chief Financial Officer, of the external auditors to provide the services is in the Companys members of the finance and treasury function, and in particular members best interests, and how auditor independence would be safeguarded of the Companys financial reporting team and the Company secretariat.
in the specific context of the proposed services.
In addition to this, The survey comprised a range of factors including the following: the lead audit partner rotates at least every five years.
Progress achieved against the agreed external audit plan Fees for non-audit services incurred during the year amounted to Competence with which the external auditors handled key accounting approximately US$0.2 million 2014 approximately US$0.6 million and audit judgements and communication of the same between representing 20% of the 2015 audit fees.
Audit related and non-audit management, the Committee and the external audit team services provided by the external auditors included their review Compliance with relevant regulatory, ethical and professional of the Companys half year report.
Further information on audit and guidance on rotation of lead audit partners non-audit fees paid to PwC can be found in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.
Qualifications, expertise, resources and the external auditors own assessment of their quality control procedures As a Company we also maintain a strict discipline on the recruitment of The stability and continuity provided to the business as a result of any former employees of the external auditors to ensure independence the continued appointment of  LLP PwC is not undermined.
In line with this, the Committee has adopted a written as external auditors policy regarding the recruitment of former employees of the external auditor.
The policy prohibits the hiring of any former member of the Based on this assessment, the Committee concluded that the external audit team into any financial oversight role or as an officer of external auditors remain effective and we will be recommending the the Company for a period of two years following their association with the reappointment of the external auditors at the forthcoming AGM in light audit, save in instances where the appointment has been pre-approved of this assessment.
Between meetings, the Committee Chairman has delegated authority to deal with such appointments at his discretion.
As regards external audit tender considerations, PwC have acted as Any such interim approval must be ratified at the next meeting of the external auditors for the Group since its listing on the London Stock Committee.
In addition, any employee of the external auditor who Exchange in March 2010.
In this regard, we note that the Statutory Audit accepts employment with the Acacia Group whatever the role must Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use cease all audit activity immediately and tender their resignation to of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities the audit firm.
Order 2014 Order, which requires mandatory tendering of audit services at least every ten years by FTSE 350 companies, came into effect on 1 January 2015 and applies to financial reporting years as of this date.
The Committee has reviewed the requirements of this order and determined that an audit tender will be required in respect of the 2019 financial year at the earliest.
We are therefore compliant with the requirements of the Order.
With respect to non-audit services provided by the external auditors, the Committee reviews the status of all non-audit services on a quarterly basis and is required to consider, and where appropriate provide prior approval for, the provision of all non-audit work by the external auditors to ensure that any such work can be conducted without adversely affecting auditor independence.
The Committee also reviews the proposed provision of non-audit services against the backdrop of UK and EU prohibitions regarding the provision of non-audit services to ensure the Company complies with all restrictions and requirements applicable to it.
60 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION EHS&S COMMITTEE Activities in 2015 and plans for 2016 Our activities during the year were wide ranging, and comprised the following in particular: Reviewing Committee composition, based on succession planning, skill set and qualification requirements Reviewing our terms of reference and our remit of responsibilities in light of ongoing developments within the Companys business and operating environment Reviewing Group-wide EHS&S and CSR strategies and priorities, performance, metrics, trends and incident reports Reviewing key risks in the Groups operating environment regarding Ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu EHS&S and CSR Committee Chairman Reviewing key regulatory and other developments relevant to the Membership EHS&S and CSR operating environment Percentage Reviewing and monitoring the status of occupational, health and Meetings of meetings safety targets and systems attended attended Identifying and reviewing specific focus areas in the context Ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu Chair 4 100% of performance and strategic reviews, as relevant to EHS&S and Graham Clow 3 75% CSR matters Rachel English 4 100% Reviewing progress and the status of Acacia Maendeleo Fund initiatives Receiving periodic risk management reports and updates regarding Introduction the principal risks for which the Committee has delegated oversight I am the Chairman of the Committee, a position that I assumed on behalf of the Board as a result of my experience within an African socio-economic and Participating in the risk management governance and framework political context, having served in a number of public and private review conducted by the Board with the assistance of Deloitte LLP sectors in Tanzania and within the East African Community over the years.
Graham Clow and Rachel English acted as the other Participating in the Committees annual performance assessment members of the Committee in 2015.
For 2016, Brad Gordon Conducting a site visit of Acacias operations to review CSR will replace Graham Clow on Grahams departure from the Board.
programmes Details of members experience and qualifications are provided Overseeing the review of Acacias CSR strategy on pages 50 to 51 of the Board of Directors biographies.
Our terms of reference require us to meet at least twice a year, and in 2015 In 2016, the Committee will continue to focus on the majority of we met four times.
The Chief Executive Officer and those involved in the above matters, these being core to its remit of responsibilities.
the Companys environmental, health, safety and security EHS&S In addition and as mentioned elsewhere in the Annual Report, during and corporate social responsibility CSR functions also attend the year the Board conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of Committee meetings on a regular basis by invitation, in order to the Companys risk management and internal control systems for the report on EHS&S CSR developments and performance.
reporting period with the assistance of Deloitte LLP.
This assessment took into account the enhanced assessment requirements introduced Key responsibilities by the 2014 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code and Our key responsibilities focus on the oversight and review of supporting FRC guidance.
Following this assessment and from a risk activities that are of core importance to Acacias social licence to governance perspective it was determined that the Committee would operate.
These include Acacias strategy and policy on environmental, continue to have delegated oversight of certain EHS&S-related principal occupational health and safety, CSR and security matters: reviewing risks, given its remit of responsibilities.
The specific principal risks the effectiveness of Group EHS&S systems and controls: and for which the Committee has delegated oversight are identified as generally overseeing managements monitoring and evaluation part of the principal risks and uncertainties table on pages 80 to 83. of emerging CSR issues to assess the potential impact on Acacias business and operations.
In addition, at the end of the year we extended the remit of our oversight to human rights, in line with similar oversight responsibilities assumed by EHS&S Committees or their equivalent in peers across the mining industry.
com ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 61 NOMINATION & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE Activities in 2015 and plans for 2016 Our activities during the year were wide ranging, and comprised the following in particular: Reviewing Committee composition based on succession planning, skill set and qualification requirements Reviewing our terms of reference and our remit of responsibilities in light of ongoing developments within the Companys business and operating environment and developments within a corporate governance context Reviewing the Boards structure, size and composition in the context of the Companys strategic and business objectives Kelvin Dushnisky Reviewing the Companys core corporate governance policies in line Committee Chairman with best practice developments and recent trend developments Membership Participating in the Committees annual performance assessment Percentage Providing oversight and review of the Boards and Board Committees Meetings of meetings annual performance evaluation and overseeing the adoption of attended attended recommendations for 2016 work plans.
In this regard an overview of Kelvin Dushnisky Chair 2 100% the 2015 externally facilitated assessment is provided on page 56 Ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu 2 100% Reviewing periodic training and development requirements Peter Tomsett 2 100% for Directors In 2016, the Committee will continue to focus on the majority of the Introduction above matters, these being core to its remit of responsibilities.
In addition to acting as the Chairman of the Board, I also act as Chairman of the Nomination & Governance Committee.
Ambassador In the context of diversity, whilst the Company has not adopted Juma V. Mwapachu and Peter Tomsett act as the other members a formal policy, we base all recruitment on the premise that we strive of the Committee.
Details of members experience and qualifications to attract a broad mix of individuals from both the traditional and are provided on pages 50 to 51 as part of the Board of Directors non-traditional mining labour markets in order to create a diverse biographies.
Our terms of reference require us to meet at least workgroup and maintain a unique company culture.
Above all, we aim twice a year, and we did so in 2015.
The Chief Executive Officer to hire all individuals on the basis of the best candidate for all positions, and members from the Company secretariat also attend Committee at all levels, including Board and senior management positions, meetings by invitation to discuss matters within our remit of irrespective of gender.
Save for appointments made by Barrick under nomination rights Key responsibilities contained in the Relationship Agreement, Board appointments are We play a leading role in reviewing the structure, size and composition made on the basis of pre-determined job descriptions which include, of the Board and in reviewing prospective new Board appointments as regards independent Non-Executive Directors, estimates of time and succession planning requirements.
We also have primary commitment requirements.
From a recruitment and candidate search responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the perspective, our existing Directors provide access to a wide network of composition of Board Committees and we manage recommendations potential Board appointment candidates, particularly within the extractive for the retirement and replacement of Directors.
In addition, our industry, as a result of their collective experience and standing within remit of responsibilities includes delegated authority from the Board the extractive sector.
In addition to this, we look to retain external to oversee and review Acacias corporate governance policies and search consultants to assist us in identifying potential candidates procedures, including independence reviews and the monitoring of for Board positions, when appropriate to do so.
We did not make Company procedures for the management of actual and or potential any new appointments to the Board this year and, as such, no external conflicts of interest.
recruitment consultants were retained during the year for Board recruitment purposes.
com 62 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
