68 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Shareholder engagement calendar 2015 March April May June Roadshows in the Roadshows in France, Bank of America Merrill Lynch Analyst and investor site visit UK, USA and Canada Switzerland, the Netherlands, Business Services Conference to Dumbarton following the preliminary Japan and China Roadshow in the USA results announcement AGM Conference calls and meetings Citi Business with investors following the first Services Conference quarter trading update How our investors can nd us Online 2015 Report Our Group website Download the IR app www.
com investors OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 69 Key to committee activities Half year Full year Trading results results update Investor AGM Site visit meetings Shareholder engagement calendar 2015 August September October November December Strategic priorities Roadshows in the Oil and gas investor site Conference calls and Credit Suisse European announcement USA, UK and France visit to Houston with meetings with investors Business Services and following the interim Morgan Stanley following the third quarter Transport Conference Conference calls and results and strategic trading update meetings with investors Introductory roadshow in UBS Equipment priorities announcement following the interim Canada and the USA Analyst and investor site Rental Conference results and strategic UBS Business visit to Dumbarton priorities announcement Services conference Morgan Stanley Business Bernstein Strategic Services Conference Decisions Conference Understanding what analysts and investors think about us is a key During the year, the Head of Investor Relations and senior management part of driving our business forward and we actively seek dialogue conducted almost 460 meetings, met or spoke to over 400 institutions with the market.
This provides us with the opportunity to communicate and participated in seven conferences.
Meetings are conducted by with analysts and investors and to understand their views on the at least one of the Chairman, Chief Executive officer, Chief Financial Companys strategy and performance.
The Board receives regular officer or Head of Investor Relations and these meetings occurred in updates on the views of Shareholders through briengs and reports a number of different locations around the world to reect the global from the Head of Investor Relations, Directors, Makinson Cowell, our nature of our Shareholder base: during the year we met investors retained advisers, and the Company brokers.
In addition, our Senior in the UK, USA, Canada, France, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Independent Director, Russell King, is available to meet Shareholders Belgium, Italy, China, Hong Kong and Japan.
We also aim to include if they wish to raise any issues separately.
Towards the end of the year broader management in investor meetings throughout the year, to the Board commissioned Makinson Cowell to conduct an independent allow investors to gain a broader perspective of management and report on investor perceptions of the Group, its management, strategy the business.
Concurrently, Makinson Cowell also undertook a We also enjoy meeting and engaging in discussion with our private comprehensive benchmarking exercise on all aspects of the Investor Shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM.
The results were presented to the Board in The 2016 AGM will be held in Glasgow on Thursday 28 April 2016. early 2016, with suggestions and improvements being taken forward by management.
What our Shareholders have asked us about this year: Results and other news releases such as contract wins and changes to our strategy are published via the London Stock Exchanges Regulatory News Service RNS.
Any announcement published via Power Solutions Utility pipeline and prospects RNS is also available on the Groups Investor Relations website at Exposure to oil and gas and emerging markets www.
com investors: a subscription service is available for interested parties to receive these updates by email.
We continually Strategic priorities seek to enhance our communications and in early 2015 we launched Performance outlook an Investor Relations and Media App that can be downloaded to tablet and smartphone devices: this enables a wider audience to view results, Organisational changes and morale announcements, presentations, videos, webcasts and images on Cash ow, capital expenditure, debt and dividend cover the move.
Shareholder returns The Group has an ofce in London, where the Head of Investor Relations is based, and maintains ongoing relations with analysts and investors through telephone calls and meetings.
Throughout 2015, we have continued to maintain open and transparent communication with analysts and investors through meetings, presentations, conferences and site visits.
In August 2015, we announced our new strategic priorities with a presentation and networking event in London.
Read more about our strategy Page 22
