Business Model DELIVERING LONG TERM SUSTAINABLE VALUE Strong business fundamentals Our aim is to understand real consumer OUR OBJECTIVE IS TO DELIVER allow us to focus on growth needs and tastes.
Our consumer base is LONG TERM SUSTAINABLE VALUE IN ALL WE DO.
Our business is financially well positioned growing in number, location and diversity.
To do this, the building blocks are: to grow.
We operate within an expandable We aim to build long term relationships with Understanding real consumer needs consumption market with powerful brands, all our consumers through our brands by and tastes such that we build brands differentiated products and important appealing to both traditional and new tastes and develop innovations to satisfy them: positions within our core consumers as well as by bringing exciting innovation to Focusing on our core brands: repertoires.
We believe people want choice Delivering excellence in execution: and we aim to build brands and develop Driving efficiency across the Our business model allows us to focus on innovation which meets this need.
supply chain: creating and delivering value in all we do.
Developing the team: By owning our brands, being asset backed, Building long lasting customer with multiple routes to market, and having a relationships: strong execution culture, we seek to outgrow We do the right thing: the market as well as build our business.
Consumer insight drives our business.
Building brands that consumers love.
02 01 GROWING OUR BRANDS 03 ACROSS THE U. K. Sales Branches Our Brands Head Office 03 Newcastle IRN-BRU, Rubicon, Barr Brands, 01 Cumbernauld 04 05 05 Moston KA, Strathmore, Simply, Tizer, DNB, 06 06 Sheffield St. Clements, Abbotts.
Sales and 07 Wednesbury Administration Offices 09 Walthamstow Partnership Brands 07 01 Cumbernauld Rockstar, Snapple.
04 Middlebrook Supply Chain Sites 10 08 Wembley 01 Cumbernauld 02 Forfar 08 09 10 Milton Keynes A A.. G G. B. BA AR RR p R p.. l l.. c c.. A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 10 Business Model Continued FOCUS ON EXCELLENCE EFFICIENCY ACROSS CORE BRANDS IN EXECUTION THE SUPPLY CHAIN We have developed a wide brand portfolio Turning plans into actions as efficiently To ensure we can compete in todays and believe in offering choice.
We have and effectively as possible is a key factor marketplace we must strive for efficiency directed much of our efforts to focus on in our success.
From factory operations to across our full supply chain.
We invest in our core brand offerings IRN-BRU, BARR, activity at the point of consumer purchase all areas of efficiency from the sourcing Strathmore, our exotic brands Rubicon we aim to excel in the execution of our of materials across the globe, the design and KA and our franchise partner brands plans.
We have invested significantly in of our packaging materials through to our Rockstar and Snapple.
our customer facing teams to ensure our manufacturing and distribution facilities brand led activity is activated in all channels across the U. K. By focusing our efforts on these core creating interest, excitement and visibility brands, we have been able to speed up the of our brands and helping to leverage the development of this group of brands with consumer marketing campaigns which improved sales execution, better supported drive brand awareness.
communication and improved innovation to market.
We believe our core brands will drive our long term business growth.
ENVISAGED, ENABLED, LONG LASTING DOING THE ENERGISED CUSTOMER RIGHT THING Throughout our business we rely on both Our Corporate Responsibility actions across RELATIONSHIPS individual and team performance: our aim the environment, people, consumers and Building long lasting relationships with is to build competency, capability and community are a big part of our business.
customers in all channels across all our key leadership across the business.
The pace of We believe that how we act reflects who markets is central to building our business growth and change in our markets demands we are.
Our aim is to ensure we always for the long term.
Our aim is to understand much of everyone and we will continue to Do the Right Thing across the business.
all our customers businesses and work invest in developing all our people as well in collaboration with them to find winning as encouraging people to successfully use We are providing support and guidance consumer propositions but to do so in their initiative.
but also autonomy to individuals, teams a practical, fun and profitable way.
and sites across the business to ensure they can Do the Right Thing every day.
