82 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE POLICY REPORT Summary of Aggrekos remuneration policy for Executive Directors This section of our report summarises the key components ofAggrekos remuneration policy for Executive Directors The table below summarises the main elements of remuneration for Aggrekos Executive Directors.
Element of remuneration Aim and link to strategy How it works To attract and retain talent by ensuring base salaries are We aim to pay the market median for standard performance and Base salary competitive in the talent market s relevant to each individual.
within the market top quartile for top quartile performance, or to recruit outstanding candidates.
We generally review base salaries annually: in determining the appropriate level of adjustment, we take into account: Company performance: the individuals responsibilities and contribution to the business: salary levels for comparable roles at relevant comparators: and salary increases more broadly across the Group.
To provide relevant statutory benets and be competitive in the All Executive Directors are entitled to a dened contribution pension.
Pension market in which the individual is employed.
They can opt to take a cash payment in lieu of all or part of their pension.
Contributions of between 20% and 30% of salary per annum except where limited by local practice.
To be competitive in the market in which the individual is Benets include healthcare, life assurance, a company car or Benets employed.
Expatriate and relocation packages designed to an allowance in lieu and expatriate package.
Where appropriate ensure a geographically mobile management population related the Company will bear the cost of any local taxes payable on any to business needs.
The Company will also bear any UK tax that Executive Directors resident overseas incur as a result of carrying out their duties in the UK.
To focus Executive Directors on achieving demanding annual The maximum annual bonus opportunity is 175% of salary.
Annual bonus targets relating to Company performance.
scheme Performance is assessed annually with 20% of the maximum bonus potential based on personal strategic objectives and 80% on challenging budget and stretch targets for the Group.
Bonus payments are typically delivered as to 75% in cash and as to 25% deferred into shares and released after three years.
The deferred element is subject to clawback.
To align the interests of management with those of Shareholders The Performance Share Plan PSP provides for a nil-cost conditional Long-term in growing the value of the business over the long term.
award of shares worth up to an aggregate limit of 300% of salary Incentive Plan perannum.
There are two performance measures for the PSP, 75% of the PSP performance is based on three-year cumulative Diluted Earnings per Share and 25% against Return on Capital Employed.
A proportion of shares which vest will be subject to a further retention period of up to two years, with one-third being released on vesting anda further third being released after each of one and two years fromvesting.
Awards are subject to malus and clawback.
To align the interests of employees and Shareholders by This is an all-employee scheme whereby all employees including Sharesave encouraging all employees to own Aggreko shares.
Executive Directors with at least three months continuous service maysave up to 500 or local currency equivalent per month over aperiod of two to five years.
Options under the Sharesave Option Schemes and the US Stock Purchase Plan are granted at a discount of 20% and 15% respectively.
Savings capped at 500 a month or local currency equivalent, reecting the statutory limit for UK schemes.
Aggrekos current remuneration policy was approved by Shareholders at our Annual General Meeting on 29 April 2015.
The full policy is set out in the report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 98 to 100 of Aggrekos Annual Report 2014, which can be found at www.
OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 83 Pay-for-performance: scenario analysis The graphs below provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunities for Executive Directors, and the potential split between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, Target and Maximum.
Chris Weston Minimum 100% 998k Target 45% 30% 25% 2,217k Maximum 22% 29% 49% 4,560k Carole Cran Minimum 100% 577k Target 46% 29%25% 1,246k Maximum 23% 28% 49% 2,534k 0 1 million 2 million 3 million 4 million 5 million Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP Potential reward opportunities illustrated above are based on the remuneration policy applied to the base salary in force at 1 January 2016.
For the annual bonus, the amounts illustrated are those potentially receivable in respect of performance for 2016.
It should be noted that the LTIP awards granted in a year do not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant.
The projected value of LTIP amounts excludes the impact of share price movement.
In illustrating potential reward opportunities the following assumptions are made: Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP Minimum Latest base pay, No annual Threshold not pension and bonus achieved, so no ongoing benets amount vesting Target Latest base pay, On target Performance pension and annual bonus warrants 25% of ongoing benets maximum vesting Maximum Latest base pay, Maximum Performance pension and annual bonus warrants full vesting ongoing benets
