10 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS OUR MARKETPLACE STRONG PROSPECTS FOR LONG-TERM GROWTH Overview Our industry delivers electricity to businesses and homes around the world.
Indeveloped markets, power and related products like temperature control are an essential part of everyday life and are takenfor granted until they arenotthere.
In emerging markets power helps countries to industrialise and grow, hospitals to providemedical care and schools to educate future generations.
Demand for Aggrekos services is generally created by events: our customers turn to us when something happens which means that they need a fast and exible solution for power.
The nature ofthe demand differs by country and therefore we address the market through our twobusiness units, each of which has strong prospects for long-term growth.
We are well positioned tohelp ourcustomers meet their energy needs.
EXAMPLES OF EXAMPLES OF INFREQUENT EVENTS: FREQUENT EVENTS: Large-scale power shortage An oil renery needs additional cooling during the Summer South Africa, Bangladesh, Argentina tomaintain production throughput.
Major sporting occasions A glass manufacturer suffers a breakdown in its plant and Olympic Games, FIFA World Cup, Commonwealth Games needspower while its own equipment is being repaired.
Natural disasters A city centre needs chillers to create an ice-rink for the Japan post-tsunami, Hurricane Sandy inNorthAmerica in 2012, Christmas period.
Brisbane oods in 2011 A remote mine needs power to operate as it cannot access Post-conict reconstruction and military support the grid.
Democratic Republic of Congo, Iraqand Afghanistan OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 11 Rental Solutions previously Local Business in developed markets The Rental Solutions business is linked to Estimated worldwide market share Rental Solutions competition local economies and varies in size and nature from country to country.
The customer base is diverse, both geographically and by sector, Global Global which gives us protection against the vagaries Ag Agg gr re ek ko o of any one particular market.
Being global 1015 regional allows us to quickly move resources between Hertz, URI, Sunbelt, Speedy Hire, CAT sectors and countries in response to customer demand.
market 25% Hundreds of potential national competitors Demand drivers GDP bn Thousands of local small businesses As an economy grows, so does demand for 2 reliable and exible power.
As businesses grow they may choose to rent additional market share is around 25%, which implies power and related solutions rather than lose What this means for Aggreko Rental Solutions market potential of around productivity: this is also a more efficient use of In our four largest markets, North America, 2 billion based on Aggrekos 2015 Rental their capital.
Australia, the UK and Germany, we have Solutions revenue.
a leading competitive position: however, Propensity to rent Read more about market potential estimation our analysis suggests that we are underIn deciding whether to rent or buy our Page 159 penetrated in the key sectors which provide customers take into account issues such our opportunity for growth.
The Rental Solutions market has historically as the tax treatment of capital assets: In most of our markets, we have a strong grown in line with GDP.
The average GDP the growing awareness of outsourcing: market share position and make good returns.
growth of the countries in which we operate and the availability and cost of finance for There is opportunity to increase market share is forecast to be around 2% per annum purchasing equipment.
in all markets, particularly some of our smaller over the next few years Source: IMF, April Events European markets where we have not grown 2015.
Our strategy is to focus on key as strongly.
sectors including Oil & Gas, Petrochemical & High value low frequency events change the Rening, Mining and Events, which in many size of a market on a temporary basis: for Overall, growth in Rental Solutions will be cases are expected to grow faster than the example, in 2015 the Pan-American Games in driven by a number of factors: market and overall market.
Toronto and the European Games in Baku.
sector growth, market share accretion and sector penetration: and through organic and Competitors inorganic options, including growth through Customers, market size and prospects Customers have the choice to either buy or power adjacencies such as temperature Our customers within Rental Solutions tend rent and therefore our competitors are not control and loadbanks.
to be more transactional in nature and are just rental companies but also equipment Read more about our business priorities predominantly operating in the Oil & Gas, manufacturers.
Where the need is urgent or Pages 22 to 23 Mining, Events, Petrochemical & Rening, for a short time, customers tend to rent.
In the Utilities and Contracting sectors.
Whilst overall Rental Solutions market competitors are either Market during the year cost is always important to them, they are privately-owned specialist rental businesses, We saw a slowdown in business from the most interested in a solution, in reliability and divisions of large plant hire companies or OEM Oil & Gas sector from the second quarter of exibility.
Our average contract duration within dealerships: few provide the sector specic 2015, which resulted in a significant adverse Rental Solutions is 45 days.
We are the only impact on our market, particularly in North company with a global footprint.
However, We operate in a niche segment of the broader America, but also in our North Sea business.
in every region there is a large number of rental market across a number of countries.
The slowdown in the Mining sector, which was regional, national and local businesses in Furthermore, major events can influence particularly acute in 2014, has continued, albeit the market: but few competitors are able market size in the short term.
As a result it at a slower rate of decline.
Elsewhere, lower to compete for large-scale or technically is difficult to accurately determine the size oil prices have stimulated demand in other demanding work.
of the Rental Solutions market: therefore sectors, in particular Petrochemical & Rening our approach is to use a market potential which has grown strongly, enabling us to offset estimation.
From this, we estimate that our the decline in the Oil & Gas sector.
12 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS OUR MARKETPLACE STRONG PROSPECTS FOR LONG-TERM GROWTH Power Solutions previously Power Projects and the Local Business in emerging markets Power Solutions largely operates in emerging In the long term, the drivers of growth Demand drivers markets, serving both utility and industrial increasing demand for electricity and Demand customers.
As populations continue to insufficient investment in permanent supply In emerging markets demand is growing, grow and urbanise, and as industrialisation are structural.
The decision by governments driven by population growth, economic drives economic growth, demand for power to purchase power using exible solutions growth, industrialisation and urbanisation.
Electrication rates are typically is usually a political one and given slower low in many emerging market countries and economic growth in recent years, the Under-investment even in those places where power is available opportunity cost of not having power is less Investment in new and replacement reliability is often poor.
These countries may acute: businesses that are growing, but permanent power infrastructure has not have plans for permanent capacity, but raising that are unable to rely on utility power or kept pace with demand and so frequent the significant funding that is required can where it is simply unavailable, are seeking breakdowns and damaging power cuts have take a considerable period of time to realise alternative sources of power.
The structural resulted, with many regions remaining offand the amount of investment required can be shortfall creates substantial opportunities for grid entirely.
challenging to obtain from traditional sources: Aggreko and we will continue to win work it typically takes between five and 10 years for by understanding the market, customer Financing a new permanent plant to be commissioned.
needs and offering solutions that meet Capital markets are less willing to support Delays in realising new capacity, ageing their requirements.
long-term infrastructure projects in many infrastructure and reliance on intermittent emerging market countries, particularly when hydropower can also exacerbate an existing fide-carbonisation and ageing infrastructure shortfall.
Meanwhile, the global population in developed countries requires trillions of is forecast to grow by over 1% per annum dollars in investment.
until 2020, and double this rate in the least developed countries according to the United Nations: therefore the power shortfall is likely to increase.
Utility customer decision making factors WHY Economic growth Hydro shortage Social pressure Permanent capacity delays shortfall Ageing infrastructure OPTIONS Flexibility Do nothing Speed Decision Mobile and modular power making Modularity Temporary power Pay-as-you-go CONSIDERATIONS Flexible Fuel availability power Transmission capacity Affordability Opportunity cost OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 13 Power Solutions market data Compound Annual Growth Rate 140 6% 130 5% 120 110 GDP 100 Power Gap adjusted from 2016 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Source: IMF Aggreko In our Power Solutions Utility markets, Customers, market size and prospects Market during the year demand for power is expected to continue Within Power Solutions contracts tend to be In 2015 our Utility business had order intake to grow faster than supply, and we estimate longer and more complex.
For our customers of 640MW which compared to 757MW in that the shortfall of power generating reliability and exibility are important, however, the prior year, albeit the prior year included capacity will be around 100GW by 2020, cost is a key consideration.
In many instances, 170MW of short term peak shaving work almost twice UK peak power demand: this especially within the utility market segment, the which didnt recur.
Generally speaking, the implies a compound growth rate of 6% over customers are state owned utilities, who use a level of enquiries has stayed up at historic the next five years.
public tendering process and the overall cost levels: however, conversion to new orders has of generation is always front of mind.
been more muted in the last three years, than Reactive this demand is caused by in the preceding 10 years.
We attribute this to Power Solutions operates in three events that happen infrequently and cause a a combination of lower economic growth in market segments: power shortage for a period of time.
This is emerging markets combined with currency impossible to predict, but important work to devaluation in many of these markets, which Industrial customers that are typically secure: reputation and fleet availability are makes the funding of power, both on a looking for power either where the grid essential to be able to respond to such an permanent or temporary basis, more difficult, is unstable and they seek backup, or emergency, for example in Japan where we meaning that customers are choosing to where the grid doesnt exist and they provided power following the Tsunami.
accept blackouts and load shedding rather need a primary form of power.
The largest than allocate scarce funds.
That said, for customers in this segment tend to be Competitors many of these markets an oil price that has in Oil & Gas and Mining and are often in been considerably lower now for over a remote locations.
It is extremely difficult The largest competitive force that we year may act as a catalyst for conversion as to accurately determine the size of this face in the utility market is for a share of a temporary power becomes relatively more market given its immaturity.
In most emerging affordable, given that the majority of the cost is on increasing rental penetration and market countries the utilities are state to the customer is the fuel.
In our Industrial therefore current market size and share is controlled and money spent on power is business we saw strong growth in Africa less relevant given the growth prospects.
money that cannot be spent elsewhere.
where mining remains strong, and particularly In many of these markets we are the market In addition, we compete with a number of in South Africa where the business is growing leader, but each individually may be small.
companies around the world, we have one rapidly on the back of the worsening power competitor with whom we compete on a The Industrial market is expected to grow outages and regular load shedding.
In Russia, global basis and a number of businesses in line with GDP.
The average GDP growth despite the lower oil price, we continue to compete with us either locally or regionally, of the countries in which we operate is see good growth, particularly with our gas in particular some of the larger Caterpillar forecast to be around 5% per annum over product where customers are outsourcing the dealers.
Our key differentiator is our global the next few years.
Source: IMF, April 2015 provision of power.
The economic environment scale and large homogenous fleet, which in Brazil remains challenging and elsewhere in facilitates fast deployment and economies Utility this is generally linked to the Latin America the mining sector slowdown has of scale.
power shortfall in a particular country and impacted our businesses in Chile and Peru.
our customer is normally the state owned utility.
These customers require base What this means for Aggreko load, peaking and in some cases, backup Aggreko operates in each of the market power.
There are a wide variety of factors segments, which allows us to utilise our that influence the decision to contract with infrastructure more effectively, improve our us and they vary between countries: our awareness of business opportunities, and analysis suggests that GDP growth typically improve our prole, all of which maximises needs to be around 5% for conversion from growth and returns.
an enquiry into a contract in this segment.
Across Power Solutions we are repositioning We estimate that our market share in 2015 the business and through the actions that we was around 40%, based on the volume are taking expect to deliver market share gain, of contract wins and extensions across increased sector penetration and growth from the industry.
Overall, we anticipate that this will result in growth ahead of the market.
Read more about our business priorities Pages 22 to 23
