58 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE OUR EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE From left to right: Tom Armstrong, Bruce Pool, Nicolas Fournier, Chris Weston, Carole Cran, Volker Schulte, Peter Kennerley T he Executive Committee operates Chris Weston Carole Cran under the direction and Chief Executive Chief Financial authority of the Chief Executive officer officer officer: it is responsible for supporting him in all aspects Appointed: January 2015.
Appointed: June 2014. of his role.
The Executive Tenure with Aggreko: 1 year.
Committee members have also Full biography appears on Full biography appears on been assigned responsibility Page 56 Page 56 for each of the principal risks and uncertainties outlined in the Strategic Report.
Nicolas Fournier Bruce Pool Tom Armstrong We have decided to introduce Managing Director, President, Rental Solutions Chief Information our Executive Committee Power Solutions officer CIO and Group members in the corporate Appointed: December 2015.
Programme Director governance report as they Appointed: November 2015.
have played a key role in the Tenure with Aggreko: less than Appointed: CIO August 2001 Bruce has responsibility for the strategic review undertaken 1 year.
and Group Programme Director leadership of the Rental Solutions this year.
The Executive August 2015. business, the Global Events team Nicolas has responsibility for the Committee also sponsor and Tenure with Aggreko: 14 years.
He is leadership of the Power Solutions have overall accountability for also responsible for overseeing business and overseeing the Tom has responsibility for the the delivery of our new business delivering against the initiatives delivery of our new business implementation of our new business priorities in relation to customer and priorities customer, efficiency and designed to underpin the new priorities customer, technology efficiency within Rental Solutions.
business priorities of customer, andefciency programme The Rental Solutions business is The Power Solutions business is designed toenhance our technology and efficiency our local businesses in developed our Power Projects business and competitive advantage and deliver markets: North America, Europe to enhance our existing our local businesses in developing sustainable growth.
Tom is also and Australia Pacic.
responsible for our IT infrastructure, Middle East, Russia, Caspian cyber security and the Programme and Asia.
Peter Kennerley Volker Schulte Group Legal Director & Group Manufacturing and Group Human Company Secretary Technology Director Resources Director The Executive Committee also Appointed: October 2008.
Appointed: August 2015. includes the role of Group HR Tenure with Aggreko: 7 years.
Tenure with Aggreko: less than Director, with responsibility for 1 year.
Human Resources and Internal Peter has overall responsibility for Communications.
This role is the management of legal and ethical Volker is responsible for building on currently vacant with a new risk and for supporting the Board in our current engineering capability appointee set to take up the setting and maintaining standards in Dumbarton and focusing on position in mid 2016. of corporate governance.
enhancing our product strategy, product development and product management with the objective of delivering market leading products to our customers.
