94 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE STATUTORY DISCLOSURES Directors Report and Strategic Report Material share interests The Directors Report and Strategic Report for the year ended As at 31 December 2015, the Company had received notications 31 December 2015 comprise pages 54 to 99 and pages 8 to 53 of this of the following major shareholdings, representing 3% or more of report, together with the sections incorporated by reference.
We have the voting rights attached to the issued Ordinary Share capital of included some of the matters normally included in the Directors Report the Company: which we consider to be of strategic importance in the Strategic Report Number of % of total on pages 8 to 53. specifically these are: Shareholder shares voting rights Black Rock Inc 12,820,770 5.00 Future Business Developments on page 22 AKO Capital LLP 12,781,545 4.99 Risk Information on the Use of Financial Instruments on page 134 Mackenzie Financial Corporation 10,300,485 4.02 Disclosures in relation to Listing Rule LR 9.8.
4R, where applicable, are A E H Salvesen 9,995,283 3.73 included on pages 80 and 81 in relation to long-term incentive plans Baillie Gifford 12,584,169 4.91 and on page 96 in relation to the dividend waiver arrangements in place Prudential Plc 9,351,326 3.65 for our Employee benefit Trust.
Including immediate family and trustee interests Both the Directors Report and Strategic Report have been presented Notications received prior to the share capital consolidation in June 2014, number of shares 549 in accordance with applicable company law, and the liabilities of the disclosed relates to Ordinary Shares of 13 775 pence each Directors in connection with those reports are subject to the limitations Between 31 December 2015 and 3 March 2016, the Company and restrictions provided.
Other information to be disclosed in the received no notications of major shareholdings.
Directors Report is given in this section.
The Directors are not aware of any other material interests amounting to Management report 3% or more in the share capital of the Company.
The Strategic Report and the Directors Report together include the management report for the purposes of Disclosure and Transparency Rights and obligations attached to shares Rule DTR 4.1.
Subject to applicable statutes in this section referred to as the Companies Acts and to any rights conferred on the holders of any 2016 Annual General Meeting other shares, any share may be issued with or have attached to it such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 am decide or, if no such resolution has been passed or so far as the 28 April 2016 at the Grand Central Hotel, 99 Gordon Street, Glasgow resolution does not make specic provision, as the Board may decide.
The Notice of Meeting is available on the Shareholder information pages of our website.
Voting Dividends Subject to any special terms as to voting upon which any shares may be issued or may for the time being be held and to any other provisions The interim dividend of 9.38 pence per Ordinary Share was paid of the Articles of Association for the Company the Articles, on a on 2 October 2015.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of show of hands every member who is present in person or by proxy or 17.74pence per Ordinary Share in respect of the year, making a total represented by a corporate representative at a general meeting of the for the year of 27.12 pence per Ordinary Share 2014: 27.12 pence, Company has one vote.
payable on 24 May 2016 to Shareholders on the register at the close ofbusiness on 22 April 2016.
On a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy or represented by a corporate representative has one vote for every share Dividend payments and DRIP of which he or she is the holder.
In the case of joint holders of a share In 2015 we introduced a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP for the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by Shareholders.
This allows Shareholders to purchase additional shares proxy, is accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders in Aggreko with their dividend payment.
Further information and a and, for this purpose, seniority is determined by the order in which the mandate can be obtained from our Registrars, Capita, whose details names stand in the register in respect of the joint holding.
are set out on page 155 and the Shareholder information pages of The holders of the Deferred Shares are not entitled to receive notice of our website.
any general meeting of the Company or to attend, speak or vote at any such meeting.
Share capital On 31 December 2015 the Company had in issue 256,128,201 329 Ordinary Shares of 4 395 pence each, 188,251,587 Deferred Shares 84 1 of 9 775 pence each, 18,352,057,648 Deferred Shares of 775pence 18 each, 182,700,915 Deferred Shares of 6 25 pence each and 1 573,643,383,325 Deferred Shares of 306125 pence each comprising 29.43%, 40.77%, 0.56%, 29.19% and 0.04% respectively of the Companys issued share capital.
Details of the changes in issued sharecapital during the year are shown in Note 23 to the accounts onpage 131.
OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 95 Restrictions on voting Variation of rights No member is, unless the Board otherwise decides, entitled in respect Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, rights attached to of any share held by him to vote either personally or by proxy or by a any class of shares may be varied either with the consent in writing corporate representative at any general meeting of the Company or of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the at any separate general meeting of the holders of any class of shares issued shares of that class excluding any shares of that class held in the Company if any calls or other sums presently payable by him in as Treasury Shares or with the sanction of a special resolution respect of that share remain unpaid or if he is a person with a 0.25% passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
interest as dened in the Articles and he has been served with a The necessary quorum applying to any such separate general meeting restriction notice as dened in the Articles after failure to provide is two persons holding or representing by proxy not less than one-third the Company with information concerning interests in those shares in nominal value of the issued shares of the class excluding any shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
of that class held as Treasury Shares, but at any adjourned meeting one holder present in person or by proxy whatever the number of The Company is not aware of any agreement between holders of shares held by him will constitute a quorum : every holder of shares securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
of the class present in person or by proxy excluding any shares of that class held as Treasury Shares is entitled on a poll to one vote for Dividends and other distributions every share of the class held by him subject to any rights or restrictions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Company may by attached to any class of shares and any holder of shares of the class ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends in accordance present in person or by proxy may demand a poll.
with the respective rights of the members, but no dividend can exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
Restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company, Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Board may pay except that: such interim dividends as appear to the Board to be justied by the financial position of the Company and may also pay any dividend certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and payable at a xed rate at intervals settled by the Board whenever regulations for example, insider trading laws : the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
If the Board acts in good faith, it shall not incur pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority any liability to the holders of any shares for any loss they may suffer certain employees and Directors of the Company require the in consequence of the payment of an interim or xed dividend on any approval of the Company to deal in the Companys Ordinary Shares: other class of shares ranking pari passu with or after those shares.
and The Deferred Shares confer no right to participate in the profits of the Deferred Shares are not transferable except in accordance with the Company.
the paragraph headed Powers in relation to the Company issuing or buying back its own shares below or with the written consent of On a return of capital on a winding-up excluding any intra-Group the Directors.
reorganisation on a solvent basis, holders of Deferred Shares are entitled to be paid the nominal capital paid up or credited as paid up The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of on such Deferred Shares after paying to the holders of the Ordinary securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
Shares the nominal capital paid up or credited as paid up on the Ordinary Shares held by them respectively, together with the sum of Articles of Association 100,000,000 on each Ordinary Share.
Our Articles are available on our website at http: www.
The Board may deduct from any dividend or other moneys payable to Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles, a member by the Company on or in respect of any shares all sums of the Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the money if any presently payable by him to the Company on account Companys Shareholders.
of calls or otherwise in respect of shares of the Company.
The Board may also withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other moneys payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% interest as dened in the Articles if such a person has been served with a restriction notice as dened in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests inthose shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
96 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE STATUTORY DISCLOSURES Appointment and replacement of directors Powers in relation to the Company issuing or buying The rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are back its own shares contained in the Companys Articles.
They include: the number of The Directors were granted authority at the last Annual General Directors must not be less than two or more than 15, the Board may Meeting held in 2015 to allot relevant securities up to a nominal appoint any person to be a Director: any Director so appointed by the amount of 4,125,579 in connection with an offer by way of a rights Board shall hold ofce only until the next general meeting and shall then issue.
That authority will apply until the earlier of 30 June 2016 and be eligible for election: each Director must retire from ofce at the third the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting for 2016.
At this Annual General Meeting after the Annual General Meeting at which he years Annual General Meeting Shareholders will be asked to grant was last elected.
However, in line with the UK Corporate Governance an authority to allot relevant securities up to a nominal amount Code, all Directors will stand for annual election at the 2016 AGM.
of 4,126,149, such authority to apply until the end of next years Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, until the close of business on A Director may be removed by special resolution of the Company.
In addition, the ofce of a Director must be vacated if: i he resigns his ofce by notice in writing delivered to the ofce or tendered at A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Directors a meeting of the Board: or ii by notice in writing he offers to resign powerto make non-pre-emptive issues for cash up to a nominal and the Board resolves to accept such offer: or iii his resignation is amount of 1,237,844. requested by all of the other Directors and all of the other Directors are The Company was also authorised at the Annual General Meeting not less than three in number: or iv a registered medical practitioner held in 2015 to make market purchases of up to 25,611,839 Ordinary who is treating that Director gives a written opinion to the Company Shares.
This authorisation will expire on the earlier of the conclusion stating that that Director has become physically or mentally incapable of the Annual General Meeting of the Company for 2016 and of acting as a Director and may remain so for more than three months: 30 June 2016. or v by reason of a Directors mental health, a court makes an order which wholly or partly prevents that Director from personally exercising A special resolution will also be proposed at this years Annual General any powers or rights which that Director would otherwise have: or vi Meeting to renew the Directors authority to repurchase the Companys he is absent without the permission of the Board from meetings of the Ordinary Shares in the market.
The authority will be limited to a Board whether or not an alternate Director appointed by him attends maximum of 25,612,820 Ordinary Shares and sets the minimum and for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his ofce is maximum prices which may be paid.
vacated: or vii he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors The Company may at any time, without obtaining the sanction of the generally: or viii he is prohibited by law from being a Director: or ix he holders of the Deferred Shares: ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Acts or is removed from ofce pursuant to the Articles.
a appoint any person to execute on behalf of any holder of Deferred Shares a transfer of all or any of the Deferred Shares and or an Directors conicts of interest agreement to transfer the same to the Company or to such person as The Company has procedures in place for monitoring and managing the Directors may determine, in any case for not more than one penny conicts of interest.
Should a Director become aware that they, or for all the Deferred Shares then being purchased from him: and their connected parties, have an interest in an existing or proposed b cancel all or any of the Deferred Shares so purchased by the transaction with Aggreko, they should notify the Board in writing or at Company in accordance with the Companies Acts.
Directors have a continuing duty to update any changes to these conicts.
Securities carrying special rights No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with Powers of the Directors regard to control of the Company.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Articles and to any directions given by the Company in general meeting by special Rights under the employee share scheme resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board, Appleby Trust Jersey Limited, as Trustee of the Aggreko Employees which may exercise all the powers of the Company whether relating to benefit Trust, holds 0.19% of the issued share capital of the Company the management of the business of the Company or not.
In particular, as at 3 March 2016 on trust for the benefit of the employees and former the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow employees of the Group and their dependents.
The voting rights in money and to mortgage or charge all or any part of the undertaking, relation to these shares are exercised by the Trustee and there are no property and assets present and future and uncalled capital of the restrictions on the exercise of the voting of, or the acceptance of any Company and to issue debentures and other securities, whether offer relating to, the shares.
The Trustee is obliged to waive all dividends outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the on the shares unless requested to do otherwise by the Company Company or any third party.
OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 97 Going concern and viability statements Equal opportunities The going concern statement is included on page 113 of the Aggreko is committed to promoting equal opportunities for financial statements.
all, irrespective of disability, ethnic origin, gender or any other considerations that do not affect a persons ability to perform their The viability statement is included on page 33 of the strategic report.
Our policies for recruitment, training, career development and promotion of employees are based on the suitability of the individual Change of control and give those who are disabled equal treatment with the able bodied The Company has in place a number of agreements with advisers, where appropriate.
Employees disabled after joining the Group financial institutions and customers which contain certain termination are given suitable training for alternative employment with Aggreko rights which would have an effect on a change of control.
believe these agreements to be commercially sensitive and that their disclosure would be seriously prejudicial to the Company: accordingly Human rights they do not intend disclosing specic details of these.
In addition, all of As we continue to grow our business in developing countries, we the Companys share schemes contain provisions which in the event recognise that human rights are a concern in many regions that we of a change of control, would result in outstanding options and awards operate in.
We have a responsibility to all of our stakeholders, to ensure becoming exercisable, subject to the rules of the relevant schemes.
that all of our interactions with them meet or exceed the standards of compliance set out in our ethics policies, approach to equal There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or opportunities, health and safety policies, environmental policies and employees providing for compensation for loss of ofce or employment grievance mechanisms, all of which are explained in detail throughout that occurs because of a takeover bid.
We have also identied safety, emissions and people as matters to be considered as part of the principal risks facing the Disclosure of information to the Companys auditor business.
Whilst all these matters are linked, to a greater or lesser In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 the extent, to human rights, we prefer to address them as part of our Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this Directors operations, rather than as a separate issue.
We continue to evaluate Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant all potential risks and do not think that human rights present material audit information as dened by Section 418 3 of the Companies Act issues for our business.
2006 of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to Pensions make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish The assets of the UK dened-benefit pension fund are controlled that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
by the Directors of Aggreko Pension Scheme Trustee Limited: they are held separately from the assets of the Company and invested Indemnity of ofcers by independent fund managers.
These segregated funds cannot be Under Article 154 of the Articles, the Company may indemnify any invested directly in the Company.
Four trustees have been appointed Director or other officer against any liability, subject to the provisions by the Company and, in addition, two member-nominated trustees of the Companies Acts, and the Articles grant an indemnity to the have been appointed.
This fund was closed to new employees joining Directors against any liability for the costs of legal proceedings where the Group after 1 April 2002: new UK employees are now offered judgement is given in their favour.
membership of a Group Personal Pension Plan.
Under the authority conferred by Article 154, the Company has granted indemnities to Directors and ofcers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The indemnities do not apply to any claim which arises out of fraud, default, negligence or breach of duciary duty or trust by the indemnified person.
In addition, the Company may purchase and maintain for any Director or other officer, insurance against any liability.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover against legal action brought against its Directors and ofcers and the Directors and ofcers of its subsidiaries.
98 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE STATUTORY DISCLOSURES As can be seen from the chart below, relative emissions have Carbon dioxide emissions decreased, with a 1% reduction in the emissions per GBP revenue In line with the Companies Act 2006, we are reporting on our from 2014. greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
We have used the method outlined in the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revenue intensity ratio tCO2e revised edition, using the location-based scope 2 calculation method, together with the latest emission factors from recognised public 15 11.76 sources including Defra, the International Energy Agency, the US 14 11.84 Energy Information Administration, the US Environmental Protection 13 12.3 Agency and the Intergovernmental panel on Climate Change.
12 9.5 The tables below present the principal findings from GHG analyses ofthe previous two years: Total GHG emissions by GHG protocol scope In addition, during the year we undertook an Energy Saving tCO2e year 2015 2014 Opportunities Scheme ESOS assessment in line with the UK Scope 1 15,486,377 15,714,575 Environment Agency requirements and can confirm that we are compliant with the Regulations.
Scope 2 18,987 18,188 Scope 3 2,849,565 2,940,471 Branches Total 18,354,928 18,673,234 Subsidiaries of the Company have established branches in a number ofdifferent countries in which they operate.
Total GHG emissions by fleet non-fleet tCO e year 2015 2014 2 Auditor Fleet 18,186,552 18,523,108 Resolutions appointing KPMG as the Companys and Groups auditor Non-fleet 168,376 150,126 and authorising the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Total 18,354,928 18,673,234 In line with previous years, the results show that 99% of GHG Important events since 31 December 2015 emissions arise from the operation of our fleet when it is out on rent.
There have been no important events affecting the Company or any There are three main factors driving our annual GHG emissions: the subsidiary since 31 December 2015. fuel type our customers use: the pattern of their usage: and the fuel efficiency of the fleet.
Political donations In 2015 we emitted 18,354,928 tonnes of CO e, a decrease of 2% over No political donations were made during the financial year 2014: nil.
In line with best practice, our GHG accounting systems include an estimate of the upstream GHG emissions associated with fuel Approval of the Strategic Report and Directors Report supply chains: in 2015 this contributed 15.2% of combustion emissions, The Strategic Report set out on pages 8 to 53 and Directors Report accounting for 97% of scope 3 emissions.
set out on pages 54 to 99 were approved by the Board on 3 March 2016 and have been signed by the Company Secretary on behalf of As a result of a 6.1% decrease in running hours, a recorded decrease the Board.
of 2% in GHG emission is reported for the Aggreko fleet in 2015.
This disparity is due to a shift in the ratio of running hours, from generators with low energy outputs to larger machines.
In 2014, approximately 71% of fleet running hours were attributed to generators of less than or equal to 200 kVA, in 2015 this percentage dropped to 47%.
Accordingly, the larger and more fuel intensive generators with an output of over 200 kVA accounted for 53% of global running hours Peter Kennerley in 2015.
Group Legal Director & Company Secretary In terms of the non-fleet activities, emissions from activities on our 3 March 2016 premises have decreased.
Conversely, emissions from third-party vehicle use, company vehicles and business travel have all increased.
The largest increases are documented in reported travel in companyowned cars and vans and third-party road freight logistics.
The intensity ratio expresses the GHG impact per unit of physical activity or economic output, with a declining intensity ratio reecting a positive performance improvement.
In 2013 we chose Revenue Intensity as the most suitable metric for our business for then and future years.
