64 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE IN ACTION: EFFECTIVENESS BOARD VISIT TO MANUFACTURING The Board at our INDUCTION, DEVELOPMENT Manufacturing AND SUPPORT facility in Dumbarton, Scotland, April 2015.
W e make sure that all new Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board.
We also plan our Board Whilst the Board was in Scotland for the AGM in April 2015, calendar to ensure that Directors are they took the opportunity to visit our manufacturing facility in able to visit different business locations Dumbarton.
As part of the tour the Board attended a number and are briefed on a wide range of topics of workshops, run by the relevant manufacturing manager.
These topics range The workshops included: health and safety, development of from those with particular relevance a new gas generator, manufacturing developments in 2015, for our business, such as world energy future capability and the apprentice programme, where they demand, to more general matters such as also met a number of current apprentices.
We recognise that our Directors have Typical induction programme for a diverse range of experience, and so a Non-executive Director we encourage them to attend external seminars and briengs that will assist Our induction programme aims to give new Non-executive Directors a them individually.
thorough grounding in Aggrekos business and a clear understanding of their roles and responsibilities.
Each newly appointed Director will spend time with the Company Secretary to ensure an understanding of directors duties, conicts of interest, corporate governance, Board procedures, Group policies and the use of our electronic Board packs.
Whilst we do take into account the Directors background and experience, the induction programme will include a broad introduction to our business, on a Group and business unit basis, and areas of significant risk.
Key elements include meeting the Executive Directors, senior management in the Group and senior management within the business units and visiting our main sites for briengs on Group strategy and the business units.
We also arrange for new Nonexecutive Directors to meet the External Audit Partner.
This years Board evaluation exercise In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, we undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of our own performance and that of our Committees and Directors each year.
The evaluation is required to be externally facilitated at least every three years.
Aggrekos last externally facilitated evaluation took place in 2011, and so we were due another one in 2014.
However, the Board agreed to postpone the externally facilitated evaluation until Autumn 2015, principally as a result of the significant changes to the Board composition.
In August 2015, we appointed Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Limited to facilitate our 2015 Board evaluation in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Neither Dr Tracy Long nor Boardroom Review Limited has any other connection with Aggreko.
OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 65 Board evaluation framework The Chairman prepared a comprehensive brief The Company Secretary provided copies of STEP ONE ONE for Dr Long.
governance materials: policies: Board papers: minutes, etc.
Brieng and preparation Dr Long conducted individual interviews Dr Long attended the October Board meeting STEP TWO TWO with each member of the Board and the as an observer.
Interviews and observation Dr Long prepared a draft discussion Dr Long then discussed the document with STEP THREE THREE document, identifying strengths, challenges each member of the Board.
and recommendations in the areas of: Presentation of findings Dr Long then presented her findings at the and discussion S trategy: December Board meeting.
Risk and control: The Chairman led a discussion of those findings, and of the views of Directors generally.
People: Board contribution Chairman, CEO and culture : and Board basics agendas and information.
The main conclusions we drew from the external Risk and Control STEP FOUR FOUR findings and our internal discussion were that: we Establish a Risk Committee as a subConclusion and actions made efficient use of time: there was an open and committee of the Executive Committee, chaired uninhibited culture and we paid attention to the by Carole Cran, the Chief Financial officer.
But there were a number of areas Clarify internal responsibility for Risk processes where the Board could increase its effectiveness under the Group Treasurer.
and improve the quality of debate and decision making.
In line with our strategic priorities, we Continue to review the Risk Register twice agreed we should focus on three main areas: each year.
Strategic Issues including competitive and market landscape : Succession and Talent Management Annual review of Executive Committee Risk and Control: and succession and succession and talent management for the Senior Leadership.
In addition, there were a series of Continue to encourage the Board to attend recommendations of a more housekeeping events and visit locations in order to meet other nature designed to improve Board logistics members of the Senior Leadership Team.
At our March 2016 Board meetings we agreed the following priorities for 2016: Strategic Issues including competitiveness and market landscape A comprehensive Strategy update to include a review of our major customers and competitors.
A regular review of the technology aspects of the strategic landscape.
Development of strategic KPIs to report our progress against our business priorities.
