Directors Statement STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and of the consolidated profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the parent Company and the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
A copy of the Group and parent Company financial statements has been placed on the Companys website, www.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the U. K. governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
DIRECTORS STATEMENT PURSUANT TO THE DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY RULES Each of the directors, whose names and functions are set out on pages 38 to 39 of this report, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the Group and parent Company and of the consolidated profit: the Annual Report and Accounts includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group: and the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
White S. Lorimer Chief Executive Finance Director 24 March 2015 A A.. G G. B. BA AR RR p R p.. l l.. c c.. A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 78 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of A. G. BARR p. l. c. Only OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of A. G. BARR p. l. c. for the year ended 25 January 2015 set out on pages 81 to 125.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 25 January 2015 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: The risk Our response Brand support accruals 12.5 million : Refer to page 52 Audit Committee Report, pages 88 and 93 accounting policy and page 114 financial disclosures The group incurs significant costs in supporting and developing the Our procedures in relation to accounting for brand support costs groups brands.
Accounting for such costs at the year end is considered included testing the groups controls for authorising and reviewing a significant audit risk due to the judgment involved in ascertaining the such costs and challenging by reference to our knowledge of historical level of accrual required in relation to promotions and brand support sales and other data, on a sample basis, the nature and level of key campaigns that either span the year end, where settlement has not been brand support accruals.
fully and finally made by the year end or where prior year claims arise.
In addition our testing included agreeing samples of specific items within accruals to supporting documentation or correspondence with the customer to assess the brand support cost: and considering the accounting treatment for prior year claims from customers which included reading and considering correspondence with key customers that remained within accruals at the year end.
We have considered the disclosures made in this area.
Valuation of inventories 16.8 million : Refer to page 52 Audit Committee Report, pages 90 and 93 accounting policy and page 110 financial disclosures Inventory is a significant balance and the groups main raw materials In this area, our procedures included testing the groups controls over are commodities which can be subject to price volatility.
As the group the tracking of purchase price variances, inventory movements and uses a standard cost as its basis of inventory valuation, changes in balances: comparing the cost of inventories for a sample of items to price and production levels lead to purchase price variances which, supporting documentation e. g. purchase invoices and considering if not accounted for correctly, may lead to the valuation of inventories for reasonableness by reference to historical data and commodity being misstated.
price movements the variances arising from the groups standard costing system.
In addition our procedures included testing whether the standard costs which form the basis of the inventory valuation were set appropriately e. g. by comparing standard costs back to supporting purchase invoices and other supporting costings and reflected normal production levels, having been adjusted appropriately for any capacity underutilisation: and agreeing the calculation of overheads absorbed into inventory to supporting analyses of production costs incurred during the time of production of year-end inventory.
In our audit report for the year ended 26 January 2014 we also included accounting for the groups property, plant and equipment as one of the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit due to the construction of the groups facility at Milton Keynes during that year and the requirement to account for the expenditure and leases associated with that construction.
We considered this risk to be less significant in the current year as the construction of the facility was fully completed in the prior year.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 79 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of A. G. BARR p. l. c. Only Continued 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at 1.4m 2013-14: 1.0m.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before taxation of which it represents 4% 2013-14: 3%.
This materiality level has increased from prior year as we consider, having had regard to the complexity and judgments within the financial statements and materiality applied to the groups peers, a higher level of materiality is appropriate.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected misstatements we have identified through our audit with a value in excess of 250,000, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
This level was selected and agreed with the Audit Committee as, given the nature and scale of operations, adjustments under this level were not deemed to be of specific interest to them.
Audits for group reporting purposes were performed for all three components by the group audit team at one location in Glasgow.
These audits covered 100% of group turnover, profit before tax and total assets.
The audits performed for group reporting purposes were all performed to materiality levels set individually for each component and ranged from 35,000 to 1,400,000.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs U. K. and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 43, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 45 to 50 relating to the companys compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 U. K. Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 78, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Chartered Accountants 191 West George Street Alex Sanderson Senior Statutory Auditor Glasgow G2 2LJ for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 24 March 2015 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 8 80 0
