16 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS HOW WE CREATE VALUE ACROSS THE PROJECT LIFE CYCLE The typical life cycle of a project Rental Solutions 100,000 360 people 2,225MW hours days quotes dedicated of power installation per year sales force equipment time Customers approach us through Typically, we meet the production Based on the plan, a quote is Once the contract is signed, we sales channels or existing manager on-site to get a better drawn up using the internal pricing begin mobilising the equipment.
relationships: our sales people indication of what is needed.
A proposal is then made We install it on-site, test it and also offer solutions before Then we draw up a design, taking to the customer and once agreed, commission the contract.
We meet the account of any environmental acontract is signed.
cases the customer is responsible customer, discuss their needs orregulatory requirements.
Understand the 1 Design and plan 2 Proposal 3 Mobilise, install 4 requirement andcommission Power Solutions Utility: 225 Utility: 4,837MW Industrial: 15,000 240 people Industrial: 2,756MW weeks months quotes dedicated of power installation per year sales force equipment time In the case of most Utility For our Utility customers we In both parts of the business, Equipment is shipped from the customers, a tender is conduct a site survey and a quote is drawn up based on nearest service centre, hub produced.
Our Industrial additional exploratory work and the customer specication.
or another project which has customers approach us through then we draw up a plan to meet In the Utility business this is recently demobilised and usually sales channels or existing the customer requirements, either presented directly to the travels by sea, rail and road relationships.
In both cases including all the logistics and customer, or in the case of a to the site.
Installing a project we present solutions to show site civil works, which can vary tender, the bid is often opened typically takes from a few days to how we can meet their power considerably in complexity.
publicly in front of the local press.
a number of months, depending needs.
Both involve meeting the For our Industrial customers we Typically there are then some on the size and complexity and customer and understanding will meet them on-site to better negotiations before a final price once this is complete the site is their requirements.
understand the brief before is agreed and a contract signed.
For our Industrial customers, a In most instances, the customer is proposal is made based on the responsible for providing the fuel.
quote and once agreement is reached, a contract is signed.
OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 17 45 950 64,000 3 days days average dedicated sets off-hired average time to turnaround contractduration engineers in 2015 a diesel generator After an explanation of operating Our service engineers will visit At the end of the initial contract Equipment coming off-hire is procedures, customers operate the site as necessary.
Our remote duration, the customer retains returned to our service centres, the equipment themselves and monitoring equipment can alert the right to determine whether or where it is serviced and made call us if there are any issues.
customers and engineers to not to off-hire the equipment or available to go back out on-hire.
potential problems before they extend the contract.
For some short contracts, choose to off-hire, we remove our servicing may not be needed.
Operate 5 Service 6 Demobilise 7 Service 8 and maintain and refurbish Utility: 1 year Utility: 870MW Industrial: 3 months 1, 700 Industrial: 17,700 Sets 240MW average contract dedicated off-hired and of refurbishments in Utility duration engineers demobilisedin 2015 businesses in 2015 Our Industrial customers The equipment needs regular At the end of the initial contract Equipment that is demobilised operate the equipment for servicing and maintaining, term, customers have the option is returned to one of the service themselves, after an explanation the frequency of which to off-hire or extend the contract.
centres, where it is serviced of the operating procedures: depends on how hard it is In the Utility business, typically or refurbished.
we maintain and service the running.
Our engineers are around a third of contracts on-hire Our 1MW diesel generators equipment.
In the case of our either permanently on-site at the beginning of the year will that have reached the end Utility customers, we sell them Utility business or will visit as off-hire during the year.
When a of their life are refurbished.
We own and operate our necessary and will service and customer decides to off-hire, we Refurbishment can include an facilities which are run by Aggreko maintain equipment as required remove our equipment and leave upgrade to our more fuel efficient employees.
These tend to be Industrial business.
the site exactly as we found it.
higher electrical output engine at a combination of locally trained around 75% of the original cost teams and Aggreko personnel.
and giving another eight years ofuseful life.
