18 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS HOW WE CREATE VALUE USING OUR RESOURCES Organisation During the year we reorganised the business, the objective of which was to enhance our customer service by improving our strategic and operational execution through two clearly dened business units, Rental Solutions and Power Solutions.
The reorganisation became effective from 1 August 2015: Bruce Pool was appointed President Rental Solutions in December 2015, with Nicolas Fournier appointed Managing Director Power Solutions in November 2015.
In addition we appointed Volker Schulte as the new Group Manufacturing and Technology Director and also appointed a Group P eople are our Director of HSE.
greatest asset: their As part of the change in structure passion, pace and weundertook to remove a significant commitment are a critical number of roles from our structure.
This was completed by the end of They are highly skilled November 2015 and communication and are used to reacting with employees on how the reorganisation was progressing was quickly: they respond maintained throughout.
Each of the effectively under pressure: new business units now has strong do a professional job: and management teams in place, and the above all, deliver it in a safe majority have been lled with existing manner.
underpin the can-do, Case study: Safety and security customer focused culture Inaugural Senior Leadership Team brieng Given that we operate in many areas of for which Aggreko is the world which can be categorised as In April 2015, the first Senior Leadership Team SLT brieng was held known.
We are therefore in London.
Held across two days, the event comprised presentations high risk, we consider the safety of our on the progress of the business priorities, workshops to develop focused on providing an employees working in these locations key strategic and cultural ideas and a presentation on how Aggreko environment in which to be our most critical issue.
During the is perceived by the investment community.
Following the event, the input from the two days was used in formulating the Groups Business year we have enhanced our Group our people can ourish Priorities.
A follow up event was held in Amsterdam in November, security function which has overseen where the strategic priorities were discussed.
These events will be and make the greatest the implementation of standard tools hosted at least once a year in future to ensure that senior managers are possible difference to the kept up to date with business developments.
and processes to ensure the safety and Companys performance.
We also have an ongoing partnership with external advisers, who provide us with the onHEALTH, SAFETY AND the-ground knowledge that we need ENVIRONMENTAL THE IDEAS AND CONCERNS RAISED WERE to make decisions on our operations HSE MANAGEMENT TAKEN BACK AND USED IN FORMULATING in high risk areas.
During the year we THE GROUPS BUSINESS PRIORITIES Read more about health, safety and appointed a Group Director of HSE with environmental management a direct reporting line to the CEO.
Page 50 Read more about safety and security risk Pages 30 to 31 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION CRITICAL ISSUE Read more about social contribution WE CONSIDER THESAFETY OF OUR EMPLOYEES Page 51 TO BE OUR MOST CRITICAL ISSUE.
Read more Page 50 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 19 LOCAL TALENT WE ACTIVELY RECRUIT LOCAL TALENT WHEREVER POSSIBLE: AS PART OF OUR BUSINESS PRIORITIES WE PLAN TO HIRE AND TRAIN MORE LOCAL EMPLOYEES.
key objectives of growing earnings Talent management and delivering strong returns on capital Learning and development continues employed.
These metrics are used to be an area of focus and is built for the Groups long-term incentive around the core capabilities required scheme and senior managers annual by the business.
During the year, following that investment in our employees shareholder consultation, we reviewed has a direct and positive impact on the remuneration policy, including the our employee retention rates and the LTIP scheme for our top 190 managers, engagement levels of our staff.
It is and updated it to reect current essential that our people are properly market trends.
trained and each part of the business has training programmes in place We also encourage all employees to provide our employees with the to own shares in the Company and necessary skills to perform their role: currently nearly 2,000 people participate training is a combination of on-the-job in the Sharesave programme.
learning and specic skill development Read more about remuneration policy through training courses.
Page 78 In 2015 we delivered over two hundred Engagement thousand hours of training across the Group.
Many of our training We are proud that so many of our programmes are tailored specifically employees enjoy what they do for Aggreko employees and utilise and we seek to increase employee case studies and examples taken from satisfaction through more than just employee experience.
We encourage mobility across countries and divisions During the year we established a by prioritising internal transfers Senior Leadership Team SLT, and ensuring that positions are comprising ourtop 65 managers, advertised internally.
andCEO, ChrisWeston hosted two off-site briengs.
Our last Global Opinion Survey was in 2013 and another one was due Through these briengs we engaged in 2015.
Given the focus on the the level of management below the reorganisation and business priorities Executive Committee as part of in 2015 we did not conduct a Global their development and also to get Opinion survey.
However, throughout the SLTs input into formulating the the reorganisation, we actively solicited Group strategy.
feedback from employees through Pulse surveys which measured We also recognise that localisation of employee sentiment across the talent provides many benets to the business.
We were pleased to see that Group and to the communities in which despite employees naturally feeling we operate, which is why we actively unsettled during this time of transition, recruit local people wherever possible the majority of employees who and use programmes like Aggreko responded to the surveys would still University Ivory Coast, SelecTech recommend Aggreko as an employer USA and our apprenticeship to family and friends.
programme at our Dumbarton manufacturing facility UK to develop Read more about employee turnover the skills of school leavers.
As part of Page 24 our business priorities, we are also During the year we launched looking to improve operational efficiency MyAggreko, a company-wide intranet by hiring more local employees, that encourages collaboration training them and providing them with between employees and enables career opportunities with the Group.
knowledge sharing across the Group.
Across the Group Aggreko employs Internal Communications continues over 100 different nationalities.
to be an area of focus and we have recently appointed a Director of Reward for performance Internal Communications in order to Learning and development is only further develop our communications one part of the way we retain our best programme and ensure that our people people.
It is equally important that are engaged and understand our they are rewarded and incentivised business priorities.
The Companys remuneration policy is aligned with the 20 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS HOW WE CREATE VALUE USING OUR RESOURCES Expertise Technology Key attributes of our equipment are: It has taken over fty years to Technology is an important enabler develop the enormous strength and for our business and we have built a depth of expertise throughout the competitive advantage by designing Safe business.
Our sales, supply chain and our own equipment that is t for Durable and mobile has to be lifted commercial teams are highly trained purpose.
Our specialist in-house and understand the financial, regulatory teams based in Dumbarton, Scotland, andtransported hundreds of times and environmental logistics of operating understand intimately the requirements during its life in challenging markets: our engineers of the environment in which the Ability to work in extreme conditions, and technicians are trained to problem fleet operates and our customers solve in the most difficult situations highly value our equipment reliability.
both temperature and altitude and to keep our equipment operating: We operate equipment for its useful Fuel efficient they are all supported by strong back life: we do not build our equipment to ofce functions.
This gives a powerful incentive to Quiet maintain it well, which gives a longer Reliable lifeand better reliability.
Scale Compliant with environmental and In recent years we have invested in Our scale and global reach, which the underlying technology to deliver allows us to serve customers in safetyregulations within the markets better performance and new capability around 100 countries, means that inwhich we operate in our 1MW generators.
We were we are close to, and aware of, the first company in the world to market opportunities as they arise.
develop and assemble 1MW gas Our scale also provides a capital cost Fleet is at the heart of any rental business: generators in 20 foot containers: and advantage on our equipment and we have developed a process to it is the core of the service we offer and enables us to work closely with OEMs allow us to refurbish our large diesel on technology development.
We are managing it effectively is necessary to generators at the end of their useful able to ensure that fleet is always ensure the long-term sustainability of our life for signicantly less than the cost available and therefore are able to business.
Designing and assembling our of a new generator, whilst at the same respond quickly, whilst having a large time increasing the power output by and globally mobile fleet enables us own fleet gives us a unique competitive 15% and improving fuel efficiency by to run at good levels of utilisation and advantage: 5percent.
We plan to increase our therefore generate strong returns on investment in technology with the Optimise equipment to meet our capital.
Importantly, given the risk of ultimate aim of reducing the overall cost operating in some of our markets, particular operational requirements of power generation for our customers our scale means that we have a Design equipment for reliability and we have strong relationships with diversied portfolio and an inherent many of our suppliers, allowing us to riskmanagement mechanism.
and longevity create products that are optimised for Capital cost advantage through the markets we operate in.
economies of scale and not paying the We currently purchase most of our final assembly margin temperature control equipment externally to suit the needs of React quickly to customer requirements local markets.
with lead times of only a few months Fleet is managed on a real time basis from engine order to the equipment across the world and is transferable being in the fleet across all sectors and applications, which enables us to optimise utilisation and therefore its deployment and returns.
Read more about technology in our business priorities Pages 22 to 23 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 21 Our design and assembly capability 235 20,774 9,818MW Permanent Dumbarton employees Power units available Power in the fleet Purpose-built facility with the ability 2,225MW of power in Rental Solutions Capital cost advantage on new diesel toex volume and gas generators 7,593MW of power in Power Solutions Flexible employee base Refurbished and upgraded diesel for 6,750 units of power that are common c. 75% of original cost per MW 235 permanent staff and 43 contractors to both business units In the fleet within 10-12 weeks of order Design and assembly with 50 years experience Major sub-assembly bought in from key strategic suppliers Engine c. 50% Alternator c. 10% Container c. 15% 80% 237m of cost is major sub-assemblies fleet capex in 2015 Financial The Group has sufficient facilities to meet our funding requirements over the medium term.
At 31 December 2015 these facilities totalled 891 million in the form of private placement notes and Funding Lenders committed bank facilities arranged on a bilateral basis with a number source of international banks with whom we have strong relationships.
These facilities have a range of maturities and are satisfied by the covenants opposite.
The Group does not consider these covenants restrictive and under normal business conditions looks to operate the business with net EBITDA 4x interest Covenants debt EBITDA ratio of around one times.
The Group believes that this is Net debt EBITDA 3x the appropriate level given the characteristics of the Group, including the inherently risky nature of where we operate, in particular in the Power Solutions Utility business.
Performance as at EBITDA to interest: 24x December Net debt EBITDA: 0.9x 2015
