14 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS HOW WE CREATE VALUE OUR BUSINESS MODEL Our business model is strong and unique.
Ourcustomers are the focus of everything thatwe do and investing in our resources enables us to provide solutions that help themto power their future.
Why our customers choose Aggreko Our resources Rental What sets us apart Solutions We operate in developed markets and provide solutions for, and rent our equipment to, customers People & Culture who either operate it themselves or contract us to provide a full turn-key solution: we retain responsibility We have a highly skilled, passionate and professional for servicing and maintaining it.
We provide a multiworkforce of over 7,300 employees worldwide with product offering with power adjacencies, such as astrong can-do and customer focused culture.
temperature control, oil-free air and loadbanks across a diverse sector base.
Contracts tend to be short term Expertise and transactional in nature.
Over 50 years of operational experience and expertise in sector specic and complex projects.
When this is combined with our engineering capability it gives us a unique understanding of our customer needs and the ability to deliver whilst Trading managing risk.
Revenue margin ROCE Scale 61 8m 16% 19% Our scale and global reach allows us to serve customers in around 100 countries today.
We have an Aggreko presence in all of these markets, meaning that we are close to our customers.
Our scale also Our business units are supported by a provides a capital cost advantage, and to have a large fleet available which means we can respond quickly whilst also running at good levels of utilisation.
Finally, Fleet our scale means we have a diversied portfolio and an inherent risk management mechanism.
Power Chillers Technology 9, 818MW 1, 1 26MW We aim to have a fleet that is mobile, modular and standard in design so that it can serve any customer, anywhere in the world.
Our Group Manufacturing and Technology functions work directly with our strategic 889m 51m partners to develop market leading products aimed at 2 2 assets assets reducing the overall cost of power for our customers.
Maintain and service Financial The Group has a strong balance sheet with good financial exibility.
204 Sales and service centres worldwide operating a hub and spoke model Read more about our resources Page 18
