56 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE OUR BOARD Ken Hanna Chris Weston Chairman Chief Executive officer Appointed: Appointed: Non-executive Director in January 2015.
Experience Experience Ken has international experience, bringing financial and leadership expertise to Chris has experience at a senior level in the energy industry, proven leadership Aggreko.
He possesses knowledge of many different business sectors and is an skills in a large international business and has consistently succeeded in driving experienced senior executive and leader, promoting robust debate and a culture performance and growth in his career.
of openness in the Boardroom.
Prior to his appointment as Chief Executive officer in January 2015, Chris was Ken is also currently Chairman of Inchcape Plc and Chairman of Shooting Star Managing Director, International Downstream at Centrica plc, where he was the CHASE Charity.
Until 2009, Ken spent five years as Chief Financial officer of Executive Director responsible for the Groups largest division.
In this role Chris Cadbury Plc.
He has also held positions as Operating Partner for Compass was operationally responsible for both British Gas in the UK and Direct Energy Partners, Group Chief Executive at Dalgety Plc, Group Finance Director of in the USA.
He joined Centrica in 2001 after a successful career in the telecoms United Distillers Plc and Group Finance Director of Avis Europe Plc.
industry, working for both Cable & Wireless and One.
Before that, Chris served in the Royal Artillery.
He has a BSc in Applied Science, as well as an MBA and PhD from Imperial College London.
Carole Cran Russell King Chief Financial officer Senior Independent Director Appointed: Appointed: June 2014.
Non-executive Director in February 2009 and Senior Independent Director in April 2014.
Experience Experience Carole has corporate finance and accounting experience acquired over a Russell brings international experience, acquired across a number of sectors number of years in senior financial roles with considerable exposure to emerging including mining and chemicals, together with strong experience in strategy.
Carole was appointed to the Board as Chief Financial officer on 1 June An experienced Non-executive Director, Russell currently sits on the boards 2014, following her appointment as Interim Chief Financial officer on 24 April of Spectris Plc as Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee 2014.
Having joined Aggreko in 2004, her previous roles include Group Financial Chairman and Interserve plc as Senior Independent Director.
He is Chairman Controller and Director of Finance.
A key member of the senior management of Hummingbird Resources plc and Sepura plc.
He is also a senior adviser to team, Carole has worked to align financial strategies with the strategic direction Heidrick & Struggles and is a member of the Investment Associations Executive of the business.
Carole was also appointed as a Non-executive Director of Remuneration Working Group.
Prior to this, Russell spent eight years at Anglo Halma plc on 1 January 2016.
American Plc, latterly as Chief Strategy officer and spent 20 years in senior roles Prior to joining Aggreko, Carole spent seven years at BAE Systems, in a range at ICI.
of senior financial positions, including four years in Australia.
Carole is also a chartered accountant, having trained at KPMG whilst working in their audit divisions in the UK and Australia.
OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 57 Key to committee membership Audit Ethics Nomination Remuneration Diana Layeld Uwe Krueger Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed: Appointed: May 2012.
Experience Experience Diana brings extensive international experience and detailed understanding of Uwe brings expertise of the engineering, services and renewable energy how to operate successfully across emerging markets, particularly in Africa and sectors.
He is a physicist with a PhD and an honorary professorship from the Asia.
She also brings experience in sales, technology and strategy.
University of Frankfurt and an honorary PhD from Heriot-Watt University.
Most of his career has been spent leading engineering and consulting organisations.
Diana was formerly Chief Executive, Africa Region for Standard Chartered Plc.
Uwe is currently Chief Executive officer of WS Atkins plc.
He also sits on the Previous positions held over 11 years at Standard Chartered include: Chief boards of SUSI Partners AG and Ontex S. A. and lectures at the University of Operating officer for the Wholesale Bank: Group Head of Strategy & Corporate Frankfurt on renewable energy.
Before joining WS Atkins plc, Uwe was Chief Development: and Global Head of Corporate Clients.
Prior to Standard Executive officer of Oerlikon, Senior Advisor at Texas Pacic Group, President Chartered, Diana was Chief Executive officer of Finexia Ltd, a technology rm, of Cleantech Switzerland, and held various senior leadership positions at and spent five years with McKinsey & Co, an international strategy consulting Hochtief AG.
Diana has a BA from the University of Oxford and a Masters degree in International Economics and Public Administration from Harvard University.
Ian Marchant Robert MacLeod Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed: Appointed: November 2013.
Experience Experience Ian brings knowledge of the domestic and international energy markets, along Robert has corporate finance, accounting and industrial experience acquired with a substantial understanding of associated strategic, financial and regulatory over a number of years in senior financial roles across the international issues.
Until his retirement in June 2013, Ian spent 21 years at SSE Plc, most engineering and chemicals sectors: he also has a detailed understanding of recently as Chief Executive, and prior to that as Finance Director.
Ian is an experienced Non-executive Director, currently serving as Chairman Robert was appointed as Chief Executive of Johnson Matthey Plc in June 2014, of John Wood Group Plc and former Chairman of Innis Energy Plc.
He is also having served as Group Finance Director for five years.
Prior to this, Robert Chairman of Maggies Cancer Charity, a Member of the Princes Council of the served five years as Group Finance Director for WS Atkins Plc and one year Duchy of Cornwall and former Chairman of Scotlands 2020 Climate Group.
as Group Financial Controller, having previously worked in a variety of senior financial roles at Enterprise Oil Plc.
Robert is also a chartered accountant, havingtrained at KPMG.
Robert will retire as Non-executive Director with effect from the close of the2016 AGM.
Dame Nicola Brewer Company Secretary Non-executive Director Peter Kennerley Appointed: Appointed: February 2016.
Peter is our Group Legal Director & Company Secretary.
Further details appear on page 58.
Other Directors who served during 2015 Experience Nicola Brewer brings extensive geo-political and diplomatic experience to Debajit Das David Taylor-Smith Aggreko, having worked in many of the developing regions in which we operate, including Latin America, Asia and Africa.
Nicola was a senior diplomat Regional Director APAC until Regional Director EMEA until at the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Ofce FCO and from 2009 to 2013 1 August 2015 and Interim Managing 1 August 2015 was High Commissioner to South Africa, Lesotho and Swaziland.
Her FCO Director, Asia until 15 October 2015 postings also included Mexico and India.
She has served as Director General at the Department for International Development where she supervised all UK Asterios Satrazemis Rebecca McDonald overseas bilateral aid programmes in Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle President, Americas until 1 August Non-executive Director until East and Latin America.
She was also Director General for Europe and on the 2015 and President, Rental Solutions 1 December 2015 Management Board at the FCO.
She is currently the Vice Provost International until 17 December 2015 atUniversity College London.
