66 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY In 2015, the Board, with the support of the Audit A full review of the risk register and resulting RISK MANAGEMENT AND Committee and Group Internal Audit, reviewed principal risks was completed during June and INTERNAL CONTROL and updated our approach to identifying and July 2015 for our half year reporting.
This exercise managing principal risks.
The objective in continued following the announcement of our improving our risk management framework reorganisation to Power Solutions and Rental was to provide the Board, Audit Committee Solutions and was applied again at the year end.
and Executive Committee with a more useful Details of the process the Board has in place to management tool to capture, assess and identify, evaluate and manage significant risks proactively manage the risks we face.
The review faced by the Group can be found in the risk also ensured that we would be able to comply section of the Strategic Report.
This process with the new requirement in the UK Corporate has been in place for the period under review Governance Code for a viability statement, which and up to the date of approval of the Annual requires an interconnected approach, taking Report and Accounts.
In addition, we monitor the account of our business model and strategy, effectiveness of the risk management framework ensuring that they are aligned with our risk and internal control systems on an ongoing appetite, our supporting risk framework and basis.
No significant failings or weaknesses have controls to mitigate risk.
Further detail on the process for financial controls can be found in the Audit Committee Report.
Risk appetite: T he Board As part of the review of our risk management Read about our risk assessment process, risk appetite is responsible for the Groups statement, principal risks and viability statement framework, we developed our approach to risk risk management framework Page 26 appetite in line with the UK Corporate Governance and internal control systems.
By articulating the type and level of risk Read more in our Audit Committee report The Group operates dened Page 70 we are willing to take in order to achieve our internal control systems strategic objectives, we aim to support consistent, across finance, operations and risk-informed decision making across the Group.
compliance, with key controls In order to define our risk appetite, Group identied and assessed across Internal Audit held a number of sessions with the the year.
Whilst predominantly Executive Committee, before presenting a risk conducted by Group Internal appetite statement to the Board for approval in Audit, internal control teams December 2015. operate within the business to monitor and assess the Once approved, our risk appetite was effective operation of these incorporated into the overall risk management controls.
The Board, via the Audit framework and used to monitor business activities Committee, monitors the internal and decision-making.
In future the Board and control systems on an ongoing Executive Committee will monitor compliance with basis.
The process is designed the risk appetite by receiving regular reports on to manage rather than eliminate our risk appetite against agreed metrics.
The risk risk, and can only provide appetite will also be subject to annual review reasonable and not absolute and challenge.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Risk management framework: A number of improvements were also made to the wider risk management framework as part of this review.
They included: formalising the process for compiling the risk register, removing any ambiguity: introducing risk categories to aid the risk identication process: clarifying the notions of gross and net risk to assist in focusing assurance efforts: improved denition of impact scoring: requiring an assessment of key controls for each risk with actions for further risk mitigation captured in the register: and updating the overall format of the risk register to improve usability.
OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 67 GOVERNANCE IN ACTION: FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE REPORTING FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE REPORTING For the 2015 Annual Report, this process included: T he Board Comprehensive management and statutory accounts processes, with recognises its responsibility written conrmations provided by the regional senior management to present a fair, balanced and teams on the health of the financial control environment: understandable assessment of Aggreko in all of our reporting obligations.
This responsibility Detailed reviews of the Annual Report and Accounts undertaken at covers the Annual Report different levels of the Group and by the senior management team that and extends to the interim aim to ensure consistency and overall balance: report and other regulatory announcements.
The Directors A verication process, involving our internal audit team, dealing with the consider this Annual Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, factual content of the Annual Report: balanced and understandable, providing the information A key accounting judgements paper covering contract and tax necessary for Shareholders provisions, along with a summary of any changes in our accounting to assess the Companys policies for 2015: and performance, business model and strategy.
In arriving at this position, the Board asked the Both the Audit Committee and Board received an early draft of the Audit Committee to review Annual Report to enable time for review and comment.
and confirm the process we have in place to support this assessment.
The Audit Committee confirmed that we have a robust approach in place to support the fair, balanced and understandable assessment.
THE DIRECTORS CONSIDER THIS ANNUAL REPORT, TAKEN AS A WHOLE, TO BE FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE.
