Our business model We convert the talents of our people and their customer relationships into a low-risk business.
To succeed we need to deliver excellence to our customers.
Delivering excellence What this means People are our principal asset Our employees are clever people.
Their skills are a scarce Read more on page 14 resource.
Our highly skilled engineers, project managers, consultants and scientists deliver for our customers, creating long-term customer relationships and a strong reputation for excellence.
We are investing in our High-Value Execution Centres HVECs to increase our capability and capacity to take on work cost effectively.
We are customer focused We have a wide range of customers around the world.
Read more on page 15 They include some of the largest international oil companies such as ExxonMobil and BP, chemical companies such as Dow, miners such as Rio Tinto, utility companies such as EDF and government bodies such as US DoD.
Customers rely on our services and solutions We provide high-value services consulting, engineering, Read more on page 16 project and construction management, and supply chain management.
These skills are critical to the successful development and operation of our customers assets right across their lifecycle.
We have a particularly strong reputation for delivering engineering solutions for complex projects.
We have a flexible and lowrisk business model The majority of our contracts reimburse us for our peoples Read more on page 17 time.
We often also get additional payments by achieving pre-agreed performance measures.
Many of these are long-term contracts.
In selected circumstances we take on fixed-price work.
The breadth of our market and customer exposure gives us great growth opportunities, and reduces the impact during lower levels of activity in one market.
Amec Foster Wheeler 12 Annual report and accounts 2015 Our values u We listen, understand and respond u We agree on clear expectations Delivering u We aspire to consistent excellence on promises u We invest in our people Developing u We embrace diversity and inclusion full potential u We connect globally as one team Doing the u We put safety first right thing u We act ethically and with integrity u We care about our communities Managing the challenges How we measure success Our future success relies on attracting, developing and retaining the best people.
We look at the utilisation rate of We need to be flexible, using our people as cost effectively and efficiently as possible.
employees, gender diversity and We maintain the highest standards of safety and ethics.
We are committed to encouraging and providing mechanisms for employees to We measure the engagement of our become shareholders in Amec Foster Wheeler and our SAYE share option schemes people and the development activity Sharesave allow employees to participate in Amec Foster Wheelers share price that has taken place and a number growth.
Sharesave is open to employees in all major countries of operation who of safety measures.
Offers to participate are currently being made Read more on page 14 on a regular basis.
We win business because of our reputation for delivery and the strength of our We track levels of customer satisfaction longterm customer relationships.
and look to improve our wintobid ratio.
Our diversified customer base limits our dependence on any one customer.
Read more on page 15 We are adaptable to ensure we offer our customers the right services when and We track our revenue growth and our where they need them.
We must be able to deliver these services in a costeffective way.
We also look at the mix of services we provide and where they sit in the We work across a range of cyclical markets, which can impact demand for lifecycle of our customers assets.
Read more on page 16 Our reputation for delivery is very important to our continued success.
Our profit margin and cash conversion reflect the quality of project delivery.
We take fixedprice work when we know the customer and the project well.
We also have a range of nonfinancial We have a good track record predicting earnings from each project and contract.
measures, including greenhouse gas emissions and completion of project and peer reviews.
Read more on page 17 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 13 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review
