Our markets We operate in more than 55 countries, focusing on four markets: Oil & Gas X Oil & Gas We do not operate in early cycle exploration or drilling, but we are involved in every part of the project delivery phase across X Clean Energy the oil & gas value chain.
X Mining In the upstream market, the majority of our activity is for X Environment & Infrastructure offshore assets, where we support fixed platforms and floating production units, largely above the waterline.
We are a market leader in UK North Sea brownfield services and provide integrated solutions to new entrant operators We provide similar services in each of our markets.
We win work through strong customer We also support onshore oil & gas fields, booster stations, gathering centres, tank farms, gas-oil separation plants relationships and our proven ability to deliver and pipelines.
Oil & Gas revenue 48 Many of our services are transferable % across markets.
Upstream Midstream Downstream We have benefited from our ability to operate across many markets focusing our efforts on retaining a diverse, adaptable and scalable business model.
We have also shifted resources between markets for instance 48 offsetting the weakness in upstream with significant growth in 4 downstream oil & gas.
Recent advances in the extraction of gas reserves in onshore In the UK we have transferred some senior project management locations around the world have made gas monetisation one staff from the oil & gas market into nuclear allowing us to of the fastest growing sectors in the global oil & gas industry, expand our role on a nine-year contract with EDF.
where we hope to build on our extensive experience.
In the US we have created a combined project delivery team In the downstream market we work on new-builds and major which can work across the oil and gas and clean energy expansions and revamps, including clean fuels projects to markets to ensure we execute to the highest standards possible meet new legislation and residue upgrading to produce every time.
Business review We have more than 60 years of experience in the chemicals In November 2015 we announced a review of our market industry, encompassing plants producing olefins, aromatics, positions.
Our aim is to identify a path to improved performance, fertilizers and a wide range of specialty and fine chemicals.
or to sell businesses if this is not likely.
We are making good progress on this plan, and expect to update shareholders later In the downstream petrochemical markets, we provide a full in 2016. service EPC offering.
Competitive environment There is no one competitor operating in all the same markets, with the same geographic footprint and with a similar approach to risk as Amec Foster Wheeler.
2015 revenue by end market 12 % Oil & Gas 27 Mining Clean Energy Environment & Infrastructure 7 54 Amec Foster Wheeler 24 Annual report and accounts 2015 Clean Energy Environment & Infrastructure E&I The environmental consulting and engineering market includes In renewables, our focus is on delivering projects for our customers, most of which are local utilities.
We provide a full services provided to all four of our markets, with skills that are easily transferable across customers.
service EPC solution on wind, solar, biomass and biofuels projects.
This is mostly in North America, however we also plan By positioning ourselves as a trusted partner right at the to expand our positions in the Middle East.
beginning of a project often the early site development and Over the past three years we have seen strong growth in the permitting stage we can deliver comprehensive solutions US for solar power, spurred on by subsidies which have recently across the lifecycle of our customers assets.
been extended to at least 2019.
We are currently operating predominantly in the US, Canada Our nuclear capability has been developed over 60 years, and the UK, with an emerging presence in the Middle East, Africa and Australasia.
positioning us to support the full lifecycle of nuclear energy, from new-build and reactor support including lifetime extension Our E&I market alone consists of four sectors: to nuclear decommissioning and waste management.
We have experience of a wide range of nuclear technology.
Water Our primary areas of focus are water resource management, Our nuclear customers include major utilities, governments, water policy, coastal management, asset planning and national regulators, reactor suppliers and other significant management, and wastewater collection and treatment.
We have a particularly strong presence in the UK and Canada, a growing business in the US, a good presence Water services are also commonly provided to customers in Central and Eastern Europe and South Africa, and nascent in our other markets, including mining and oil & gas.
Transportation Infrastructure We also have a long-standing relationship in the UK and We provide programme management, planning and design, a growing presence in Canada with the transmission and project and construction management, asset development distribution system owners.
Our customers include government transportation agencies, national and local We offer a full range of steam generator equipment, clean customers and private developers in Canada and the US.
air technologies, aftermarket products and services to the We have over 50 years experience in the sector.
power, industrial, and waste-to-energy sectors.
In addition to engineering and procurement, we offer fabrication facilities Government located in Europe and Asia to deliver our products.
We provide a broad range of services to various clients, including the US Federal Government, which is the largest Our experience comes from designing, servicing and improving procurer of environmental services in the world.
Customers fossil generating plants that come from over 200 million hours also include various branches of the military and state of successfully and reliably logged operation.
Services range from remediation programmes to design and delivery of infrastructure facilities, including airfield facilities, housing and site improvements at installations globally.
Mining Industrial Pharmaceutical We support our customers projects in a diverse range of We provide compliance and due diligence services, ranging commodities, including potash, iron ore, copper and gold.
from geotechnical and environmental to materials and water We offer mining consultancy including ore resource estimation, resources consulting.
mine planning and feasibility studies, design, project and construction management services and have whole-life service capabilities.
We are a leading international consultancy, with a leading position in the North and South American EPCM markets.
In addition to our established position in Australia, we are growing our African business.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 25 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review Floridas springs and rivers have tremendous ecological value.
Our work with the St Johns River Water Management District to investigate and evaluate the health of 14 different spring systems in North and Central Florida, supports the shaping of a safe, sustainable future for the area.
The scientific diving taking place on the project requires high levels of skill, focus and determination.
Ensuring we have the right people in place to take on complex projects like these, is key to the success of our business.
Our evaluation of the eco system will help create data driven solutions to protect the Florida Springs, through collecting aquatic flora and fauna and measuring water velocity.
26 Connected through excellence through talented customer people insight 27 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review
