Global market trends Changing hydrocarbon production mix A change from todays production mix is still expected, with With nearly $400bn of projects in the oil & gas crude oil falling and a greater share being taken by natural gas industry cancelled in the past 12 months, we are liquids and unconventional sources.
facing an unprecedented upheaval in our In recent years the rapid increase in tight oil production largest market.
mainly from the oil sands in Canada and shale oil in the US together with huge investments in liquefied natural gas projects The fundamentals for energy consumption has changed the nature of the energy market, and created and infrastructure investment remain positive regional trade imbalances.
In 2005 the US imported more than 12 million barrels of oil per day, and it is now forecast to be self-sufficient during the 2030s.
In the short term we will need to continue Over the same period, China is expected to import more than 13 million barrels per day, and to become the largest importer.
to adapt to customers needs.
Changing energy mix Our asset-light business model and mix of end Concerns around resource depletion, dangerous emissions, markets and services has provided us with some stricter regulation and consumer preference are driving renewable forms of energy, including nuclear, to increase their protection from commodity market volatility.
share of total energy production.
Amongst fossil fuels, gas is expected to grow its share, with oil and coal reducing.
Shortterm challenges At the time of writing, in early 2016, the oil price has fallen to Energy mix 1 7 $40, and has recently been below $30.
At this price research % 4 shows that more than 10% of current production cannot cover 3 Oil & Gas 28 its operating costs.
Coal Renewable We have also seen hundreds of new projects cancelled or Nuclear deferred as our clients cut costs and capital commitments.
Hydro Other Despite this, the global oil market remains over-supplied and stocks have continued to grow.
57 Source: BP energy outlook 2016 summary tables This situation looks set to continue for a while yet with forecasts for the market to re-balance in 2017 at the earliest.
The nuclear industry remains a fragmented market with During 2016 we also expect to see Iran begin exporting more a consequence that our opportunities vary significantly.
oil as international sanctions are lifted.
Estimates vary from We expect to see new build in the UK, Eastern Europe and in 250,000 to 500,000 extra barrels of oil entering the market some countries in Asia: reactor life extensions in the UK, Europe during the first few months.
While this may increase the and North America: and decommissioning work in the UK, over-supply of oil in the short term, the opening up of Iran Europe and North America.
Overall, the IEA forecasts nuclear is also an opportunity for us.
In September 2015 we joined a will be used to generate around 12% of electricity in 2035, British government delegation in Tehran to meet with potential slightly above todays level.
Emissions controls and the need for greater efficiency are also driving change.
Today, many renewable technologies benefit Oil price 111.11 110.80 from local and regional subsidies, which is currently supporting 107.38 At year end their growth.
$ per barrel World leaders gathered in Paris at the end of 2015 to agree on a pact to cut carbon emissions.
We remain well placed to 57.33 benefit from these developments with our increased exposure to gas and LNG since the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, and 36.61 our long-standing market positions in renewable and nuclear energy markets.
Source: Factset, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Brent USD barrel Strong resource fundamentals remain More than 1.5bn people in emerging markets are expected to Longterm outlook become urbanised in the period to 2035, a key underlying driver Despite the current weakness, long-term forecasts for global of long-term growth for the mining industry.
energy demand and supply have not changed significantly over the past year.
The International Energy Agency IEA World However, lower commodity prices and general economic Energy Outlook 2015 predicts a 37% increase by 2040. uncertainty have caused the postponement or cancellation of some projects in the near term.
Long-term oil demand is expected to increase more than 20% from just over 90 to 110 million barrels of oil per day by 2035.
In addition, a number of major mining companies have announced delays to projects and cost reduction programmes.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 23 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review
