Delivering excellence Diversity and inclusion People are our principal asset The business case is clear.
An organisation that enjoys diversity enjoys a richness of ideas that leads to better solutions for the customer.
Gender is just one part of this.
Of our directly employed workforce, 23% or 8,247 people is made up of women and 77% or 27,610 is made up of men: of our executive grade employees, 10% 41 are women and 90% 369 are men: of our Group Leadership Team one person 10% is a woman and nine people 90% are men: and of our board 25% two people are women and 75% six people are men.
Age, gender and ethnicity are all important and assessed, Our success depends upon our people delivering but diversity of thought, for instance, cannot be measured projects successfully for our customers.
Our approach is to survey our employees, to ask how they feel and feed the findings into the Group To foster the right culture in which our people can Leadership Team.
succeed, our values see page 13 are entrenched We are committed to providing a safe and secure workplace, throughout our business.
where people are free from harassment and where diversity and inclusion are the norm, with equal opportunities for progression and development for all.
We perpetuate the very highest standards of safety, mutual respect and ethical behaviour that we can and this, combined Our Code of Business Conduct highlights our commitment with caring for the environment in which we operate, underpins to human rights and we respect those of any individual, or our approach to being a sustainable people business read community, with whom we are involved and we support the more about our commitment to sustainability on page 22 and elimination of child labour.
on our dedicated sustainability microsite on amecfw.
Participation Operating model We are committed to encouraging and providing mechanisms On 1 January 2015, we introduced our new operating model.
for employees to become shareholders in Amec Foster Wheeler and our savings-related share option schemes Sharesave Key principles include global standards for execution of allow employees to participate in Amec Foster Wheeler projects, creating centres of excellence and multi-office delivery.
Sharesave is open to all employees in all Investing in talent major countries of operation who meet a minimum service We have developed both technical and leadership training qualification.
Offers to participate are currently being made to ensure we maintain a pipeline of skilled talent to meet on a regular basis.
Priorities for 2016 Group-wide training is led by the Academy, our in-house As usual, the most important priority remains that our people development programme.
are safe at work and that we continue to attract, develop and retain skilled employees.
Adapting to dynamic markets Delivering a project for our customers requires us to put Split of employees 6 together teams of people to match the needs of the project 21 % and the customer.
Americas NECIS During 2015 we recruited approximately 12,000 people, the vast AMEASE majority into project teams.
Of these new hires, more than 90% Global Power Group were recruited directly.
We have also seen a similar number of 32 people leave as projects finish, or their roles change.
Together this means that our utilisation rates remain very high.
41 Amec Foster Wheeler 14 Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic customer management We are customer focused Developing long-term and worldwide relationships with key customers is a priority.
With additional service offerings and new customers across a broader geographic footprint, there are much greater opportunities to cross-sell and a strategic approach to managing our customer relationships is no longer a nice-to-have it is a necessity.
We now have three tiers of customer relationship: global, regional and local.
Global accounts are managed centrally by the business development team.
We expect to expand this over the coming years.
We have a wide range of customers and work By utilising strategic account management and global for some of the worlds largest corporations and accounts, we are upping our game to expand and deepen government bodies, designing and maintaining our relationships with our most significant customers.
Our customers expect us to deliver Our goal is to get closer to our customers and be their trusted excellence every day.
We are very proud of the partner.
Regional and local account management will remain an important component.
high proportion of repeat business we generate.
Achievements in 2015 Despite the challenging conditions in our end markets, Our customers include some of the largest international oil we are pleased that the customer satisfaction scores have companies such as ExxonMobil and BP, chemical companies remained high.
such as Dow, miners such as Rio Tinto, utility companies such as EDF, and government bodies, such as the US Department During 2015, work has continued on a number of significant of Defense.
projects for customers such as BP, ExxonMobil, K S, Sempra, EDF and Honeywell.
Our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 31% of revenue.
We have also begun new projects for customers such as: X Maersk Oil in the UK North Sea where our cost-effective Diversified customer base 59 approach More4Less was key in winning a new contract % Top 10 X Yuhuang Chemicals in Louisiana where we are utilising 11-20 the breadth of our US-based engineering and construction Others capabilities, combined with a strong relationship with Air Liquide to win a major contract to build a new methanol plant 31 X Petra Diamonds in South Africa where we have begun work 10 at the Cullinan diamond mine mill extension X UK Power Networks where we have begun a 12-year partnership to upgrade electricity infrastructure in the UK Priorities for 2016 The development of long-term and worldwide customer relationships will continue to be our key priority.
Integrating the former AMEC and Foster Wheeler relationships will provide us with significant new opportunities, particularly in the midand downstream oil & gas market.
For example, we can offer enhanced project delivery to our combined upstream and downstream customers across new-build and brownfield projects.
We are now offering environmental services to former Foster Wheeler customers for the first time too.
We are also planning to expand the geographic reach of our services, for instance by offering brownfield services in new countries.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 15 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review Delivering excellence continued Project delivery team Customers rely on our services Our operating model has an enhanced project delivery function with responsibility for ensuring the identification and solutions and management of project risks, driving the use of common systems and tools, supporting the development and mobilisation of our teams and ultimately helping us to deliver excellence on all our projects.
Achievements in 2015 Contract wins announced in 2015 include: X Algeria: Consultancy project to fide-bottleneck Hassi RMei gas field Sonatrach In each market or sector, the range of services X Belgium: Detailed engineering for Zeebrugge LNG terminal expansion Felguera provided to our customers is similar.
X Canada: Remediation work at Port Granby long-term waste We are experts in designing, delivering and management facility Canadian Nuclear Laboratories maintaining strategic and complex assets, X China: Three-year project management contract at a offering total life of asset support from feasibility coal-chemical complex Shenhua Ningxia Coal planning right through to decommissioning.
X Guam: Design and construction of specialist facilities U. S. Air Force Our diversified service offering partially offsets the cyclical X Malaysia: Consultancy services to a new refinery and nature of our customers capital expenditure plans, and reduces pet-chem complex in Kedah SKS our dependence on any one part of the energy mix.
X Oman: Three-year technical services contract for refinery and polypropylene facilities Orpic Core services 2 45 % X Philippines: Design and supply two 150MW CFB boilers Project delivery in Cebu Hyundai Professional services Other X Poland: Design, supply, construction and commissioning of 220MW CFB boiler in Zabrze Fortum Zabrze X Turkey: Initial phase reimbursable EPC for the pler Gold Mine Anagold Madencilik X UAE: Three-year extension to project management 53 consultancy PMC services contract on Upper Zakum project Zadco Core services Our core services include: engineering, project management, X UK: Five-year integrated services contract in the UK North Sea construction and construction management, hook-up Maersk and commissioning, decommissioning, and related X UK: Three-year contract to supply regulatory, technical and consultancy work.
training services to MoD nuclear safety authority UK MoD We have a reputation for delivering engineering solutions for X USA: Engineering and logistics support worldwide AFCAP IV complex projects and operating in remote and harsh locations.
U. S. Air Force Our clean energy offering also includes Circulating X USA: Early stage EPC for new methanol plant in Louisiana Fluidised Bed CFB and heat recovery steam generators, Yuhuang Chemicals condensers and emission control equipment for improved environmental performance.
X Vietnam: Front-end engineering design FEED for Dun Quat refinery upgrade Vietnam National Oil and Gas Group Working through the lifecycle We provide high-value services across the lifecycle of our Priorities in 2016 customers assets and the range of services we are able to Our main priority is to continue to adapt our services so that provide is similar in each of our four markets.
customers choose us to deliver and maintain their projects safely and cost effectively.
Many of our services are provided through long-term contracts, giving us the opportunity to provide critical services in partnership with our customers.
For instance, we have been supporting the current fleet of UK nuclear reactors for more than 50 years.
Some of these contracts have been renewed several times.
Amec Foster Wheeler 16 Annual report and accounts 2015 Revenue by contract style We have a flexible and low-risk 29 1 % business model Reimbursable Fixed price Other 70 Flexibility The Global Power Group has a different business model to our We have a flexible and low-risk business engineering and project management business.
model: the majority of our contracts are on In addition to engineering and project delivery, it includes a cost-plus basis.
fabrication in its typical scope of activities.
When we agree fixed-price work we take the time Enhanced risk management This plays a vital role in ensuring that we win projects with the to get to know the customer and the project first.
greatest possible opportunity for success: maximising the value we get for our resources and addressing risks that are part of By using common systems we can deliver work contracting in our industry.
consistently and share work across offices and We use a detailed workflow system which addresses the risks time zones.
associated with tenders for both lump sum and reimbursable contracts in areas such as technical challenges, financial We are also able to adapt the type of work we and pricing terms, joint venture partner risks: as well as a full do as our customers plans change offering range of governance issues, such as human rights, safety and a mix of engineering, project management and environmental risks.
Achievements in 2015 Our order book finished 2015 at 6.6bn and we have As a result, our business is more flexible and successfully adapted to lower levels of upstream oil & gas work by increasing our exposure to downstream and clean sustainable, and our financial performance less energy projects.
In April we announced the completion of Copper Mountain solar 3 project in Nevada, where we provided EPC services In the majority of our contracts, our customers reimburse us for one of the largest photovoltaic PV solar plants in the US, for our peoples time and any materials we consume.
We often ahead of schedule and under budget.
arrange to get additional payments if we achieve pre-agreed performance measures.
In December we entered into a joint venture with Khan Offshore to deliver commissioning services for facilities as they are being In selected circumstances we take on fixed-price work.
constructed in South Korean yards creating an opportunity Typically, we will do this where we know the customer and to expand the addressable market for commissioning services the project well.
which has been growing well since we acquired Qedi in 2011.
Where this is not possible, we may look to partner with others Priorities for 2016 to gain access to projects which would otherwise be unavailable Despite some tough market conditions, we want to win to us.
new contracts which will maintain our low-risk and flexible Each year we do work on numerous contracts some of which business model.
are multi-year, this, together with the breadth of our market We will continue to increase collaboration across the Group and customer exposure, reduces the impact of lower levels between teams from different sectors and countries, as well as of activity in any one area of our business.
substantially increasing the share of work carried out through multi-office delivery.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 17 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review
