STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE DEVELOP CORE BUSINESS PROCESSES At Anglo American, our core business processes refer to the fundamentals of our work throughout our value chain.
With innovation and outstanding delivery at the forefront of how we deliver change, the business processes we are implementing are vital to the success of our core activities and achieving best practice across the Group.
DRIVING CHANGE DEFINING OUR FUTURE AVOIDED ENERGY COSTS IN 2015 DRIVEN BY ECO MAN MULTI-HORIZON INITIATIVES TO COME OUT OF 2 AND BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS OUR OPEN FORUM EVENTS Focused on finding safer, more efficient, environmentally friendly and sustainable ways to unlock mineral value.
$100 million UNDERLYING EBIT IMPROVEMENT SINCE 2013 FROM 9 MARKETING ACTIVITIES OUR IMMEDIATE FOCUS IS ON SECURING ADEQUATE $400 million SUPPLIES OF ENERGY AND WATER AND USING THOSE RESOURCES MORE EFFICIENTLY 78% OF LOS BRONCES WATER REQUIREMENTS In the long term, however, we must find viable alternatives for MET BY RE-USED RECYCLED WATER IN THE YEAR traditional sources of energy and reduce our reliance on new water to near zero.
78% UNLOCKING VALUE FROM MINOR PGMS By focusing on understanding the needs of customers and leveraging Anglo Americans industry-leading position, our Marketing business unlocked additional value across our range of PGMs in 2015.
As the worlds largest primary producer of ruthenium, iridium and osmium by-products from the mining and refining of platinum, and palladium we developed customer relationships covering a wide range of products in the chemicals, electrical, catalyst and specialist alloy sectors, in order to deliver greater commercial value from these minor PGMs.
Products developed in these fields are often new and at the forefront of innovation.
By fully understanding the requirements of our customers, we are able to unlock full commercial value to market.
Revised packaging, stockholding in strategic locations, local sales offices and adapted payment terms were just some of the many steps we took to meet customer needs.
Customer mapping, market intelligence, ongoing dialogue with end-users and tailored solutions have all contributed to making these metals a steady and reliable source of income.
With PGMs forming part of our core portfolio, we will continue to focus on market development, including direct funding of research and or co-investment in start-ups, thus enabling the sustainable Laboratory processor Tshegofatso Morake tests samples at Platinums Precious Metals Refinery in Rustenburg, South Africa.
use of minor PGMs in existing and new applications.
24 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report We are starting to see tangible benefits from the MARKETING PRODUCTS FOR FULL VALUE roll-out of our Operating Model across our core assets: Our Marketing business Marketing, created in 2014, a more stable and predictable operating performance continues to make solid progress through marketing is leading to improved productivity and costs, fewer activities designed to create maximum value across the environmental incidents and a fuller understanding of entire value chain from mine to customer.
Working together with all our stakeholders, we will begin to deliver on the full Marketing is now well established and, through our potential of our portfolio and enhance the sustainable dedicated sales and marketing hubs in Singapore and value we can create for our host communities.
London, we have continued to improve customer focus and build on our strong relationships across the portfolio, including: PGMs: copper: iron ore: metallurgical and thermal DRIVING TOWARDS OPERATING EXCELLENCE coal: nickel and niobium.
Our collaborative work across Our technical and operational base is now firmly established, the commodities helps create a more co-ordinated building on the principles of the Operating Model, which customer approach, reinforces our customer and supplier delivered $1.3 billion of cost and productivity improvements relationships, and deepens our knowledge in order to realise in 2015, and a 27% improvement in indexed unit costs in additional profit from the sale of our own equity volumes, our US dollar terms since 2012.
This foundation of clearly trading activities and our third party supply of products.
understanding the main value drivers and achieving Good progress has been made against each of the operating excellence across our asset base will continue to principal levers identified to generate additional profit accelerate the delivery of additional benefits as we strive for the Group.
With increasing market challenges, we towards operating our assets to their full potential.
are broadening our focus: A primary focus has been to recognise the main drivers Marketing excellence: building on the basics.
of value across our business, from the ore body through to market.
Through a clearer understanding of the potential Value chain optimisation: creating an efficient flow from of our ore bodies and the application of innovative mining mine to market so that customers get the right products, methods and technologies, combined with the development at the right time, and leveraging shipping services.
of processing flowsheets optimised to specific ore bodies, Trading and third party supply: buying and trading third we are positioning ourselves to realise even greater value party material to complement the physical portfolio.
Next generation: new ideas delivering value in the Los Bronces, as a Tier 1 copper asset, has been the focus longer term.
of many of the improvement efforts.
Developing a better understanding of the Los Bronces ore body characteristics These levers will remain relevant as Anglo American and modifying our operating practices have led to moves to a more focused, core portfolio.
All marketing improvements in copper and molybdenum recoveries.
activities are executed in an increasingly sophisticated This approach will unlock additional metal production at risk management environment.
Ensuring the risk factors lower cost while minimising capital investment, thereby which impact Marketing, including price, credit, operational, enhancing the operations sustainability.
In addition, and regulatory risks, are transparent and comprehensively developments in the field of grade engineering may managed is a key priority, thereby maximising value for materially improve the grade of ore feedstock through the Group.
integrating our understanding of the ore body with the Marketing has already improved underlying EBIT by optimal configuration of mining and processing practices, more than $400 million since 2013, most of it through potentially leading to increased metal production.
A large proportion of this additional During 2015, FutureSmart, Anglo Americans approach value is currently being generated through the marketing to innovation, successfully completed three Open Forums, excellence activities, while other levers are also becoming one each on Sustainability, Processing and Mining.
outcomes, developed in collaboration with 90 external We continue to increase direct sales to end customers, partners, yielded in excess of 3,000 ideas for step-changes rather than through sales agents, across the majority of in business transformation.
These have been distilled into commodities.
The value of sales made to intermediaries, a programme of nine multi-horizon initiatives that seek to rather than end users, reduced from c. 60% in 2012, to address our critical challenges, and to find safer, more less than 10% in 2015.
Some specific examples include efficient, environmentally friendly and sustainable ways increased minor PGM sales made possible by sales channel to unlock mineral value.
development and increased direct copper metallic sales into China through the development of direct relationships and establishment of local support.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 25 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE DEVELOP CORE BUSINESS PROCESSES continued A number of value chain optimisation activities in the year During 2015, Anglo American recorded six Level 3 medium created additional earnings, including the expansion of our impact environmental incidents.
These incidents had no shipping portfolio with linked freight trades that realised material financial impact on the business and resulted in no cost advantages and benefits relative to stand-alone lasting harm to the environment.
No Level 4-5 high impact routes.
With this additional capacity, we have expanded incidents were reported.
Water management We have made significant progress in our approach to Water is of increasing significance to our business, given planning through our Integrated Sales and Operations that 75% of our operations are located in countries with Planning work.
This work ensures we maximise value high levels of water risk.
The water related challenges faced from the ore bodies we mine, and smoothly manages all by our sites typically fall into three categories: water security: activities from mine to customer in a collaborative and managing highly variable rainfall: and mitigating the impact transparent way.
of mining activities on water quality and the rights of other users.
Our improved approach to planning and co-ordination across the mining value chain has also helped the Group For the third consecutive year, we exceeded our 2020 water to continue to increase its logistics capacities.
savings target of 14%: by the end of 2015 we had achieved an estimated 16% water saving against our projected water Good progress has been made with thermal coal trading.
Water saving projects, which include more effective A new activity launched in 2014, thermal coal trading is dust suppression, dewatering of tailings and more efficient now fully established and delivering against expectations.
3 ore separation, saved the Group approximately 25 million m The trading capability in thermal coal has put a strong 3 of water 2014: 36 million m. Anglo Americans total new foundation in place, which we are now using to progress 3 water consumption increased from 196 million m in 2014 to further initiatives across the other commodities, particularly 3 222 million m in 2015, largely owing to ramp-up activities as we move towards midto late-cycle exposure.
Production at Los Bronces copper mine in Chile was MANAGING OUR IMPACTS ON COMMUNITIES constrained by water supply challenges in 2015.
The AND THE ENVIRONMENT operation has continued to implement technical solutions As a mining company, our aim is to have a net positive lasting to prevent further impact on business, with water impact on our host communities.
However, in helping to transported via a 56 kilometre pipeline from the Las Trtolas uplift such communities, typically through the provision tailings dam to Los Bronces.
LosBronces is currently of jobs and infrastructure, we acknowledge that the recycling 78% of available water.
At a Group level, 64% exploration, extraction and processing of ore reserves of our water requirements during the year were met by can result in the disturbance of land and the generation recycling re-using water 2014: 68%.
of mineral residue, as well as atmospheric and water emissions.
Social impacts typically associated with mining may include population influx and demographic change, Total water consumed against business as usual land acquisition and resettlement, competition 20112015 for natural resources, effects on community health and 3 Million m potential human rights infringements in our supply chain.
250 We have a responsibility to manage our social and environmental impacts in line with legal requirements, and 200 in such a way that, on balance, host communities can benefit from mining.
Responsible environmental management 150 and sound community relations can influence our access to land and capital, improve resource security, and reduce operational costs and closure liabilities.
100 Anglo Americans environmental and social risks and 50 activities are managed in line with our mandatory Environment Way and Social Way performance 0 requirements, and are increasingly integrated into the roll-out of the Operating Model.
The principal environmental 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 and social risks facing our business are associated with Water consumed in ongoing business 1 human rights, socio-economic development, water quality Water consumed by acquisitions, projects and corporate functions Water consumed by divested businesses and security, energy security, climate change and mine Water savings closure.
We report extensively on our approach and 1 Recent acquisitions, projects and corporate functions have not been included performance related to these and other material in the energy, GHG and water reduction target setting process.
sustainability issues in our Sustainability Report.
For more information, visit www.
com  26 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Energy security Total energy consumed against business as usual Our core mining, refining, and transport activities are 20112015 dependent on adequate and reliable sources of energy.
Million GJ Insecurity of supply has the potential to compromise our 140 production goals as well as the safety of our employees.
Reducing energy consumption saves the business money, 120 helps improve energy security and mitigates our 100 contribution to climate change.
The Groups total energy consumption was 106 million GJ 80 2014: 108 million GJ.
The significant increase in energy 60 consumption at Minas-Rio, owing to ramp-up activities, was offset by energy savings at the Coal business in South Africa 40 and Australia, Kumba Iron Ore and Nickel.
Progress on 20 operational energy and carbon performance is driven through our energyand carbon-management programme, 0 ECO MAN.
By year end, a total of 325 ECO MAN and 2 2 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 business improvement projects accounted for energy Energy consumed in ongoing business savings of 5.8 million GJ, representing a 7% reduction 1 Energy consumed by acquisitions, projects and corporate functions against the 2015 figure and c. $100 million in avoided Energy consumed by divested businesses energy costs.
New energy reduction targets have been Energy savings 1 set for all operations.
Recent acquisitions, projects and corporate functions have not been included in the energy, GHG and water reduction target setting process.
In South Africa, our operations remain vulnerable to power outages owing to shortages at peak electricity demand times.
In consequence, all South African business units Total GHG emissions against business as usual have emergency preparedness plans in place, including 20112015 specific protocols to minimise the impact of load curtailment Million tonnes CO e 2 on production by allocating power rationing to sites, 25 equipment and processes with catch-up capacity.
We are also discussing with the government incentives for 20 co-generation and base-load independent power projects.
Electricity supply in Brazil is highly reliant on hydropower, 15 and the recent drought there raised concerns over power insecurity.
These were mitigated by the increased use of 10 thermal power generation and higher levels of rainfall experienced towards the end of the year.
5 Climate change We recognise our responsibility to play a positive role in 0 the global transition to a low-carbon future and to protect 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 our employees, assets and host communities against GHGs emitted in ongoing business the potential physical impacts of climate change.
1 GHGs emitted by acquisitions, projects and corporate functions We expect that climate change will affect our business in GHGs emitted by divested businesses GHG savings three principal ways: climate regulation and taxation will 1 Recent acquisitions, projects and corporate functions have not been included have a financial effect on our business: demand for PGMs in the energy, GHG and water reduction target setting process.
and copper in low-carbon technologies will increase: and the physical and social impacts of a changing climate may affect our operations and host communities.
The new focus of Anglo Americans portfolio presents In 2015, Anglo American operations were responsible significant opportunities associated with climate change.
for 18 million tonnes of COequivalent emissions 2 Copper and PGMs are critical products in facilitating Mt CO e 2014: 17 Mt CO e. This increase was due to 2 2 alternative energy technologies.
Demand for copper is the ramp-up at the Minas-Rio and Grosvenor projects in expected to increase given its use in several low-carbon Brazil and Australia, respectively, as well as an upwards technology applications such as hybrid and electric revision of the global warming potential of methane by the vehicles which typically contain two to three times more Australian government.
Through ECO MAN, we were able 2 copper than conventional vehicles.
A key development to reduce our greenhouse gas GHG emissions by 22% in area for platinum is the use of fuel cells to provide power, relation to 2015s consumption.
This amounts to 4.6 million both in stationary applications such as residential power, tonnes of avoided CO e. During 2015, new carbon- 2 and in mobile applications such as power trains for vehicles.
reduction targets were set for each operation.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 27 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE DEVELOP CORE BUSINESS PROCESSES continued An important focus of our climate change programme Managing uncertainty involves understanding the likely impacts of physical The commodity market downturn, combined with the and regulatory changes associated with climate change effects of local currency depreciation, the decision to put in the future.
Carbon pricing scenarios are factored into some mines onto care and maintenance, consequent job project investment decisions and climate change risk losses and the decline in royalty and tax revenues, have all and adaptation assessments have been conducted at added pressure on governments in resource-dependent vulnerable operations.
countries which are now struggling to meet social expectations.
There have also been corruption scandals We welcome the important forward commitments in some of our host countries that have affected wider made at Paris COP21.
On the ground, we will continue to levels of trust in business and government.
This has helped engage around proposals for tighter legislation or to help create a climate of regulatory uncertainty and a lack of clear clarify where there is policy uncertainty.
We have a clear political leadership and direction.
position on climate change and on coal in our business, for engagement with stakeholders.
It is available for download Governments want to tighten regulation and drive more on angloamerican.
com benefit from their mining sector, while at the same time recognising the need not to deter the incentive to invest and operate at a time when economic conditions are so difficult.
SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Policy implications may encompass labour relations, Our Social Way defines Anglo Americans governing environmental performance, health and safety, tax reform, framework for social performance.
It provides clear corporate governance, local procurement, beneficiation, requirements for all Anglo American-managed sites to: and indigenisation, as well as the wider delivery of social ensure that policies and systems are in place to engage objectives, such as the provision of housing and roads.
with affected communities: avoid, prevent and mitigate In response, Anglo American strives to develop and adverse social impacts: and maximise development maintain constructive relationships with government and opportunities.
During 2015, we rolled out a revised Social regulatory officials, both at the individual company and Way, which has been updated to reflect evolving stakeholder operational level, as well as more broadly through national expectations and international best practice.
Each site is and international industry sector bodies.
More in-depth reviews of priority issues mechanisms are in place to track regulatory developments, are undertaken as a part of the operational risk assurance promote understanding of regulatory requirements across process.
The self-assessment results for 2014 provided a affected areas of the business, and drive full compliance baseline for performance against the revised Social Way.
The 2015 results reflect a steady improvement across almost all the requirements and the percentage of serious Mine closure non-compliances has decreased from 8% to 1%.
Each Our approach to ensuring responsible mine closure site is implementing an improvement plan where it has emphasises the importance of designing, planning and not met Anglo American standards or its own stated operating a mine with closure in mind, and planning for performance targets.
post-closure long term sustainability in consultation with communities and other stakeholders.
In doing so, we aim to Social instability and industrial unrest remain a particular reduce long term risks and liabilities to our business from an challenge and priority in South Africa.
To address this, we environmental and socio-economic perspective, and to continue to seek to engage and work collaboratively with ensure that we leave a positive legacy when our mines employees, unions and the South African government, conclude their operational lives.
andalso with communities around our mines.
Our Mine Closure Toolbox provides a structured approach Working with stakeholders to closure planning and management.
It is aimed at ensuring 2015 was a particularly difficult year for the global mining that the full spectrum of opportunities, risks and liabilities is industry, characterised by plunging commodity prices, effectively identified, that plans are fully costed, and that volatile markets and political instability.
This challenging provision is made for the planned operational life of the mine business context underlines the importance of building or premature closure.
The Toolbox is available publicly as a trusted relationships across stakeholder groups.
The leading-practice resource for other companies to access.
uncertain operating environment also has important It is used throughout our managed operations and also at implications for mining companies socio-political licence some operations managed by our joint venture partners.
to operate, and is placing renewed pressure on companies Within the Group, the Toolbox is designed to be used in to find approaches that balance short term shareholder conjunction with our Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox expectations with societys longer term needs.
SEAT in order to support an integrated approach to mine-closure planning.
28 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Partners in the future Global expenditure by type Mining companies across the world are facing greater demands and expectations from increasingly vocal $000 % stakeholder groups, with often competing interests.
Community 50,636 41 development Compounding these demands are the lower levels of Education and training 22,349 18 trust that many stakeholders have of the business world.
Other 15,318 12 Anglo Americans ambition is to become partners in the Health and welfare 13,560 11 future.
In so doing, we seek to maximise the benefits of Sports, art, culture 6,668 5 mining and mitigate net negative consequences, particularly and heritage as they relate to host communities.
Institutional 5,405 4 With most of our operations in the developing world, our capacity development commitments to host governments and communities Water and sanitation 4,657 4 extend far more widely than creating direct jobs and Environment 2,523 2 paying taxes.
We seek to ensure that the benefits we Disaster and 1,942 2 generate flow more directly to communities around our emergency relief operations and that we respond effectively to increasing Energy and 902 1 stakeholder expectations.
climate change Employee 188 Over the past two years, we have been implementing a matched giving new approach to socio-economic development delivery.
and fundraising The first element involves supporting local markets, where Total 124,148 we promote local procurement, enterprise development and workforce development.
These programmes create a strong platform for job creation within and outside the Global expenditure by country mining value chains.
The second element focuses on building local capacity to allow development to be sustained $000 % beyond the mining sector, and after mine closure.
This South Africa 85,845 69 includes, for example, social investment such as education Chile 14,147 11 and health programmes.
Brazil 11,970 10 In 2015, 17% $1.8 billion of supplier expenditure was Peru 4,453 4 with host communities 2014: $1.8 billion, 15%, while our Namibia 3,521 3 enterprise development programmes in Botswana, Brazil, Rest of world 2,371 2 Chile, South Africa and Peru supported 62,661 businesses Australia 943 1 and created sustained 108,423 jobs.
United Kingdom 480 In 2015, Anglo Americans corporate social investment Botswana 418 CSI expenditure in local communities, including by the Total 124,148 AngloAmerican Chairmans Fund and Zimele, totalled $124.1 million 2014: $135.8 million.
This figure represents 6% of underlying EBIT, less underlying EBIT of associates and joint ventures.
While the bulk of our socio-economic development strategy is designed to leverage core business activities, much of our CSI investment continues to support vulnerable and marginalised stakeholders unable to participate in our core value chains.
Health and education are strategic focus areas in our CSI and a top priority for national and community level stakeholders.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 29
