STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE FOCUS ON DELIVERY As global uncertainty continues and commodity prices remain volatile, it has become more important than ever to deliver significant and necessary change within our business.
In such a challenging environment, we are committed to managing what is in our control: achieving cost and productivity improvements, to enhance cash flows through the cycle and further strengthen our balance sheet.
DRIVING CHANGE DEFINING OUR FUTURE COST AND PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENTS IN 2015 NET DEBT PRO FORMA BY END OF 2016 $1.3 billion $10 billion REDUCTION IN COPPER EQUIVALENT UNIT COSTS COST AND PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENTS EXPECTED IN IN US DOLLAR TERMS SINCE 2012 2016 WITH GROUP EXPECTED TO BE FREE CASH FLOW POSITIVE IN 2016 AT CURRENT PRICES 27% $1.9 billion CAPEX REDUCTION IN 2015, TO $4.0 BILLION CAPEX IN 2016 33% $3.0 billion DIVIDEND SUSPENDED AND WILL RESUME WITH A PAYOUT RATIO-BASED POLICY WHEN APPROPRIATE LOS BRONCES ROLLS OUT OUR OPERATING MODEL Even at the best of operations there is always room for improvement.
At Los Bronces, one of our world class copper assets in Chile, we are taking a hard look at the operations ongoing competitiveness, using key metrics such as the ore bodys quality and expandability, the mines absolute costand margin-curve position, and its operating risk profile.
To date, we have seen encouraging results: plant operating time, at 94%, is very close to best practice, as is truck utilisation.
Labour productivity is also expected to increase, alongside improving operational stability and higher plant throughput.
To drive increased value, we recently introduced our Operating Model, starting in the processing plants.
As the Model rolls out, we will implement a number of new initiatives, including further study on the nature of the mineral endowment and how best to exploit it.
We will also work on ways to increase metal production through grade engineering.
This is a low cost approach that has the potential to substantially increase ore grades presented to the mill, thereby leading to greater output.
Such improvements are expected to yield an additional 15,000 tonnes of copper a year by 2017, with an 11% lower processing cost per tonne, Haul trucks unload ore at the primary crusher in Los Bronces open pit.
offsetting a gradual decline in grade.
20 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report The portfolio decisions we have made have enabled Costs and productivity a comprehensive re-assessment of operating, capital Embedding the Operating Model principles across various and indirect costs across Anglo American.
Building parts of the business led to a significant improvement in upon the platform of the asset review in 2013, equipment efficiencies and performance during 2015. following which our operational performance On the basis of a more stable operating platform, improvement programme was executed, we have $1.3 billion of underlying EBIT benefit from cost and taken the appropriate measures to enable the delivery productivity improvements was delivered in 2015.
As a of positive free cash flow in 2016, with further result of these initiatives, copper equivalent unit costs improvement expected in 2017 and beyond, assuming were reduced by a further 16% in US dollar terms, commodity prices and exchange rates remain at or representing a 27% total reduction since 2012. around current levels.
Looking forward, our ongoing focus on operational These operational improvements, coupled with a improvement is expected to deliver $1.9 billion of cost substantially reduced capital expenditure profile and productivity improvements in 2016 relative to 2015, and the targeted proceeds from our asset disposal building upon the $1.3 billion delivered in 2015.
We will programme, are expected to reduce net debt to less predominantly concentrate on reducing operating and than $10 billion in 2016, assuming current commodity support costs by $1.2 billion, as well as $700 million of prices and exchange rates.
We are targeting net debt productivity volume related gains.
of $6 billion in the medium term, supporting a return to F or more information on our support cost reductions a solid investment grade credit rating.
See page 31 PRIORITISED CAPITAL ALLOCATION CASH FLOW ENHANCEMENT THROUGH THE CYCLE We continue to apply our capital allocation model across Building a stable operational platform the Group in the management of the balance sheet.
In 2013, A key component of our operational performance we targeted a long term net debt range of $10-12 billion.
improvement programme is the implementation of At the same time, given the weak market for commodities, AngloAmericans Operating Model.
we targeted a level of $15 billion of liquidity.
This liquidity The Operating Model is an essential enabler for delivering buffer, along with the minimal step-up in interest charges our production targets, and ultimately for reducing our and lack of covenants, significantly reduces the downside operating costs.
It enables operational stability to deliver impact to the Group in the event that an investment grade predictable outcomes: reduces variation in order credit rating is not sustainable for a period of time.
to increase capability and efficiency: and provides clarity The deterioration in commodity markets has necessitated so team members have a clear understanding of their work a review of our net debt target and we now expect to reduce in order to facilitate consistent outcomes.
This focus on net debt to less than $10 billion on a pro forma basis by data-driven decision making, detailed planning, operating the end of 2016, and to c. $6 billion in the medium term excellence and execution has led to lower operating costs, via disposals and positive free cash flows.
We are also improved productivity and the potential to both lower and targeting a net debt: EBITDA ratio of less than 2.5 times in defer capital expenditure.
The Operating Model has three components, which Anglo American continues to have strong liquidity, address: operational strategy: execution of work: and with $14.8 billion of undrawn facilities and cash as at continuous improvement.
Our approach has been to 31 December 2015, and its objective of a solid investment establish the sections of the value chain in those assets grade credit rating remains unchanged.
Near term debt which constrain performance and implement the maturities consist of $1.6billion in 2016 and $2.6 billion appropriate component of the Operating Model that in 2017. unlocks the most value.
In the near term, our focus remains to optimise the Groups By the end of 2015, the Operating Model principles had cash flow in order to protect and strengthen the balance been fully, or partially, implemented at six sites.
During 2016, sheet, while maintaining the operational integrity of our we will continue to implement the Operating Model across assets.
Discretionary project spend has been suspended, those assets where it will deliver the most meaningful with the exception of the investment required to maintain improvements in operating and financial performance.
high value assets or future growth options.
We continue to apply our rigorous processes and criteria for all project investment, including stay-in-business projects: however, future performance will not be jeopardised for short term cash flow gains.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 21 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE FOCUS ON DELIVERY continued Projects and capital expenditure Target net debt evolution Following an increased focus on capital discipline and $12.9 bn $3-4 bn in response to current conditions, capital expenditure was reduced, before capitalised losses, to $4.0 billion 2014: $6.0 billion.
The reduction was largely driven by a $10 bn 41% decline in expansionary capital expenditure, mainly To come from owing to the Minas-Rio iron ore project in Brazil moving cash generation and disposals into its ramp-up phase.
$6 bn Expansionary capital expenditure remains focused on the delivery of our portfolio of existing major projects, including Gahcho Ku, Venetia Underground and Grosvenor.
As these projects transition into production, expansionary capital expenditure will continue to decrease, which will enable the Group to further align its Dec 2015 Disposals Dec 2016 Medium term level of growth investment with prevailing commodity net debt 2016 net debt target net debt target at spot market conditions.
1 Capital expenditure In 2016, we expect capital expenditure to be less than Year ended Year ended $3.0 billion, with $1.2 billion of project spending as the $ million 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Gahcho Ku and Grosvenor projects reach completion Expansionary 1,936 3,257 and as Minas-Rios ramp-up continues.
In 2017, we expect capital expenditure to be reduced by a further $500 million Stay in business 1,384 1,973 to $2.5 billion.
Development and stripping 740 868 In 2015, as part of the overall capital allocation process, Proceeds from disposal of 30 71 the Board also reviewed its dividend policy in light of the property, plant and equipment significant changes to the market environment and the subsequent impact on cash flows and net debt.
Following Total 4,030 6,027 the review, the Board recommended the suspension of the Net capitalised losses profits 147 9 dividend.
The commitment to a dividend during the ordinary course of business remains a core part of the Groups overall Total capital expenditure 4,177 6,018 capital allocation approach and the Board recommended 1 See page 180 for the definition of capital expenditure.
that, upon resumption, Anglo American should adopt a payout ratio-based dividend policy in order to provide shareholders with exposure to improvements in commodity prices, while retaining cash flow flexibility during periods of Stay-in-business SIB capital expenditure declined by weaker pricing.
30% to $1.4billion 2014: $2.0 billion, as the roll-out of the Operating Model across our assets delivered an optimised SIB capital expenditure plan.
Projects in ramp-up in 2015 In Nickel, the rebuild of the two furnaces at Barro Alto was concluded ahead of schedule and budget.
Delivery of first metal from the second furnace rebuild occurred in September, more than one month ahead of expectations, and nameplate capacity production should be achieved through 2016.
Niobiums Boa Vista Fresh Rock project reached 69% of nameplate capacity in December 2015, and is expected to reach full nameplate capacity in the third quarter of 2016.
The Minas-Rio iron ore operation continued to ramp up in 2015, with increases in quarter-on-quarter production throughout the year.
The operation is expected to reach commercial production capacity in 2016, although it will remain in ramp-up throughout the year.
22 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Projects advanced in 2015 DeBeers Gahcho Ku project in Canada is progressing well, with key land use, water licence and surface leases all now received.
In addition, all six Impact Benefit Agreements with indigenous communities have been completed.
As at 31 December 2015, the project was 83% complete and remains on track for first production during the second half of 2016, with commercial production expected in the first quarter of 2017.
Construction of DeBeers Venetia Underground mine in South Africa continues to progress, with the decline advanced to more than 1,100 metres and the project 21% complete.
The underground operation is expected to become the principal source of ore at Venetia from late 2022.
Projects initiated in 2015 No new major growth projects were initiated during 2015, in line with the Groups focus on improving cash flows.
Evaluation and exploration expenditure Recognising the long term nature of the business, AngloAmericans proven track record and expertise in exploration discoveries, and the importance of maintaining a portfolio of high value replacement and organic growth options, we have continued to retain and advance select studies, with a focus on maintaining our established social commitments and managing costs appropriately.
This expenditure is focused on the core product groups of diamonds, PGMs and copper, with small expenditures supported where required to enable the exit of certain other assets for value.
We are continuing to enhance our approach to studies and evaluation, with a greater emphasis on assessing a broad range of options early in the study phase in order to mitigate risk, identify opportunities and minimise sunk costs.
As a result, evaluation expenditure reduced to $145million in 2015 2014: $218 million and expenditure on exploration activities was 15% lower at $154 million 2014: $181 million.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 23
