STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE CREATE A HIGH PERFORMANCE CULTURE To deliver on our objectives, we rely on a capable and engaged workforce.
Our high performance culture encourages all employees to give their best and places their health and safety at the top of our agenda.
DRIVING CHANGE DEFINING OUR FUTURE INDIRECT ROLES REDUCED TO AROUND 11,500 HEADCOUNT REDUCTION FROM 128,000 TO c. 50,000 ACROSS THE GROUP 2014: 13,000 AS THE PORTFOLIO RESTRUCTURE IS COMPLETED 11, 500 c. 50,000 FEMALE MANAGERS ACROSS THE GROUP COST SAVINGS FROM CHANGES TO CENTRAL SUPPORT COSTS IN THE MEDIUM TERM 25% $250 million GLOBAL SAFETY DAY We inaugurated Global Safety Day in 2011 to unite everyone on the importance of arriving home safely at the end of each day and of the responsibility of everyone for safety.
It is the only time employees and contractors come together to focus on our shared challenge.
In 2015, the project team introduced a controls protect and keep you safe theme to drive stronger ownership and engagement.
This highlights the protective role controls play for individuals, their families, teams and communities while encouraging people to improve their own understanding and use of controls.
Over a three month period, leaders, managers, supervisors and all employees and contractors were given opportunities to think about the role controls play in their personal and work lives and how well they understand and lead on their use.
Everyone came together on Safety Day to identify what could be done to improve control use.
This then fed into local action and improvement plans.
An employee online survey to evaluate the impact of the day demonstrated that 98% of participants understood completely or near-completely the importance of controls in protecting and keeping them safe, with 56% saying controls had significantly improved their safety behaviour and 30% that they had done so quite a bit.
Given this successful outcome, we will be adopting Platinums CEO, Chris Griffith, addresses staff as part of Mogalakwena mines Global Safety Day events.
a similar approach for Safety Day in 2016.
30 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report We continue to foster our high performance Providing development and training to our leaders and culture, through building an organisation structure workforce continues to improve the resilience of our that is fit for purpose, resourcing this structure with business and is a key means for people to grow in their the best capability and empowering leadership to work.
We have a range of external and internal development deliver results.
programmes currently in use across the Group, where we made an investment of more than $100 million on training in 2015.
In an increasingly competitive market for limited BUILDING AN ORGANISATION THAT IS skills, we continue to invest in developing a pipeline of future FIT FOR PURPOSE talent through our support of 3,500 graduates, bursars, We continue to create a lean and more effective business apprentices and trainees.
that is built around strong commodity-focused operating units and functions that provide value-adding expert DIVERSITY leadership, improve business performance and ensure effective governance.
Anglo American embraces diversity and complies with relevant legal obligations wherever we have operations.
During 2015, we reviewed our organisation to structure We seek a workforce that represents the regions within work more effectively, establish clear accountabilities and which we operate and we provide opportunities for broader authorities, and remove duplication.
This work focused development within those regions.
A diverse workforce initially on indirect support roles those not directly involved brings greater diversity of thought to tackle the challenges in production at the Group Corporate centres.
We continually develop our workforce so that we in a significant reduction in employee numbers, while will have this diversity among our leaders of the future.
By ensuring we have the most capable people in the right roles year end, women made up 18% of our overall workforce to deliver on our strategic objectives.
number of people working for Anglo American in indirect roles had reduced to around 11,500 from 13,000 in 2014.
In our South African operations, we continue to promote transformation.
By year end, 60% of our management As the Groups portfolio is streamlined to focus on diamonds, comprised historically disadvantaged South Africans.
The PGMs and copper, we expect our total headcount to reduce impending third iteration of the Mining Charter is expected from 128,000 to around 50,000 through disposals and to define new commitments that will encourage further restructuring, with the majority of these roles expected to progress in our business.
be transferred to new owners of the assets.
We will further review our corporate support structures and overheads to ensure they remain fit for purpose and are aligned to the ENCOURAGING SOUND INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS future portfolio.
In order to reduce duplication and increase Throughout our organisation restructures, we maintain a capability, we will also review the role of each function within focus on managing employment separations respectfully the context of a global support model.
We endeavour to follow due legal process in all We expect that the future rightsizing of our corporate countries in which we have a presence and seek to engage support structures will lead to a reduction of indirect roles with governments, employees and unions in order to make from the current 11,500 to less than 5,000.
The changes the difficult situation as fair and transparent as possible.
We to central support costs alone are expected to contribute work with affected employees to honour our commitments $250 million of cost savings in the medium term.
and offer support measures, including external services, to assist with finding employment elsewhere.
MANAGING TALENT AND DEVELOPING SKILLS Approximately 72% of our current permanent workforce is represented by work councils, trade unions or other similar Resourcing Anglo Americans simplified organisation bodies and covered by collective bargaining agreements.
structure with the right capability is essential for success and continues to be the focus of the fit for purpose exercise.
In assessing capability, we consider technical skills and PROTECTING LABOUR RIGHTS knowledge that have been acquired through experience As signatories to the United Nations Global Compact, we and practice: mental processing ability: social process skills: are committed to the labour rights principles provided in and application the degree of drive and commitment a the International Labour Organization core conventions, person displays.
including the right to freedom of association and collective If we are to withstand the current challenges, we need to bargaining, the eradication of child and forced labour and foster a culture centred on business outcomes.
We do not tolerate any form of labour this hinges on strong leadership from line managers, to rights abuse, and full observance of these issues is also ensure we are doing only essential work, with only people required of our suppliers in tenders.
who are adding significant value, and giving them the authority to do their job effectively.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 31 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE CREATE A HIGH PERFORMANCE CULTURE continued ENSURING A SAFE WORKING ENVIRONMENT PROMOTING HEALTH AND WELL-BEING The safety, health and well-being of our employees are a Effective management of health risks protects our top priority and a core value at Anglo American.
We strive to people, enhances productivity and is essential for achieve our goal of zero harm by managing our activities in minimising potential long term liabilities.
Extending our a way that eliminates incidents, minimises risk and promotes health promotion activities to the broader community excellence in the performance of our operations.
also supports our internal health drive.
In 2015, three employees and three contractors lost their In 2015, 42% of employees were reported to be working in lives in work-related activities at operations managed by environments with noise levels in excess of the occupational Anglo American.
This is the same record low of six lives exposure limit, and approximately 9% of employees were lost recorded in 2014, when four employees and two working in environments where they were potentially at risk contractors died.
The Groups fatality injury frequency rate of exposure to inhalable hazards.
at the end of 2015 represented a negligible increase on the 2014 performance.
Any loss of life is unacceptable and we continue to dedicate Total number of fatal injuries and fatal injury considerable effort to achieving our vision of zero harm.
As frequency rate 20112015 part of this, we initiated a Group-wide control improvement Fatalities FIFR 30 0.016 programme during 2015.
This aims to ensure we have the right controls in place for all our major safety risks and that 0.014 25 they are properly understood, used and their effectiveness 0.012 regularly monitored.
20 0.010 For each incident resulting in loss of life or a critical injury, an independent investigation is conducted to understand the 15 0.008 causes and remedial actions required.
The lessons learned 0.006 10 from each are shared via our Group Learning from Incidents 0.004 LFI process and discussed at Board Sustainability 5 Committee, executive and site management levels.
0.002 Particular emphasis is placed on ensuring that actions 0 0 relating to critical controls are implemented in a timely 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 manner to prevent repeats.
FIFR Fatalities Despite continuing to put considerable effort into improving how we manage safety, our total recordable case frequency rate rose by 16% to 0.93 2014: 0.80.
While the regression Lost time injuries, medical treatment cases and was partly due to Platinum having resumed normal total recordable case frequency rate 20112015 operating conditions following the strike-affected period in TRCFR 2014, more work needs to be done to renew the downward 4,000 2.5 trend of recent years.
3,500 Regulatory and voluntary safety stoppages resulted in lost 2 production at Platinum, and to a lesser extent at Kumba.
3,000 While the overall number of stoppages and associated lost 2,500 1.5 production decreased year-on-year at Platinum, it remains a priority for the business to engage with regulators to ensure 2,000 that such interventions are used as a last resort.
1 1,500 Our safety strategy and management approach are 1,000 0.5 risk-based and focus on making sure that we have the 500 right culture and controls in place to operate safely.
They are both founded on three key principles: a mindset of 0 0 zero harm, no repeats, and the application of simple, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 non-negotiable standards.
During 2015, we added further Lost-time injuries impetus to improving control use, driven by work in five Medical treatment cases TRCFR linked areas: leadership, effective planning and standards, supervision, incidents, and risk management.
These will remain our priorities in 2016.
32 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report While we have intensive programmes in place to ensure that employees and contractors working in such environments are trained to use personal protective equipment, our focus is on addressing the source of occupational health risk.
Our overall approach to occupational hygiene is aligned with the Anglo American Operational Risk Management ORM process, which requires that operations identify health risks, implement controls to mitigate those risks, monitor the effectiveness of controls, and learn from incidents in order to prevent repeats.
Targets for the implementation of the ORM are being set and will influence the performancebased remuneration of senior executives.
The number of new cases of occupational diseases reported in 2015 was 163 2014: 175.
This translates to an incidence rate of 0.177 2014: 0.175 per 200,000 hours worked a small year-on-year increase due to the reduced number of employees in 2015.
Improvement, in absolute terms, was noted in the following areas: a 47% reduction in musculoskeletal disorders: a 33% reduction in coalworkers pneumoconiosis: and a 12% reduction in noiseinduced hearing loss.
Anglo American has recorded no cases of silicosis owing to exposure at our operations since 2011.
However, despite the significant year-on-year decrease, we continue to report cases of coal-workers pneumoconiosis.
These cases are thoroughly investigated to better understand their causes, including the past and current occupational exposure profiles of those who become ill, as well as the potential sources of coal dust in the workplace.
Based on this information, we continue to implement measures to improve our management of risks associated with coal dust.
Through the industry work group that was formed by AngloAmerican and other South African mining peers, we continue to address issues relating to compensation and medical care for occupational lung disease in the gold mining industry in South Africa.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 33
