STRATEGIC REPORT: COAL Seamus French COAL CEO Coal Our coal portfolio is geographically diverse, with metallurgical coal assets in Australia, and thermal coal assets in South Africa, Colombia and Australia, which mine products attuned to the individual requirements of our diversified customer base.
We are the worlds third largest exporter of metallurgical coal.
DRIVING CHANGE DEFINING OUR FUTURE PRODUCTION INCREASE FROM UNDERGROUND MORANBAH AND GROSVENOR LONGWALL METALLURGICAL COAL OPERATIONS Discussions under way to assess potential disposal value of the Moranbah and Grosvenor metallurgical coal assets in Australia 33% vs 2014 DARTBROOK AND CALLIDE Conditional sales agreed for the Dartbrook and Callide mines UNIT COST REDUCTIONS AT AUSTRALIAN OPERATIONS in Australia OTHER PROCESSES IN TRAIN 23% vs 2014 The remaining coal assets, including the South African domestic thermal coal operations and the balance of coal mines in UNIT COST REDUCTIONS AT SOUTH AFRICAN Australia, will be managed to improve performance and value, EXPORT MINES while considering appropriate options in the best long term interests of all stakeholders 13% vs 2014 FINANCIAL AND OPERATING OVERVIEW operations equipment performance and a 12% improvement in open cut operations.
Australia and Canada Australia and Canada underlying EBIT increased by $191 million to Colombia $190 million.
This was the result of a 6% rise in production in Australia, Underlying EBIT decreased by 45% to $90 million 2014: $163 million, substantial cost reductions, and a weaker Australian dollar also mainly owing to weaker prices reducing underlying EBIT by $90 million benefiting the cost base.
These positives were offset by a 19% and a weather-related decline in production.
This was compensated in reduction in the average quarterly hard coking coal HCC benchmark part by lower costs as a result of a comprehensive cost-control coal price.
Placing Peace River Coal onto long term care and programme and favourable exchange rates.
maintenance resulted in an underlying EBIT benefit of $81 million.
Underground productivity improvements, including an Australian MARKETS longwall production record at Capcoals Grasstree operation, and Metallurgical coal focused cost-reduction initiatives across labour, material inputs and 2015 2014 equipment hire, resulted in the lowest unit costs since 2007.
Export 1 Average market prices $ tonne 102 125 FOB cash unit costs $55 tonne were 23% lower in US dollar terms, 2 Average realised prices $ tonne 90 111 and 7% lower in local currency terms.
1 Represents the quarterly average benchmark for premium low-volume hard coking coal.
South Africa 2 Average realised price of various grades of metallurgical coal, including hard and semi-soft coking South Africas underlying EBIT of $230 million decreased by 34%.
This was the result of a 21% reduction in the export thermal coal price and the effect of industrial action in October, partly offset by a 13% Metallurgical coal prices showed a steady decline across 2015, driven increase in export sales volumes, with a record railing and shipping by lower imports into China and weaker producer currencies.
Strong performance, as well as cost reductions and the benefit of the weaker steel exports from China had a negative effect on global steel prices rand.
The export sales performance generated an additional and margins, putting further pressure on raw material prices.
Metallurgical coal spot prices averaged $90 tonne, down 19%.
While Australian supply was relatively stable in 2015, high-cost Export mine US dollar unit costs were 13% lower, with local currency metallurgical coal supply continues to exit the market, in particular costs flat year-on-year despite inflationary pressures and a 4% decline from the US.
in production, supported by a 7% improvement in underground 1 TSI Premium HCC FOB Australia East Coast Port $ tonne.
2 South African sales volumes exclude non-equity traded sales volumes of 3.4 Mt 2014: 1.3 Mt.
3 Australia and Canada is the weighted average metallurgical coal sales price achieved.
South Africa is the weighted average export thermal coal price achieved.
4 FOB cost per saleable tonne, excluding royalties.
Australia Canada excludes study costs Callide.
South Africa unit cost is for the export operations.
Thermal coal Production at the Australian open cut operations decreased 2015 2014 by 4%, with a robust performance from Callide and Jellinbah Average market prices $ t, FOB Australia 59 71 being offset by lower volumes at Capcoal, where plant and Average realised prices rail capacity was prioritised for Capcoals Grasstree 55 72 Export Australia $ t, FOB underground operations higher margin coal.
Average realised prices 55 70 Export South Africa $ t, FOB South Africa Average realised prices Export production totalled 17.4 Mt, a 4% decrease, owing 20 19 Domestic South Africa $ t to the planned closure of a section at Goedehoop and lower Average realised prices production at Mafube as it transitions to a new mining area.
55 67 Colombia $ t, FOB Productivity improvements resulted in record production at Goedehoop and Zibulo following the implementation of Thermal coal prices declined by 17% as overall demand elements of the Anglo American Operating Model.
Chinese import demand in particular has Productivity improvement plans at Landau were offset by continued to soften, while other growth markets, notably coal sector wage-related industrial action in October, which India, have not been able to offset this decrease in demand.
resulted in the loss of 0.6 Mt 3% of full year production.
In response, on the supply side, Indonesian volumes are Export sales rose by 13% to 19.9 Mt as a result of a planned being withdrawn from the market.
drawdown of stocks, facilitated by a record railing and For more information refer to the Marketplace review section See pages 810 shipping performance.
Production from the domestic mines decreased by 15% to OPERATING PERFORMANCE 27.7 Mt, owing to reduced offtake by Eskom at New Vaal and New Denmark, exacerbated by unplanned maintenance on Australia and Canada the dragline at Isibonelo.
Total export metallurgical coal production increased by 1%, despite Peace River Coal which produced 1.5 Mt in Colombia 2014 being placed onto long term care and maintenance Anglo Americans share of Cerrejns output of 11.1 Mt since December 2014. decreased by 1% as the operation was affected by adverse weather conditions impacting production.
In Australia, production increased by 6%, benefiting from a strong performance at the underground longwall operations, with a record performance from Capcoals OPERATIONAL OUTLOOK Grasstree underground operation.
Australia and Canada Australian export metallurgical coal production was 9% Metallurgical coal production in 2016 is expected to increase higher, with increases from the underground operations to 21-22 Mt, with the first longwall coal from Grosvenor due compensating for lower open cut volumes as capacity at in July and subsequent ramp-up through the second half of the shared Capcoal Complex plant was given to the higher the year.
Export thermal coal Production from underground operations was 33% higher, In 2016, export production from South Africa and Colombia largely as a result of a step-change in productivity at is expected to be 28-30 Mt.
Capcoals Grasstree underground operation following the implementation of bi-directional cutting.
Production from Moranbah increased by 17%, despite equipment design issues, which were successfully rectified in the extended longwall move in the third quarter, with a stepped improvement in production in November and December.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 63
