STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE FOCUS THE PORTFOLIO At Anglo American, we are accelerating our strategic transformation by focusing on our core portfolio to meet changing market demand dynamics.
World class, long life assets, focused on fide Beers, PGMs and Copper, will create a well-balanced and financially sustainable business.
DRIVING CHANGE DEFINING OUR FUTURE DISPOSAL TRANSACTIONS COMPLETED OR STRATEGIC FOCUS ON: ANNOUNCED IN 2015 fide Beers, PGMs and Copper DISPOSALS TARGET IN 2016 $2.1 billion IN LIGHT OF THE COMMODITY PRICE ENVIRONMENT $3-4 billion WE HAVE CEASED, OR ARE CEASING, PRODUCTION AT A NUMBER OF OPERATIONS MATERIALLY STREAMLINED CORE PORTFOLIO OF 16 ASSETS SALE OF PLATINUMS RUSTENBURG OPERATIONS Evaluation and sale processes for a number of AGREED: COPPERS NORTE ASSETS SOLD AngloAmericans assets are in process.
Price upside potential from both transactions.
MOGALAKWENA ONE OF THE WORLDS GREAT MINES Mogalakwena is Platinums top-priority asset and the worlds biggest open pit platinum mine with the potential to lift annual platinum production by 50% from 400,000 ounces to 600,000 ounces.
In 2015, while reducing unit costs by 7% in local currency terms owing to tight cost management and a series of productivity initiatives, Mogalakwena commanded the highest rand basket price in Platinums portfolio at R32,850 per platinum ounce.
It also generated significant operating free cash flow, while keeping cash operating margins at 50%, despite weaker prices.
Whereas traditional underground mines require high labour intensity, Mogalakwena is a highly mechanised operation, with fewer, more highly skilled employees.
As a result, it is a safer place to work reflected in its strong safety performance.
Success has not always come easily.
Unlike most platinum operations based primarily on Merensky and UG2 ore, Mogalakwena mines the Platreef, where palladium is slightly more abundant than platinum and grades are more variable.
It is also harder to break and uses more energy to do so problems only solved through Platinum further developing its metallurgical and processing technologies.
The mines recent introduction of the Operating Model will build on these firm foundations by improving business performance through Drilling, loading and hauling operations in Mogalakwenas huge open pit.
ensuring that the right work is done at the right time in the right way.
16 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report The primary source of competitive advantage in the At Anglo American, we believe that the recent pull-back in mining industry is to own high quality, low cost, long Chinese infrastructure investment is a significant structural life assets in structurally attractive commodities.
trend and think it unlikely that India, or any other emerging economy, will be in the position to bridge that gap in the The continuing deterioration in commodity markets short to medium term.
We believe it is more likely that has necessitated decisive action to restore the consumer-driven product demand for example for homes, strength of our balance sheet by sustainably improving vehicles, household appliances and electronics, as well as cash flows and materially reducing net debt.
We are for luxury goods such as jewellery will be driven by the evaluating the sale of a number of large and high burgeoning middle class in emerging and more developed quality assets, while evolving market demand dynamics economies, and will emerge as a stronger force in demand have also informed our core asset choices, as we focus for mined products.
These actions will create a more resilient business to deliver robust profitability and cash flows Focus on fide Beers, PGMs and copper through the cycle.
Anglo American is focusing its portfolio via the following principles: PORTFOLIO TRANSFORMATION Strategically advantaged world class assets: Typically characterised by world class ore bodies with In the assessment of our core portfolio, we examined both competitive industry cost positions and long reserve the quality of individual assets and our competitive positions lives, within strategically advantaged product groups in our various product groups, while also reviewing evolving Anglo American has global leadership positions in supply and demand dynamics.
We will focus on those assets diamonds and PGMs and a highly competitive position where we hold most competitive advantage being our in copper.
world class diamond, PGM and copper assets.
Materially streamlined business: Moving from 45 to This unique combination of assets, enhanced by our 16 core assets across three operating business units will commercial marketing expertise, will have the advantage of enable much more efficient and effective management benefiting from the ongoing shift away from infrastructure of an asset portfolio that already drives the vast majority investment towards consumer-driven demand, positioning of long term profitability.
Anglo American for these expanding markets.
Transitioning to a core portfolio Moving to 16 core assets 55 45 Our 16 core assets fide BEERS PLATINUM COPPER Botswana South Africa Chile Jwaneng Mogalakwena Los Bronces Orapa complex Amandelbult Collahuasi BRPM South Africa Mototolo 16 Venetia Modikwa Voorspoed Zimbabwe Namibia Unki Namdeb Land Debmarine Namibia Canada Victor Gahcho Ku 2014 2015 Core Platinum Nickel Iron Ore and Manganese fide Beers Niobium Coal and Phosphates Copper Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 17
