R EMUNERATION COMMITTEE IN 2015 Membership The Committee comprised the non-executive directors Sir Philip Hampton shown on the right during the year ended 31 December 2015.
External advisers to the Committee Figure 18 details the external advisers to the Committee and the fees paid for services provided during 2015.
The fees are charged in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in each relevant engagement letter.
PwC is a signatory to, and adheres to, the Code of Conduct Judy Dlamini for Remuneration Consultants which can be found at www.
In addition, theCommittee chairman has regular direct dialogue with advisers.
For these reasons, the Committee considers that the advice it receives is independent.
Remuneration report voting results The Committee considered the results of the shareholders vote on the 2014 remuneration report.
Feedback from Byron Grote investors at the time of the 2015 AGM, and more generally, has helped shape clarifications to the remuneration policy for 2015 onwards.
Figure 18: External advisers and fees Other services provided Fees for Committee Ray ORourke Advisers to the Company assistance Pricewaterhouse Appointed by the Company, Investment advice, 25,000 Coopers with the agreement of the actuarial and audit work LLP PwC Committee, to support and for various pension advise on the Companys schemes: advice incentive arrangements, on internal audit in addition to the provision projects: taxation, of specialist valuation payroll and executive services and market compensation advice Jack Thompson remuneration data Perelamon Appointed by the Company, Executive compensation 12,000 with the agreement of the and reward advice Committee, to support and advise on the Companys incentive arrangements Deloitte LLP In its capacity as Group n a Deloitte auditor, Deloitte undertakes an audit of sections 3 and 4 of the remuneration report annually.
However, it provides no advice to the Committee Note: Certain overseas operations within the Group are also provided with audit-related services from Deloittes and PwCs worldwide member firms.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 105
