STRATEGIC REPORT: IRON ORE AND MANGANESE Norman Pedro Mbazima Borrego IRON ORE AND CEO Interim CEO Kumba Iron Ore Iron Ore Brazil MANGANESE Anglo Americans iron ore operations provide customers with niche, high iron content ore, a large percentage of which is direct-charge product for blast furnaces.
DRIVING CHANGE DEFINING OUR FUTURE REDUCTION IN COST PER WASTE TONNE KUMBA IRON ORE IDENTIFIED AS NON-CORE AT SISHEN MINE INCLUDING DEFERRED STRIPPING Kumba Iron Ores Sishen and Kolomela assets will be actively managed to further improve performance in the short term, while determining the optimal route and timing for exit 3% vs 2014 OPTIMISING MINAS-RIO AS A NON-CORE ASSET HEADCOUNT REDUCTION AT KUMBA Work has been prioritised to secure the necessary licences to underpin the ramp-up and long term sustainability of the operation, while also optimising the business to ensure positive 16% vs 2014 cash flows at expected iron ore levels CAPEX AT IRON ORE OPERATIONS OF $1.4 BILLION THABAZIMBI MINE CLOSURE PLAN IN IMPLEMENTATION Mining at Thabazimbi ceased at the end of September 2015.
47% reduction vs 2014 Closure procedures have been implemented and all activity at the mine is expected to cease at the end of H1 2016 Drilling, loading and hauling activity in Kumba Iron Ores open pit at Kolomela, South Africa.
2 Prices for Kumba Iron Ore Kumba are the average realised export basket price FOB Saldanha.
Prices for IOB are average realised export basket price FOB Au wet basis.
3 Production and sales include ore and alloy.
INTRODUCTION MARKETS In South Africa, we have a majority share c. 70% in Iron ore 2015 2014 Kumba Iron Ore, which supplies lump and fine ore: Average market prices while, in Brazil, we have developed the integrated IODEX 62% Fe CFR China spot price 56 97 Minas-Rio operation, which supplies iron ore pellet- $ tonne feed products.
Average realised prices 54 91 Kumba export $ tonne FOB Saldanha In manganese, we have a 40% share in Samancor Average market prices Holdings in South Africa, Groote Eylandt Mining Iron ore MB 66% Fe Concentrate 67 112 Company Pty Ltd GEMCO and Tasmanian Electro CFR $ tonne Metallurgical Company TEMCO in Australia.
Average realised prices 41 57 Minas-Rio $ tonne FOB wet basis FINANCIAL AND OPERATING OVERVIEW Kumba Seaborne iron ore prices continued their downward trend Underlying EBIT decreased by 61% to $739 million in 2015, with the Platts IODEX 62% Fe CFR China spot 2014: $1,911 million, mainly attributable to the 42% fall in price falling 42% to average $56 per dry metric tonne.
the iron ore benchmark price to an average of $56 tonne.
Overcapacity in the Chinese steel sector has resulted in Realised FOB export prices averaged $54 tonne, 42% steel prices touching record lows.
A shift in the focus of lower than in 2014.
Total cash costs, however, declined by Chinese mills to cost rather than productivity has led to 18%, with costs associated with the 10% increase in waste reduced price differentials across iron ore grades.
In mined more than offset by the weakening of the South addition, the seaborne iron market remained oversupplied African rand against the dollar.
Kumba reduced controllable throughout the year, further depressing the iron ore price, costs by $8 tonne to achieve an average cash break-even although there was a noticeable slowdown in supply growth price of $49 tonne CFR China in 2015.
In 2016, Kumba is as projects reached execution and high-cost marginal targeting to be cash break-even at an iron ore price of below suppliers withdrew from the market.
The cost improvements include savings in Kumba and ArcelorMittal SA have amended the pricing capital expenditure, in operating costs, and productivity terms of their supply agreement from a cost-based to an gains in mining and processing operations.
In the current market environment, Sales of 47.8 Mt 2014: 45.3 Mt were achieved, an increase which presents significant challenges for the mining and of 6%, following an improved logistics performance and the steel industries in South Africa, this amendment will align shipment of 3.4 Mt through the multi-purpose terminal at prices charged to domestic and export customers.
As a result, Kumba reduced its Saldanha For more information refer to the Marketplace review section port stockpile to 1.2 Mt, while total finished-product stock See pages 810 decreased to 4.7 Mt by year end 2014: 6.5 Mt.
Manganese Iron Ore Brazil 2015 saw significant weakness in both manganese ore Underlying EBIT loss was $21 million 2014: $34 million and alloy prices, with the decline in steel output in China loss, net of a $251 million loss that was capitalised as the and all other major steel producing regions exacerbating Minas-Rio project continued to ramp up.
Supply cuts started to materialise as prices continued to slide through the year, The project is expected to reach commercial production leaving 70% of the industry in a loss-making position.
The during 2016, although it will remain in ramp-up throughout index ore price 44% Mn CIF China declined by 57%, the year.
Samancor Underlying EBIT decreased by $156 million to $22 million, driven primarily by lower manganese prices and a 9% decrease in ore sales.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 59 STRATEGIC REPORT: IRON ORE AND MANGANESE IRON ORE AND MANGANESE continued Samancor OPERATING PERFORMANCE Production of manganese ore declined by 6% to 3.1 Mt Kumba attributable basis.
Production volumes were negatively Production was down by 7% to 44.9 Mt owing to mining affected by the temporary suspension of operations at both constraints at Sishen, experienced largely in the second half.
Mamatwan and Wessels following a fatality at Mamatwan mine in November.
The suspension of the operations Production at Sishen declined by 12% to 31.4 Mt, mainly remained in effect until the completion of the strategic arising from difficulties in providing the DMS plant with review, with mining activity restarted in February 2016. the correct quality feedstock because of a shortage of The decrease in production in South Africa was slightly sufficient exposed high grade ore required for blending.
offset by increased output from Australia, with the GEMCO In order to improve exposed ore levels and increase operations delivering record production in the second half operational flexibility, it was necessary to mine more waste of the year.
material, which increased by 19% to 222.2 Mt.
Production of manganese alloys decreased by 25% to During the year the deteriorating price environment 213,600 tonnes attributable basis following the suspension necessitated a further optimisation of the Sishen mine plan.
of operations at Metalloys in South Africa.
It was decided to reconfigure the Sishen pit to a lower cost shell to safeguard the mines viability at lower prices.
OPERATIONAL OUTLOOK At Sishen, implementation of the Operating Model has already seen a 24% improvement in efficiency in internal Kumba waste mining activity at the North Mine, where work Kumba will target a cash break-even price of below $40 t management aspects of the model were introduced in CFR for 2016.
Waste movement is expected to be materially August 2014.
The Operating Model was implemented below previous guidance of 230 Mt, at 135-150 Mt for across pre-strip mining and heavy equipment activities 2016-2020, while production guidance for 2016 is in July 2015 and is working well.
At Kolomela, a revised mining plan was implemented, In the medium term, Sishen mine will also be exploring including cessation of mining at one of the pits to conserve further opportunities to utilise spare plant capacity, cash.
Efficiencies and throughput at the plant continued to including the use of low grade stockpiles.
It is expected improve, resulting in a 4% increase in production to 12.1 Mt that the Reserve Life will remain stable at 15 years due for the year.
To feed the plants at this rate, waste mining to the lower production rates and will be reviewed and increased to 45.7 Mt from the previously guided 44-45 Mt.
During the year, At Kolomela, the mines annual production has been revised Kumba announced closure plans, with mining ceasing at upwards to 13 million tonnes per annum Mtpa from 2017, the end of September 2015.
Material mined previously was with 12 Mt expected in 2016. processed during the final quarter of 2015 and is expected Iron Ore Brazil to continue into the second quarter of 2016.
Closure Operational challenges experienced in 2015, together procedures have been implemented and all activity at the with the confinement of the mining area owing to licensing mine is expected to cease at the end of the first half of 2016. constraints, have resulted in production guidance for Iron Ore Brazil 2016 being revised downwards to around 15-18 Mt Minas-Rio continued to ramp up in 2015, with increases wet basis.
in quarter-on-quarter production throughout the year.
Iron Ore Brazils FOB cash cost is expected to be Ramp up will continue in 2016.
Full year production in 2015, 1 $26-$28 per tonne.
at 9.2Mt wet basis, was lower than the original market guidance of 11-14 Mt wet basis, mostly due to filtration Samancor plant adjustments being required, together with water A strategic review of the South African Manganese availability and ore quality issues.
Following recent rainfall, operations has now been completed, with mining activity water conditions are now closer to normal, while the iron ore restarted at the operations in February 2016, although at a variability is expected to improve as the mining footprint substantially reduced rate and with greater flexibility.
Export sales amounted to 8.5 Mt to market conditions, the Hotazel mines will ramp up to a wet basis.
saleable production rate of 2.9 Mtpa 100% basis, taking approximately 900,000 tonnes 23% of saleable production out of the market for the foreseeable future.
Optimised mine plans, redundancies and other restructuring initiatives are expected to reduce costs, with stay-inbusiness capital expenditure also expected to decline by approximately 80% in 2016.
1 Average over first 22 years when friable itabirite is mined.
60 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Loading iron ore from Minas-Rio at the dedicated export terminal at the Port of Au in Brazil.
The conditions contained in the Letter of Grant relate LEGAL UPDATE substantively to domestic supply, support for skills In December 2013, the Constitutional Court ruled that development, research and development, and procurement.
Sishen Iron Ore Company Pty Ltd SIOC held a 78.6% Until the legal and practical implications of the proposed undivided share of the Sishen mining right and that, based conditions have been clarified with the DMR, SIOC is unable on the provisions of the Mineral and Petroleum Resources to accept the conditions.
Development Act MPRDA, only SIOC can apply for, and be granted, the residual 21.4% share of the mining right at the Section 96 of the MPRDA allows for an internal appeal to the Sishen mine.
The grant of the mining right may be made Minister.
SIOC therefore submitted an internal appeal to the subject to such conditions considered by the Minister of Minister, as required by the MPRDA.
SIOC has not yet Mineral Resources the Minister to be appropriate.
SIOC received a response to its appeal.
applied for the residual right in early 2014.
In the interim, SIOC continues to engage with the DMR in SIOC received notice from the Department of Mineral relation to the proposed conditions in order to achieve a Resources DMR that the Director General of the DMR had mutually acceptable solution.
consented to the amendment of SIOCs mining right in respect of the Sishen mine to include the residual 21.4% undivided share of the mining right for the Sishen mine.
The consent letter is subject to certain conditions which are described by the DMR as proposals.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 61
