STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC IMPERATIVE FOCUS THE PORTFOLIO continued Well-balanced portfolio: Although greatly streamlined PGMs and physically smaller, the portfolio will remain well Anglo Americans interests in PGMs are held through balanced to ensure there is not over-reliance from any its 78% owned subsidiary Anglo American Platinum one product group or geography.
Our platinum business is the worlds leading will retain its established technical and marketing PGM producer with positions in the worlds two largest PGM capabilities and the critical mass to compete effectively deposits the Bushveld Complex in South Africa and the for and deliver the attractive future growth opportunities Great Dyke in Zimbabwe.
Platinum will continue its current repositioning around Sustainable profitability: Due to their competitive cash a leaner, best-in-class core operating footprint at the cost profile and long lives, the portfolio will be positioned Mogalakwena and Amandelbult mines in South Africa and to produce sustainable profitability through the cycle, with Unki in Zimbabwe, alongside its joint venture interests in the approximately $2.8 billion of EBITDA delivered from those Bafokeng-Rasimone platinum mine, the Mototolo mine and core assets in 2015. the Modikwa mine in South Africa.
Differentiated, premium positioning for expanding In 2015, these assets had a combined production of consumer-driven markets: While strengthening the 1.3 million ounces of platinum metal in concentrate.
balance sheet, the core portfolio, enhanced by the Groups Mogalakwena is the highest margin platinum producer marketing expertise, positions the Company to benefit in the industry and, as one of the only large open pit PGM from changing demand patterns as the global economy mines globally, becomes the core of a much more flexible evolves and as emerging market economies mature.
The operating mines will be supplemented by Platinums three smelters at Polokwane, By focusing on fide Beers, PGMs, and Copper, Mortimer and Waterval, as well as its Precious Metals Anglo American will have established a unique and high Refinery and Base Metals Refinery, which will continue to quality position to benefit from these consumer trends.
process material received from both owned mines and The portfolio will be structured around: third parties.
fide Beers Copper Anglo American holds an 85% interest in DeBeers, Anglo American has concentrated its copper business the worlds leading diamond company, which currently around its interests in two of the worlds largest copper produces around a third of the worlds rough diamonds mines Los Bronces including the Chagres smelter by value.
In 2015, LosBronces, a 50.1% owned subsidiary, produced 401,700 tonnes of copper.
DeBeers will continue its mining operations across Collahuasi, 44% owned, produced 455,300 tonnes of Botswana Jwaneng and the Orapa complex, which copper 200,300 tonnes on an attributable basis.
On includes Damtshaa with Damtshaa placed onto temporary average, the two assets operate at C1 unit cash costs care and maintenance in January 2016 and Letlhakane, 1 of $1.45 lb and, with Reserve Lives of 25 years and Canada Victor, Namibia Namdeb Land and Debmarine 70 years, respectively.
Namibia and South Africa Venetia and Voorspoed.
Within its operating portfolio, DeBeers has one of the Anglo Americans copper portfolio and global exploration largest diamond resources, by volume, in the world at platform present a number of attractive organic growth Orapa and one of the richest diamond mines, by value, options from relatively high grade mineral endowments, at Jwaneng.
DeBeers is also due to complete the such as its feasibility stage Quellaveco copper project in development of the 51% owned Gahcho Ku mine in Peru, as well as long term growth projects, including the Canada, with production expected to begin in the second further development of the Los Bronces District in Chile, half of 2016, while progressing the underground the expansion of Collahuasi, the copper-nickel-PGM project development at the Venetia mine.
Sakatti in Finland and a promising copper exploration position in Papua New Guinea.
1 Weighted average C1 unit cash cost, including both Los Bronces and Collahuasi at 100%.
18 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Asset divestments At Kumba Iron Ore, the reconfiguration of the Sishen Disposals completed in 2015 mine to transition to a lower strip ratio and operational The evaluation and sales processes for a number of cost position is progressing well and, combined with further Anglo Americans major non-core assets are progressing.
operational improvements at Kolomela, is expected to add During 2015, we completed or announced $2.1 billion of to the Groups cash flow generation at prevailing iron ore disposal transactions, including from our 50% share of the prices.
The Company has initiated a review to consider Lafarge Tarmac JV $1.6 billion that was agreed in 2014, options to exit from Kumba at the appropriate time, including and the sale of the Norte copper assets in Chile $0.3 billion, a potential spin-out.
while also announcing the sale of the Rustenburg platinum At the Minas-Rio iron ore operation in Brazil, work has mines to Sibanye Gold.
Sales have recently been agreed been prioritised to optimise the operation for the current for the Dartbrook and Callide coal mines in Australia iron ore price environment to ensure that it is cash flow subject to a number of conditions and the sale of the positive in 2016 and subsequent years.
Work is also Kimberley Mines has been completed.
progressing to secure the required licences that underpin Non-core portfolio the full ramp-up over time that will also ensure the long term Discussions are currently under way to assess the potential sustainability of Minas-Rio for all its stakeholders.
All such disposal value of the Nickel business and Moranbah and work is expected to be completed over the next three years, Grosvenor metallurgical coal assets, alongside our sale at which time options for the asset will be assessed.
process for the Niobium and Phosphates businesses.
At Anglo American Platinum, assets other than those Discussions with potential buyers are expected to take identified as part of its long term core portfolio will be several months.
Any final decision on sale will depend on reviewed to determine the optimum path to realise value as compared to the significant EBITDA and cash flow shareholder value.
The joint venture operations will continue contribution these low operating cost, long life assets are to be operated in a separate management structure.
expected to make to the Group.
The target for the disposals programme has been Sales processes are also under way across several coal increased to $5-6 billion by the end of 2016, with $3-4 billion assets in Australia and South Africa.
The Union platinum expected in 2016, having already completed or announced mine in South Africa has been restructured and production $2.1 billion in 2015.
While the full repositioning of significantly reduced, while also progressing the sale of Anglo American is expected to take time to ensure the asset.
transactions deliver appropriate value, and to allow In light of the commodity price environment, the Group has engagement with critical stakeholders, all non-core assets ceased, or is ceasing, production at a number of operations.
will be managed actively and their performance optimised Operations that have been closed or placed onto care and in the best long term interests of all stakeholders.
maintenance include Peace River Coal and Snap Lake diamonds in Canada, while Thabazimbi iron ore in South Africa has reached the end of its life and is being closed.
Plans have also been initiated to place Twickenham platinum in South Africa onto care and maintenance.
It is expected that the aggregate cost of carrying out these actions will be approximately $0.2 billion in 2016.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 19
