STRATEGIC REPORT MARKETPLACE REVIEW MARKETPLACE REVIEW 2015 proved to be yet another challenging year for the mining industry continued economic uncertainty, slowing economic growth and demand, % and the resulting sharply lower commodity prices Iron ore 2014 60 led to the value of many mining companies falling 2010 57 to historic lows and management teams having to 2005 42 implement a range of initiatives to reduce operating 2000 23 and capital costs, to conserve cash and protect their Copper 2014 50 balance sheets.
2010 38 2005 22 THE SHIFTING GLOBAL 2000 12 Nickel 2014 45 ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT 2010 34 2005 15 A number of global trends have developed in recent 2000 5 years that have had a significant bearing on the economic performance and prospects of many countries that play Source: IMF a major role in the global trade of mined products: CHINAS SLOWDOWN According to the IMF, global GDP increased by 3% in 80 2015, compared with 3% in 2014.
Since the global 70 financial crisis in 2008 09, the world economys growth rate has consistently fallen short of its pre-crisis levels, 60 raising concerns about a protracted secular stagnation 50 within the advanced economies, in which growth is persistently weak.
In the emerging economies, average 40 growth rates are likely to remain depressed as Chinas 30  boom fades.
20 The IMF estimates that the advanced economies grew 10 by 2% in 2015, slightly faster than in 2014.
While growth picked up modestly in the US, Europe and Japan, it remains 0 1952 1962 1972 1982 1992 2002 2012 subdued relative to the pre-crisis trend, and there are Household consumption worries the crisis has had a long term detrimental effect on Investment the future path of output.
Source: Chinas National Bureau of Statistics The emerging economies experienced a further marked slowdown in 2015, with aggregate growth of 4% compared with 4% in 2014.
Chinas economy has slowed Indias economy is the exception to this weaker growth story.
significantly in recent years as it has begun to mature Following the election of Narendra Modis Bharatiya Janata following a period of unprecedented national infrastructure Party, GDP growth has picked up markedly.
If the new development that absorbed ever larger volumes of raw government implements more far-reaching reforms, the materials, particularly iron ore and metallurgical coal for economy could see its growth rate running at around steel production.
Most forecasters expect a further 7%-8% per year in the medium term.
slowdown over the next five to 10 years, reflecting the end of the investment boom, diminishing potential for catch-up growth, a shrinking workforce, and a significant debt THE TRANSITION OF EMERGING ECONOMIES overhang in the corporate sector.
Chinas slowdown is, however, also a corollary of the The continuing slowdown in China is inevitably inflicting authorities determination to rebalance and restructure damage on other emerging economies, and especially the economy.
Over the past two decades, the country among mining-commodity producers.
Economists are has experienced an extended investment boom.
The now becoming more cautious about medium term growth government is now promoting a less capital-intensive prospects in these economies.
Brazil and South Africa have growth model.
Inevitably, this implies lower aggregate suffered particularly from the drop in commodity prices, economic growth rates and weaker demand growth in which has only been partly offset by their weaker currencies.
many commodity-intensive sectors, such as steel and Their underlying potential growth rates have fallen to around cement, albeit mitigated by potentially stronger demand 2%-2% a year compared with 3%-4% at the height of for other metals and minerals, including diamonds, PGMs the commodity boom.
08 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Indexed 2015 commodity prices 1.1 1.0 Thermal coal 15 % 0.9 Diamonds 15 % Platinum 24 % 0.8 Anglo American 24 % Metallurgical coal 26 % 0.7 Copper 28 % Nickel 29 % 0.6 Iron ore 34 % 0.5 Dec 2015 Jan 2015 Iron ore Platts 62% CFR China Copper Diamonds Metallurgical coal Nickel Anglo American basket price Thermal coal Platinum Source: Anglo American Commodity Research SUPPLY OF COMMODITIES EXCEEDING DEMAND supply, together with outflows from ETFs, reduced the significant market deficit recorded in 2014.
The weak The decline in investment expenditure in China has South African rand contributed to the steady decline in weighed particularly on prices for metals and minerals.
As a result, 2015 marked a year of much weaker demand growth for most mined commodities, while supply Although, in the near term, the growth outlook for PGMs continued to increase.
is unclear due to potentially reduced platinum jewellery demand in China and uncertainty surrounding the A number of supply cuts have been implemented across autocatalyst market, longer term demand is forecast to be the mining industry.
To date, however, such cuts have proved robust given the expected demand for new and cleaner to be insufficient to stimulate a meaningful price recovery vehicles in maturing economies, coupled with increasingly in the absence of stronger demand growth.
Diamonds Base metals End-consumer demand for diamonds continued to be Slowing demand growth was a key contributor to the robust in the US, which is the largest consumer market for weak copper market during 2015 global consumption polished diamonds, with an estimated 45% share of was below expectations, while forecasts for Chinese demand.
Chinese demand growth for diamond jewellery demand growth in particular have been scaled back.
saw a considerable slowdown after being the engine of Although cuts or unintended disruptions to output increased growth for the industry in the last decade.
Other emerging during 2015, removing close to 1.2 Mt of copper from global markets saw weaker consumer demand, exacerbated by the mined production, recently commissioned mines are now strength of the US dollar.
The resulting demand weakness ramping up and are set to add considerable tonnage to the was amplified into the value chain, with jewellery retailers market over the medium term.
Over the long term, supply is reducing their desired stock levels and, consequently, their expected to struggle to meet growing demand given limited purchasing from the midstream.
Faced with lower polished sources of new primary copper supply, declining grades and demand and high stocks, built up during 2014 and early more challenging mining conditions in the existing global 2015, the midstream sector reduced its demand for rough portfolio of ageing copper mines.
diamonds, which caused a build-up of inventory, with Despite the ban on Indonesian exports of nickel ore downward pressure on rough diamond pricing.
continuing in 2015, a number of factors negatively affected Looking forward, global carat production is expected the nickel market.
These included an abrupt fall-off in to grow followed by a period of stabilisation.
Post-2020, Chinese and global stainless steel production, by far the there is potential for a production decline given the lack largest end-using sector of nickel, as well as Chinese nickel of recent discoveries of significant scale and depletion of pig iron output beating expectations.
Refined production the resource base.
This decline in production, combined growth outside of China also remained reasonably strong in with the expected growth in consumer demand for the absence of significant price-induced cutbacks, even as diamond jewellery, points to strong prospects for the the declining price cut deep into the global cost curve.
As a diamond business in the medium to long term.
consequence, LME inventories increased throughout the year, reaching unprecedented levels by year end.
Precious metals Platinum production recovered from strike-affected 2014 Bulk commodities levels, with an estimated 14% increase in mined supply, to Steel demand fell globally by about 3% in 2015 the first reach levels similar to 2013.
Supply from autocatalyst annual decline since 2009 largely due to Chinese demand recycling, however, is thought to have decreased as softening by around 5%.
This resulted in a decrease in the recyclers held onto scrap in the low price environment.
consumption of both metallurgical coal and iron ore. Higher platinum offtake by the autocatalyst and industrial Iron ore fundamentals deteriorated on the back of declining sectors was largely offset by lower demand from the global demand and strong growth in low-cost supply, jewellery sector.
Combined with outflows from physical particularly from Australia.
A number of new projects are exchange traded funds ETFs, the net effect was a more ramping up, or are expected to be commissioned in the near balanced market in comparison with the substantial market future, delivering a total of 250 Mtpa of new supply since deficit in 2014.
Palladium demand for autocatalyst and 2013, equivalent to 12% of 2015 global supply, compared industrial applications was relatively stable year-on-year.
with demand growth of only 50 Mtpa.
In line with the platinum market, the increase in mined Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 09 Price Index, 1 January 2015 1.0 STRATEGIC REPORT MARKETPLACE REVIEW MARKETPLACE REVIEW continued In metallurgical coal, the slump in Chinese imports largely MANAGING CAPITAL ALLOCATION PRIORITIES offset stronger demand from India and other Asian markets, AND REDUCING DEBT with overall seaborne trade reducing slightly from 290 Mt The now lengthy period of commodity price weakness in 2014, to around 275 Mt.
While Australian supply was has had a significant impact on the health of mining maintained, other less competitive sources such as the companies balance sheets.
Across the mining sector, US and Canada were displaced.
companies are making efforts to preserve cash and The impact of Chinas slowing growth profile, coupled with reduce capital commitments.
Capital expenditure both an increase in hydro-power generation in the country, also future commitments and actual spend has been cut affected thermal coal demand there, with imports falling considerably, with few new projects being approved for by c. 25% year-on-year.
However, the continued reliance development and, indeed, corporate focus has now on thermal coal for power generation, particularly in the shifted to placing loss-making, excess capacity onto care developing world, has limited the downward price impact and maintenance.
of slowing growth relative to other bulk commodities.
A MORE DIFFICULT MINING ENVIRONMENT PROLONGED DOWNTURN IN COMMODITY PRICES Grade deterioration and ore reserve depletion are The combination of subdued demand and, in some important determinants of both longer term supply instances, oversupply of commodities has placed requirements and cost trends.
A wide variety of factors significant downward pressure on prices.
The chart on islikely to continue to provide structural upward cost page 9 shows the percentage reduction in the prices of pressure, including: availability of both water and power: the metals and minerals produced by AngloAmerican declining head grades: technical problems: increasing over the course of 2015. infrastructure costs as mines are built in more remote locations: and the shift to underground mining as easy to As the global market for commodities has deteriorated, access near-surface ore bodies are depleted.
Consequently, the mining sector has been characterised by a marked mining companies face a significant challenge to reduce reduction in costs in most regions, resulting in average costs and improve productivity against a background industry costs falling: for example, metallurgical coal costs of limited investment appetite and few significant have declined by an estimated 15% over the year.
However, breakthroughs in technological capability.
Technological the oversupply of many commodities has meant that prices innovation and a focus on operational improvements are have generally fallen by considerably more than costs, likely to be critical to the achievement of sustainable cost which has led to a significant portion of the industry and productivity improvements.
STAKEHOLDER ACTIVISM AND CHALLENGES FACING GOVERNMENT REGULATION THE MINING INDUSTRY Mining companies across the world are facing greater AND ANGLO AMERICAN demands and expectations from increasingly vocal stakeholder groups, with often competing interests.
In light of the global trends described above, there are Governments, which had become used to high levels of a number of challenges currently facing the mining industry revenue from mining at the peak of the commodity cycle, and AngloAmerican, including: are having to adjust to a much more challenging environment.
They are under pressure to strike a balance REDUCING COSTS between delivering more benefit and regulatory reform, while at the same time not deterring much-needed private Significant cost reductions and efficiency efforts are being sector investment.
undertaken across the mining industry in a bid to improve relative positions on commodity cost curves and, hence, profitability.
The measures being taken include: headcount TRAINING AND RETAINING SKILLED EMPLOYEES reductions: a focus on core assets to improve productivity, AND MAINTAINING SOUND LABOUR RELATIONS with many companies taking the decision to close capacity As mining methods become more technically complex, the and remove high cost production: and maintaining strong need to train and retain skilled staff becomes ever more capital discipline.
Lower oil prices have helped many important.
In an environment where older, less-productive producers lower their input costs although higher energy mines are being placed onto care and maintenance or sold, costs and high inflation in both South Africa and Brazil and technical innovation leads to more mines being have hampered cost reduction efforts in those commodity mechanised, maintaining positive labour relations enables producing countries, while the devaluation of many local business continuity and enhanced productivity, as skilled currencies is also helping miners costs in US dollar terms.
labour shortages and industrial unrest can significantly One of the effects of weakening local currencies, however, affect production and costs.
is that marginal producers are being supported for longer, thereby prolonging the period of oversupply.
10 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report ANGLO AMERICANS RESPONSE FOCUS ON fide BEERS, PORTFOLIO CASH FLOW ENHANCEMENTS In response to the significant challenges PGMS AND COPPER TRANSFORMATION FURTHER STRENGTHEN facing the mining industry as a whole UNDER WAY BALANCE SHEET and Anglo American, including the lower Materially streamlined core portfolio of 16 assets Nickel, Niobium and $1.9 billion of cost and commodity price environment, we have Phosphates, and Moranbah productivity improvements in set out the details of wide-ranging Improved competitive profile and Grosvenor metallurgical 2016, expected to continue advantaged cost positions, measures that will sustainably improve coal disposal processes into 2017 and beyond as the world class ore bodies, and cash flows and materially reduce net debt, under way organisation is aligned with balance of geographic streamlined portfolio while focusing the Groups strategy and and end markets Further progress made on streamlining the organisation.
other previously announced Step change 50% $250 million Asset quality, mineral disposal processes, including central and global support cost endowment options and Anglo American will be focused on certain platinum assets in reduction in the medium term scale to support future competitive, long life assets with South Africa, and thermal and opportunities 25% year-on-year reduction metallurgical coal operations considerable organic growth opportunities in total capex expected, to in South Africa and Australia.
Differentiated, premium that mine the materials expected to benefit less than $3.0 billion in 2016 positioning for expanding from long term, consumer-driven growth consumer-driven markets.
Dividend suspended and trends as the global economy evolves and will resume with payout ratio developing economies mature.
when appropriate Strong liquidity maintained, with c. $15 billion of cash and undrawn facilities.
FOCUSED PORTFOLIO THAT DELIVERS SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONSUMER ANGLO AMERICAN TRENDS TRENDS DELIVERS Current global economic trends The burgeoning middle class in Our core portfolio will focus on suggest slowing demand growth emerging markets is stimulating DeBeers, PGMs and Copper, driven for infrastructure investment consumer spending, while the by consumer-driven markets.
commodities, towards more developed world is experiencing consumer-driven product demand.
rising demand for clean energy technologies and renewables.
fide Beers 512 million 2%4.5% Through our 85% interest in fide Beers, the worlds leading diamond company, Forecast number of middle class households in Global rough diamond demand in we offer a differentiated and high China and India combined by 2030, compared real value terms is expected to grow quality position to meet growing to 204 million in 2015, a 150% increase.
between 2% and 4.5% annually over consumer demand.
Meeting PGMs 9 global As the worlds leading PGM 20 million consumerNine of the most important jurisdictions producer, we are helping to develop driven worldwide covering 80% of global car sales The number of electric vehicles, innovative technologies in fields demands are adopting more stringent vehicle emission including plug-in hybrid and fuel cell such as automotive, clean energy and fuel economy standards.
vehicles, the Electric Vehicles Initiative and chemicals.
Copper With interests in two of the worlds $270 billion largest copper mines, we supply 9,000 lbs Global new investment in renewable energy copper products to a range of industries, in 2014, an increase of 17% on 2013.
A photovoltaic solar farm plant can including telecommunications, use approximately 9,000 lbs of copper renewable energy technologies and per megawatt of peak capacity.
Sources: Bain & Company, The International Council on Clean Transportation, Frankfurt School UNEP Collaborating Centre, Copper Development For more information See page 16 Association Inc. and Clean Energy Ministerial.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 11
