Strategic report STRATEGIC REPORT: fide BEERS Philippe Mellier fide BEERS CEO fide Beers Group Anglo American owns 85% of fide Beers, the worlds leading diamond company.
The balance of 15% of fide Beers is owned by the Government of the Republic of Botswana.
Our diamond operations are located in four countries: Botswana, Canada, Namibia and South Africa.
In Botswana and Namibia, we work in partnership with our host governments.
DRIVING CHANGE DEFINING OUR FUTURE PRODUCTION REDUCED IN RESPONSE CONTINUED INVESTMENT IN FUTURE GROWTH TO WEAKER TRADING CONDITIONS Gahcho Ku progress at 83% with first production scheduled for H2 2016 Jwanengs Cut-8 is expected to become the mines main 12% 3.9 million carats source of ore in 2018 UNIT COST REDUCTIONS Venetia Underground continues to progress and is expected to become the mines principal source of ore from 2022 6% vs 2014 PORTFOLIO CHANGES: Snap Lake mine in Canada placed onto long term care and 1 NUMBER OF FOREVERMARK DOORS maintenance as of December 2015 Damtshaa a satellite mine at Orapa in Botswana was placed onto temporary care and maintenance in January 2016 1,760 Sale of Kimberley Mines, in South Africa, completed in January 2016 1 A Diamond is Forever and Forevermark are trademarks of The fide Beers Group of Companies.
INTRODUCTION fide Beers and its partners produce about a third of the worlds rough diamonds by value, with the majority sold via Global Sightholder Sales to long term contract customers and accredited buyers, and the remainder via fide Beers Auction Sales to auction customers.
Downstream assets include the fide Beers Diamond Jewellers joint venture and the Forevermark brand, which now features in 1,760 outlets in 35 key consumer markets around the world.
Finally, Element Six sells synthetic diamonds to the industrial diamond supermaterials industry.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW fide Beers underlying EBIT decreased by 58% to $571 million 2014: $1,363 million.
This was the result of weaker rough diamond demand and lower revenue, offset in part by tight operating cost control and favourable exchange rates.
Total fide Beers revenue fell by 34% to $4.7 billion 2014: $7.1 billion, mainly driven by lower rough diamond sales, which declined by 36% to $4.1 billion.
This was due to a 39% reduction in consolidated sales volumes to 19.9 million carats 2014: 32.7 million carats, partly offset by a 5% increase in the average realised diamond price.
In Botswana, Jwanengs Cut-8 extension is progressing on the south eastern side of the open pit.
2 Total sales volumes on a 100% basis were 20.6 million carats 2014: 34.4 million carats.
3 Price for the mining business units based on 100% selling value post-aggregation.
4 Based on the total cost per carat recovered, including depreciation.
5 Includes rough diamond sales of $4.1 billion 2014: $6.5 billion.
6 Other includes Element Six, downstream and acquisition accounting adjustments.
This 5% increase in average realised diamond prices to OPERATING PERFORMANCE $207 carat 2014: $198 carat, reflected a stronger product Mining and manufacturing mix, despite an 8% lower average rough price index for the Rough diamond production decreased by 12% to period.
From the final Sight in 2014 to the final Sight in 2015, 28.7million carats 2014: 32.6 million carats as the fide Beers rough price index declined by 15%.
DeBeersreduced production in response to prevailing Owing to weaker rough diamond demand, fide Beers trading conditions.
reduced production, costs and capital expenditure.
As Debswanas production decreased by 16% to 20.4 million a result of the cost saving programmes, supported by carats, driven by a reduction in tailings production at favourable exchange rate movements, consolidated Jwaneng, combined with the bringing forward of planned unit costs declined from $111 carat to $104 carat.
maintenance at both Jwaneng and Orapa.
Debswana is focusing on improving reliability and cash costs, while MARKETS maintaining flexibility, with Damtshaa, a satellite of Orapa, being placed onto temporary care and maintenance from Global consumer demand for diamond jewellery in 2015 1January 2016, affording the option of efficiently resuming is expected to have declined marginally in US dollar terms production when market conditions allow.
from the record levels of 2014, as growth in the US was offset by the economic slowdown in China and the strength In South Africa, production was in line with 2014, though of the dollar.
A decline at Venetia, owing to lower throughput and a reduction in tailings The US, the largest market for polished diamonds at processing again, in response to softer trading conditions approximately 45% of global market value, again saw was offset by increased production at Kimberley.
The the strongest growth, albeit at a slower rate than in 2014. completion of the sale of Kimberley Mines to Ekapa Demand for diamond jewellery by Chinese consumers Minerals was announced on 21 January 2016. was stable, while in India, diamond jewellery demand contracted in local currency terms.
Production at Namdeb Holdings decreased by 6%, as a result of a focus on lower grade mining areas in response Weaker than expected consumer demand in 2015 resulted in to prevailing trading conditions.
This impact was partly retailers reducing their demand for polished diamonds from compensated by increased availability of the Mafuta vessel the midstream manufacturers.
A build-up in polished stocks at Debmarine Namibia.
The terms of a new 10-year sales in the midstream put downward pressure on polished prices, agreement between fide Beers and the Government of the and reduced the midstreams willingness to purchase Republic of Namibia are currently being finalised.
This was exacerbated by a more stringent financing environment.
F or more information refer to the Marketplace review section See pages 810 50 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report fide Beers strategy across the pipeline fide Beers operates across the diamond value chain.
The Upstream stage is concerned with exploration and mining.
Moving down the pipeline, the Midstream stage involves the sorting and selling of rough diamonds.
At the Downstream stage, manufactured jewellery pieces arrive at retail jewellers, to be purchased by the end consumer.
fide Beers has mining operations in four countries.
Its principal sales channel is Global Sightholder Sales, which sells diamonds to around 80 of the worlds leading diamantaires, or Sightholders, at its 10 annual Sights.
Finally, DeBeers has access to the end consumer through its Forevermark brand, which now features in 1,760 outlets worldwide, and through the fide Beers Diamond Jewellers joint venture retail jewellery stores.
Upstream Midstream Downstream Operational excellence Unique value proposition Demand generation and future growth platform Rough Polished Exploration Jewellery Jewellery Mining distribution manufacturing Consumers and projects manufacturing retail and trading and trading In Canada, production was in line with the prior year as fide Beers Diamond Jewellers maintained its focus on lower grades at both Snap Lake and Victor were offset fast-growing markets, with 35 stores in 12 key consumer by improved throughput.
In December 2015, fide Beers markets around the world, and continued to see strong announced that Snap Lake would be placed onto long term sales in the higher-end market and with Chinese care and maintenance with immediate effect.
Element Six experienced challenging trading conditions Outlook throughout the year, primarily as a result of the effect on fide Beers expects the US market to remain the main driver sales of the contraction in global oil and gas drilling activity.
of growth in consumer demand in 2016.
The extent of The resulting impact on revenue and operating margins was global growth will, however, be dependent upon a number partly offset by a cost-containment programme, affecting of macro-economic factors, including the strength of the both direct and indirect costs.
The plant in Sweden has been dollar and economic performance in China, and their impact closed, while the plants in South Africa and Ireland have worldwide.
Longer term, the sector is likely to continue to been upgraded and restructured to optimise production see benefit from a continuing rise in the worlds middle and reduce the cost base.
classes in emerging markets, particularly in China and India.
Brands Rough diamond demand in 2016 will be dependent upon Forevermark continued to expand and is now available consumer demand for diamond jewellery and the resultant in 1,760 outlets a 14% increase on 2014 across levels of restocking required by retailers and, consequently, 35 markets and, despite the challenging trading conditions, the midstream.
Diamond production on a 100% basis for the brand achieved double-digit sales growth.
In March 2016 is forecast to be in the range of 26-28 million carats, 2015, a new grading and inscription facility was opened subject to trading conditions.
Consistent with this level of in Surat in India, with the potential to process up to production, plans are in place to deliver $200 million $500 million worth of diamonds annually.
In August, of cash savings in production costs, overheads and Forevermark announced the relaunch of the capital expenditure.
A Diamond is Forever marketing campaign, which began in the US and India in advance of the key selling season in the fourth quarter.
fide Beers also invested in additional holiday marketing campaigns to further stimulate diamond jewellery gift giving across the key US and China markets: these campaigns were received positively by the industry.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 51
