OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION INPUTS EXPLORATION EVALUATION CONSTRUCTION EXTRACTION PROCESSING MARKETING RESTORATION OUTPUTS Key inputs and cost base The Groups mining operations depend on key inputs, such as energy, water, labour and fuel.
For cathode producers such as Centinela, Antucoya and Zaldvar, which use the SX-EW process, sulphuric acid is also a key input.
The availability and cost of such inputs lie at the heart of the Groups cost management strategy, which focuses on cost control and security of supply.
Chilean central and northern grid spot energy prices $ MWh The Groups two largest operations, LosPelambres and Centinela, are 250 competitively positioned on the copper industry cost curve.
This reflects low H1 2014 200 Average $155 operating costs andsignificant by-product H1 2015 credits.
The Group cash cost guidance for Average $133 150 2016, before by-product credits, is $1.65 lb, H2 2014 Average $107 some 9% lower than achieved in 2015.
100 H2 2015 The initiatives below, implemented by the Average $58 Groups procurement department contribute 50 H1 2014 H2 2014 H1 2015 to the reductions required to lower unit H2 2015 Average $88 Average $63 Average $54 costs, even while mine grades are declining.
0 Average $48 Dec 2013 Jun 2014 Dec 2014 Jun 2015 Dec 2015 Cost and Competitiveness Programme Central grid SIC Northern grid SING The Group introduced the Cost and Source: SIC and SING Competitive Programme in 2014, with theaim of reducing the cost base and Exchange rate Ch$ $ improving the Groups competitiveness within the industry.
450 During 2015, the Group continued to focus 500 onreducing its operating costs through itsintegrated Cost and Competitiveness 550 Programme.
The Group achieved cost savings of approximately $150 million.
The target for 600 H1 2014 Average 553 2016 is set at an incremental $160 million.
H2 2014 650 Average 587 H1 2015 The programme focuses on four areas: Average 621 700 Services productivity: Improving H2 2015 750 Average 687 productivity and quality of contracts whilereducing costs Dec 2013 Jun 2014 Dec 2014 Jun 2015 Dec 2015 Actions: Negotiated corporate level agreements and associated price reductions for key consumables such as tyres, fuel, lubricants, grinding media, mining equipment and spare parts as well assolvents and reagents Undertook rationalisation and negotiation of smaller contracts Implemented a new contractor management system to measure contractors efficiency in providing services Antofagasta plc 19 Business model Key inputs and cost base Operational and maintenance The Group endeavours to procure medium management: Improving and long-term electricity contracts at each performance of critical processes and mine.
The cost, in most cases, is linked implementation of standard maintenance to the current cost of electricity on the management practices Chilean grids or the generation costs of aparticular supplier, with the latter subject Actions: to adjustments for inflation and each Group-wide initiative to reduce generators fuel input prices.
consumption of items such as fuel, In 2012, Los Pelambres was facing an grinding media and energy energy market with scarce availability of Developed maintenance schedules while long-term PPAs indexed to more stable optimising utilisation of critical equipment fuel input prices, leaving it exposed to spot energy prices.
To mitigate this exposure, Corporate and organisational the Group has taken certain actions to effectiveness: Reducing costs improve Los Pelambres security of supply, and restructuring the Groups investing in Chiles largest wind-power plant, organisational functions El Arrayn, which now provides some 20% Actions: of Los Pelambres energy requirements.
Los Pelambres has also signed long-term Conducted an organisational restructuring PPAs with two solar power providers for programme in October 2015, with further atotal of 50MW of power and a short-term restructuring planned for 2016 PPA for another 50MW.
One solar PPA During the year, the Group was Reduction in corporate costs such as commenced in 2015 and the second will consultancy and travel commence in mid-2016.
During 2015, able to save over $150 million LosPelambres also started to receive power Energy efficiency: Optimising energy due to the implementation of under a long-term PPA from a coal-fired efficiencies, while achieving lower contract power plant.
These PPAs, together with the Cost and Competitiveness prices for energy one signed in 2013 as part of the Groups Programme.
Actions: investment in Alto Maipo, will provide all of Los Pelambres energy requirements Signed long-term PPAs with two solar atcompetitive and stable prices from 2019. power providers for a total of 50MW ofpower, one of the PPAs commenced All Group operations located on the SING during 2015 and the second PPA is due benefit from long-term contracts, mostly tocommence in mid-2016 indexed to the price of coal.
Zaldvar had anexisting long-term PPA securing 100% Reviewed abatement cost curves of ofits power demand until 2020. each mine and defined specific energyMore on Energy on page 51. efficiency projects for each operation Energy The Group sources its energy from the two electricity grids in Chile: the northern grid SING supplies the Centinela, Antucoya and Zaldvar mines, and the central grid SIC supplies Los Pelambres.
In the SING, approximately 80% of the energy comes from coal-fired power stations and 5% from wind and solar plants, with the remainder from LNG and diesel-powered plants.
In the SIC, approximately 50% of the energy comes from hydroelectric plants, 5% from wind and solar generation, and the remainder is from coal, gas and diesel-fuelled plants.
Due to the SICs reliance on hydroelectric power, the cost ofenergy fluctuates depending on the level of precipitation, whereas on the SING costs tend to be more stable.
20 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION INPUTS EXPLORATION EVALUATION CONSTRUCTION EXTRACTION PROCESSING MARKETING RESTORATION OUTPUTS Water Service contracts and key supplies Over the last two years, the Groups material stocks have been reduced by a Water is a precious commodity in The Central Procurement Department is third, equivalent to $75 million, without the regions where the Groups mines repositioning the Group as a single entity compromising service levels.
operate, so the recycling of water is of rather than several separate operations.
Procurement policies and procedures The Group has recently upgraded its financial have been standardised.
A central group and management systems implementing Water for each operation is sourced of subject matter experts now defines SAP, an enterprise resource planning system either from the sea or from surface and categories of products and services.
that centrally manages all stock codes, underground sources.
Each operation has There are new corporate level agreements inventories and supply contracts.
the necessary permits for the long-term with price reductions and discounts in supply of water at current production levels.
The procurement of supplies for the high spend categories such as tyres, fuel, Zaldvar operation has been fully integrated The Group optimises water efficiency lubricants, pick-up trucks, explosives and into the Groups centralised procurement by using desalinated sea water, reducing blasting, grinding media, mining equipment system and will benefit from existing Group demand and encouraging recycling across and spare parts as well as solvents and supply contracts.
Water reuse rates depend reagents.
This will save over $150 million on a range of factors and the Group seeks over the coming five years.
Oil price toachieve between 7085% depending In 2015, the procurement team analysed Fuel represents a small proportion of total onthe characteristics of each operation.
thetop 20 contractors across each operation costs and is used in trucks transporting ore The Group has pioneered the use in order to standardise procurement and waste at the mine sites.
Nevertheless, of untreated sea water at its Chilean practices, re-scope major service contracts improving fuel efficiency is a priority, with operations, with both Centinela and and seek price reductions with suppliers the litres of fuel consumed per tonne of Antucoya using this process.
In 2015, in exchange for centralised agreements.
material extracted being a key measure.
seawater accounted for 45.5% of total The Group continually reviews its Fuel is supplied by Chiles two largest Group water use.
procurement processes and existing suppliers to avoid sole supplier risk.
agreements and has identified additional More on Managing a sustainable business The oil price also affects the spot price onpages 53 to 63. cost-saving opportunities to be taken in of energy, shipping rates for supplies and the coming years as part of the Cost and Labour products and the cost of items such as tyres Competitiveness Programme.
and conveyor belts which contain oil-based Secure labour supply is key to the Groups In total, the Group has over 1,000 contracts products.
The oil price fell by approximately success.
Labour agreements with unions for goods and services.
All key contracts, 30% during 2015 and this weakness has are in place at all of the Groups mining such as for tyres, grinding media, mining continued in early 2016.
This will affect operations, generally covering periods of and mobile equipment, chemicals, the Groups costs, but the impact will not four years.
In 2014, new labour agreements explosives, camp administration and be significant.
were negotiated at all operations, except maintenance, are under long-term Zaldvar, securing terms of employment for agreements.
Price adjustment formulas Exchange rate all employees until 2018 and at Zaldvar until reflect current market downturns of key Costs are affected by the Chilean peso to 2017.
The Group continues to foster good cost elements, such as steel, petrol, coal, USdollar exchange rate, as approximately working relationships with its employees etc.
Contracts are normally between the 35-40% of the mining divisions operating and labour unions and to date there has operation and the supplier, but tender costs are in Chilean pesos.
However, the beenno industrial action.
andnegotiation processes are mostly exchange rate often acts as a natural hedge Contractors make up approximately 72% co-ordinated or even led centrally by as over half of Chiles foreign exchange of the total workforce across all Group the Central Procurement Department is generated from copper sales and so operations.
Labour negotiations for the tomaximise leverage and benefits.
movements in the copper price tend to contractors workforce are the responsibility affect the exchange rate.
During 2015, the The Groups corporate procurement team of contractors.
The Group maintains strong peso weakened by 14% from Ch$570 $1 uses a variety of strategies, from full price relations with all contractors to ensure in2014 to Ch$654 $1 in 2015.
During competition, price auctions or sourcing in operational continuity.
the first two months of 2016, the peso China, to working with strategic suppliers averaged Ch$712 $1.
to reduce the costs to each party and Sulphuric acid achieve a sustainable, longer-term lower The sulphuric acid market weakened during cost base for future growth.
To foster this 2015, mainly due to lower consumption co-operative approach, the Group has in the fertiliser industry.
In Chile, acid engaged productivity experts to map the consumption at mine operations decreased operations and understand value streams as lower copper prices affected production, and opportunities for the Group to increase lowering the regional deficit and causing efficiency and reduce costs.
prices to drop by the end of the year.
The Central Procurement Department The Group secures most of its sulphuric continually seeks to increase productivity, acid requirements for a year or longer at optimise service contracts, reduce relevant specified rates, normally agreed in the latter supply costs and better manage inventory part of the previous year.
Therefore, the levels, as well as consolidating minor decline in demand is likely to benefit the suppliers for non-critical goods and services.
