Corporate Governance Statement Board of Directors 3 1 4 2 1.
Brian McBride Non-Executive Chairman of Founder and Chief Executive Chief Operating Officer and Senior Independent the Board and Chairman of Officer Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director the Nomination Committee and Chairman of the Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Remuneration Committee 2 August 2005 AO Retail Limited 13October 2005 Appointment to the Board 19April 2000 1 August 2008 Appointment to the Board Relevant experience 6 February 2014 Relevant experience Prior to joining AO, Steve was Finance Relevant experience John is a founding Director and Director with Phones 4U Limited Richard has a wealth of experience Relevant experience established the business of the Group between 2001 and 2003 and held senior chairing high profile boards.
He has Brian is currently Chairman of ASOS Plc in 2000.
Having previously worked positions at MyTravel Plc and Preston been Non-Executive Chairman of and Wiggle Ltd, the private equity extensively in the kitchen appliance North End Plc.
He holds a degree in Crawshaw Plc since 2007, Anpario Plc owned pure play online cycling retailer.
industry, he has been instrumental in Mathematics and is an associate of the since 2005 and fashion retailer Blue Inc.
He is also a Senior Adviser with Scottish using the internet as a platform to Institute of Chartered Accountants of since April 2014.
Previously he has held Equity Partners, a member of the UK change the way in which kitchen England and Wales.
Age 46. a number of positions in organisations Governments Digital Advisory Board appliances are sold in the United such as AC Electrical Wholesale, where and a member of the Court Governing Kingdom.
Since co-founding the Group, Committee membership he was Chairman from 2003 to 2006 Body of the University of Glasgow.
He John has presided over the evolution of Steve attends the Remuneration, and Whittard of Chelsea Plc, where he was previously Managing Director of the business and led the management Audit and Nomination Committees was Chief Executive Officer and then Amazon.
co. uk and has had previous team which has successfully developed by invitation.
Executive Chairman from 2004 to experience as a Non-Executive Director and expanded the Groups business 2006.
Richard was appointed Nonat Celtic Football Club Plc, SThree Plc, during periods of challenging market Executive Chairman Designate of Computacenter Plc, the BBC and the conditions and with a limited capital Item purchased: insurance claims company Quindell Plc Advisory Board of Huawei UK.
He is from Bolton and is a Cycling helmet from Wiggle.
in January 2015 and, in accordance with holds a masters degree in Economics, passionate supporter of staff best practice under the Code, he will History and Politics.
Age 59. participation in local charitable causes.
What did you like about the step down as Non-Executive Chairman Age 41. experience?
of Booker Group Plc in July 2015 having Significant external appointments The extra little touches made the whole served three terms of three years each.
ASOS Plc Committee membership experience that bit more enjoyable.
Wiggle Limited John attends the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees Significant external appointments Committee membership by invitation.
Anpario Plc Brian is Chair of the Remuneration Booker Group Plc Committee and a member of the Crawshaw Group Plc Nomination Committee.
Item purchased: Marlow Retail Limited Basket of food from Ocado.
trading as Blue Inc Quindell Plc currently Item purchased: What did you like about the Chairman designate Golf clubs from Amazon.
Ease of web-journey, fantastic app, Committee membership What did you like about the great service and fresh produce.
Richard chairs the Nomination experience?
Item purchased: Camera lens from Wex.
What did you like about the experience?
We want everyone at AO to always think like a customer.
This year, we asked the Board to show us the last thing they bought online and to describe the experience they had.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 46 Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 5 8 6 7 5.
Rudi Lamprecht Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Director Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Audit Committee 2 August 2005 AO Retail Limited 12 December 2005 Appointment to the Board 30 September 2003 17 January 2014 Appointment to the Board Relevant experience 5 February 2014 Relevant experience Following university, Chris joined the Relevant experience Bill was formerly the Chief Executive Royal Air Force as a pilot officer and In 2009, Rudi founded East-WestRelevant experience Officer of Holroyd Meek.
He was also worked as an analyst for Cazenove.
Connect GmbH & Co. KG and occupies Marisa is a qualified ICAEW chartered an investor in and Chairman of Millies Chris subsequently joined Mark II, a UK the roles of both President and Chief accountant and finance professional Cookies, which was sold to Compass distributor of kitchen and bathroom Executive Officer.
He is also currently with 40 years of experience and was Group Plc in 2003, and Chairman of products, in 1986.
He holds a degree in a Non-Executive Director of Duagon AG previously Finance Director of the UK and investor in Positive Solutions Ltd. Economics & Computer Science and a and Fujitsu Technology Solutions Division of Prudential Group.
Between He is currently an investor in and masters degree in Logistics.
Holding B. V. and was previously a 2001 and 2006 she was Finance Director Non-Executive Director of Warrington Non-Executive Director of BSH Bosch of the Post Office subsequently Royal Sports Holdings Ltd and Chairman of Significant external appointments und Siemens Hausgerte GmbH & Co. Mail, and between 2006 and 2012 she and investor in TD4 Ltd.
In addition, Better Business Support Ltd KG, Osram Licht AG and Safe ID was Finance Director of the John Lewis Bill is Chairman of Onside Youth Zones Clifton Trade Bathrooms Ltd Solutions AG.
Rudi worked for Hewlett Partnership Plc and its subsidiaries.
and a Trustee of Save the Family.
Packard in various positions in Europe Marisa was a Non-Executive Director Committee membership and the United States for approximately of Partnership Plc and has been a Significant external appointments Chris is a member of the Nomination 20 years.
Rudi holds a degree in Non-Executive Director of GFI Group Warrington Sports Holdings Ltd Committee.
Computer Science and has studied at Inc since 2005 and a Non-Executive TD4 Ltd Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Director of Skipton Group since 2012.
Onside Youth Zones the European Institute for Business She was appointed as a Non-Executive Save the Family Item purchased: Administration and Stanford University.
Director of Enterprise Inns Plc in April A book on Amazon.
2015 and The Peoples Operator Plc in Committee membership October 2014.
Marisa holds a degree in Bill is a member of the Audit and What did you like about the Significant external appointments Physics from Imperial College London Remuneration Committees.
EWC East-West-Connect GmbH and is an associate of the Institute of Using one click, which is the best way & Co. KG Chartered Accountants of England and to transact bar none.
Marisa also sits on the Economics Item purchased: Fujitsu Technology Solutions Affairs Committee of the CBI and is a A retro Porsche keyring to go with Julies Holding B. V. panel member of the Competition and 356 convertible.
Committee membership What did you like about the Rudi is a member of the Audit Significant external appointments experience?
Skipton Group Holdings Ltd A small purchase, but the attention to GFI Group Inc detail from the vendor was terrific.
Enterprise Inns Plc Personal message on receipt of the Item purchased: The Peoples Operator Plc order and then a personal follow up once Speakers from Otto-Versand.
The keyring Committee membership came with a nice welcome from the What did you like about the Marisa is the Chair of the Audit vendor too.
OK, so he is a small vendor, experience?
Committee and is a member of the but none the less it was a great My experience was very positive.
Everything they promised regarding delivery was fulfilled 100% and the quality of the product is excellent.
Item purchased: Linen from White Company.
Companies sometimes need to just let the product sell itself.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47
