OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Corporate Governance Report Effectiveness The Board in more detail Board composition and roles Chairman Jean-Paul Luksic Non-Executive Chairman.
Leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness in all aspects of its duties.
More information is provided in Promotes the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance.
Sets the agenda for Board meetings in consultation with the Secretary to the Board, other Directors and members of senior management.
Chairs meetings and ensures that there is adequate time available for discussion of all agenda items with a focus on strategic, rather than routine, issues.
Promotes a culture of openness and debate within the Board by facilitating the effective contribution of all Directors.
Oversees Director development, induction, performance evaluation and relations with shareholders.
Senior Independent Director William Hayes The Board is satisfied as to Provides a sounding board for the Chairman and supports the Chairman in the his independence.
delivery of his objectives as required.
More information is provided in Where necessary, acts as an intermediary between the Chairman and the other theBoard biographies on pages members of the Board or Group CEO.
Acts as an additional point of contact for shareholders focusing on the Groups governance and strategy, and gives shareholders a means of raising concerns otherthan with the Chairman or senior management.
Non-Executive Directors Ramn Jara These Directors do not meet one or more Provide a range of outside perspectives to the Group and encourage robust debate Hugo Dryland of the independence criteria set out in the with, and challenge of, the Groups executive management.
Andrnico Luksic UK Corporate Governance Code.
Ensure that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Boards Gonzalo Menndez More information is provided in decision-making.
Juan Claro theBoard biographies on pages 74to76.
Independent Non-Executive Directors Tim Baker These Directors meet the independence No connection with the Group or any other Director which could be seen Ollie Oliveira criteria set out in the UK Corporate tocompromise independence.
Vivianne Blanlot Governance Code and the Board is Provide a range of outside perspectives to the Group and encourage robust debate Jorge Bande satisfied as to their independence.
with, and challenge of, the Groups executive management.
More information is provided in Ensure that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the theBoard biographies on pages 74to76.
Board balance As at the date of this report the Board has 11 Directors, comprising The Board carefully considered the independence of all Directors in a Non-Executive Chairman and ten Non-Executive Directors.
2015 and is satisfied that William Hayes continues to demonstrate The Board considers five of these Non-Executive Directors to be the qualities of independent character and judgement in carrying out independent.
The Board is satisfied that the balance of the Board, his role as a Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director, in terms of background, gender and independence, limits the scope notwithstanding that the ninth anniversary of his appointment was for an individual or small group of individuals to dominate the Boards in September 2015.
In reaching this conclusion, the Board has taken decision-making.
The Board considers that a board comprising into account: exclusively of Non-Executive Directors is valuable both in terms the entirely Non-Executive composition of the Board which is of providing a range of outside perspectives to the Group and in designed to promote independent oversight of, and constructive encouraging robust debate with, and challenge of, the Groups challenge of, management: executive management.
that there are no relationships or circumstances that are likely The Directors biographies provide details of their Committee toaffect, or could appear to affect, Mr Hayes judgement: and memberships as well as other principal directorships and external roles, and demonstrate a detailed knowledge of the mining industry, that Mr Hayes character and the manner in which he performs significant international business experience and a diversity of core hisrole clearly demonstrate independent thought and judgement.
All Directors have confirmed that their other Mr Hayes retains his role as Senior Independent Director and will commitments do not prevent them from devoting sufficient time offer himself for re-election at this years Annual General Meeting.
Antofagasta plc 79 Corporate Governance Report Effectiveness The Board in more detail Board balance Director location Director tenure Director independence A A A D B C B B D C C A Chile 7 A 13 years 3 A Chairman 1 B USA 2 B 47 years 3 B Independent 5 C Canada 1 C 810 years 1 C Non-Independent 5 D UK 1 D More than 10 years 4 Board meetings and activities Board meeting attendance Ten meetings were held during Number attended Maximum possible the year.
Jean-Paul Luksic 10 10 Each Director withdrew from any William Hayes 10 10 meeting when his or her own Gonzalo Menndez 8 10 position was being considered.
Ramn Jara 10 10 Juan Claro 9 10 All Directors in office at the Hugo Dryland 10 10 time of the 2015 Annual General Tim Baker 10 10 Meeting attended that meeting.
Ollie Oliveira 10 10 Andrnico Luksic 3 10 Vivianne Blanlot 9 10 Jorge Bande 10 10 2015 Board calendar 1 JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC AGM 1 The Board met twice in October 2015.
80 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Board activities during the year Strategy and management Board and senior management structure held two stand-alone strategy days with particular focus reviewed succession plans for all Directors and on projects, business development and exploration, members of senior management competitiveness and costs, human resources and talent oversaw the merger of the business development and stakeholder management and exploration areas into a single Vice Presidency reviewed in detail the Groups transport, energy and responsible for all development activities water strategies, including initiatives such as the need established a Projects Committee for a desalination plant at Los Pelambres approved the Cost and Competitiveness Programme reviewed and monitored the implementation of strategy which is designed to mitigate the earnings reduction and performance of each Executive Committee resulting from the drop in copper prices members team during the year Internal controls and risk management Approval of material transactions oversaw a review of the Groups internal control and approved key steps in the Groups growth plans, risk management systems and reported in accordance executing the acquisition of 100% of Duluth Metals with these systems Limited and of 50% of Minera Zaldvar oversaw the implementation of the new Group enterprise approved the divestment of the Groups water division, resource planning ERP system Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. and the closure of Michilla reviewed the impact on the Groups position of new tax approved the merger of wholly owned subsidiary, legislation adopted in Chile CCM Encuentro, into Centinela resulting in the contribution of Encuentro mining properties located adopted revised disclosure procedures and share in the Centinela Mining District to Centinela dealing policies approved construction of a molybdenum plant and the pre-feasibility study for a second concentrator at Minera Centinela Governance and shareholder engagement Financial and performance reporting met with shareholders and proxy advisors to discuss approved the Groups annual and half-year results corporate governance issues reviewed the Groups ongoing capital management reviewed and updated Board policies and approved the final and interim dividends paid out to shareholders during 2015 conducted an internal evaluation of the Boards effectiveness reviewed the Groups performance against KPIs, including safety indicators reviewed and monitored the Groups operational and project performance approved the Groups 2016 budget, scorecard, commercial and financial parameters, and base case and development case production scenarios Antofagasta plc 81 Corporate Governance Report Effectiveness Information and professional development All new Directors receive a thorough induction on joining the Board.
This typically includes briefings on the Groups operations and projects, meetings with the Chairman, other Directors and senior executives, briefings on the legal, regulatory and other duties and requirements of a director of a UK-listed company and visits to the Groups key operations.
The Company provides Directors with the necessary resources to Information flow at Board meetings develop and update their knowledge and capabilities.
In particular, the Directors are regularly updated on the Groups business, thecompetitive and regulatory environment in which it operates and other changes affecting the Group as a whole.
In 2015, this included detailed presentations from management during the two Chairman agrees Board strategy sessions, presentations from external commercial the meeting agenda intelligence firms and briefings from external advisors on key changes to the regulatory and legal environment impacting the Group.
The Directors based outside Chile visit the country regularly to attend Board meetings and for other meetings with management.
The Directors based outside the UK also regularly visit this country, normally at least once a year to attend the Companys Annual General Board papers are circulated Meeting, which is held in London.
in advance of meetings The Board and its Committees receive an analysis of the matters for consideration in advance of each Board or Committee meeting.
They also receive regular reports including analysis of key metrics in respect of operational, financial, environmental and social performance, as well as key developments in the Groups exploration and business development activities, information on the commodity markets, the Groups talent management activities and analysis of the Board meeting Groups financial investments.
The standing topics to be covered in Board meetings are agreed at the beginning of the year.
The standing topics to be considered at the planned meetings in 2016 are set out opposite.
Pre-reading materials are sent to Board and Committee members a week in advance and the Board and each Committee maintains an action list that is reviewed at the beginning of each meeting to ensure that the Boards enquiries are clearly identified Action list prepared, andresponded to.
monitored and updated All Directors have access to management and to such further information as is needed to carry out their duties and responsibilities fully and effectively.
Relevant management present to the Board and its Committees on the operational or development matters under consideration, allowing close interaction between the Board members and a wide range of executive management.
Key actions achieved All Directors are entitled to seek independent professional advice concerning the affairs of the Group at the Companys expense.
The Company has appropriate insurance in place to cover the Directors against legal action against them.
82 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 2016 Board calendar JAN MAR APR MAY Topics Interim 2015 Q4 Results Interim 2015 Full-Year Results Interim Q1 Results Mining Operations Base Case 2015 Performance Risk Management Update Projects Strategy Exploration Strategy Scorecard Results Human Resources Strategy Sustainability Strategy Resources and Reserves Compliance Report Competitiveness and Sustainability Report Safety and Health Strategy Insurance Strategy Costs Programme 2016 Legal Strategy AGM Agenda JUN AUG OCT NOV Topics Group Strategy Interim Q2 Results Interim Q3 Results 2017 Budgets Half-Year Report Energy Strategy 2017 Performance Scorecard 2016 Sales Strategy 2017 Board Calendar and Conflicts of Interest Review Agenda Topics Commercial and Human Resources Update Financial Parameters Financing Strategy Sulphuric Acid Strategy Compliance Report Talent Succession Plans Case Study: Information and Professional Development It is essential for the Board continually to monitor These sessions were held between the Board strategy and understand copper market fundamentals.
sessions and played an important role in focusing In September 2015, the Board and senior executives the discussion topics at the strategy session held were briefed by external commercial intelligence firms in November.
on the condition of the copper market which included an in-depth analysis of supply and consumption More information: expectations and variables impacting on costs.
co. uk Antofagasta plc 83 Corporate Governance Report Effectiveness Performance evaluation During 2015, the Company Secretary and the Secretary to the to strengthen the Boards focus on strategic issues by prioritising Board worked with the Nomination and Governance Committee strategic decisions in the Boards agenda and by setting aside and the Board to implement the remaining recommendations twoseparate sessions outside the Boardroom to focus only made by Independent Audit Limited in its externally facilitated on strategy: evaluation oftheBoard in 2013 with specific focus on the areas to establish a Projects Committee to work with management forimprovements that were highlighted in the 2014 internal review.
onthe content and depth of project reviews: and In particular, steps were taken: t o include succession planning and metrics relating to development to restructure the Boards agenda to enhance debate and facilitate plans and goals in the Human Resources Strategy and updates constructive discussion where decision-making was required which are reviewed by the Board semi-annually.
bythe Board: 2015 Internal evaluation 2016 External evaluation The Secretary to the Board also performed a separate internal Independent Audit Limited will again conduct an externally facilitated evaluation of the performance of the Board and itsCommittees evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees during the year.
This was facilitated through a structured in 2016.
The purpose of this review will be to review progress in questionnaire completed by Directors.
A summary of the results closing the gaps that were identified in the 2013 review, evaluate ofthe evaluation is as follows.
how the Group has responded to changes in the UK Corporate Governance Code, analyse the Companys response to the new FRC guidance onInternal Control and Risk Management and to compare Strengths: the way the Board and its Committees operate versus other large understanding of roles and responsibilities and corporate publicly-listed companies in the UK.
governance responsibilities: This is being conducted in two phases: an initial stage in January hasassessed positively the progress against the 2013 action plan: the Boards open and respectful work environment: atthe end of the year a follow-up will assess the further development the Boards leadership in values, ethics, sustainability of the Boards work during 2016. and diversity: the quality of Board documents including action lists and Performance Evaluation Cycle: Overview minutes:and 2013 2014 and 2015 2016 technically strong, committed and productive Board Committees.
External Implementation of 2013 External evaluation evaluation recommendations facilitated by commenced by Areas where improvement has been made: completed by the Company Secretary and the Independent Independent Secretary to the Board Audit Limited focus on strategy: Audit Limited inJanuary 2016 Internal reviews to identify areas and opportunities for improvement agenda ownership and decision-making: in the implementation of the risk management: recommendations made following the external review Board policies: and Annual evaluation of the Chairman project evaluation, reviews, approvals, stewardship and learnings.
by the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director Opportunities for further improvement: the need to visit Operating Companies: learning from market and peers initiatives: improving time management during sessions: striking an appropriate balance between mining and transportdivision reporting: further strengthening the focus on Board succession planning, training and people issues:and continuing to consider strategic opportunities for overseas growth.
During the year, led by the Senior Independent Director, theNon-Executive Directors met without the Chairman present andevaluated the Chairmans performance.
The Senior Independent Director and the Secretary to the Board subsequently met with the Chairman to provide feedback.
The Chairman used these comments further to develop the effective operation of the Board.
84 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015
