Directors Report Directors Capital structure Directors that have served during the year and summaries of current Details of the authorised and issued ordinary share capital, including Directors key skills and experience are set out in the Corporate details of any movements in the issued share capital during the year, Governance Report on pages 74 to 76. are shown in Note 31 to the financial statements.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares, which carry no right to fixed income.
Post balance sheet events Each ordinary share carries one vote at any general meeting of There have been no post balance sheet events.
Details of the preference share capital are shown in Note 24 to the Financial risk management financial statements.
The preference shares are non-redeemable Details of the Companys policies on financial risk management are and are entitled to a fixed cumulative dividend of 5% per annum.
set out in Note 26 to the financial statements.
Each preference share carries 100 votes on a poll at any General Meeting of the Company.
Results and dividends The nominal value of the issued ordinary share capital is 96.1% of the The consolidated profit before tax from continuing operations has total sterling nominal value of allissued share capital, and the nominal decreased from $1,515.6 million in 2014 to $259.4 million in 2015. value of the issued preference share capital is 3.9% of the total An interim dividend of 3.1 cents was paid on 8 October 2015 2014 sterling nominal value of all issued share capital.
No final dividend for the year ended There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares or on 31 December 2015 is proposed to be paid.
This gives total dividends their voting rights beyond those standard provisions set out in the per share proposed in relation to 2015 of 3.1 cents 2014 21.5 cents Companys Articles of Association and other provisions of applicable and a total dividend amount in relation to 2015 of $30.6 million 2014 law and regulation including, in particular, following a failure to $212.0 million.
provide the Company with information about interests in shares as Preference shares carry the right to a fixed cumulative dividend required by the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not aware of of 5% per annum.
The preference shares are classified within any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may borrowings and preference dividends are included within finance result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The total cost of dividends paid on preference shares and The Company has the authority to purchase up to 98,585,669 of recognised as an expense in the income statement was $0.2 million its own ordinary shares, representing 10% of the issued ordinary 2014 $0.2 million.
Further information relating to dividends is share capital.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of set out in the Financial review on page 67 and in Note 12 to the Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, financial statements.
the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, the Companies Act 2006 Political contributions and related legislation.
The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
There are no significant The Group did not make political donations during the year ended agreements in place that take effect, alter or terminate upon a 31 December 2015 2014 nil.
change of control of the Company.
There are no agreements in place between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide Auditors forcompensation for loss of office resulting from a change of control The auditors, PwC LLP have indicated their willingness to continue of the Company.
inoffice and a resolution seeking to re-appoint them will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors in office at the date of this report have each confirmed that: a so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and b he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
114 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Authority to issue shares and authority topurchase own shares Conflicts of interest At the 2015 AGM, held on 20 May 2015, authority was given to The Companies Act 2006 requires that a Director must avoid a the Directors to allot unissued relevant securities in the Company situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest up to a maximum amount equivalent to two-thirds of the shares in thatconflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
issue of which one-third must be offered by way of rights issue.
The Company has undertaken a process to identify and, where This authority expires on the date of this years AGM, to be held appropriate, authorise and manage potential and actual conflicts.
No such shares have been issued.
The Directors Each Director has identified his or her interests that may constitute propose to renew this authority at this years AGM for the following conflicts including, for example, directorships in other companies.
A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted The Board, with detailed assistance from the Nomination and authority to the Directors to allot equity securities in the Company Governance Committee, has considered the potential and actual for cash, without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the conflict situations of each of the Directors and decided in relation Companies Act 2006.
This authority also expires on the date of this toeach situation whether to authorise it and the steps, if any, which years AGM and the Directors will seek to renew this authority for the need to be taken to manage it.
The authorisation process is not following year.
regarded as a substitute for managing an actual conflict of interest if one arises.
The monitoring and, if appropriate, authorisation of The Company was also authorised by a shareholders resolution actual and potential conflicts of interest is an ongoing process.
passed at the 2015 AGM to purchase up to 10% of its issued ordinary Directors arerequired to notify the Company of any material changes share capital.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held in those positions or situations that have already been considered, as as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately well as to notify the Company of any other new positions or situations upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of that may arise.
In addition to considering any new situations as they the Companys issued and authorised share capital.
This authority arise, the Board usually considers the conflict position of all Directors will expire at this years AGM and a resolution to renew the authority formally each year.
for a further year will be proposed.
No shares were purchased by the Company during the year.
Substantial shareholdings Notifiable major share interests in which the Company has been Directors interests and indemnities made aware are set out in the Corporate Governance Report Details of Directors contracts and letters of appointment, onpage 71. remuneration and emoluments, and their interests in the shares ofthe Company as at 31 December 2015 are given in the Directors Other statutory disclosures Remuneration Report.
No Director had any material interest in a The Corporate Governance Report on pages 70 to 113, the Statement contract ofsignificance other than a service contract with the of Directors Responsibilities on page 116 of this Annual Report Company oranysubsidiary company during the year.
and Notes 26 to the financial statements are incorporated into the In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to Directors Report by reference.
the extent permitted by the laws of England and Wales, Directors Other information can be found in the following sections of the are granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of liabilities Strategic Report: personally incurred as a result of their office.
In respect of those Location in matters for which the Directors may or may not be indemnified, Strategic Report theCompany maintained a Directors and Officers liability insurance Future developments in the business of the Group Pages 39 to 52 policy throughout the financial year.
A new policy has been entered into for the current financial year.
Viability and going concern statement Page 38 Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures Pages 39 to 52 Employee consultation Pages 61 to 63 Greenhouse gas emissions Page 57 By order of the Board Julian Anderson Company Secretary 14 March 2016 Antofagasta plc 115
