Our business model There are two key facts about our business model.
The first is that it is proven: we built it, we understand it and it works.
We believe that our fully in-sourced online proposition provides structural advantages over our competitors.
It allows us to: Control the customer experience from order to delivery: Control the margin end-to-end from supplier to customer: and Maintain a lower fixed-cost base as compared to competitors with significant store-based assets.
The second key fact is that our model is based on a wealth of knowledge and proprietary systems built over many years, creating a significant barrier to entry and making it difficult for competitors to copy but easy for us to replicate in new territories.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 24 Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 We empower our people to treat every customer as if they were their Gran.
This includes giving them authority to make decisions which ensure that things go right as far as the customer is concerned.
The model itself consists of three main elements.
These are our: People Proposition We ensure that our staff enjoy what they do and we trust them to People and run the business, and to do the right thing.
That is what we mean Infrastructure.
The factors that could impact our business model and future Inevitably this will mean that we sometimes make mistakes performance are considered in our disclosures around which will cost us.
But we believe it is more important and more principal risks and uncertainties on pages 40 and 41. cost-effective to put in controls after the event to make sure the mistake doesnt happen again rather than to put them Proposition in beforehand, which might limit the service we offer or Our mission is to become the best electrical retailer in Europe.
We will do this by being exceptional in the moments that matter and simply by caring more.
Infrastructure Most of the IT systems we use were developed in-house.
This We put customers first in everything we do and engineer the supply means that we can and do adapt them in order to improve chain accordingly to provide the best service possible for them in the customer experience.
It also means that they are scalable, most efficient, intelligent and economic way.
We aim to be the shortest transferable and reduce our reliance on third parties while making link between the customer and the manufacturer and thus to offer the sure we get all the benefit of operational gearing from our best proposition at the lowest cost.
We want to offer customers the best price, the widest range, the best Key bespoke systems include our website and subsequent delivery proposition and the best customer service.
order management and warehouse management systems.
Our existing IT infrastructure has the capacity to handle planned Price: We aim to offer the best price and will match any price in the growth and more.
We have proven in the year how successfully market but we are not a price leader.
our operations can be replicated internationally.
Range: We offer an extensive range of MDA items almost 4,000 Within both the UK and Germany we also have our own national SKUs and we are growing our range of SDAs and TVs.
This is delivery fleet operating out of a central distribution centre with a significantly bigger than any store can offer.
In Germany we have network of outbases across the country, which gives us control over 1,700 MDA SKUs and its growing fast.
over our entire distribution chain from the online purchase of an appliance through to its delivery to the customer.
Delivery: Our in-sourced seven-day delivery six in Germany is the best in the market for free delivery.
We also offer a wide range of delivery options including next-day and same-day delivery.
We can also install new appliances and remove and recycle the old ones too.
A lot of TVs are so big now they often also need a two-man delivery.
Service: Of course we can claim that our service is wonderful but independent customer feedback scores are exceptionally high.
We give customers excellent product information, a flexible and personal approach and make clear commitments to them that we then deliver on.
None of our competitors offer the range of products for next-day or same-day delivery that we do.
Check out Our Performance section on page 36 to see how Our model is based on a all of this comes together.
wealth of knowledge and proprietary systems built over many years.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 25
