24 ARM Strategic Report 2015 Our business model Creating sustainable value What we need to execute How we create value our business model for our Partners ARM employs engineers to develop advanced processors, People and expertise ARM is the worlds leading physical IP, tools and software that we mainly license to We are committed to hiring and 3,975 companies developing chips for consumer electronics developing some of the most innovative semiconductor intellectual and enterprise equipment.
We continue to invest in Full time employees and imaginative engineers who, together R&D programmes, hiring more engineers and investing with supporting teams, can develop and property IP supplier.
in productivity tools as future generations of technology deploy ARMs next generation products become increasingly complex.
and services Thetechnology we design is It is more cost-effective for our Partners to license the atthe heart of many of the technology from us.
The design of a processor or a library R&D investment of physical IP requires a large amount of R&D investment digitalelectronic products In 2015, we invested 215 million in R&D and expertise.
In addition, the creation and development of 215m normalised to broaden and extend an ecosystem of software and tools companies that support Invested in research soldinthe world.
our product portfolio, and another ARMs technology and its licensees would be difficult and development 74 million was invested in acquisitions to reproduce.
normalised to accelerate product development We license our technology to a network of multiple and create new revenue streams for With ARM designing the technology once and licensing many Partners, mainly leading semiconductor companies.
adjacent markets times, ARM is able to cover its own R&D costs and also Licensees pay upfront fees to gain access to our reduce the cost for each semiconductor company.
ARMs Partners are then able to invest in the complementary Technology collaboration technology.
They then incorporate our designs technologies that go into a System-on-Chip.
This leads to ARM works closely with other alongside their own technology to create smart, 9,000 more choice in digital electronics for OEMs and consumers.
companies in the semiconductor industry energy-efficient chips.
ARM receives a royalty on Engineers and industry to share knowledge, align roadmaps and every chip sold that uses one of our technology experts attended ARMs to develop compatible technologies annual technology designs.
Typically, our royalty is based on the price We have built and invested in this conferences and symposia ofthe chip.
R&D unique ecosystem to ensure our mutual customers continue to build more activity Each ARM design is suitable for a wide range of end effective products.
This helps ensure that ARMs technologies are suitable for chips applications and can be re-used in different chip going into future consumer electronics families addressing multiple markets.
Each new chip and enterprise equipment family generates a new stream of royalties.
An ARM design may be used in many different chips and may 23 years ship for over 25 years.
Supply chain In 2015, ARM spent about 150 million 150m on goods and services essential to our Spent with suppliers business operations.
These were mainly costs related to essential business travel, property management, legal and accounting fees, and IT support and services Strong nancials ARM had normalised cash generation 361m of 361 million last year.
A proportion Investment Normalised net of this cash is used to fund our business phase cash generated operations to ensure we invest to secure future profits andlong-term value for shareholders ARM Strategic Report 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Commitment Financials 25 How ARM creates value How ARM creates value The value we create for our shareholders for the long term ARM recovers its costs from each technologys licence ARM reinvests back into the business, hiring more engineers Chips shipped revenues.
Over the medium term, we expect ARMs revenues to develop new technology that will enable us to create ARMs Partners shipped around 15 billion 15 bn and profits to grow as our Partners design our technology into value for the long term.
ARMs technology can be re-used ARM-based chips in 2015.
These smart a broader range of end markets.
byour customers in many different products and end ARM-based chips chips help to make consumer electronics markets: these will generate royalty revenues for years to easier to use and more fun, and Our customers include the worlds largest semiconductor come.
Technology that we started licensing more than 25 enterprise equipment more capable and companies and their regular royalty payments have become a years ago is still being deployed in new chips and generating energy-efficient reliable cash ow.
We have relatively little capital expenditure, royalty revenues today.
or other cash-intensive purchases, and hence our normalised profits after tax convert to normalised cash generated.
So the Licence royalty income more profits we earn the more cash we generate.
Every licence signed represents the 1, 348 opportunity for future royalty streams Cumulative licences signed which can extend to over 25 years Revenue ARMs US dollar revenues grew 15% in $1,489m 2015, as our existing customers adopted Revenue in 2015 and deployed our latest technology in their current and future product portfolios, and as 41 new companies chose to adopt ARM technology for the first time Product Multiple Patents development applications ARM led an additional 242 patents in 4,500 2015, taking the total number of patents across a range Patents owned or pending owned or pending to more than 4,500. of markets These patents help protect ARMs technology globally and help secure our future revenue streams 34 years 25 years 511m profits With our revenues growing faster than Normalised profits before tax our reinvestments in R&D, we are able to deliver increasing profits over the long term 415m IFRS profits before tax Shareholder returns In 2015, ARM bought back 9.0 million 200m shares at a value of 92.2 million.
Upfront Royalty Royalty Cash returned to shareholders in 2015 In addition, the proposed full year licence fee revenue revenue continues dividend is 8.78 pence, a 25% increase
