OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Corporate Governance Report Accountability Board Committees William Hayes Audit and Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Risk Committee R ead more on pages 86 to 89.
Jean-Paul Luksic Nomination and Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee Governance Committee R ead more on pages 90 to 92.
Ramn Jara Sustainability Chairman of the Sustainability and Stakeholder and Stakeholder Management Committee Management Committee R ead more on pages 93 and 94.
Ollie Oliveira Projects Committee Chairman of the ProjectsCommittee R ead more on pages 95 and 96.
Tim Baker Remuneration and Chairman of the Remuneration and Talent Talent Management Management Committee Committee R ead more on pages 96 to 111.
Antofagasta plc 85 Corporate Governance Report Accountability Audit and Risk Committee In a period of challenging economic conditions, strong internal control and high-quality reporting are more important than ever.
Accordingly, we have continued to focus on ensuring that the Group benefits from a robust and independent external audit process, and strong internal risk management.
Following the appointment of PwC as the Groups new auditor, we have closely monitored the transition process as it has undertaken its first years audit of the Groups results.
Over the course of the year we have reviewed the planning undertaken by PwC and the Membership and meeting attendance Groups management, and the ongoing execution of those plans.
Number Maximum As aconsequence, Im pleased to say that we have been able to attended possible achieve a smooth and effective transition.
On a personal level I William Hayes Chairman 4 4 have been focused on building a strong working relationship with Ollie Oliveira 4 4 JasonBurkitt, the Groups new lead audit partner.
Jorge Bande 4 4 In terms of risk management, the Committee strongly believes in the benefit of direct interaction between the Committee and the Groups operations.
Accordingly, each of the General Managers of the Groups operations reports directly to the Committee at least once a year, updating the Committee on the trends in their operations key risks, Key activities in 2015 and any significant materialised risks.
This is important both in terms of the Committee maintaining a close understanding of how the Monitored the transition to PwC as the Groups new external Groups risk management processes are really working in practice, auditor, following the tender process conducted during 2014, and also in providing an opportunity for the Committee to directly and reviewed its independence and effectiveness.
emphasise the importance of strong controls and risk management Reviewed relevant aspects of the development of the Groups being embedded in the core day-to-day activities of allof the new Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system which has Groups operations.
been implemented from 1 January 2016 onwards, including Internal Audits reviews over the design and implementation of the system.
William Hayes Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Reviewed the Groups annual and half-year results, including the significant accounting issues relevant to those results.
Reviewed the activities and key findings of the Companys Internal Audit function during the year, and reviewed and approved the 2016 Internal Audit work plan.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management function and the Groups system of internal control, including reviews of the Groups principal risks and how those risks are managed or mitigated.
Reviewed updates from the General Managers of the Groups operations in relation to their specific key risks and control activities.
86 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Role and responsibilities of the Audit and Risk Committee Significant issues in relation to the financial statements considered by the Committee in 2015 The purpose of the Audit and Risk Committee is to assist the Board in meeting its responsibilities relating to financial reporting and control.
Carrying value of assets The Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups relationship Following the significant deterioration in the commodity price with the external auditor and monitoring the effectiveness of the environment in late 2015 and early 2016, reviews were undertaken Groups Internal Audit and risk management functions.
of the carrying value of the Groups assets, in particular in respect of Antucoya and Centinela.
These reviews indicated the carrying value The Committee meets at least three times a year, with the external of those assets was fully recoverable, and accordingly no impairment auditors in attendance.
There is a rolling agenda that covers regular was appropriate.
Details of the impairment reviews are set out in matters such as the review of the year end financial statements and Note 15 to the financial statements.
half-yearly financial report, planning for the year end reporting and external audit processes, monitoring the Groups tax strategy and The Committee reviews the key assumptions used in the processes, reviewing the Internal Audit work plan and reports from impairment reviews, including copper price forecasts and other the risk management function, as well as providing time for ad-hoc relevant assumptions including future cost and production levels.
matters requiring the Committees consideration.
The Committee The Committee reviews the disclosures in respect of the impairment held four meetings during 2015. reviews, including the sensitivities of the valuations to changes in key assumptions.
Audit and Risk Committee membership 2.
Zaldvar acquisition The members of the Committee and their attendance at meetings Review of the accounting for the Groups acquisition of its 50% stake of the Committee during the year are shown in the table opposite.
in Minera Zaldvar SpA Zaldvar, including the treatment of that Biographical details of the members of the Committee, including investment as a joint venture, and the determination of the fair values relevant qualifications and experience, are set out on pages 74 to of the assets and liabilities acquired.
All of the Committee members are considered by the Board The Committee reviewed the key factors relevant to the to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
William Hayes and determination that the Group exercises joint control over Zaldvar, Ollie Oliveira are considered to have recent and relevant financial andthe key assumptions and results of the fair value assessment.
The Committee received briefings during the year on developments in financial reporting requirements and other relevant 3.
Mine closure provisions regulatory changes.
Consideration of the appropriateness of the provision balances in respect of future mine closure costs.
The Groups closure provisions Financial reporting are detailed in Note 30 to the financial statements.
The Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups financial The Committee reviews significant movements in the closure reporting.
It reviews whether the Groups accounting policies are provision balances, and key assumptions used in the calculation appropriate, and whether managements estimates and judgements ofthe provisions.
applied in the financial statements are reasonable.
The Committee reviews the year end financial statements and half-yearly financial 4.
Capitalisation of costs report, as well as other relevant external financial reports.
Consideration of the appropriateness of the capitalisation of property, The Committee also reviews the going concern basis adopted in the plant and equipment, in particular in respect of significant project year end financial statements and half-yearly financial report, prior expenditure.
Details of additions to property, plant and equipment toits endorsement by the Board.
areset out in Note 14 to the financial statements.
The key internal controls over the financial reporting process include The Committee reviews significant additional capitalised amounts, appropriate segregation of duties, ensuring adequate resources, in particular in respect of major project expenditure, including technical expertise and experience in the operations and corporate consideration of the commercial viability of the relevant projects.
centres accounting teams, application of consistent accounting policies as set out in the Groups detailed accounting policies External audit manual, robust review processes over the results, balances and The Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups relationship key accounting judgements both within the individual operations with the external auditor.
The Committee reviews and approves and also by the corporate centre and effective financial reporting the scope of the external audit and the external auditors terms of systems.
A key area of focus for the Group during 2015 has been the engagement and fees.
The Committee monitors the effectiveness completion of the development of a new unified ERP system for the of the external audit process and is responsible for ensuring the Group, which has been implemented from 1 January 2016 onwards.
independence of the external auditor.
The Committee is also responsible for making recommendations to the Board for the Fair, balanced and understandable appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditor.
At the request of the Board, the Committee considered the 2015 The Committee meets with the external auditor without Annual Report and Financial Statements and concluded that, taken management present at least once a year.
asa whole, this was fair, balanced and understandable, and provided the necessary information to allow shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Antofagasta plc 87 Corporate Governance Report Accountability Audit and Risk Committee Audit tender process Effectiveness of the external audit process A tender process was conducted during 2014 and resulted The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the external in the Committee recommending to the Board that audit process during the year, including consideration of the  LLP PwC be recommended to following factors: shareholders for appointment as the Groups external auditor the appropriateness of the proposed audit plan, the significant risk for the 2015 financial year onwards, replacing Deloitte LLP.
areas and areas of focus, and the effective performance of the audit Shareholders formally appointed PwC as the Groups external auditor in line with the agreed plan: at the 2015 Annual General Meeting in May 2015. the technical skills and industry experience of the audit engagement Accordingly, 2015 is PwCs first year as the Groups external auditor.
partner and the wider audit team: In line with relevant regulatory guidance, the Committee expects to the quality of the external auditors reporting to the Committee: generally undertake a tender process in respect of the external audit the effectiveness of the co-ordination between the UK and Chilean at least every ten years.
audit teams: The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market the effectiveness of the interaction and relationship between the Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Groups management and the external auditor: Processesand Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014statement of compliance feedback from management, including questionnaires completed by the operations finance teams, in respect of the effectiveness The Company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the ofthe audit processes for each business unit: Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year under review.
consideration of the auditors management letter and, in particular, the view this provides of the auditors level of understanding and Independence and objectivity of the external auditor insight into the Groups operations: and The Committee monitors the external auditors independence review of reports from the external auditor detailing its firms and objectivity.
internal quality control procedures, as well as the auditors annual The Company has a policy in place that aims to safeguard the transparency report.
independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
This includes measures in respect of the potential employment of former auditors, Internal Audit the types of non-audit services that the external auditor may and The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the may not provide to the Group, and the approval process in respect Groups Internal Audit function.
The Head of Internal Audit reports of permitted non-audit services.
Non-audit services that the external directly to the Committee and meets with the Committee without auditor is not permitted to provide under the policy include Internal management present during the course of the year.
Audit outsourcing, valuation services that would be used for financial The Head of Internal Audit presents to the Committee several times accounting purposes, preparation of the Groups accounting records during the year.
The Committee reviews and approves Internal or financial statements, and financial information systems design and Audits plan of work for the coming year, including the departments implementation.
Certain permitted non-audit services always require budget, head count and other resources.
Internal Audit then reports prior approval by the Committee, whereas certain other services to the Committee on the departments performance of its work require prior approval by the Committee when the related fees are in comparison with the approved plan.
Summaries of the audits above specified levels currently $50,000 for a single engagement undertaken during the year are presented to the Committee, as or a cumulative annual amount of $400,000.
In addition to this well as follow-up on managements response to Internal Audits approval process for specific non-audit services, the Audit and Risk recommendations.
All individual Internal Audit reports are distributed Committee monitors the total level of non-audit services to ensure to the Committee members once they have been finalised.
that neither the objectivity nor the independence of the external auditor is put at risk.
During 2014, an independent review of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function was undertaken by Independent Audit Limited.
A breakdown of the audit and non-audit fees is disclosed in Note 6 The Audit Committee reviewed that the implementation of the to the financial statements.
The Companys external auditor for the recommendations was completed as planned during 2015.
2015 financial year, PwC, has provided non-audit services excluding audit-related services which amounted to $0.2 million or 12% of the fee for audit and audit-related services.
This mainly related to environmental consulting services.
In general, where the external auditor is selected to provide non-audit services it is because they areconsidered to have specific expertise or experience in the relevantarea which means they are the most suitable provider of those services.
The Committee has reviewed the level of these services in the course of the year and is confident that the objectivity and independence of the auditor is not impaired by reason of such non-audit work.
The external auditor also provides a report to the Committee at least once a year, setting out its firms policies and procedures formaintaining its independence.
The Committee considers that PwC remained independent andobjective throughout 2015.
88 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Risk and compliance management and internal control Risk management reporting process overview The Board has ultimate responsibility for overseeing the Groups key risks, as well as for maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems.
The Groups system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure in order toachieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Board The Committee plays a key role in assisting the Board with its Crime Prevention responsibilities in respect of risk and related controls.
The risk Officer management function presents to the Committee several times Appointment and during the year, and presentations include details of developments in activities overseen the Groups overall risk management processes and key Group-level by the Audit and strategic risks.
The General Managers of the Groups operations, Risk Committee including the transport and water divisions until the date of its Audit and Risk disposal, also present to the Committee, with each operation Committee typically presenting at least once a year.
The presentations include Whistleblowing Chairman reports to the details of the operations most significant risks and related mitigating Board after each meeting Reports presented controls, and any significant control issues that have arisen.
every quarter Supports the Board in The Committee ensures that appropriate compliance policies and reviewing the effectiveness procedures are observed throughout the Group.
The Committee is of the Groups risk responsible for making recommendations to the Board in respect management and internal of the appointment of the Groups Crime Prevention Officer, and General Managers control systems generally monitors and oversees the performance of the Crime ofthe Operations Prevention Officers role.
The Crime Prevention Officer is currently Present the operations the Vice President of Finance and Administration.
The Committee most significant risks at receives reports from the risk management function in respect of least once a year theGroups Crime Prevention Model, in accordance with Chilean anti-corruption legislation.
Risk Management Function The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the Groups whistleblowing arrangements, which enable staff and contractors Present developments to raise concerns in confidence about possible improprieties or of the Groups risk non-compliance with the Groups Code of Ethics.
The Committee management processes receives quarterly reports on whistleblowing incidents.
It remains and Group-level strategic satisfied that the procedures in place allow for the proportionate risk at least twice and independent investigation of matters raised and for appropriate per year follow-up action.
Report on Groups Crime As discussed in the Risk management section on page 33, the Prevention Model in Committee assists the Board with its assessment of the Groups accordance with Chilean key risks and its review of the effectiveness of the risk management anti-corruption legislation process.
The Chairman of the Committee reports to the Board following each Committee meeting, allowing the Board to understand and, if necessary, discuss the matters considered in detail by the Committee.
These processes have assisted the Board in carrying out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, and to assess the acceptability of the level of risks that arise from the Groups operations and development activities.
The Groups principal risks, along with details of how those risks are managed or mitigated are set out in the Risk management section of the Strategic Report on pages 32 to 38.
Each year the Board, with the support of the Committee, reviews theeffectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems.
The review covers all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
During 2015, a review of the risk management and internal control systems was performed by the Committee, with the Chairman of the Committee reporting back to the Board on its findings.
No significant failures or weaknesses were identified as a result of this review.
Further information relating to the Groups risk and management systems is given in the Risk management section of the Strategic Report on pages 32 to 38.
Antofagasta plc 89 Corporate Governance Report Accountability Nomination and Governance Committee We have a strong and committed Board of Non-Executive Directors with a broad and complementary set of skills and experiences.
This year has seen relative stability at Board and committee level following the appointments of two independent Non-Executive Directors and a change to the composition of the committees in 2014.
Our focus therefore has shifted from making appointments and Membership and meeting attendance ensuring that new Directors or Committee members receive a full Number Maximum induction, appropriate training and experience, to succession planning attended possible for the medium term, both at Board and Senior Management level.
Jean-Paul Luksic Chairman 3 3 As noted in my introduction to the Corporate Governance Report, the William Hayes 3 3 Committee will continue to monitor the composition of the Board and Tim Baker 3 3 its committees in 2016.
This will ensure that they are appropriately staffed and that we continue to benefit from shared knowledge and experience as well as fresh ideas, so that we are in the best possible position to secure long-term growth and profitability.
The Committee is also monitoring developments in connection with the FRCs recent Key activities in 2015 focus on UK Board Succession Planning.
Oversaw implementation of the remaining recommendations The Board Committees are proactive and work hard to help the Board made in the 2013 externally facilitated Board evaluation to challenge management constructively and ensure that matters that come to the Board for approval have been thoroughly analysed and areas of specific focus highlighted in the 2014 and well thought-out.
With the creation of the Projects Committee, internal evaluation.
we have a broad and appropriate set of committees to ensure that Reviewed and approved the scope of the Companys second Board meetings include significant focus on strategic issues without externally facilitated Board evaluation for 2016. compromising the depth of knowledge required to support effective Reviewed the composition and balance of the Board and decision-making.
its Committees, resulting in changes to the composition Below Board level, Diego Hernndez has continued to work with of the Audit and Risk and Sustainability and Stakeholder the CEO of Antofagasta Minerals, IvnArriagada, and the Executive Management Committees.
Committee to rigorously implement our strategy of: Recommended the creation of a Projects Committee to the strengthening the Groups position in a challenging environment: Board for approval.
optimising our business portfolio: and Reviewed the Companys corporate governance arrangements maintaining our discipline, austerity and ability and recommended certain changes to the Board for approval.
Reviewed Director independence, and succession plans for the Board.
Recommended revised Board policies and procedures to the Board for approval.
Recommended revised policies and procedures addressing the Groups regulatory obligations in the UK to the Board for approval.
Proactively engaged with shareholders on corporate governance issues.
90 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Since joining the Group in 2012 as CEO of the mining division, Role and responsibilities of the Nomination and Diego Hernndez has led significant changes in the mining Group.
Governance Committee These include restructuring the Executive Committee, as well as The Nomination and Governance Committee is responsible for reporting lines from the mining operations and internal control and leading the process of identifying suitable candidates to fill vacancies governance structures at the senior executive level.
Following his on the Board and in Senior Management, for nominating such appointment as Group CEO in 2014, Diego has overseen the sale candidates for the approval ofthe Board and for ensuring that of the Groups water business, a restructuring of the internal control appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
and governance structures within the railway business, and a further The Committee is responsible for evaluating and overseeing the consolidation and simplification of reporting lines across the Group.
balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and its Committees, reviewing theindependence of Directors from time I touched on the impact of the Committees focus on corporate totime and overseeing succession plans for the Board.
governance in my introduction to the Corporate Governance Report: evidence of the Groups progress can be seen below and throughout The Committee is also responsible for overseeing the Boards the Annual Report.
governance arrangements, monitoring trends, initiatives and proposals in relation to governance matters, and reviewing the Companys corporate governance framework at least annually and recommending any changes to the Board.
Jean-Paul Luksic Chairman of the Nomination andGovernance Committee The Committee meets as necessary and at least twice per year.
Nomination and Governance Committeemembership The members of the Committee and their attendance at meetings of the Committee during the year are shown in the table opposite.
Biographical details of the members of the Committee, including relevant qualifications and experience, are set out on pages 74 to 76.
Except for the Chairman, all Committee members are considered by the Board to be independent.
Board evaluations As explained on page 84, an internal Board evaluation was conducted during the year which demonstrated that significant progress has been made in implementing all the recommendations made following the 2013 external evaluation.
The Committee reviewed and approved the scope of the external evaluation for 2016.
Appointments to the Board In making appointments to the Board, the Committee considers the skills, experience and knowledge of the existing Directors and identifies potential candidates who would best contribute to maintaining a strong Board with broad and complementary skills and experiences.
The Committee assesses the candidates based on a number of criteria, including relevant experience, skills, personality type, whether they would contribute to a diverse Board composition and whether they have sufficient time to devote to the role.
Following the changes to the Chairmans role and the appointment of two new independent Non-Executive Directors in 2014, there were nochanges to the Boards composition in 2015.
Antofagasta plc 91 Corporate Governance Report Accountability Nomination and Governance Committee Board induction and training Succession planning The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that any new Directors are The Committee periodically reviews the composition of the Board provided with a full induction on joining the Board and the Secretary and its Committees.
The Committee regularly discusses relevant to the Board and the Company Secretary both assist the Chairman profiles for future appointments and when required, assists the Board with this process.
During the recruitment process, the Committee to identify appropriate candidates for appointment to ensure that the also advises potential candidates of the Companys values, business Board remains balanced as regards skills, knowledge, experience culture and challenges, as well as expectations of time commitment andindependence.
The Committee reviewed succession plans to meet both Board and committee objectives.
forallof the Directors, including Committee roles, in 2015.
Appointments to committees Corporate governance As noted above, the Committee periodically reviews the composition The Committee is responsible for monitoring the Boards corporate of the committees and reviews and implements succession plans to governance arrangements, reviewing the Companys corporate ensure that vacancies can be appropriately filled while preserving an governance framework at least annually and recommending changes adequate balance of skills, knowledge, experience and independence.
During the year, the Committee reviewed and revised a series of policies and procedures that apply to the Board, including During 2015, Tim Baker rotated off the Audit and Risk Committee and in relation to succession planning, market disclosure procedures and joined the Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee.
There are now four Directors serving on the Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee.
As explained on pages 93 As required, the Committee reviews and presents to the Board and 94, engaging with the Groups stakeholders to resolve long-term any updates to committees terms of reference, the schedule issues is a key objective for the Group and Mr Bakers appointment of matters reserved for the Board, and documents outlining the to the Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee is specific responsibilities of the Chairman, the Group CEO and the intended to further support the Group in achieving this objective.
These documents were thoroughly reviewed in 2014 and revised versions were adopted in March 2015.
The Committee also recommended the creation of the Projects It is expected that some further refinements will be reviewed by the Committee during the year, comprising of Ollie Oliveira as Committee during 2016.
Chairman and Jorge Bande and Tim Baker as members.
One of the recommendations from the 2013 external Board evaluation was for Re-election the Board to focus greater attention on projectreviews, approvals and In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all execution.
The Projects Committee has been tasked with assisting Directors will stand for re-election at this years Annual General the Board with this responsibility.
As explained on pages 74 to 76, Meeting on 18 May 2016.
As is required under the Listing Rules, allthree Directors have significant mining experience and are well independent Non-Executive Directors will be subject to a dual placed to carry out the Projects Committees objectives.
votebyshareholders, which means that each resolution to re-elect an independent Non-Executive Director must be approved by Boardroom diversity both a majority vote of all shareholders and a majority vote of the The Board is comprised of highly capable and committed individuals Companys independent shareholders.
Each year the Committee with a diverse range of technical skills, backgrounds, expertise, performs a thorough review of each Directors independence during nationalities and perspectives.
Having taken into account the results of the performance The Board benefits from the diversity of personal attributes among evaluationof the Board see page 84, the Board is satisfied that Board members.
Diversity of views, attitudes, background and each of the Directors continues to be effective and demonstrates gender is important to ensure that the Board is not composed commitment tohis or her role, and therefore recommends each solelyof like-minded individuals.
As part of its annual evaluation, ofthem for re-election.
theBoard assesses its effectiveness in meeting its diversity goals.
The Board believes in the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
The Board has the objective of continuing to have at least one female Director and will take advantage of opportunities to increase female representation while continuing to appoint Directors based on merit.
92 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Corporate Governance Report Accountability Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee The Committee was particularly active in 2015 as it oversaw the implementation of major steps to strengthen the Groups safety, environmental and social performance, and evaluated the Groups performance and strategies in these areas in light of the challenges that we faced during the year.
We were deeply saddened by the tragic fatal accident at Michilla in the first half of the year involving Sr Sergio Bruna Corts, anemployee of one of our contractors.
This fatality followed theimplementation of our new safety and health model in 2014, Membership and meeting attendance whichhas as one of its central aims stopping all fatalities in the Number Maximum Group.
The Group remains committed to that aim and the Committee attended possible thoroughly reviewed the results of the independent investigation Ramn Jara Chairman 7 7 intothis incident and the lessons learned, and these were extensively Juan Claro 7 7 communicated throughout the Group.
The Committee regularly Tim Baker joined the Committee reviews Group performance against the safety and health model on18 August 2015 3 3 toensure that the objectives of the model are being achieved.
Vivianne Blanlot 7 7 Earlier in the year, some members of one of the communities near Los Pelambres staged demonstrations and blocked access along the road leading to the mine.
Through constructive dialogue this conflict was resolved.
The Group, with oversight from the Committee, has continued to Key activities in 2015 implement the Groups new community engagement model in Reviewed personal accident and environmental incident reports 2015.
The new model is based on promoting a wide engagement process with the local communities and with the provinces four and followed up on committed actions to prevent recurrence.
municipalities, to jointly identify local challenges and opportunities.
Oversaw the development and implementation of a new This model recognises that the future development of Los Pelambres community engagement programme at Los Pelambres.
and other areas within Los Pelambres zone of influence depends Evaluated environmental risks and mitigating actions, oncommitted and sustained collaboration between the community, the Government and the Group.
including water availability and possible initiatives such as the construction of a desalination plant for Los Pelambres.
The Committee closely oversaw implementation of the engagement model during the year with a focus on ensuring that all activities, Analysed operational response to the earthquake which programmes and expenditures in the area were aligned.
The new impacted Los Pelambres.
model includes community consultation to agree on a portfolio Reviewed Michillas plan to put the site on care and maintenance.
ofprojects, in line with the public policy for the area, which will be Reviewed sustainability aspects of development projects at designed and executed with public support.
The Committee believes Centinela, Los Pelambres and Alto Maipo including processes that this community engagement model can be replicated, with appropriate modifications to the local environment, at our operations to obtain the required Environmental Impact Studies and in the north of Chile and will continue to oversee this development Environmental Impact Declarations.
Reviewed the mining divisions communications strategy and co-ordination with non-mining businesses.
Evaluated expenditure related to social plans.
Reviewed environmental compliance at Los Pelambres and the Antofagasta port.
Oversaw the process by which Antofagasta Minerals is fulfilling its commitments made with the ICMM.
Reviewed and approved the 2015 Antofagasta Minerals Sustainability Report.
Antofagasta plc 93 Corporate Governance Report Accountability Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee The discussion forums that have been set up as part of the new the Committee oversaw the successful process of putting the engagement model were particularly helpful for co-ordinating the mine on care and maintenance.
There was a special focus on assistance efforts following the extremely powerful September safety, environmental and social aspects of the closure as well as earthquake.
This measured 8.4 on the Richter scale at the on the implementation of the stakeholder management plan with epicentre which was less than 100 km from the Mauro tailings employees, authorities and the local communities.
The earthquake did not damage the Mauro tailings dam and 2016 will be another important year for the Group to ensure that representatives from the local community and independent experts itmaintains its social licence to operate and continues to improve were invited to verify the structural integrity of the dam immediately itsperformance against sustainability indicators.
The Committee continued to oversee the work being done by the Group to meet its commitments as a member of the International Council on Mining and Metals ICMM, which included reviewing Ramn Jara revised mine closure guidelines and procedures.
Michilla is the Chairman of the Sustainability and Groups only underground mine and over the course of the year Stakeholder Management Committee Role and responsibilities of the Sustainability Community relations  Committee The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups community engagement strategies and in 2015, the Committee reviewed The Board has ultimate responsibility for sustainability.
progress on the implementation of a new community relations The Committee assists the Board in the stewardship of the Groups programme at Los Pelambres, working with the community and social responsibility programmes and makes recommendations to theGovernment to create a shared vision of social andenvironmental the Board to ensure that ethical, safety and health, environmental, priorities and corresponding projects to be developed over the social and community considerations are taken into account in the coming years.
Consultation, commitment to regional development and responding The Committee provides guidance to the Group in relation to to complaints are fundamental components of this strategy, as sustainability matters generally, reviewing and updating the explained in more detail in the Managing a sustainable business Groups framework of policies and strategies, including safety and section of the Strategic Report onpages53 to 63. health, environmental, climate change, human rights, community and other stakeholder issues, and monitoring and reviewing the Environment Groups performance in respect of sustainability matters, indicators As part of the Committees responsibilities to make and targets.
When necessary, the Committee escalates matters recommendations for developing and updating policies and ofconcern to the Board.
standards, the Committee continued to oversee the work being For details on the Groups sustainability performance in 2015, see done by the Group to meet its commitments as a member of the theManaging a sustainable business section of the Strategic Report ICMM following its acceptance as a member in 2014.
This included onpages53to 63. approving the development of: a climate change strategy to determine a feasible goal on reduction Sustainability and Stakeholder Management of greenhouse gas emissions: CommitteeMembership The members of the Committee and their attendance at meetings a biodiversity strategy, including a baseline for future projects and of the Committee during the year are shown in the table on page abiodiversity standard: and 93.
Biographical details of the members of the Committee, including revised mine closure guidelines and procedures.
qualifications and experience, are set out on pages 74 to 76.
These will be ready for review in 2016.
The Committee also reviewed Safety and health the preparation, submission and review of the Environmental Impact A core responsibility of the Committee is to monitor and report on the Study for the Centinela Second Concentrator Project.
implementation of the Group safety and health model, to investigate Further details are set out in the Managing a sustainable business section any negative performance and to make recommendations to the ofthe Strategic Report onpages53 to 63.
Details of the Groups safety and health model are set out in The Antofagasta Minerals Sustainability Report provides further information the Managing a sustainable business section of the Strategic Report on its social and environmental performance and is available on the onpages 53 to 63.
The Groups objective is to achieve zero fatalities for employees and contractors and the Committee will continue actively to monitor the Groups performance in 2016.
94 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Corporate Governance Report Accountability Projects Committee I am pleased to report that the new Projects Committee, created by the Board in June 2015, had a busy start with four full meetings during the second half of the year.
The Committee adds an important level of governance and control for the evaluation of the Groups projects, and will play a key role in providing the Board with additional oversight of the Groups projects portfolio, development proposals, milestones and performance Membership and meeting attendance against key indicators.
Number Maximum attended possible It is important to clarify that the Committee is not responsible Ollie Oliveira Chairman 4 4 for approving projects that is for the Board to decide.
Its role is to assist the Board by ensuring that all of the Groups projects Jorge Bande 4 4 follow a standard, structured procedure with consistent analysis, Tim Baker 4 4 execution and evaluation practices.
As part of its review process, the Committee invites management to consider different perspectives, ideas and improvements, with the aim of enhancing focused discussion within the Board and ultimately, an increase in the valueofthe Groups projects.
Key activities in 2015 The Committee adds value through: Reviewed the role, responsibilities and objectives early detection of issues, opportunities and challenges: of the Committee and its terms of reference.
evaluation of projects planning and organisation: Reviewed the Asset Delivery System and its application to the Groups mining projects.
formal evaluations at project closing: and Reviewed the Groups mining projects portfolio and challenging the projects technical teams by offering different strategic drivers.
Reviewed the Antucoya projects commissioning progress, One of the first tasks undertaken by the Committee was to review challenges and actions taken.
the Asset Delivery System ADS and its application as a standard project development framework for the Groups mining projects.
Reviewed progress in relation to the Los Pelambres The Committee highlighted that quality assurance reviews should Incremental Expansion.
be undertaken at key stages of a project, requesting that the quality Reviewed the Centinela Second Concentrator project.
assurance team reports its conclusions each time to the Committee.
Reviewed the Twin Metals project.
Looking to 2016, the Committee will play a key role in recommending Reviewed Los Pelambres New Industrial Mining improvements to the schedule of projects that are currently in the execution phase to maximise cash availability, while ensuring that Installations project.
projects continue to meet critical milestones.
The Committee will also carefully assess progress on the Los Pelambres Incremental Expansion and Centinela Second Concentrator projects, particularly with respect to critical path items and the preparation of the required Environmental Impact Studies.
The Committee will also evaluate progress on the Twin Metals project and will assess Minera Zaldvars projects, as it continues to learn more about the latest addition to the Groups operations portfolio.
Ollie Oliveira Chairman of the Projects Committee Antofagasta plc 95 Corporate Governance Report Accountability Remuneration Projects Committee Annual Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration and Talent Management Committee Role and responsibilities of the Projects Committee Antofagasta is committed to growing its copper mining business, in Chile and beyond, in a sustainable and responsible manner that ensures it retains its social licence to operate.
The Projects Committee assists the Board in reviewing all aspects of projects that require Board approval.
It highlights key matters for Board consideration and makes recommendations to the Board.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for decisions relating to projects.
Projects Committee membership The members of the Committee and their attendance at meetings of the Committee during the year are shown in the table on page 95.
Biographical details of the members, including qualifications and experience, are set out on pages 74 to 76.
Asset Delivery System The Committee provides guidance to the Board from the early stages of project planning and organisation on the application of policies, strategies and the Groups standard implementation framework to all projects.
The use of the Groups ADS framework is an essential component of this.
ADS uses processes and practices commonly used in the mining As a Committee, our objectives for 2016 are industry for project management.
It defines standards and common criteria, considers governance by a steering committee, and includes the same as for the rest of the Group to focus functional quality assurance reviews and risk management.
on the Groups strategic objectives, operational Projects in study execution phase performance and ability to deliver.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the Groups projects portfolio at all stages of development and ensures their continued alignment with the Companys strategic goals.
The Committee reviews project proposals against flat-price sensitivities, execution Remuneration at a glance milestones and key performance indicators, providing guidance when The remuneration information is structured as follows: there is evidence of a deviation in costs or schedule from the plans Annual Statement by the Chairmanofthe approved by the Board.
Remuneration andTalentManagement Committee 96 In 2015, the Committee reviewed the Centinela Second Concentrator Summary of Directors Remuneration Policy 98 projects pre-feasibility study results, quality assurance review, choice Annual Report on Remuneration 2015 99 of technology, risks and mitigation actions, residual risk and 2016 Remuneration and Talent Management Committee 99 budget.
The Committee recommended to the Board that the project Statement of shareholder voting 100 advance to the feasibility study phase.
The Committee analysed the Implementation of the Directors Remuneration Policy in 2015 100 planned 2016 cash expenditures in detail, to ensure that critical path Voluntary disclosures executive remuneration 102 items and the Environmental Impact Study are adequately resourced.
Comparison of overall performance and remuneration 110 The Committee also evaluated the Los Pelambres Incremental Relative change in remuneration 111 Expansion project and confirmed that it should proceed in two Relative importance of remuneration spend 111 stages, with the first stage ensuring the sustainability of operations through the construction of a desalination plant to supply current andfuture water needs.
Project commissioning The Committee also advises the Board on project transition from development to operation and reviews project close-out reports, including plans to share lessons learned.
In 2015, the Committee reviewed progress in the Antucoya Projects commissioning, its milestones, successes, challenges and opportunities.
Special emphasis was placed on overseeing the resolution of the dust issue in the crushing process, analysing dust measurements in the camp site and confirming that they are within limits set bythe authorities.
96 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION As part of the implementation of the Groups talent management Dear Shareholder, strategy in 2015, the Group launched a mentoring programme for I am pleased to introduce Antofagasta plcs Remuneration Report 82high-potential employees, formalised individual development plans forthe financial year to 31 December 2015. and launched a trainee programme aimed at filling the talent pipeline in the longer term.
62% of the participants in the 2015 trainee We have not made any changes to the Directors Remuneration programme were female.
The Groups focus on talent management Policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and include and succession planning was supported by the performance criteria a summary of the Remuneration Policy at the beginning of this that applied to the Group CEOs Recruitment Awards that vested Remuneration Report.
Our focus in 2015 was to ensure that the pay structures and Last year we reported that following the change in the role of the incentives for the Groups executives, who are currently outside Chairman in 2014 and the Committees review of his remuneration, the scope of the Directors Remuneration Policy, encourage his total annual remuneration would be reduced by almost 70%.
teamwork and collaboration and appropriately incentivise and This year was the first full year that the Chairman performed in a stretchmanagement to achieve the Groups strategic objectives.
non-executive role and the impact of this change on the Chairmans This Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance pay arrangements can be seen in the single figure remuneration table with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and on page 101.
Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
Fee levels for the Non-Executive Directors, which are reviewed It also describes how the Board has applied the principles of good annually, have remained unchanged since 2012.
Following the governance as set out in the Corporate Governance Code.
creation of the Projects Committee during the year, the Committee We feel it is important to embrace the broad governance determined that additional fees for the Projects Committee requirements of the UK while at the same time recognising that members should be the same as for the Remuneration and Talent ourGroup CEO and all of the members of the Executive Committee Management Committee and the Sustainability and Stakeholder are based in Chile.
Consequently, we have continued voluntarily Management Committee.
toreport information on the remuneration and incentive pay design As a Committee, our objectives for 2016 are the same as for the for our Group CEO as if he was a member of the Board and have rest of the Group to focus on the Groups strategic objectives, alsocontinued to provide detailed information in relation to the operational performance and ability to deliver.
Specific areas where structure and components of the other Executive Committee this will be applied in 2016 include the alignment of Zaldvars members remuneration.
remuneration practices with those of the rest of the Group, and As reported by the Chairman in his introduction to this years labour negotiations with four unions that represent employees and Annual Report, 2015 has been a difficult year for the Group.
As a contractors in the Groups transport division during the first quarter consequence, the performance score for the purposes of calculating of 2016. awards for the Group CEO and the Executive Committee under the As required under UK legislation, we expect to submit the Directors 2015 Annual Bonus Plan was 95% within a range from 90110%.
Remuneration Policy to the 2017 AGM and will review its principles The Committee reviewed and, with the support of the Board, and application during 2016. fine-tuned the 2016 executive pay arrangements for the Group CEO Shareholders are invited to vote on the Remuneration Report and I and the Executive Committee to ensure that measurements fairly hope that you will continue to support the Groups pay arrangements.
reflect performance and continue to be aligned with the Groups strategic objectives and shareholders interests.
Further information isset out on pages 108 and 109.
Tim Baker Talent management and succession planning are essential to our Chairman of the Remuneration ability to ensure that the Group remains dynamic and adaptable and and Talent Management Committee that there is sufficient continuity of knowledge to enable the Group to pursue its strategic objectives.
2015 was the second full year following the implementation of the Groups new talent management strategy and succession planning policy for key positions within the Group as identified by the Committee.
As part of this policy, the Committee oversaw processes during 2015 to agree on the key positions and to identify the existing employees who are possible successors for these positions in the future.
Under the agreed succession planning policy, whenever a keyposition becomes vacant, a replacement will first be sought from within the Group, taking into account the succession plan previously developed and agreed for that position.
During 2015, 68% of vacancies in key positions were filled by internal candidates, in accordance with the succession planning policy.
