Our strategy Strategic objective 1: Strategic objective 2: Strategic objective 3: Build Drive Broaden Build our brand Drive our market-leading Broaden the range of products The AO brand is only really two years old proposition forward and increase and services we offer and brand awareness remains our biggest our share of the UK online market We believe we can replicate our MDA model weakness and therefore our biggest for MDAs across other categories by leveraging our opportunity.
Unprompted brand awareness Our key offering remains strong: our existing relationships with the brands and is relatively low and is one of the key things unbeatable prices, huge range and amazing existing infrastructure.
we are striving to build on in the year ahead service means our customer satisfaction applying the lessons learned to date.
We remain the The market for Audio Visual AV is know we have good assets to leverage, such leading player in the UK online MDA market significant: larger than MDA and more as our 1.6m Facebook community and high having gained further market share this concentrated than SDA.
Sale channels and customer retention rates, but attracting new year see page 22 for market data and the distribution methods play to our strengths customers is key.
Increased brand awareness number of SKUs available for next day and the categories also offer future add-on should drive growth and lower the overall delivery is significant.
The risks affecting our progress in our core Our broaden risks are discussed in the The risks affecting our brand are highlighted market are on pages 40 and 41.
Risk Review on page 40. on page 40.
Performance this year Performance this year Performance this year We have continued to invest in our content In May 2014 we added a new category to We have continued to deliver a great and our digital marketing strategy, to improve our retail proposition and started selling proposition and service this year, which our our relationships with our partners of choice, TVs, sound systems and ancillary equipment customers describe as exceptional.
Much of define demand and to offer an exclusive range to our customers.
In doing this we have the increase in brand awareness this year of products.
developed our relationships with our existing has been helped by our existing customers brand partners who operate in this category singing our praises to their friends and Our promotional campaigns have and have built new relationships to broaden families, which has been supplemented by matured with the introduction of product our range to include the latest technology.
some national TV advertising and social focused advertising and a variety of media campaigns.
Customers have welcomed our simple and straightforward description of complex Towards the end of the year, we started to Engagement with customers has remained technologies, various payment options and dress some of our local delivery vehicles in a top priority during the year and our availability for immediate delivery and we the AO green and with the AO.
com logo and customer base and our Facebook likes have gained a good foothold in the market these can now be seen driving through towns have continued to grow as have our customer this year.
and cities, giving us more of a physical reviews, all helping to drive our repeat presence in communities and advertising purchase rates.
Despite unprecedented Priorities next year the brand.
demand over the Black Friday period In the year ahead we will continue to expand and a shortage in drivers due to legislative aggressively in this category.
We will develop Priorities next year changes, we have maintained our high our ranges to include 4k, curved and OLED This year one of our key focuses is to deliver-to-promise rates.
Installation services technologies and a better range of Smart TVs.
really build awareness of the brand.
We are have been enhanced with the national roll-out We will look to develop our own label brands engaging with a number of different brand of premium installation.
Customer finance and bundle ancillary products into offers agencies to find a better way to engage new was introduced to AO.
com giving customers while tailoring our existing high quality customers and leverage the advocacy of more options in their purchasing patterns.
service proposition to this category.
We will conduct national advertising campaigns across a variety of Priorities next year Exploration into further categories which media to highlight our quality of service and To do more of the same: enrich content, complement our existing ones continues.
target key audiences while also continuing refine the web journey and develop to develop our social media and direct relationships, particularly with SDA and AV marketing strategies.
We will also look to introduce more own-label branded products and conduct more focused and targeted advertising at distinct consumer groups.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 20 Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 Strategic objective 4: Expand Expand into other European markets Our progress this year in Germany gives us the confidence that our model can be replicated overseas and our systems are fully transferable.
The market-leading proposition we have in the UK has been rolled out in Germany and has found favour with the German consumer with feedback and reviews stating AO.
We believe we have disrupted the German MDA market and will continue to do so as we build and grow.
The risks to our expansion in Europe are specifically discussed in the Risk Review on page 41.
Progress this year Our theory was put into practice as AO.
fide was launched in Germany in October 2014.
It is currently focused on the MDA market.
This market is significant and demographics are similar to those of the UK but with the online proposition lagging behind.
There is much to capitalise on and much progress has been made since the initial launch, including tailoring the site so it is more in-tune with the German Denkweise mindset and launching our German eBay store.
A country wide end-to-end proposition is in place and we are pleased with how this has been accepted amongst German consumers and how our culture has translated.
Priorities next year Our key priority in the current financial year is to grow volumes, drive efficiencies and increase brand awareness in Germany while continuing to deliver a market-leading proposition.
com we will continue to enrich content and streamline the web-journey to convince German consumers our way is a better way to buy the category.
Extensive work is underway to understand how we can leverage the infrastructure we have established in Germany to reach adjacent markets.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21
