Corporate Governance Report Relations with shareholders The shares of Antofagasta plc are listed on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
As explained in the Corporate Governance Report on page 71, the controlling shareholders of the Company hold approximately 65% of the Companys ordinary shares.
The majority of the remaining approximately 35% of the Companys ordinary shares are held by institutional investors, mainly based in the UK and North America.
The Company maintains an active dialogue with institutional What our investors focused on most in 2015 shareholders and sell-side analysts, as well as potential shareholders.
cost reduction programmes to control operating and capital costs: This communication is managed by the investor relations team in capital allocation: London, and includes a formal programme of presentations and roadshows to update institutional shareholders and analysts on progress of the Antucoya project: developments in the Group.
acquisition of 50% of the Zaldvar copper mine: The Company publishes quarterly production figures as well as the the sale of the Groups water business: half-year and full-year financial results.
Copies of these production reports, financial results, presentations and other press releases impact of events in Chile, including prolonged rains, earthquakes issued by the Company are available on the Companys website.
and the availability of energy and water: The Group also publishes a separate Sustainability Report to provide community and legal issues surrounding the Mauro tailings storage further information on its social and environmental performance, facility at Los Pelambres: which is available on the Companys website in both Spanish and English.
the Groups focus on brownfield development projects and the potential from longer-term growth projects: The Company held regular meetings with institutional investors and sell-side analysts throughout the year, which included international the capital distribution policy of the Group: and investor roadshows, presenting at industry conferences and to supply and demand factors in the world copper market.
These were attended by the Group CEO and various members of the management team, including The Board receives regular summaries and feedback in respect the CEO of Antofagasta Minerals, the Vice President of Finance of the meetings held as part of the investor relations programme.
and Administration, the Vice President of Marketing and the Vice The Companys Annual General Meeting is also used as an President of Development.
opportunity to communicate with both institutional and private shareholders and all of the Directors met shareholders at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Shareholder engagement calendar 2015 FEB MAR MAY JUN Group CEO presented at Presentation of Full-Year Mining division US west coast roadshow industry conference for 2014 results CEO presentation at with VP Finance institutional investors industry conference for and Administration European roadshow institutional investors 3 days of 1-on-1 meetings 4 days Institutional investor with over 50 investors 2 days of 1-on-1 meetings conference in California London roadshow withover 40 investors 2 days Annual General Meeting in London 112 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION How our investors can find us Our Group website www.
co. uk Investor section www.
co. uk investors Shareholders also met with several Directors, including the Chairman, Senior Independent Director the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit and Risk Since his appointment as Senior Independent Director in 2011, Committee, the Chairman of the Projects Committee and members WilliamHayes has met with a number of the Groups largest of the other Board Committees during the year.
shareholders and proxy voting agencies, allowinghim to provide his perspective on the Groups governance and strategy and to obtain The Chairman met with a number of the Groups largest shareholders their feedback on the Group.
during the year to hear their views about the Company, its strategy, management and governance.
During these meetings a wide range In October 2015, WilliamHayes met with major shareholders and of topics were discussed, including: proxy voting agencies to focus on the issues that were most relevant to investors during the course of the year and to follow up onmeetings the use of proxy voting agency recommendations: that the Chairman had attended earlier in the year.
Board composition and diversity: the determination of independence for a Director: the application of the comply and explain principle: talent development and succession planning: the structure of the Groups LTIP: the link between Group pay structures and incentives and strategy: and progress in the court cases involving Los Pelambres.
The Chairman also used these meetings to explain the changes to the Boards structure in 2014, to update shareholders on progress following these changes and to clarify how corporate governance developments are likely to assist the Group in the years ahead.
AUG SEP OCT NOV Presentation of Half-Year Investor relations VP Marketing presented Investor relations 2015 results team attended three to investors during team attended two industry conferences London Metals Week industry conferences European roadshow in the UK and engaged in the UK and engaged 4 days with shareholders with shareholders London roadshow 2 days US east coast roadshow 2 days Antofagasta plc 113
