Trends and insights in our markets UK Major Domestic Appliances MDA Other UK Small Domestic Appliances Channel switching SDA and Audio Visual AV Link to strategy: Link to strategy: Link to strategy: Drive, Broaden.
The UK MDA market is estimated at AO successfully launched into the Online migration is set to continue.
4.2bn AV Audio Visual TVs, Home Entertainment Systems, Soundbars, accessories etc..
It is estimated that AOs share is 13% The UK SDA market which MDA continues to have the highest of the total UK MDA market.
AO operates in is worth online penetration rates of consumer approximately 1.9bn.
goods c. 40% due to not being a take home today product.
The UK MDA market is estimated at 3.6bn AO successfully launched into the 4.2bn AV The UK is the most technologically advanced inc. VAT, being managements best estimate Audio Visual TVs, Home Entertainment country in Europe, with the highest levels based on a number of sources.
Recent growth Systems, Soundbars, accessories etc.
market of internet access, online penetration and has been driven in part by increased UK in May 2014, allowing AO to further leverage smart device usage resulting in continued households as a result of Government backed its logistics infrastructure.
The top four migration to online, albeit at a slower rate Buy-To-Let schemes and reduced Stamp major manufacturers account for 63%, with than experienced in previous years.
Duty Taxes stimulating home movers.
whom AO have established strong trading relationships, resulting in improved ranging In the Electricals market in the UK and across The market continues to be dominated by and competitive pricing.
During the year, Europe, MDA continues to have the highest the top four manufacturers which account AO also introduced its own-label brand online penetration rates of consumer goods for over 50% of the market Top 10 have 73% Techwood to better compete with entry due to them not being a take home today hence AO have further continued to invest in level models offered elsewhere in the market.
Online shopping provides greater long-term strategic partnerships with their choice and flexibility in the purchase process key suppliers.
This year has seen further technological for consumers and with the increase of tablets, advancements such as Ultra HD and OLED, consumers are finding it easier to shop online.
Despite the growing UK MDA market, AO has stimulating demand for high end TVs.
It is estimated that Increased digitalisation of media services Management estimate that AOs share of the AOs share is approximately 13% of the total such as LoveFilm, Amazon Prime and Netflix online UK MDA market is approximately 34%.
has meant that consumers are increasingly demanding affordable smart and connected The MDA market is predicted to grow by 3.1% TVs as traditional set-top boxes decline.
each year CAGR between 2014 and 2019.
After a full year of trading in the SDA market, AO has developed key relationships with Dyson, Vax, Daewoo and Sebo to further enhance the Small Appliances and Food Preparation range and proposition.
The UK SDA market which AO operates in i. e. Small Appliances, Food Preparation, Floor Care is worth approximately 1.9bn inc. VAT and is predicted to grow by 2.4% each year CAGR between 2014 and 2019.
Point four of our strategy on page 21 tells you more about how we have done in Germany Note to readers: figures contained in this section and our priorities going are managements best estimate based on forward.
fide a number of sources including the OC&C provides us with a launch pad Report 2013, prepared in conjunction with for other European markets with similar dynamics.
our IPO, recent Euromonitor Data, Google Barometer and other industry information.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 22 Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 European Markets Percentage of population with internet access % 100 Link to strategy: Build, Expand.
80 60 40 Compared to the UK, the rest of Western Europe indicates 20 excellent growth opportunities 0 as internet access increases.
UK Germany Austria Belgium Czech France Netherlands Poland Switzerland Republic Source: WorldBank AO.
fide was launched in Germany initially selling MDAs only Online penetration purchases entering a market worth % approximately 7.2bn inc. VAT.
fide was launched in Germany initially selling MDAs only 30 entering a market worth approximately 20 7.2bn inc. VAT.
Germany continues to 10 present strong growth prospects for AO 0 due to the current low online penetration UK Germany Austria Belgium Czech France Netherlands Poland Switzerland rates and high migration to online that is Republic being experienced.
Home appliances TV Sources: WorldBank and Google Barometer Compared to the UK, the rest of Western Europe indicates excellent growth Device penetration opportunities as internet access increases, % availability of affordable high speed 100 internet improves and the adoption of smart devices continues to grow.
80 60 40 20 0 UK Germany Austria Belgium Czech France Netherlands Poland Switzerland Republic Desktop Smartphone Tablet Source: Google Barometer Last year launching in a new territory was very much a theory.
By October we had built Germany everything and were ready for business.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 23
