Operational review Transport The transport division provides rail and road cargo services in northern Chile.
The main business during 2015 was the transport of copper cathodes, and increasingly concentrate and sulphuric acid, to and from mines in the Antofagasta Region.
Transported in 2015 6.8m tonnes The transport division also owns Forestal The transport division typically provides S. A. which manages the Groups forestry services to customers, who are mostly assets.
Forestals two properties, Relecomajor mining companies, under longPuir and Huilo-Huilo, comprise some term contracts, often with agreed pricing 25,000 hectares of native forest near the levels.
These are subject to adjustments Panguipulli and Neltume lakes, in Chiles for inflation and movements in fuel Region fide Los Lagos.
The division offers domestic and continued its regular forestation, fertilisation international cargo transfer, shipment and and thinning programme.
The transport divisions total volumes Innovative sustainability transported were lower in 2015, falling to 6.8 million tonnes, compared to 7.3 million Sustainability is an important part of the tonnes in 2014.
Shipments for the year were ethos of the transport division, not only lower than had originally been expected in terms of ensuring the safe transport of due to the Sierra Gorda mines slower than cargos and zero harm, but also from the planned ramp-up and the effects of the perspective of minimising the impact of heavy rains in northern Chile during the first the divisions transport operations on the half of the year.
communities in which it operates.
Revenue at the transport division was The transport division provides rigorous $152.4 million, a 5.3% decrease compared safety and health training for all of its 2015 Tonnage transported to $160.9 million in 2014, reflecting lower employees and contractors.
The division tonnage and a decrease in tariffs due to has also established safety procedures and Combined rail and road tonnage lower oil prices and the weaker Chilean measures to prevent accidents and ensure 000 tonnes 2014 7,302 peso tariffs are set in pesos.
public safety, such as installing traffic lights and clear signage at railway crossings, Operating profit fell to $42.0 million in 2015, 6.8 % regular road maintenance and the regular mainly reflecting the decrease in tonnage clearance of rubbish from beside the and tariffs.
Capital expenditure in 2015 was railway lines.
Sustainability is one of the pillars of the divisions new operating model.
This focus During the year, the division adopted a new 2016 Financials will not only benefit the environment and the operating model based on sustainability, communities in which the division operates, productivity and cost management.
Operating profit $m 2014 51.0 but will also enhance shareholder value As commodity prices declined during as stronger relationships are developed the year, volumes being transported in with all stakeholders.
During 2016, there northern Chile fell.
The division introduced 17.7 % will be increased interaction with the a new model to control costs and optimise communities and increased transparency the efficiency of its assets, particularly its $42.0m in what the divisiondoes.
During the year, the division level of engagement should lead to greater also provided new services on a spot basis understanding between all stakeholders and to theEl Abra and Spence mines for the provide benefits for all in the short, medium transport of sulphuric acid.
The division operates its own railway network, with access to neighbouring countries and to the two largest ports in the Antofagasta Region, Mejillones and Antofagasta.
The Antofagasta port is managed by ATI, in which the Group holdsaminority non-controlling interest.
52 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015
