Corporate Governance Statement continued Overview of Governance structure AO World Plc Board The Company is led and controlled by the Board.
The structure and business of the Board is designed to ensure that the Directors focus on strategy, monitoring, governance and the performance of the Group.
The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for the long-term success of the Company.
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Board Committees to assist it with discharging its duties, and delegates the detailed implementation of matters approved by the Board and the day-to-day operational aspects of the business to the Executive Directors who cascade this responsibility to the Group Executive Team GET and throughout the Group.
The Reports of each Committee can be found on pages 51 to 67.
Executive Directors Committees Risk Committee Senior Management Team Audit Remuneration Nomination see page 53 see page 56 see page 51 Not a formally adopted sub-committee of the Board.
Further details set out on pages 52 and 54.
The Board Current composition of our Board Role of the Board As at the date of this Annual Report the Board comprises eight Our Board is collectively responsible for the Groups performance members: the Chairman, two Executive Directors and five Nonand meets as often as necessary to effectively conduct its business.
All our Directors served throughout the year.
Further details of the relevant skills and experience of the Board are The Board has an annual rolling plan of items for discussion which set out in their biographical details set out on pages 46 and 47.
The is reviewed and adapted regularly to ensure all matters reserved Board regularly reviews the composition, experience and skills to to the Board, with other items as appropriate, are discussed.
At each ensure that the Board and its Committees continue to work effectively meeting, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer & and that the Directors are demonstrating a commitment to their roles.
Chief Financial Officer provide reports to the Board and members of the GET are also invited to attend our Board meetings to present on On 1 June 2015, the Board noted that Bill Holroyd intended to retire as specific business issues.
This way the Board is given the opportunity a Non-Executive Director and would therefore not seek re-election to meet with the next layer of management and gain a more in-depth at the AGM on 21 July 2015. understanding of key areas of the business.
Meeting proceedings and any unresolved concerns expressed by any Director are minuted by Board meetings and attendance the Company Secretary.
Nine Board meetings were held during the year ended 31 March 2015 and there are currently nine meetings scheduled for the year ending The formal schedule of matters reserved to our Board for decision 31 March 2016.
Unscheduled supplementary meetings will take place making includes: as and when necessary.
The table below summarises the attendance Setting and reviewing the Groups long-term objectives, of the Directors during the reporting period.
commercial strategy, business plan and annual budget.
Director Meetings eligible to attend Meetings attended Overseeing the Groups operations and management.
Governance and risk control issues.
Richard Rose 9 9 Major capital projects.
John Roberts 9 9 Steve Caunce 9 9 There is an established procedure for each Board or Committee meeting which normally includes a report on current trading and Brian McBride 9 8 detailed papers on matters where the Board will be required to Bill Holroyd 9 9 make a decision or give approval.
Standard agenda items include: Chris Hopkinson 9 8 Operations, Health and Safety, Strategy and Financial Performance.
A list of those matters reserved for the Board is available on the Marisa Cassoni 9 8 Companys website at www.
com corporate and from the Rudi Lamprecht 9 8 Company Secretary upon request.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 48 Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 Where Directors are unable to attend meetings, they receive the throughout the Group.
However, we do not consider that it is in the best papers scheduled for discussion at the relevant meetings, giving interests of the Company and its shareholders to set prescriptive targets them the opportunity to raise any issues and give any comments for gender on the Board and we will continue to make appointments to the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
based on merit, against objective criteria to ensure we appoint the best individual for each role.
Across our business of approximately 1,450 Division of responsibilities employees, female employees represented approximately 30% and The positions of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are not although there are no females on the Group Executive Team, 28% of exercised by the same person, ensuring a clear division of responsibility the senior management team were women as at 31 March 2015. at the head of the Company.
The division of roles and responsibilities between Richard Rose and John Roberts is clearly established.
Directors conflicts of interest Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they have As Chairman of the Board, Richard Rose is responsible for its or may have interests that conflict with those of the Company, unless leadership, setting its agenda, monitoring its effectiveness and that conflict is first authorised by the Board.
This includes potential ensuring good governance.
He ensures effective communication conflicts that may arise when a Director takes up a position with with shareholders and that the Board is aware of the view of major another company.
The Companys Articles of Association, which are shareholders.
He facilitates both the contribution of the Non-Executive in line with the Companies Act 2006, allow the Board to authorise Directors and constructive relations between the Executive and potential conflicts of interest that may arise and to impose limits or Non-Executive Directors.
conditions, as appropriate, when giving any authorisation.
Any decision of the Board to authorise a conflict of interest is only effective John Roberts and Steve Caunce are together responsible for the if it is agreed without the conflicted Directors voting or without their day-to-day running of the Group, carrying out our agreed strategy votes being counted.
In making such a decision, the Directors must and implementing specific Board decisions.
act in a way they consider in good faith will be most likely to promote the success of the Company.
The Senior Independent Director SID is Brian McBride, who is available to shareholders if they have concerns that the normal The Company has established a procedure for the appropriate channels of Chairman or Chief Executive Officer have failed to resolve, authorisation to be sought prior to the appointment of any new or for which such channels of communication are inappropriate.
Director, or prior to a new conflict arising and for the regular review The SID also acts as an internal sounding board for the Chairman and of actual or potential conflicts of interest.
An Interests Register records serves as intermediary for the other Directors, with the Chairman, any authorised potential conflicts and will be reviewed by the Board when necessary.
The role of the SID is considered to be an important on a regular basis to ensure that the procedure is working effectively.
check and balance in the Groups governance structure.
In accordance with the Code, neither the Chairman nor the SID are employed as Committees of the Board executives of the Group.
The Board has delegated authority to its Committees to carry out certain tasks on its behalf and to ensure compliance with regulatory Diversity requirements including the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, the We fully support the aims, objectives and recommendations outlined DTRs and the Code.
This also allows the Board to operate efficiently and in Lord Davies Report Women on Boards and are aware of the need to give the right level of attention and consideration to relevant matters.
to increase the number of women on our Board and in senior positions A summary of the terms of reference of each Committee is set out below.
Membership required Minimum number of Committee report Committee Role and terms of reference under terms of reference meetings per year on pages Audit Reviews and reports to the Board on the Groups At least three members Three 53 to 55 financial reporting, internal control and risk management systems, whistleblowing, internal At least two should be audit and the independence and effectiveness independent Nonof the external auditors.
Executive Directors Remuneration Responsible for all elements of the remuneration At least three members Three 56 to 67 of the Executive Directors and the Chairman, the Company Secretary and the Group At least two should be Executive Team.
independent NonExecutive Directors Nomination Reviews the structure, size and composition At least three members Two 51 and 52 of the Board and its Committees and makes appropriate recommendations to the Board.
At least one should be an independent Non-Executive Director The full terms of reference for each Committee are available on the Companys website at www.
com corporate and from the Company Secretary upon request.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49 Corporate Governance Statement continued on pages 46 and 47 the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors collectively have significant industry, public company and international experience which will support the Company in executing its strategy.
Board evaluation and effectiveness Director election The effectiveness and performance of the Board is vital to our success.
Following the Board evaluation process and the subsequent An internal evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees recommendations from the Nomination Committee the Board considers and the Chairman was carried out during the second half of the year.
that all Directors continue to be effective, committed to their roles The process of evaluating the performance was undertaken by the and are able to devote sufficient time to their duties.
Accordingly, all Company Secretary under the direction of the Chairman.
A tailored, Directors will seek re-election at the Companys AGM with the exception high-level questionnaire was distributed for the Directors to complete.
of Bill Holroyd who is not seeking re-election and will retire from the This was structured to provide the Directors with an opportunity to Board at the conclusion of that meeting.
express their views about: The performance of the Board and its Committees, including how Annual General Meeting the Directors work together as a whole.
The AGM of the Company will take place at 10.00 am on Tuesday 21 July 2015 The balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge at the Companys registered office at AO Park, 5A The Parklands, Lostock, of the Directors.
All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote, Individual performance and whether each Director continues in person or by proxy, at the AGM.
The notice of the AGM can be found in a to make an effective contribution.
booklet which is being mailed out at the same time as this Report and can also be found on our website www.
The notice of the AGM sets The responses to the evaluation of the Board and its Committees were out the business of the meeting and an explanatory note on all resolutions.
reviewed with the Chairman and then considered by the Board.
The Separate resolutions are proposed in respect of each substantive issue.
results of the evaluation indicated that the Board is working well and that there are no significant concerns among the Directors about its The Chairman, the Chair of each of the Committees and both Executive effectiveness.
Some actions were agreed as a result of the exercise Directors will be present at the AGM and will be available to answer and these will be progressed over the coming year.
During the year, the Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors Information and support available to Directors without the Executive Directors present to discuss Board balance, All Board Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who advises them monitor the powers of individual Executive Directors and raise on governance matters.
The Chairman and the Company Secretary work any issues between themselves as appropriate.
Led by the Senior together to ensure that Board papers are clear, accurate, delivered in a timely Independent Director, the Non-Executive Directors also met during manner to Directors and of sufficient quality to enable the Board to discharge the year without the Chairman present to appraise his performance its duties.
Specific business-related presentations are given by members of and to discuss any other necessary matters as appropriate.
The the GET when appropriate.
As well as the support of the Company Secretary, performance of individual Directors was evaluated by the Chairman, there is a procedure in place for any Director to take independent professional with input from the Committee Chairmen and other Directors.
advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties, where considered necessary, for example New Bridge Street consultants advise Following evaluation, it was agreed that all Directors contribute on remuneration matters and Deloitte LLP on audit matters.
effectively, demonstrate a high level of commitment to their role and together provide the skills and experience that are relevant Development and necessary for the leadership and direction of the Company.
In line with the Code, we will ensure that any new Directors joining the Board will receive appropriate support and are given a comprehensive, Independence formal and tailored induction programme organised through the Company For the purposes of assessing compliance with the Code, the Board Secretary, including the provision of background material on the Company considers that Marisa Cassoni, Rudi Lamprecht and Brian McBride are and briefings with senior management.
Each Directors individual Non-Executive Directors who are independent of management and free experience and background will be taken into account in developing a from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with programme tailored to his or her own requirements.
Any new Director the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board also considers will also be expected to meet with major shareholders if required.
that Richard Rose, Chairman of the Company, was independent at the time of his appointment in August 2008.
As the Board currently consists In addition, the Chairman, following the Board Evaluation, will discuss of the Chairman, three independent Non-Executive Directors, two any training and development needs with the Directors.
Executive Directors and two Non-Executive Directors who are not considered independent by virtue of their historic involvement with External directorships the Company, the Board is aware that it did not comply with the Any external appointments or other significant commitments of the recommendation of the Code that at least half the members of the Board, Directors require the prior approval of the Board.
Details of the Directors excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent Non-Executive significant external directorships can be found in their biographies on pages Directors over the year.
However, as noted above, as Mr Holroyd will not 46 and 47.
During the year Richard Rose announced his appointment stand for re-election as a Director of the Company at the forthcoming as Non-Executive Chairman designate of Quindell Plc and his intention to AGM on 21 July 2015, the composition of the Board will from that date step down as Non-Executive Chairman of Booker Group Plc in July 2015. comply with the independence requirements set out in the Code.
Additionally, since the end of the financial year under report, Marisa Cassoni has been appointed as Non-Executive Director of Enterprise Inns Having regard to the character, judgement, commitment and Plc.
Neither of these changes in appointments are expected to have any performance of the Board and Committees to date, and following the significant impact on the time they commit to the Company.
Board evaluation conducted during the year, the Board is satisfied that no one individual will dominate the Boards decision taking and While all Non-Executive Directors have external directorships, the considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors are able to provide Board is comfortable that these do not impact on the time that any objective challenges to management.
A key objective of the Board Director devotes to the Company and we believe that this experience is to ensure that its composition is sufficiently diverse and reflects only enhances the capability of the Board.
Neither John Roberts nor a broad range of skills, knowledge and experience to enable it to Steve Caunce hold external directorships save for Crystalcraft Limited, meet its responsibilities.
As can been seen from the biographies a dormant company for which they receive no fee.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 50 Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 Chris Hopkinson is not deemed as independent for the purposes of Report of the Nomination Committee the Code due to his historic involvement with the Company.
However, the Board considers that it has a strong independent non-executive component and that the continuity, experience and knowledge of myself and Chris enable us to make a significant contribution to the work of the Committee, ensuring the Committee is run effectively.
Julie Finnemore Head of Group Legal and Company Secretary serves as Secretary to the Committee.
By invitation, the meetings of the Nomination Committee may be attended by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
Role of the Nomination Committee The Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and has responsibility for nominating candidates for appointment as Directors to the Board, having regard to its composition in terms of diversity including gender and ensuring it reflects a broad range of skills, knowledge and experience to enable it to meet its responsibilities.
The Nomination Committee also makes recommendations to the Richard Rose Chairman, Nomination Committee Board concerning the reappointment of any Non-Executive Director as he or she reaches the end of the period of their initial appointment three years and at appropriate intervals during their tenure.
The Committee also considers and makes recommendations to the Board on the annual election and re-election of any Director by shareholders Delivering a including Executive Directors and changes to the Group Executive Team, after evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of each Director.
Such appointments are made on merit, against balanced Board objective criteria and with due regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board.
Going forward, the Company intends to use a combination of external recruitment consultants and personal referrals in making with the right any required appointments to the Board.
The Nomination Committee takes into account the provisions of the skills mix.
UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code and any regulatory requirements that are applicable to the Company.
As the Company has only completed one full financial year as a main market listed company, no external evaluation has yet been undertaken.
The Nomination I am pleased to introduce the report of the Nomination Committee Committee will be responsible for ensuring that future external evaluations for the year.
of the Board are carried out according to applicable regulations.
Composition of the Committee Main activities of the Committee during the year The members of the Committee who served during the year were During the year the Nomination Committee assessed the composition as follows: and effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, having regard to the internal Board evaluation carried out in the second half of the year, Composition of the Nomination Committee and considered the proposal for re-election of all the Directors at the forthcoming AGM.
The Board also discussed succession planning of Richard Rose Chairman and Chairman of the Board senior management.
The Board recognises that effective succession Brian McBride Senior Independent Non-Executive Director planning is fundamental to the success of the Company and that Chris Hopkinson Non-Executive Director ensuring the continued development of talented employees helps to mitigate the risks associated with unforeseen events, such as key individuals leaving the business.
The Committee recognised that more During the year ended 31 March 2015, the Nomination Committee work was required in this area and a further review will be undertaken held two meetings.
The table below summarises the attendance.
during the financial year to 31 March 2016.
Meetings eligible to attend Meetings attended On the recommendation of the Nomination Committee and in line Richard Rose 2 2 with the Code, all currently appointed Directors will retire at the 2015 Brian McBride 2 2 AGM and offer themselves for reappointment, with the exception of Bill Holroyd who is not seeking re-election and will retire from the Chris Hopkinson 2 2 Board at the conclusion of that meeting.
The biographical details of the current Directors can be found on pages 46 and 47.
The Committee The Code recommends that the Nomination Committee is comprised considers that the performance of the Directors standing for reof a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Only Brian election continues to be effective and that they each demonstrate McBride is deemed as independent as whilst I was considered to be commitment to their role and devote sufficient time to attend Board independent on appointment, the Code provides that thereafter the and Committee meetings and any other duties.
test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51
