Business model Investment versus income Creating value through the mining lifecycle Mining is a long-term business and timescales can run into decades.
The period from initial exploration to the start of production often exceeds ten years and then, depending on the nature of the project and market conditions, it may take more than five years of operation to recoup the initial investment.
If possible, mines usually plan to exploit highergrade areas towards the start of the mine life in order to maximise returns from the operation.
As a result, average ore grades may decline over time, with production volumes decreasing along with revenues.
Construction Resources Chile Los Pelambres Encuentro Oxides Incremental Relationships International Centinela Expansion Molybdenum Plant Centinela Second Concentrator Twin Metals Further information Further information Further information Further information on page 14. onpage 14. onpage 15. onpage 15.
Income 35 YEARS 5 YEARS 35 YEARS Investment Innovative sustainability Sustainable development is an integral and innovative component of Antofagastas decision-making process, firmly embedded in the business model and strategy of the Group.
Antofagasta is committed to operational excellence, safety, talent management, environmental management and co-operation with employees and local communities.
12 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Revenues, however, depend on commodity prices.
These tend to be cyclical, so even as production volumes decline revenues can increase, and vice versa.
Long-life and low-cost operations increase the chances of a mine benefiting from the peaks in the commodity price cycle while withstanding the troughs.
Also, during the life of a mine there will often be expansions that help it to keep down its unit costs of production the most important financial KPI on a mine.
Outputs Los Pelambres Ongoing value chain The copper and Centinela byproducts from the Antucoya Groups mines go on tobe further processed Zaldvar for use in end markets, including property, power, electronics, transport and consumer products.
Further information Further information Further information Further information Further information onpages 16 and 17. onpages 16 and 17. onpages 16 and 17. onpage 18. onpage 18.
Income 20 YEARS Investment Sustainability drives business success and without it the Group would not operate as efficiently as it does.
For more information on the Groups commitment to sustainability see pages 53to63.
Antofagasta plc 13 Exploration 35 years Business model Creating value through the mining lifecycle 1.
Inputs The Groups mining operations depend on a range of key inputs, such as energy, water, labourand fuel.
The management of these inputs has a significant impact onoperating costs, so ensuring the long-term availability of key resources is a vital partofsupply management.
Resources Labour Energy Plant and equipment Balanced Financial capital Water Services and supplies Mineral resource-rich land Reagents Fuel inputs Relationships with Employees and contractors Neighbouring communities Government and public authorities Customers Environment Infrastructure providers Suppliers More on key inputs and cost base on pages 19 to 21.
Exploration To secure the future of the business in the long Exploration programmes throughout Chile term, the Group must grow its mineral resource base.
It undertakes in-house exploration activities More on pages 50 and 51. in Chile.
Exploration programmes further afield are carried out in partnership with other companies Earn-in agreements in in order to benefit from their local knowledge NorthAmerica, Latin and experience.
Growing America, Europe, Africa andAustralia resources More on pages 50 and 51.
Increased mineral resources by 831.3 million tonnes in 2015 at Los Volcanes and Polo Sur deposits.
14 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Evaluation 5 years Construction 35 years INPUTS EXPLORATION EVALUATION CONSTRUCTION EXTRACTION PROCESSING MARKETING RESTORATION OUTPUTS 3.
Evaluation Effective project evaluation and design is critical Los Pelambres Incremental Expansion tomaximise value at this stage of the mining cycle.
The Groups wealth of experience in both areas More on page 49. helps to make the bestuse of mineral deposits.
Centinela Second The Group integrates sustainability criteria into design Concentrator processes and project evaluation, developing innovative Maximising solutions for challenges such as water, energy and More on pages 49 and 50. community relations.
value Twin Metals More on page 50.
Construction Once a project has been approved by the Board, Centinela construction begins.
This stage requires significant More on page 48. input of capital and resources, and effective project management and cost control are key Encuentro Oxides tomaximising a projects return on investment.
The Group has a co-operative approach to developing Risk sharing projects.
Typically, after the feasibility stage, and into Molybdenum Plant the construction phase, the Group seeks a partner for projects, diversifying risk and providing a broader Efficient More on page 48. access to funding.
construction and cost control Antofagasta plc 15 Operations 20 years Operations 20 years Operations 20 years Business model Creating value through the mining lifecycle 5.
Extraction The Groups four operations in Chile are: Los Pelambres, Centinela, Antucoya and Zaldvar.
The world-class Los Pelambres and Centinela districts have long-life operations with large mineral resources and produce significant by-products: gold, silver and molybdenum.
Within these operations are four open pit mines.
In 2015, the Group completed the construction of Antucoya, the only new mine opened in Operating Chile during the year.
In December 2015, the Group acquired a 50% interest in the Zaldvar copper efficiency mine and became the operator.
Safety and health are key elements of operational efficiency and remain a top priority for the Board and management team.
Processing The Group mines both copper sulphide and copper oxide ores which require different processing routes: Los Pelambres and Centinela Concentrates Mined sulphide ore is milled to reduce its size beforepassing to flotation cells where it is upgradedto a concentrate containing some 25-35% copper.
This concentrate is then shipped toasmelter operated by a third party and Quality convertedto copper metal.
Centinela Cathodes, Antucoya and Zaldvar output Mined oxide ore, combined with leachable sulphide or at Zaldvar, is crushed, piled into heaps and then leached with sulphuric acid, producing a copper sulphate solution.
This solution is then put through a solvent extraction and electrowinning SX-EW plant to produce copper cathodes, which are sold to fabricators around the world.
Marketing The marketing team builds long-term relationships with smelters and fabricators who purchase the Groups products, with approximately 76% of output going to Asian markets.
As well as copper, a number of the Groups mines produce significant volumes of metal by-products: gold, molybdenum and silver.
Long-term Gold is sold for use in industrial and electronic applications and in jewellery making.
Molybdenum is used in industrial applications, mainly in steel alloys.
Silver is used for electrical and electronic applications and for jewellery.
relationships Most copper and molybdenum sales are made under annual contracts or longer-term framework agreements, with sales volumes agreed each year, which guarantees offtake.
For more information on the structure of the Groups sales contracts, please see page 22.
16 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION INPUTS EXPLORATION EVALUATION CONSTRUCTION EXTRACTION PROCESSING MARKETING RESTORATION OUTPUTS Los Pelambres More on pages 40 to 42.
Start of operation: 2000 Estimated output in 2016: 355365,000 tonnes Oxide Ore Sulphide Ore Centinela Concentrates More on pages 43 and 44.
Start of operation: 2011 Estimated output in 2016: 175185,000 tonnes Centinela Cathodes More on pages 43 and 44.
Start of operation: 2001 Estimated output in 2016: 6065,000 tonnes Antucoya Heap-leaching Concentrator More on page 46. and SX-EW Start of operation: 2015 Estimated output in 2016: 6570,000 tonnes Zaldvar More on page 47.
Start of operation: 1995 Estimated output in 2016 50% : 5055,000 tonnes Cathodes Concentrates Antofagasta plc 17 Exploration 20 years Business model Creating value through the mining lifecycle 8.
Restoration During the operation of a mine, its impact on the More on Managing a sustainable business onpages 53 to 63. environment and the neighbouring communities is carefully managed.
At the end of its life, a mine must be closed and the surrounding habitats restored to their original state.
A closure plan for each mine is maintained and updated Managing throughout its life to ensure compliance with the latest regulations and sustainable closure.
our impact Sustainable development is an essential component of the Groups decisionmaking process and business model.
Outputs The Groups mining operations create significant Outputs economic and social value for a wide range of Copper stakeholders local communities benefit from By-products: gold, molybdenum and silver job creation and improved infrastructure, while the Chilean government and local municipalities Outcomes receive tax payments and royalties.
There are also Financial reinvested profits, dividends benefits to society in general the copper the Economic toshareholders, taxes to government Group produces is used in a wide range of sectors, from industrial to medical.
Improved local infrastructure and social Impact on environment minimised as value faras possible, see page 55 Social and economic benefit to local communities jobs and opportunities forpartnerships with local business Benefit to wider society and industry products used in a wide range of sectors More on KPIs on pages 30 and 31.
18 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015
