Directors report Other statutory disclosures Pages 42 to 69 inclusive together with the sections of the Annual Transfer of shares Report incorporated by reference form part of the Directors report.
Certified shares i Transfers may be in favour of more than four joint holders, but the Other information, which forms part of the Directors report, can be directors can refuse to register such a transfer.
found in the following sections of the Annual Report: ii The share transfer form must be delivered to the registered office, Location or any other place decided on by the directors.
The transfer form Acquisitions Financial statements Note 26 must be accompanied by the share certificate relating to the Audit Committee report Page 49 shares being transferred, unless the transfer is being made by Board and committee membership Page 42 a person to whom the Company was not required to, and did not Corporate governance report Page 44 send, a certificate.
The directors can also ask acting reasonably Directors biographies Page 43 for any other evidence to show that the person wishing to transfer Directors responsibility statement Page 69 the shares is entitled to do so.
Financial risk management Financial statements Note 24 CREST shares Future developments Page 16 i Registration of CREST shares can be refused in the circumstances Greenhouse gas emissions Page 41 set out in the Uncertified Securities Regulations.
Nomination Committee report Page 51 ii Transfers cannot be in favour of more than four joint holders.
Other statutory disclosures Page 67 Our people Page 36 Significant shareholders Pension schemes Financial statements Note 23 Based on notifications received, the holdings of 3% or more of the Post balance sheet events Financial statements Note 29 issued share capital of the Company as at 12 June 2015 the latest practicable date before approval of the financial statements are Results and dividends Page 26 as follows: Share capital Financial statements Note 20 Social responsibility Page 33 % Abrams Bison Investments LLC 5 SHARE CAPITAL AND MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS BlackRock, Inc. 5 Details of the Companys share capital are given in Note 20 to the AXA Investment Managers, S. A.
Baillie Gifford & Co. 5 Acquisition of own shares Old Mutual Asset Managers UK Ltd 4 At the 2014 annual general meeting, the Company was authorised to make market purchases of up to 75.5m ordinary shares.
The Company Details of directors interests in the Companys ordinary share capital has not acquired any shares under this authority during the year.
This and in options over that share capital are given in the Directors authority will expire on the earlier of the next annual general meeting remuneration report on pages 62 and 63.
Details of all shares subject of the Company or 3 March 2016. to option are given in the notes to the financial statements on page 93.
A special resolution will be proposed at this years annual general CHANGE OF CONTROL PROVISIONS meeting to authorise the Company to make market purchases of up to 75.5m ordinary shares.
IN LOAN AGREEMENTS A change in control of the Company defined, inter alia, as a person or Voting rights a group of persons acting in concert gaining control of more than 30% Subject to the Articles of Association, every member who is present of the Companys voting rights leads to an immediate event of default in person at a general meeting shall have one vote and on a poll every under the Companys asset-based senior lending facility.
In such member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote circumstances, the agent for the lending group may, and if so directed for every share of which he or she is the holder.
The Trustees of the by more than 50% of the lenders shall, declare the amounts Employee Share Ownership Trust ordinarily follow the guidelines outstanding under the facility immediately due and payable.
issued by the Association of British Insurers and do not exercise their Such a change of control also leads to an obligation, within 30 days of right to vote at general meetings.
the change in control, for the Group to make an offer to the holders of Under the Companies Act 2006, members are entitled to appoint a the Groups $900m senior secured notes, due 2022 and $500m senior proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or secured notes, due 2024, to redeem them at 101% of their face value.
any of their rights to attend and speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or any class of meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A corporate member may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting or any class of meeting as a corporate representative.
The deadline for the exercise of voting rights is as stated in the notice of the relevant meeting.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 67 Other statutory disclosures continued i there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS auditor is unaware: and Unless determined otherwise by ordinary resolution, the Company is required to have a minimum of two directors and a maximum of ii each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken to 15 directors disregarding alternate directors.
make himself aware of such information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of it.
The directors are not required to hold any shares in the Company by the Articles of Association.
The Company has maintained insurance throughout the year to cover all directors against liabilities in relation to the Company and its The Board can appoint any person to be a director.
appointed as a director by the Board must retire from office at the first annual general meeting after appointment.
A director who retires in AMENDMENT OF ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION this way is then eligible for reappointment.
The Articles of Association of the Company may be amended by The Articles state that each director must retire from office if he held a special resolution.
office at the time of the two preceding annual general meetings and did not retire at either of them.
In accordance with the UK Corporate POLICY ON PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS Governance Code, all directors are subject to annual election by Suppliers are paid in accordance with the individual payment terms the shareholders.
The number of Group creditor days at In addition to any power to remove directors conferred by legislation, 30 April 2015 was 72 days 30 April 2014: 63 days which reflects the the Company can pass a special resolution to remove a director from terms agreed with individual suppliers.
There were no trade creditors office even though his time in office has not ended and can appoint in the Companys balance sheet at any time during the past two years.
a person to replace a director who has been removed in this way by passing an ordinary resolution.
POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS Charitable donations in the year amounted to 147,508 in total 2014: Any director stops being a director if i he gives the Company written 127,641.
No political donations were made in either year.
notice of his resignation: ii he gives the Company written notice in which he offers to resign and the directors decide to accept this offer: POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS iii all the other directors who must comprise at least three people Details of post balance sheet events are included in Note 29 of the pass a resolution or sign a written notice requiring the director to consolidated financial statements.
resign: iv a registered medical practitioner who is treating that person gives a written opinion to the Company stating that that person has become physically or mentally incapable of acting as a director GOING CONCERN and may remain so for more than three months: v by reason of that After making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a reasonable persons mental health, a court makes an order which wholly or partly expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources prevents that person from personally exercising any powers or rights to continue in operation for the foreseeable future and consequently, which that person would otherwise have: vi he has missed directors that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the meetings whether or not an alternate director appointed by him financial statements.
attends those meetings for a continuous period of six months without permission from the directors and the directors pass a resolution AUDITOR removing the director from office: vii a bankruptcy order is made Deloitte LLP has indicated its willingness to continue in office and in against him or he makes any arrangement or composition with his accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution creditors generally: viii he is prohibited from being a director under concerning its reappointment and authorising the directors to fix the legislation: or ix he ceases to be a director under the legislation its remuneration, will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
or he is removed from office under the Articles of Association.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 2.30pm on Subject to the legislation, the Articles of Association and any authority Wednesday, 2 September 2015 at Wax Chandlers Hall, 6 Gresham given to the Company in general meeting by special resolution, Street, London EC2V 7AD.
An explanation of the business to be the business of the Company is managed by the Board of directors transacted at the AGM will be circulated to shareholders and will that can use all of the Companys powers to borrow money and to be available on the Companys corporate website, mortgage or charge all or any of the Companys undertaking, property www.
and assets present and future and uncalled capital of the Company By order of the Board and to issue debentures and other security and to give security, either outright or as collateral security, for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INSURANCE Details of the directors of the Company are given on pages 42 and 43.
The policies related to their appointment and replacement are detailed on pages 46 and 47.
Each of the directors as at the date of ERIC WATKINS approval of this report confirms, as required by section 418 of the Company secretary Companies Act 2006 that to the best of their knowledge and belief: 15 June 2015 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 68
