Directors report Our Board of Directors 1.
Details of the directors contracts, emoluments and share interests can be found in the Directors remuneration report.
Key: Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Finance and Administration Committee Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 42 Directors report 1.
MICHAEL BURROW Non-executive chairman Independent non-executive director Chris Cole has been a director since January 2002 and was appointed Michael Burrow was appointed as a non-executive director and as non-executive chairman in March 2007.
Chris is chairman of member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees the Nomination Committee and a member of the Finance and effective from March 2007 and chairman of the Remuneration Administration Committee.
He is non-executive chairman of WSP Committee in September 2010.
Michael was formerly managing Global Inc. a company formed from the merger of GENIVAR Inc. and director of the Investment Banking Group of Lehman Brothers WSP Group plc.
Prior to the merger he was chief executive of WSP Europe Limited.
He is also the non-executive chairman of Tracsis plc and Applus and senior independent director of Infinis Energy plc.
WAYNE EDMUNDS Independent non-executive director 2.
GEOFF DRABBLE Wayne was appointed as a non-executive director and member of Chief executive the Audit Committee in February 2014 and became chairman of the Geoff Drabble was appointed chief executive in January 2007, having Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination served as chief executive designate from October 2006 and as a Committees with effect from 1 July 2014.
Wayne is a non-executive non-executive director since April 2005.
Geoff was previously an director and chairman of the Audit Committee at BBA Aviation plc executive director of The Laird Group plc where he was responsible and a non-executive director of MSCI, Inc..
He was formerly chief for its Building Products division.
Prior to joining The Laird Group, executive officer of Invensys plc.
Wayne is a US citizen and lives he held a number of senior management positions at Black & Decker.
Geoff is chairman of the Finance and Administration Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
BRUCE EDWARDS Independent non-executive director 3.
SUZANNE WOOD Bruce Edwards was appointed as a non-executive director in Finance director June 2007 and a member of the Nomination Committee and Suzanne Wood was appointed as a director in July 2012.
Suzanne Remuneration Committee effective from February 2009 and joined Sunbelt as its chief financial officer in 2003.
Bruce is also a non-executive director qualified accountant, having trained with Price Waterhouse.
She is of Greif Inc. a NYSE-listed packaging and container manufacturer.
a member of the Finance and Administration Committee.
Suzanne is He was formerly the global chief executive officer for Exel Supply a US citizen and lives in Charlotte, North Carolina but also maintains Chain at Deutsche Post World Net.
Bruce is a US citizen and lives a London residence.
IAN SUTCLIFFE Chief executive, Sunbelt Senior independent non-executive director Brendan Horgan was appointed as a director in January 2011.
Ian Sutcliffe was appointed as a non-executive director and member Brendan joined Sunbelt in 1996 and has held a number of senior of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees in September management positions including chief sales officer and chief 2010.
Following the retirement of Hugh Etheridge, Ian was appointed operating officer.
Brendan is a US citizen and lives in Charlotte, as senior independent non-executive director with effect from 1 July North Carolina.
Ian is the executive chairman of Countryside Properties plc.
He was formerly chief executive officer of Keepmoat and managing director, UK Property, at Segro plc.
Prior to joining Segro he held 5.
SAT DHAIWAL senior executive positions with Taylor Wimpey plc and Royal Dutch Chief executive, A-Plant Shell plc.
Sat Dhaiwal has been chief executive of A-Plant and a director since March 2002.
Sat was managing director of A-Plant East, one of A-Plants four operational regions, from May 1998 to March 2002.
Before that he was an A-Plant trading director from 1995 and, prior to 1995, managed one of A-Plants stores.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 43
