Our strategy Our strategic priorities We are operating in a market full of potential and accordingly our economic recovery in an aggressive but disciplined manner.
Whether strategy is to grow the business aggressively but responsibly.
Two we achieve these goals this cycle or next cycle is dependent on years ago we set ourselves the goal in the medium to long term of various factors, many of which are outside our control such as the doubling our market share in the US to 12% and grow it by 50% in the duration of the cycle.
However, the important factor is that we UK.
Given the way the rental market is evolving and the way we do implement our strategy consistently, across the economic cycle to business, we think this is realistic.
We have demonstrated where we ensure that we are in a strong position at all times to take advantage think we are in the economic cycle.
Our challenge now is to make the of the opportunities presented by our markets.
The risks that we face most of that position and the growth which comes with sustained in implementing this strategy are discussed on pages 24 and 25.
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES KEY INITIATIVES UPDATE RELEVANT KPIs & RISKS BUILD A BROAD PLATFORM FOR GROWTH: Double our US market share Organic fleet growth US market share increased from KPIs Increase UK market share Greenfield expansion 6% to 7% Fleet on rent by 50% Bolt-on M&A 32% increase in size of US rental fleet Risks Develop specialty products 24% increase in US fleet on rent Competition Develop clusters in key 31 greenfield openings in the US People areas $339m spent on US acquisitions 7m spent on UK acquisitions MAINTAIN FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL FLEXIBILITY: RoI above 15% for the Group Driving improved dollar Strong RoI at 19% 2014: 19% KPIs utilisation Sunbelt dollar utilisation of 59% RoI Maintain fall through rates 2014: 61% Dollar utilisation Increasing US store maturity Sunbelt fall through of 58% Underlying EBITDA margins A-Plant dollar utilisation of 56% Risks 2014: 56% Economic conditions Competition Maintain leverage Maintaining financial Sunbelt EBITDA margin improved KPIs predominantly below two discipline to 47% 2014: 45% Leverage times net debt to EBITDA Leverage of 1.8x EBITDA Net debt Risks Financing Ensure financial firepower Optimise fleet profile Fleet age remains stable and at bottom of cycle for next and age during the appropriate at this stage of the cycle: step change cyclical upturn Sunbelt 26 months 2014: 27 months A-Plant 29 months 2014: 37 months OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE: Improve operational Operational improvement: Initial phase of improvement KPIs capability and effectiveness programmes designed to deliver Underlying EBITDA margins delivery cost recovery Continued focus on service improved dollar utilisation and RoI fleet efficiency EBITDA margins Fleet on rent Staff turnover Safety Risks People Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 16 Strategic report 08: MARKET SHARE AND GROWTH STRATEGY Market share 0% 10% 15 % General tool Specialty As we develop new stores their profit margins go up and they deliver Building a broad platform for growth more revenue.
We focus on same-store growth because once a store Our first strategic priority is to build a broad platform for organic has been open for 12 months it has average growth of 17% and growth supplemented by small bolt-on acquisitions and new it generates the best returns.
This is part cyclical market growth of greenfield sites.
The map above shows the nature and scale of our 7% and part structural growth of 10%.
So even if the market stops opportunity to build market share in the US and the 144 new locations growing, our stores dont because that structural part of the growth we have added over the last three years.
Anything in green on the map is independent of the market.
As a result we are growing at two is where we already have our target 12% market share.
Areas in dark to three times the pace of our closest competitors and this is our green are where we have over 15%.
It is only a matter of time before fifth year of growing at least three times the pace of the market.
we achieve similar results across a broader geography because we The strength of our brand and reputation mean that new greenfield now have the scale, competitive advantage and balance sheet sites became profitable very quickly.
strength to reach our targets.
There are 11 out of the top 100 markets in the US where we have no locations and a further 20 where our As chart 9 shows, when we add to this the 10% growth from our share is less than our average share.
So we believe there is significant bolt-on acquisitions and greenfield sites, total revenue growth opportunity for expansion in both existing and new geographies.
becomes 27%, of which two-thirds is structural and not driven by market growth.
Our strategy capitalises on both structural and cyclical factors to drive our revenue growth.
09: SOURCES OF REVENUE GROWTH 17% 10% 27% Same-store Bolt-ons and Total rental only growth greenfields revenue growth 7% 10% End market Structural growth share gains Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 17 Our strategy continued Our strategic priorities continued 55% of Sunbelts business is non-construction.
Structural growth is the market share we take because we have the Our greenfield sites are chosen carefully to enhance our existing best kit in the right locations combined with the best service.
We focus on building clusters of stores, as can be seen able to keep growing because we prioritise investment in the fleet and in the map opposite, because as we build clusters our RoI expands.
have the financial security to be able to do that.
Our customers want Where we have a full cluster of stores, as we have in Florida for good quality fleet, readily available to meet their needs.
Investing in example, our average store level RoI is around 5% higher than for a broad range of fleet and backing that up with great service means non-clustered locations.
our customers remain loyal and do not need to look elsewhere.
10: US BUSINESS MIX Prioritising higher return on investment RoI products further helps our growth.
2007 We are also focused on finding the best opportunities and acting quickly on those whether that be a new greenfield site or an Construction 55% acquisition.
Opportunities that allow us to diversify further and expand our specialty businesses are particularly key to our strategy Non-construction 45% of building a broader base for growth.
Last financial year we made 16 acquisitions which grew our North American network and expanded our specialty businesses, adding 51 locations.
Our specialty businesses are a strategic priority and have grown from 16% of our business in 2011 to 25% in 2015.
We have seen fastest growth in Oil & Gas and Climate Control and aim to build specialty businesses generating $1bn of revenue in time.
We have always said we wanted to reduce our dependence on the construction industry.
The increase in our specialty businesses is one way in which we have increased the ratio of our non-construction business, as can be seen 2015 in chart 10.
We will not necessarily continue this pace of acquisition activity Construction 45% as it will depend on what opportunities are available in the future.
Non-construction 55% However, we may find, for example, that the weaker oil price means we are able to secure better priced acquisition opportunities in Oil & Gas, a sector we continue to believe will deliver good growth opportunities for our business.
MAKING IT HAPPEN FOR FORMULA E Sunbelt supplied electrical distribution equipment to meet the unique power needs of the electric version of Formula 1, Formula e, for its inaugural race in the US in Miami, using fuel efficient rental equipment and delivery trucks.
Im convinced our power issues would have been magnified if you had not been there to support with transformers, distros, cabling, a backup gen system, and most of all experience you were the only one in the room that understood what needed to happen as we and our electrical contractor did SCOTT RUSH Director of Operations, Andretti Sports Marketing Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 18 Strategic report 11: CLUSTERED MARKETS 100 LARGEST MARKETS Full cluster Non cluster No presence 12: SOUTH FLORIDA CLUSTER Financial and operational flexibility The scale of growth we are experiencing and planning requires a great deal of financial and operational flexibility.
As mentioned elsewhere, we are a cyclical business and we aim to perform at all stages of the economic cycle.
This means looking ahead and preparing for both the top and the bottom of the cycle.
It means having the financial strength to enable growth when appropriate and make our returns sustainable.
Having a strong balance sheet is fundamental to our success at all stages in the cycle.
A big part of our financial stability comes from our strategy of ensuring that, averaged across the economic cycle, we always deliver RoI well ahead of our cost of capital.
RoI through the cycle is the key measure for any rental company and the best medium-term indicator of the strength of the business.
We do this in a variety of ways at General tool different stages of the cycle, all focused on the effective management Specialty of invested capital and maintaining financial discipline.
Our current strategy is to focus on optimising dollar utilisation the rental revenue return over the original cost of any of our equipment and on maintaining our fall through rates the proportion of incremental rental revenue that falls through to EBITDA.
Last year our fall through rate at Sunbelt was 58% overall and 67% on a same-store basis.
This is how we measure the efficiency of our growth.
The maturity of our stores also has a big impact on RoI.
This is because as stores mature and get bigger there is natural margin progression.
Stores that were greenfield sites only two years ago are now already adding same-store growth.
We are always focused on moving new and young stores up the maturity curve as there is scope for higher returns as they do so.
This also means that we are now at a very different stage in our evolution relative to the current economic cycle to where we were in the last.
We have more stores overall and they are larger than at the peak of the last cycle, so we are much better placed to weather the next downturn when it comes, as we know it will.
Chart 13 on page 20 shows how our strategic focus on store evolution is driving our strong margins and returns.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 19 Our strategy continued Our strategic priorities 13: STORE MATURITY PROFILE Number Operating margin RoI Fleet size 2008 2015 2008 2015 2008 2015 Extra large $15m 14 73 37% 41% 26% 28% Large $10m 35 108 35% 38% 25% 27% Medium $5m 174 181 30% 34% 22% 24% Small $5m 115 68 24% 29% 19% 23% Based on store level operating profit and excludes corporate costs.
Note: 2008 reflects prior cycle peak performance.
While we are looking to grow and capitalise on the market Operational excellence opportunity, we also seek to maintain financial discipline and are Our third strategic priority is improving our operational capability always mindful of our leverage commitment to maintain our ratio of and effectiveness, doing what we do to the very best of our ability.
net debt to EBITDA at below two times.
From this position of strength Last year we continued our improvement programmes designed to at the peak of the cycle, we can ensure we have sufficient financial enhance our operational efficiency and hence the sustainability of our resources at the bottom of the cycle to prepare for the next step EBITDA margins.
The key focus of these initially has been to improve change in the market and capitalise on growth opportunities in the delivery cost recovery and increase fleet efficiency.
We have analysed early stages of the next recovery.
Integral to financial strength is our all aspects of how we fulfil our customers requirements, ranging ability to generate cash.
Traditionally, rental companies have only from how we organise our stores, load our delivery trucks, optimise generated cash in a downturn when they reduce capital expenditure our delivery and pick-up routes and how we spend time at the and age their fleet.
In the upturn, they consume cash as they replace customer location.
As with any multi-location business, all locations their fleets and then seek to grow.
As our business matures, we are are good at some of this, some locations are good at all of it our goal reaching the point where we expect to generate free cash flow before is for all locations to be good at all of it.
acquisitions and returns to shareholders throughout the cycle and One initiative set up last year focused primarily on how much of our not only in a downturn.
fleet is unavailable to rent at any time.
In January 2014 we started We have focused on ensuring our fleet profile and age is optimised with fleet unavailability at 16% and it is now around 14%.
Fleet can be for the cyclical upturn to ensure we make the most of the opportunity.
unavailable for several reasons, if for example, it could be awaiting Our strategy of fleet fide-aging since 2010 has resulted in a fleet as pick-up, inspection or maintenance.
We are looking for continuous young as it has ever been.
Our young fleet means that we no longer improvement in this area and aim to reach our target of only 10% of need to reduce fleet age further and can devote a greater proportion our fleet being unavailable at any one time.
Efficiency initiatives are of our capital expenditure to growth.
The typical fleet age profile enabling us to maintain our strong drop-through of incremental of our customers and some of our smaller competitors means revenue to EBITDA.
that a greater proportion of their fleet needs to be replaced in the near future at much higher prices.
We get significant competitive advantage from our young fleet and our purchasing power.
Our strong balance sheet allows us to capitalise on this advantage in both the US and the UK.
CLIMATE CONTROL Our Climate Control specialisation has grown from a small portable air conditioning and heating service into a high growth industrial business in just two years, producing annual revenues of over $80m.
Last year we opened seven greenfields and acquired Atlas, a nationwide portable air conditioning business, and Superior Heating Solutions in Pennsylvania.
We provide highly engineered solutions in industrial settings such as food processing plants, archival storage, mission-critical applications, shipyards, power plants, tank lining and construction drying.
For example, instead of purchasing and maintaining their own climate control equipment that is only used part of the year, many food processors are turning to us to provide climate control and dehumidification solutions to maintain the quality and consistency of their product.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 20 Strategic report 500,000 customers served annually.
AT THE DROP OF A DIME YOU KNOW TO CALL THEM UP AND TELL THEM I NEED SOMETHING QUICK AND THEY GET RIGHT ON IT.
Wendell Simmons, DOC Consulting, LLC Find out more at ashtead-group.
com We believe our ongoing focus on customer service is crucial to our of service but can incur a higher transactional cost.
Our medium-sized success, and our strategy for building relationships with our broad companies often need equipment for longer periods of time and can range of customers is also a key point of differentiation.
Our largest customers are our service is at the heart of our strong financial performance.
We have national accounts who have large-scale and often very sophisticated three main categories of customers, their needs typically reflecting requirements.
We have gained significant market share in all types their size.
Our smallest customers have rental revenue spend with of customer due, in part, to the strength of the relationships we build.
us of less than $20,000 a year but represent 97% of our customers by number.
These smaller customers tend to require higher levels Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 21
