T 20 T 18 T 16 T 14 T 12 T 10 T 8 T 6 T 4 T 2 T Our markets Capitalising on market opportunity The majority of our business is in the US because of higher growth rates in the rental industry in that market than in the UK.
We remain optimistic about the duration of the next construction The majority of our business is in the US because of cycle.
Chart 3 shows the last three construction cycles.
These have higher growth rates in the rental industry in that market followed one of two patterns.
From 1975 to 1982 and from 1982 to than in the UK.
The rental market in the US is much 1991 the initial recovery was very aggressive but the overall cycle was less developed than in the UK and potentially five relatively short.
The current cycle is following the steadier recovery times bigger.
This reflects the widely held view that a long, steady recovery is the most likely shape this time around, following the This year we took our first small step into the Canadian market protracted downturn.
IHS Global Insight forecasts annual rental through a small bolt-on acquisition operating in British Columbia and industry growth of 89% until 2017.
The US market has been recovering for a while and now we are seeing pleasing growth in the UK as well.
We are increasing our 03: CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY BY CYCLE market share in both markets.
It is important to remember that we were already delivering record growth before the markets returned to growth.
The market growth we are seeing now means that we are 200 able to perform even more strongly.
180 160 THE US Economic recovery 140 The US economy is now performing well and we are experiencing 120 growth across the range of end markets.
Chart 2 shows very encouraging short-term trends and the consensus has come round 100 to the view that the market will experience steady long-term growth.
80 Even with reduced dependence on construction we remain impacted 60 by the cycles in that industry.
We are a predominantly late cycle business which over the economic cycle gets most impact from economic recovery between 1224 months after construction starts to recover.
So we are already seeing the benefits of that.
Commercial 19751982 19821991 19912011 and industrial starts are continuing to grow well and we expect this Current cycle Forecast to continue at least until 2017.
T 100 based on constant dollars 02: US MARKET OUTLOOK Source: Dodge Data & Analytics.
Total building starts Millions of square feet 2015 2016 2017 Total building 13% 17% 10% Commercial and industrial 11% 11% 5% Institutional 8% 11% 14% Residential 14% 19% 12% Source: Dodge Data & Analytics March 2015.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 12 Strategic report 7% market share in the US.
We have a track record of increasing our market share and since 2002 Market share in the US we have increased it from c. 2% to c. 7% currently.
The goal we set We are the second largest equipment rental company in the US but ourselves two years ago was to double our market share in the there is still plenty of room to grow, as chart 4 shows.
Our major medium to long term to 12% chart 5.
Over the last three years we large competitors are United Rentals and HERC with 13% and 3% have consistently grown at two to three times the market growth respectively.
Home Depot, BlueLine and Aggreko have shares of 2% rate.
While it may be challenging to maintain this level of market or less.
Most of the remainder of the market is made up of small local out-performance, the combination of our business model, the independent tool shops.
We make most of our market share gains stronger economy and the long-term trend to rental, which we from these small independents when we set up new stores or acquire discuss further on page 14, provide the perfect environment for us them.
But we also take share from larger competitors because to achieve this goal.
In addition, our market share gains accelerate we have the right fleet in the right place and because we offer as we make the most of the scale advantages we now have.
longer term, we believe that a US market share in the order of 20% 04: US MARKET SHARE is not an unreasonable goal.
In Canada our initial goal is to achieve a market share of 5%.
United Rentals 13% As we increase our market share and grow our specialty businesses, they necessarily become a greater proportion of the mix.
The Sunbelt 7% acquisitions we make are often to expand into a new specialty area Hertz Equipment or to develop an existing one.
For example, last year we made two Rental Co. HERC 3% acquisitions in the Climate Control sector and two in the Pump & Power business.
Despite the lower oil price, we also see Oil & Gas as Home Depot 2% a sector where we will grow market share as there is strong demand BlueLine Rental 1% for our specialist focus.
We made three acquisitions in Oil & Gas businesses last year.
At the same time we are able to maintain Aggreko 1% flexibility in this specialty business because our Oil & Gas fleet makes Top 710 5% up only 3% of the total fleet and 90% of that is fully transferable to other areas of the business.
Top 11100 c. 19% 05: US MARKET SHARE DEVELOPMENT Others c. 49% Source: Management estimate based on IHS Global Insight market estimates.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 13 Our markets continued Capitalising on market opportunity continued 50% US rental penetration is around 50% and increasing.
Find out more at ashtead-group.
com TIME MEANS MONEY FOR US AND THEY ALWAYS HELP US.
Julian Campi, Reinforced Structures, Inc. For example, the environmental regulations resulting in the more The trend to rental environmentally friendly Tier 4 engines produce significant inflation There are a number of features of the US construction market that in equipment replacement costs.
This has driven further rental mean there is still significant growth to come from the continuing penetration through the reduction in fleet size by those customers trend to rental in place of owning equipment.
The trend to rental really who previously may have chosen to own some, if not all, of their larger got going in the US around 2000, much later than in the UK.
Customers and smaller competitors with older still only takes up around 50% of the market compared to 75% in the fleets are faced with heavier replacement spend.
We see the potential market penetration for rental equipment of getting to grips with the new technology and its maintenance to be well over 60% in the US.
There continues to be a number of requirements have also caused more operators to decide to rent.
favourable factors driving this increasing penetration.
The short-term Therefore it makes sense for us to continue to invest heavily in drivers of this evolution are the significant cost inflation in recent keeping our fleet in the best condition it can be, as we discuss further years associated with the replacement of equipment, technical on page 20. changes to equipment requirements that make rental more attractive, and health, safety and environmental issues which make rental more economical and just easier.
In addition, the market is increasingly getting used to renting equipment rather than buying it.
MANAGING THE FLOW FOR THE BALTIMORE SEWER BYPASS Our Pump & Power division was charged with servicing the Baltimore sewer bypass with over 100 trucks required to deliver the pipe and pumps alone.
In October 2014, the integrity of the bypass was tested to its limit when heavy rain caused flows to increase beyond expectations.
Luckily the Sunbelt crew had already factored in exceptional circumstances and, with 13 out of the 16 pumps installed, the sewer managed the exceptional flow and slowly returned to normal.
We ensured a dry work environment was maintained enabling Spiniello, the lead contractor, to complete the refurbishment work on schedule.
07: UK MARKET SHARE THE UK Economic recovery The UK market continues to improve after a number of slower years.
Speedy 6% An already high level of rental penetration of 75% means that growth opportunities are more difficult to come by than in the US.
However, A-Plant 6% A-Plant continues to grow and is also taking market share.
Chart 6 HSS 5% shows the outlook for UK construction which shows we are back to growth.
However, with 40% of total construction still being public and VP 3% infrastructure, even with residential performing well, we will continue Lavendon 2% to invest responsibly in the UK market.
Hewdon 2% Market share GAP 2% We are the second largest equipment rental company in the UK, and continued to increase our market share this year organically and Others 74% through five small bolt-on acquisitions.
There are a greater number of major players in the UK market with the largest still holding only a Source: Management estimates based on IHS Global Insight market estimates.
Chart 7 shows our key competitors and their share of the market.
We believe we are well-positioned with our strong customer service, young relative fleet age and strong balance sheet to take market share from smaller, less well-positioned market participants as market growth continues.
We continue to believe we can increase our share of the UK rental market by 50%.
THE TOUR fide FRANCE IN THE UK In May 2014, we helped the 101st Tour fide France begin in the UK for only the second time in its long history.
Our Eve Trakway division supplied 133,000 metres of barriers along the route to protect both cyclists and the 3.5 million people who came out to view the race.
A-Plant Lux also provided a range of traffic management equipment including 25,000 cones and 4,000 road signs.
Eve, supported by the WRG project management team, coped brilliantly with the installation requirements along almost 400km of route, working tirelessly to make the event a success.
A superb company to work with.
TIM ELLIOT WRG Managing Director Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 15
