Our business model Creating sustainable value WHAT WE DO Renting generators, powered On-site tool hire and Tracking our Replacing worn-out Providing temporary Designing, erecting access equipment, lighting, maintenance for equipment for sewage climate control and dismantling barriers and temporary new residential customers using infrastructure solutions for office scaffolding systems trakway to an outdoor construction site mobile tracking buildings music festival systems OUR BUSINESS MODEL INPUTS HOW WE DO IT Financial resources Differentiating our Ensuring operational excellence Human resources Optimal fleet age fleet and service Operational expertise Nationwide networks in US and UK Broad fleet mix Supplier relationships Long-term partnerships with leading Highly responsive no job too small Customer relationships equipment manufacturers Scale to meet size and range Focused, service-driven approach of requirement Strong customer relationships Industry-leading application of technology Managing the cycle Planning ahead Careful balance sheet management Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 8 Strategic report We create value through the short-term rental of equipment that is used for a wide variety of applications to a diverse customer base.
Our rental fleet ranges from small hand-held tools to the largest construction equipment and is available through a network of stores in North America and the UK.
See overleaf for more detail on the business model and what we do.
Providing on-site hire Advising on health and Facilitating fit-out Drying out and Designing and Providing equipment depot and contractors safety aspects of and ongoing cleaning up after a implementing for facilities village for long-term equipment in use at a maintenance of flash flood at an temporary traffic management at a construction projects new sports stadium office blocks industrial warehouse management systems shopping complex HOW WE DO IT VALUE CREATION Investing in our people Maximising our return on investment Value creation through Highly skilled team Effective management and monitoring of Shareholder returns Devolved structure fleet investment Employment Maintaining significant Optimisation of utilisation rates and returns Direct and indirect taxation staff continuity Flexibility in local pricing structures Community involvement Strong focus on recruitment, Focus on higher-return equipment Payments to suppliers training and incentivisation Appropriate incentive plans consistent with Customer solutions improved returns Adapting our fleet and cost position Taking advantage of opportunities Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 9 Our business model continued What we do is simple.
25% Specialty businesses are an increasing proportion of Sunbelts activities.
At its most basic, our model is simple we purchase an asset, we rent contractor.
The nature of the business is such that it consists of a high it to customers and generate a revenue stream each year we own it number of low value transactions.
In the year to April 2015, Sunbelt on average, seven years.
Then we sell it in the second-hand market dealt with over 475,000 customers, who generated average revenue and receive a proportion of the original purchase price in disposal of over $5,000.
Assuming we purchase an asset for $100, generate revenue The individual components of our fleet are similar to our peers.
of $60 each year equivalent to 60% dollar utilisation and receive 35% However, it is the breadth and depth of our fleet that differentiates us of the original purchase price as disposal proceeds, we generate a from them and provides the potential for higher returns.
The size, age return of $455 on an initial outlay of $100 over an average seven-year and mix of our rental fleet is driven by the needs of our customers, useful life.
We incur costs in providing this service, principally market conditions and overall demand.
The equipment we provide employee, property and transportation costs and fleet depreciation.
to each customer is diverse and we are often involved in supplying However, this simple overview encompasses a significant number of various types of equipment over an extended period at each distinct moving parts and activities.
Our ability to excel in these areas enables stage of a projects development.
Our equipment is also used in a wide us to generate strong margins and deliver long-term, sustainable range of other applications including industrial, events, repair and shareholder value, whilst managing the risks inherent in our business maintenance and facilities management.
How we operate Managing the cycle Our operating model is key to the way we deliver operational We describe ourselves as being a late cycle business in that our excellence: main end market, non-residential construction, is usually one of the last parts of the economy to be affected by a change in economic In the US we achieve scale through a clustered market approach conditions.
This means that we have a good degree of visibility on of grouping general tool and specialist rental locations in each when we are likely to be affected, as the signs will have been visible of our developed markets.
This approach allows us to provide a in other parts of the economy for some time.
We are therefore able to comprehensive product offering and convenient service to our plan accordingly and react in a timely manner when necessary.
Key to customers wherever their job sites may be within these markets.
the execution of our model is the planning we undertake to capitalise When combined with our purchasing power, this creates a virtuous on the opportunities presented by the cycle.
The opportunities are for circle of scale.
You can find out more on our cluster strategy on both organic growth, through winning market share from less well pages 18 and 19. positioned competitors, and positioning ourselves to be able to fund In the UK, our strategy is focused on having sufficient stores to acquisitive growth if suitable opportunities arise.
Our strategic allow us to offer a full range of equipment on a nationwide basis.
priorities are outlined on pages 16 to 21.
We have migrated our network towards fewer, larger locations which are able to address all the needs of our customers in their Differentiating our service and fleet respective markets.
This difference in approach from the US The differentiation in our service and fleet means that we provide reflects the nature of the customer base more national accounts equipment to many different sectors.
Construction continues to and the smaller geography of the UK.
be our largest market but now represents around 45% as we have Across our rental fleet, we seek generally to carry equipment deliberately reduced our reliance on construction.
An increasing from one or two suppliers in each product range and to limit the proportion of our North American business 25% is in specialty areas number of model types of each product.
We believe that having a such as Pump & Power, Climate Control, Oil & Gas and Scaffolding.
standardised fleet results in lower costs.
This is because we obtain Residential construction is a small proportion of our business 5% greater discounts by purchasing in bulk and reduce maintenance as it is not a heavy user of equipment.
costs through more focused and, therefore, reduced training requirements for our staff.
We are also able to share spare parts Our customers range in size and scale from multinational businesses, between stores which helps minimise the risk of over-stocking.
through strong local contractors to individual do-it-yourselfers.
Furthermore, we can easily transfer fleet between locations which Our diversified customer base includes construction, industrial and helps us achieve leading levels of physical utilisation, one of our homeowner customers, as well as government entities and specialist key performance indicators KPIs.
Our core market is the small to mid-sized local Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 10 Strategic report 70% of orders placed for same day or next day delivery.
We purchase equipment from well-known manufacturers with in a business where around 70% of orders are placed for strong reputations for product quality and reliability and maintain delivery within 24 hours.
We have worked with a lot of our close relationships with them to ensure certainty of supply and customers for many years.
Our customer retention is high due good after-purchase service and support.
We work with vendors to the scale and quality of our fleet, our speed of response and to provide early visibility of our equipment needs which enables our customer service.
them to plan their production schedules and ensures we receive Our local management teams are experienced and incentivised the fleet when we need it.
However, we believe we have sufficient to produce strong financial returns and high quality standards.
alternative sources of supply for the equipment we purchase in We believe that the autonomy given to management teams to take each product category.
decisions locally ensures that, despite our size, we retain the feel We also aim to offer a full service solution for our customers in all of a small, local business for our employees.
Our specialty product range includes equipment types We invest heavily in our computerised point of sale and service such as pumps, power generation, heating, cooling, scaffolding, systems as well as the software and online capabilities required traffic management and lifting services, which involve providing to deliver efficient service as well as high returns.
We capture service expertise as well as equipment.
and record the time of delivery and the customers signature Our large and experienced sales force is encouraged to build and electronically, allowing us to systematically monitor and report reinforce customer relationships and to concentrate on generating on on-time deliveries.
We also use electronic tracking systems strong, whole-life returns from our rental fleet.
Our sales force to monitor the location and usage of large equipment.
works closely with our customers to ensure we meet their needs.
Investing in our people Through the application of technology, it is equipped with real-time Our people enable us to provide the exceptional customer service access to fleet availability and pricing information enabling it to that keeps our customers coming back.
Our exceptional staff and respond rapidly to the needs of a customer while optimising returns.
focus on service give us a huge competitive advantage in what we We guarantee our service standards and believe that our focus on do.
On pages 36 to 38 we discuss the importance of our staff and customer service and the guarantees we offer help distinguish our corporate culture in more detail.
We aim to recruit good people businesses from competitors and assist us in delivering superior and then invest in them throughout their careers.
Our responsiveness to customer needs is critical 01: MANAGING THE CYCLE SUNBELT 2007 2008 2009 2010 2013 Strong market Rightsizing Running tight Benefitting from Improving market Preparation of the business business structural change for downturn 2,742 2,189 1,820 1,626 1,450 1,507 1,308 1,225 1,081 Revenue $m 46 44 38 36 34 32 30 27 26 Fleet age months 4,733 3,596 2,868 2,453 2,314 2,147 2,136 2,151 2,094 Fleet size $m 47 45 41 37 36 35 36 32 32 EBITDA margin % 26 26 25 20 19 19 14 Return on 9 6 investment % Excluding goodwill and intangible assets.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 11
