Strategic review Delivering strong results and consistent customer service GEOFF DRABBLE SUZANNE WOOD Chief executive Finance director At Sunbelt, same-store revenue growth was 17% reflecting good Weve had another great year and have again delivered markets and continuing gains in market share.
This shows that our strategy of focusing and bolt-on acquisitions contributed revenue growth of 10%.
We are on same-store organic growth supplemented by boltdelighted that we continue to see both structural and cyclical ons and new greenfield investments is the right one.
It opportunity and talk more about how we make the most of this in our also demonstrates that our focus on consistently great strategy section on page 16.
At A-Plant we also saw strong revenue performance, with the UK market gently improving and us continuing service keeps customers coming back and makes it that to take market share.
much easier to bring in and embed new ones.
We intend to keep doing what we have been doing.
The combination of our great fleet, exceptional service and improved market conditions enables us to anticipate a sustained period of While our focus remains on organic growth, we are delighted with the growth in both divisions ahead of the market.
Next years fleet geographic and sector diversity that our M&A spend is delivering and investment will probably be similar to this years, although we will this is a key element of our strategy and growth.
We are building a obviously flex our spend depending on market conditions as we broader base for longer-term growth both in terms of geographical progress through the year.
We will continue to make acquisitions as reach and the different market segments we serve.
The year was busy and when the opportunities present themselves.
As weve said before, on the acquisition front as we sought to build our footprint with some those acquisitions are likely to be small ones as those are the ones great opportunities.
We acquired 21 businesses throughout the year, that are most suited to our growth strategy.
further developing our specialty businesses, particularly in Climate Control and Oil & Gas.
These acquisitions brought us a total of 51 On the following pages of our strategic review, you can find content new locations across North America and cemented our nationwide on our business model, the markets in which we operate and how capability in the UK.
we capitalise on those, and the strategy that continues to deliver consistent, sustainable value and growth.
Underpinning that strategy We made our first move into the Canadian market in line with our is the high level of service we deliver to our customers consistently strategy of taking advantage of opportunities when they arise.
every day through our nationwide networks of stores.
Our people take We made one acquisition which brought us six locations and are great pride in making it happen for our customers.
planning some greenfield sites and will look for bolt-on acquisitions to build our share in that market.
CONSISTENT DELIVERY FOR SANTEE COOPER Our Industrial Scaffold team has worked with Santee Cooper South Carolinas leading power company for eight years providing safe vertical access solutions for its workers.
Our crew is so reliable it keeps getting asked back.
At the Cross Generating Station in Pineville, SC, we safely erected 20,000 pieces of scaffold inside the 600MW coal-fired power boiler in 54 hours.
This meant our client could quickly complete its annual maintenance, saving six hours on the installation time in the process.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 6 Strategic report HOW ARE WE CREATING HOW WE ARE BUILDING SUSTAINABLE VALUE?
Our equipment rental business model, We are building market share through and the management of that over the same-store organic growth, new economic cycle, enable us to create greenfield investments and selected long-term sustainable value.
Go to page 8 Go to page 12 HOW DID WE PERFORM IN 2015?
WHAT IS OUR STRATEGY FOR GROWTH?
We had another year of strong financial performance, We focus on building market share, maintaining flexibility in our improved operational efficiency and excellent service metrics.
finances and operations and being the best we can be every day.
Go to page 26 Go to page 16 RETURN ON INVESTMENT % 19 19 19 Build a broad platform for growth 16 12 Maintain financial and operational flexibility 7 Operational excellence 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 WHAT ARE OUR RISKS?
HOW DO WE REPORT Our main risks relate to economic RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS?
conditions, competition, financing, We report on responsible business through the business continuity, people, health Group Risk Committee.
We focus on health and and safety and the environment.
safety, our people, the environment, community investment and ensuring the highest ethical Go to page 24 standards across the Group.
Go to page 33 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 7
