Additional Information Corporate Information History and development The Board may exercise all the powers of Subject to the provisions of the of the Company the Company to borrow money.
Variation of Companies Act 2006, the Company AstraZeneca PLC was incorporated in these borrowing powers would require the has the right to redeem the Redeemable England and Wales on 17 June 1992 under passing of a special resolution of the Preference Shares at any time on giving the Companies Act 1985.
It is a public Companys shareholders.
not less than seven days written notice.
limited company domiciled in the UK.
All Directors must retire from office at the There are no specific restrictions on The Companys registered number is Companys AGM each year and may the transfer of shares in the Company, 2723534 and its registered office is at present themselves for election or re-election.
which is governed by the Articles and 2 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD Directors are not prohibited, upon reaching prevailing legislation.
From a particular age, from submitting themselves February 1993 until April 1999, the The Company is not aware of any for election or re-election.
Company was called Zeneca Group PLC.
agreements between holders of shares that On 6 April 1999, the Company changed Within two months of the date of their may result in restrictions on the transfer of its name to AstraZeneca PLC.
appointment, Directors are required to shares or that may result in restrictions on beneficially own Ordinary Shares of an voting rights.
The Company is also not The Company was formed when the aggregate nominal amount of at least $125, aware of any arrangements under which pharmaceutical, agrochemical and specialty which currently represents 500 shares.
financial rights are held by a person other chemical businesses of Imperial Chemical than the holder of the shares.
Industries PLC were demerged in 1993.
Rights, preferences and restrictions In 1999, the Company sold the specialty attaching to shares Action necessary to change the rights chemical business.
Also in 1999, the As at 31 December 2015, the Company of shareholders Company merged with Astra of Sweden.
had 1,264,122,670 Ordinary Shares and In order to vary the rights attached to any In 2000, it demerged the agrochemical 50,000 Redeemable Preference Shares class of shares, the consent in writing of the business and merged it with the similar in issue.
The Ordinary Shares represent holders of three-quarters in nominal value business of Novartis to form a new 99.98% and the Redeemable Preference of the issued shares of that class or the company called Syngenta AG.
Shares represent 0.02% of the Companys sanction of an extraordinary resolution total share capital these percentages have passed at a general meeting of such In 2007, the Group acquired MedImmune, been calculated by reference to the closing holders is required.
a biologics and vaccines business based mid-point US$ GBP exchange rate in the US.
General meetings on 31 December 2015 as published AGMs and other general meetings, as The Groups corporate office is at in the London edition of the Financial from time to time may be required, where 2 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD.
a special resolution is to be passed or a Articles As agreed by the shareholders at the Director is to be appointed, require 21 clear The current Articles were adopted by Companys AGM held on 29 April 2010, days notice to shareholders.
Subject to shareholders at the Companys AGM held the Articles were amended with immediate the Companies Act 2006, other general on 24 April 2015. effect to remove the requirement for the meetings require 14 clear days notice.
Company to have an authorised share Objects For all general meetings, a quorum of capital, the concept of which was abolished The Companys objects are unrestricted.
two shareholders present in person or by under the Companies Act 2006.
Each proxy, and entitled to vote on the business Ordinary Share carries the right to vote at Any amendment to the Articles requires transacted, is required unless each of the general meetings of the Company.
The rights the approval of shareholders by a two persons present is a corporate and restrictions attaching to the Redeemable special resolution at a general meeting representative of the same corporation: or Preference Shares differ from those of the Company.
each of the two persons present is a proxy attaching to Ordinary Shares as follows: of the same shareholder.
Directors The Redeemable Preference Shares carry The Board has the authority to manage Shareholders and their duly appointed no rights to receive dividends.
the business of the Company, for example, proxies and corporate representatives are The holders of Redeemable Preference through powers to allot and repurchase entitled to be admitted to general meetings.
Shares have no rights to receive notices its shares, subject where required to of, attend or vote at general meetings shareholder resolutions.
Subject to certain Limitations on the rights to own shares except in certain limited circumstances.
exceptions, Directors do not have power to There are no limitations on the rights to They have one vote for every 50,000 vote at Board meetings on matters in which own shares.
On a distribution of assets of the Property Company, on a winding-up or other return The quorum for meetings of the Board is a Substantially all of our properties are held of capital subject to certain exceptions, majority of the full Board, of whom at least freehold, free of material encumbrances and the holders of Redeemable Preference four must be Non-Executive Directors.
In the are fit for their purpose.
Shares have priority over the holders of absence of a quorum, the Directors do not Ordinary Shares to receive the capital have power to determine compensation For more information please refer to paid up on those shares.
arrangements for themselves or any Note 7 to the Group Financial Statements member of the Board.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 245
