Strategic report | Operating review | Ingredients | 32 INGREDIENTS DEVELOPING PRODUCTS FOR THE FUTURE Image: yeast cells under electron microscope.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Operating review | Ingredients | 33 REVITALISING LEADING-EDGE CRAFT BAKING BIOTECH page 34 SOLUTIONS page 35 Revenue About Ingredients: Ingredients comprises a number of businesses that supply a range of ingredients to food and non-food 1,247m manufacturers.
Together they employ 8,000 2014: 1,261m people in more than 70 plants in 26 countries.
Actual fx: -1% AB Mauri has a global presence in bakers Constant fx: 3% yeast with significant market positions in the Americas, Europe and Asia, and is Adjusted operating profit a technology leader in, and supplier of, bread improvers, dough conditioners and 76m bakery mixes.
The business employs experts who have an unrivalled knowledge 2014: 41m and understanding of the yeast and bakery ingredients business, the equipment, Actual fx: 85% the processes and the raw materials.
Constant fx: 100% ABF Ingredients comprises a range of Adjusted operating businesses focusing on high-value ingredients profit margin for both food and non-food applications.
It has established strong market positions 6.1% in enzymes, lipids, yeast extracts and cereal specialties.
It has manufacturing facilities 2014: 3.3% in Europe and the US.
Return on average SPI Pharma is a leader in custom formulation capital employed solutions for pharmaceutical and nutraceutical manufacturers in more than 50 countries.
It manufactures and markets antacids, 11.1% excipients and drug delivery systems for 2014: 5.8% tablets and specialises in drug development services.
It collaborates with customers to deliver value-added and cost-effective solutions to their problems.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report | Operating review | Ingredients | 34 INGREDIENTS and customers alike.
This has led to not only an increased market share, but also a more profound understanding of the local bakery industry, and craft bakers in particular.
There are some 30,000 craft bakers in Mexico small businesses that support 80% of all bread consumed in the country but, over the years, these businesses have lost their competitive edge to a more aggressive and cash-rich bread and food service industry.
AB Mauri identified a number of ways in which the business models and competitiveness of craft bakers could be improved and a project was conceived to work with a small number of these artisanal bakers to re-engineer their business models and improve their profitability.
The project was named El Faro The Lighthouse to convey the message that it was designed to shine a light on just how much could be achieved and to show the way forward to other craft bakers across the country.
During 2014 and 2015 AB Mauri has invested $1m, working alongside 15 craft bakery owners and in conjunction with La Salle University, to perfect a craft bakery business model and to develop a range of education and training programmes for professional and home bakers.
La Salle University is located on the outskirts of Mexico City where Since 2005, when ABF began developing it provides elementary and entry level its then recently acquired AB Mauri education to lower income populations.
REVITALISING business, it has sought to expand the AB Mauri and La Salle shared the cost geographies in which the business and manpower required to set up and run operates and to focus on the particular a bakery school at the university campus needs of each market.
One such was and engaged a team of more than 250 CRAFT Mexico and management resources were professional bakers, technicians from committed to the country to research the our distributors and home bakers to market and begin the process of building support the programme.
BAKING IN a broader-based, commercial operation.
By enhancing the craft bakers business The relevance of the Mexican yeast model, AB Mauri and La Salle are market and the competitiveness of the underpinning the sustainability of the craft MEXICO country as an export platform were very baking industry: by providing vision and evident and, in December 2010, capital practical knowhow AB Mauri is quickly Historically Mexico has been investment was approved to build a new establishing itself as the bakers partner: yeast production facility.
Commissioning and by providing vocational education, a dry yeast export market of the plant took place just over two years subsistence bakers are being turned into for AB Mauri North America, later in early 2013. thriving entrepreneurial businesses.
The bakery school also serves as an in-country reached through one or This new Mexican plant was located product development laboratory, providing in Veracruz where raw materials are AB Mauri with opportunities to develop two local distributors.
The abundant and proximity to the Gulf of its product range.
It is hoped that this Mexico and the countrys capital made business was quite limited initiative will not only revitalise the craft it the perfect gateway to all major local baking industry in Mexico but it will also because Mexico was, and export markets.
build brand equity for the AB Mauri and still is, predominantly By establishing a material interest in the business and its Fleischmann brand.
country, the business was able to achieve a fresh yeast market and greater market penetration with distributors local yeast producers were well established.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Operating review | Ingredients | 35 Ingredients revenues were 3% ahead achieved volume growth and a good of last year at constant currency result despite a difficult market with LEADING-EDGE and for the second successive year competitor price pressure.
BIOTECH SOLUTIONS the increase in operating profit was The successful integration of our Behind the success of AB Vista and substantial, driven by stronger recently acquired European bakery ABEnzymes is the leading-edge trading across all businesses and ingredients business has broadened our biotechnology of our Roal joint venture a focus on overhead reduction.
product offering, strengthened our market in Finland.
Across these businesses, As a consequence, margin was position and delivered significant cost we develop, produce and market much improved.
The UK business introduced industrial enzymes derived from highly AB Mauri, our bakery ingredients and a gluten-free bread and cake range of developed microbial cell factories.
yeast business delivered a second year bakery ingredients, developed to meet AB Enzymes and AB Vista both of significant profit recovery in a market the rising demand for such products, market and distribute the joint that remains very challenging.
This was as well as a range of natural-based ventures products.
driven by its operations in the US and cereal fermentation products, suitable Trichoderma reesei, originally isolated Canada and, despite difficult economic for application in all bread types, which for production of cellulose breaking conditions, Brazil and HispanoAmerica help to deliver flavour and texture to enzymes, has been developed over also made good progress.
decades to produce virtually any first to launch a successful liquid yeast AB Mauris smaller, speciality yeast enzyme at low cost and with high product in Argentina, re-enforcing our business which operates in non-bakery quality.
Roals proprietary strain technical and market leadership position markets achieved significant growth.
collection of superior cell lineages in this region.
Cost reduction and Good progress was made in Europe is one of the key assets of our improved plant utilisation resulted in where our attractive product portfolio and enzyme business, which has hugely a better operating result from our facility capability in ethanol process optimisation benefited AB Enzymes and AB Vista at Veracruz in Mexico which is now are increasingly being recognised in the as distributors.
exporting high-quality yeast products to market.
In the alcoholic beverages market, customers in 34 countries.
Our newly Development of these technological we maintained our status as a leading integrated milling and bakery ingredients platforms involves modern molecular supplier of distillers yeast to the UKs business in Australia and New Zealand biology, process engineering and whisky industry and grew sales in the application research.
Operating from wine sector with new product launches amodern, well-invested facility, the and expansion into new geographies.
team of world-class scientists have ABF Ingredients delivered excellent AB MAURI NORTH AMERICA a track record of keeping ahead of growth in sales and operating profit the competition with a continuous BAKINGHUB with all businesses making progress.
flow ofinnovative products that AB Mauri North America recently This was a highly successful year for have consistently improved yields.
unveiled a new, state-of-the-art enzymes driven by continued growth The co-operation between research, bakingHUB in St. Louis, Missouri, in feed enzymes, which are distributed manufacturing, marketing and to enhance business operations and by AB Agri, a number of successful new distribution allows the production provide better support to its customers product introductions in the baking and of tailored enzyme products to across the baking industry.
pulp & paper sectors, and increased meet customer needs.
Located within a new regional head The business has provided enabling The preparatory work to expand the office, the bakingHUB stands as technology, not only for AB Vistas enzymes factory in Finland is now a leading research space in an Quantum Blue, but for other feed well under way.
immersive, creative district called the enzymes and for the flagship molecules Cortex Innovation Community with Yeast extracts and speciality powders distributed by our detergent, pulp & neighbours include Boeing, Purina, advanced with a focus on higher value paper and textile enzyme businesses.
Washington University and Cambridge products and improved plant utilisation.
Further development of our extrusion Access to a large pool of innovative and granulation operations in North thinkers, outside the core baking America saw the speciality cereals business, is a key benefit provided business achieve growth in its animal by this new facility.
feed and health bar markets.
Our speciality lipids business progressed The 5,000 sq ft bakingHUB includes a well, particularly in health and nutrition pilot fermentation laboratory making it and personal care applications.
the perfect environment for AB Mauris food scientists to develop better yeast and baking ingredient solutions and to create a wide range of finished baked goods for trial and testing purposes.
The facility is capable of producing pan breads, artisan baguettes, various sweet goods, pizza, flour and corn tortillas, doughnuts, bagels and more.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
