Strategic Report Therapy Area Review Pipeline and Therapy Area Introduction Our business model describes how we create and sustain value over the life-cycle of a medicine across our therapy areas.
In this section, we review our therapy areas, including our portfolio of marketed products, pipeline projects, strategic priorities, capabilities, resources and business development activities.
Overview protein engineering technologies and activities.
GPPS also serves as the bridge As outlined in Strategic priorities from page delivery devices across these therapy between our R&D and Sales and Marketing 16, a key element of our drive to achieve areas.
Our goal is to deliver life-changing functions and works to provide strategic scientific leadership is our focus on medicines to patients while creating value direction from early-stage research to innovative science in three therapy areas: for shareholders.
Our approach to Infection, commercialisation.
It also helps us to Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity Neuroscience and Gastrointestinal ING integrate our corporate, portfolio, therapy RIA : Cardiovascular and Metabolic is opportunity-driven.
This, in turn, diseases CVMD : and Oncology.
We drives scientific innovation, prioritises apply our distinctive capabilities to small Our Global Product and Portfolio Strategy investment, supports the growth of our molecules, biologics, immunotherapies, group GPPS leads our therapy area therapy areas, and accelerates business development.
GPPS also works closely with healthcare providers, regulatory authorities Key pipeline and payers to ensure our medicines help progressions Product Achievement to fulfil unmet medical need and provide economic as well as therapeutic benefits.
Phase III NME anifrolumab Phase III programme commenced for systemic lupus starts erythematosus PT010 Phase III programme commenced for COPD Putting patients first In keeping with our value of putting patients Expedited review Brilinta FDA granted Priority Review for PEGASUS first, we formed a Patient Centricity team in Tagrisso FDA and PMDA granted Priority Review.
EMA accelerated AZD9291 assessment 2015 to better connect patients with our science and to help ensure we deliver anifrolumab FDA granted Fast Track status for systemic lupus erythematosus medicines they value.
In 2015, we connected durvalumab FDA granted Fast Track status for head and neck cancer with more than 30,000 patients through our new alliance with PatientsLikeMe, a virtual tremelimumab FDA granted Fast Track status for mesothelioma patient community, and are exploring similar Regulatory filings Brilinta Regulatory submissions accepted in US, EU and Japan for Brilinta to reduce the rate of cardiovascular death, myocardial partnerships with other organisations to infarction MI and stroke in patients with acute coronary ensure we understand our patients syndrome or a history of MI requirements better.
cediranib MAA accepted by EMA for treatment of recurrent platinumsensitive ovarian cancer Our products PT003 NDA accepted by FDA for treatment of COPD While this Therapy Area Review concentrates Tagrisso Regulatory submission accepted by the FDA, EMA and PMDA on our key marketed products, many of our AZD9291 for treatment of 2nd line or greater EGFRm T790M NSCLC other products are crucial to our business CAZ AVI MAA accepted by EMA for treatment of serious bacterial in certain countries in Emerging Markets.
infection, including complicated intra-abdominal infection and complicated urinary tract infection For more information on our potential saxagliptin MAA accepted by EMA for treatment of Type 2 diabetes new products and product life-cycle dapagliflozin FDC developments, please see the therapy brodalumab Regulatory submission accepted by EMA and FDA for psoriasis area pipeline tables on pages 26, 30, 34 Regional Bydureon Pen Japanese regulatory approval for treatment of Type 2 diabetes to 35, and 39 and the Development Pipeline approvals table from page 205.
For information on Iressa US regulatory approval for treatment of EGFRm NSCLC patent expiries of our key marketed Brilinta Regulatory approval in US for Brilinta to reduce the rate of products, please see Patent Expiries cardiovascular death, MI and stroke in patients with acute coronary syndrome or a history of MI from page 210.
Tagrisso Regulatory approval in US for treatment of 2nd line or greater AZD9291 EGFRm T790M NSCLC: CHMP issues Positive Opinion to EMA Indications for each product described in and EU approval received in February 2016 this Therapy Area Review may vary among Zurampic Regulatory approval in US: CHMP issues Positive Opinion countries.
Please see local prescribing lesinurad to EMA information for country-specific indications Faslodex 500mg Regulatory approval in China for breast cancer for any particular product.
Discontinued 20 projects discontinued projects 24 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Strategic Report Development pipeline overview Our pipeline includes 146 projects of which 125 are in the clinical phase of development.
Phase I Phase II Late-stage development LCM projects 44 33 35 34 44 projects in Phase I including: 33 projects in Phase II, 35 projects in late-stage 34 LCM projects 34 NMEs including: development, either in Phase 3 significant additional 26 NMEs III pivotal Phase II studies or indications for projects that 5 significant additional under regulatory review: have reached Phase III indications for projects that 15 NMEs 7 oncology combination projects have reached Phase III 13 projects exploring 2 oncology combination additional indications for projects these NMEs 6 projects already approved or launched in the EU, China, Japan and or the US MEDI-550 pandemic influenza vaccine pending acceptance of regulatory submission Only includes material projects.
For those of our products subject to termination and rationalisation decisions.
Progress against targets litigation, information about material legal Twenty projects were discontinued in We remain on track to meet the pipeline proceedings can be found in Note 27 to 2015, 11 for poorer than anticipated safety aspirations that we have previously the Financial Statements from page 186. and efficacy results, eight as a result of communicated for the period from 2013 strategic shift in the environment or portfolio to the end of 2016: 12 to 16 Phase II starts: Details of relevant risks are set out in prioritisation, and one because of a change 14 to 16 NME and line extension regulatory Risk from page 212 in regulatory requirements.
submissions: and eight to 10 NME and line extension regulatory approvals.
Moreover, Development pipeline During 2015, 18 NMEs progressed to their we had 15 NME projects in pivotal studies The Development pipeline overview above next phase of development.
We also started or under regulatory review at the end of summarises our development pipeline as at a number of oncology trials during the 2015, versus 13 at the end of 2014.
This 31 December 2015. course of the year, of which 12 were demonstrates the sustainability of our oncology combination trials.
Importantly, pipeline and our ability to deliver new We continue to maintain a clinical portfolio many of our late-stage programmes medicines to patients.
of more than 100 projects, and are making achieved key milestones, with 12 NME or significant progress in advancing our major LCM regulatory submissions within For more information on the risks associated with biologics and our products, please see Risk late-stage programmes through regulatory the year, and six major approvals.
The portfolio has reached a regulatory reviews indicate the degree of steady state, with new project starts and medical need that many of these progressions netted out against project programmes aim to address.
Global Product Sales by therapy area 2015 2014 2013 Actual CER Actual CER Actual CER Sales growth growth Sales growth growth Sales growth growth $m % % $m % % $m % % Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases 9,489 3 4 9,802 11 12 8,830 7 6 Oncology 2,825 7 7 3,027 5 2 3,193 9 2 Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity 4,987 2 7 5,063 8 10 4,677 6 7 Infection, Neuroscience and Gastrointestinal 6,340 23 16 8,203 9 7 9,011 14 13 Total 23,641 9 1 26,095 1 3 25,711 8 6 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 25 Strategic Report Therapy Area Review Therapy area world market MAT Q3 15 Respiratory, Inflammation $102.0bn and Autoimmunity Annual worldwide market value 2015 was a year of robust performance and significant Respiratory pipeline evolution with inhaled therapies and biologics Asthma $21.6bn Chronic obstructive for asthma and COPD.
We also have promising assets pulmonary disease COPD $16.0bn in the inflammatory and autoimmune disease areas.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis IPF $0.2bn Other $24.2bn Our strategic priorities Currently, fixed-dose combinations FDCs We have an industry-leading pipeline in of an inhaled corticosteroid ICS with Inflammation Respiratory, which is an important platform a long-acting beta2-agonist LABA such and Autoimmunity for our return to growth.
Our goal is to as Symbicort help treat moderate-to-severe Gout $1.3bn Psoriasis $6.6bn establish a leading position in asthma and asthma.
We are exploring the use of Psoriatic arthritis COPD treatment, by delivering a range Symbicort dosed as needed in mild $4.7bn of differentiated inhaled therapies, novel asthma patients.
For specific patient groups, Rheumatoid arthritis $18.9bn combinations and devices, and biologics.
including more severe, refractory patients Systemic lupus who experience severe or frequent erythematosus In Inflammation and Autoimmunity, we exacerbations and a reduced quality of life, SLE $1.1bn aim to develop innovative, firstand our effort is focused on developing targeted IBD $7.4bn best-in-class therapies.
We are also placing emphasis on better understanding patient phenotypes to enable targeted therapies Asthma and COPD and to go beyond symptom control.
Asthma is a common and chronic condition that affects the lungs airways.
Inflammation COPD is a progressive and chronic disease.
and narrowing of the airways may cause It includes various lung conditions, such wheezing, breathlessness, chest tightness as chronic bronchitis and emphysema.
Asthma is a major cause of Currently, medication has only a limited chronic morbidity.
Asthma that is not well impact on the course of COPD and the controlled by existing treatments remains prognosis for patients remains poor.
Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity Phase I Phase II Phase III LCM Projects Small molecule Large molecule Small molecule Large molecule Small molecule Large molecule Small molecule # # lesinurad MEDI4920 abediterol PT003 GFF F brodalumab F AZD9412 Duaklir Genuair allopurinol COPD psoriasis # # # # AZD1419 MEDI5872 AZD7594 mavrilimumab PT010 benralizumab Symbicort COPD severe asthma SYGMA # # AZD7986 MEDI7836 AZD7624 abrilumab Zurampic US benralizumab Symbicort Breath Actuated Inhaler gout COPD # # AZD8871 anifrolumab RDEA3170 MEDI9929 tralokinumab subcutaneous severe asthma # AZD8999 PT010 tralokinumab anifrolumab asthma atopic dermatitis SLE # AZD9567 MEDI2070 # MEDI-551 Key neuromyelitis optica Addition # anifrolumab No change lupus nephritis Progression Approved launched # Partnered product F New filing 26 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 AstraZeneca is developing a TLR-9 Pushing the receptor agonist shown here aimed at producing long-term benefit in asthma by addressing boundaries imbalances in the immune system that may be an underlying cause of the disease.
For 40 years, AstraZeneca has pushed the boundaries of science and helped millions of patients with respiratory disease.
Now in RIA, we are advancing a pipeline of inhaled and biologic treatments, drug combinations and devices, and other therapies that aim to transform disease management.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 27 Strategic Report Therapy Area Review Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity continued The aim of COPD treatments is to reduce combination of glycopyrronium a LAMA Our marketed products symptoms and prevent exacerbations.
PT003 Accolate zafirlukast A class of FDCs of a long-acting muscarinic is the first LAMA LABA combination to be antagonist LAMA and LABA, known delivered in a pressurised metered-dose Bricanyl Respules terbutaline as LAMA LABAs, is likely to become a inhaler pMDI, using the proprietary 1 Bricanyl Turbuhaler terbutaline 1st line therapy for symptomatic moderateporous particle co-suspension technology Daliresp Daxas roflumilast to-severe COPD patients.
For patients developed by Pearl Therapeutics.
We are Duaklir Genuair aclidinium formoterol who have either experienced or have a also developing PT010 as a twice-daily 1 Eklira Genuair Tudorza Bretaris aclidinium high risk of experiencing exacerbations, triple combination LAMA LABA ICS 1 Oxis Turbuhaler formoterol an ICS LABA FDC such as Symbicort composed of glycopyrronium, formoterol is recommended.
and budesonide, a key component of Pulmicort Turbuhaler Pulmicort Flexhaler budesonide Symbicort in a pMDI device for severe 2 Our 2015 focus COPD.
It has progressed to Phase III in Pulmicort Respules budesonide Our Symbicort products improve the health COPD and may be one of the first products Rhinocort budesonide of COPD and asthma patients by providing to deliver the three therapeutic agents via Symbicort pMDI budesonide formoterol rapid relief of symptoms and long-term one inhaler.
1 Symbicort Turbuhaler budesonide formoterol anti-inflammatory control.
We continue to invest in this brand and are exploring a Benralizumab is a biologic MAb in Phase III 1 I n a dry powder inhaler.
new indication in mild asthma through the development for the treatment of severe SYGMA trial programme, enhancing our uncontrolled asthma and COPD.
It targets Full product information on page 203 inhaled devices and patient support the IL-5 receptor and depletes eosinophils, programmes, and by expanding indications which play a key role in inflammatory such as the recently approved change to respiratory disease.
The global Phase III the Symbicort Turbuhaler label in Europe results for benralizumab in severe asthma to include more moderate COPD patients.
We anticipate making Pulmicort is a leading ICS therapy for US and European regulatory submissions asthma.
Despite generic competition in later in 2016.
Phase III results and regulatory 329m many Established Markets, sales continue filing in COPD are expected in 2018. to grow, driven by Emerging Markets.
More The global prevalence of COPD is information about litigation relating to Tralokinumab is a MAb that binds to IL-13.
estimated to be 329 million people and Pulmicort Respules can be found in Note 27 Phase II data from tralokinumab suggest WHO predicts that COPD will become to the Financial Statements from page 186. that IL-13 neutralisation can improve lung the third leading cause of death function and reduce asthma exacerbation worldwide by 2030.
In 2015, we launched Duaklir Genuair a rate in a subpopulation of moderate-toLAMA LABA for maintenance symptom severe asthma patients who are Source: Vos et al 2012 WHO.
Our portfolio also uncontrolled with standard of care therapy.
includes Eklira Genuair aclidinium, a LAMA In August 2014, we initiated a Phase III for patients with symptomatic mild-toprogramme to evaluate the safety and moderate COPD.
In February 2015, we efficacy of tralokinumab in reducing asthma announced an agreement with Actavis exacerbations in adults and adolescents to acquire the rights to its branded with severe, inadequately controlled asthma.
respiratory business in the US and Canada.
The Phase III asthma programme is on track This included the rights to develop and to deliver results in early 2017. commercialise on-market products Tudorza Pressair aclidinium, a LAMA and Daliresp Inflammation and Autoimmunity a PDE4 inhibitor for COPD.
In December Gout is a serious, chronic, progressive, 2015, we announced that we had entered and debilitating form of inflammatory arthritis into a definitive agreement to acquire the that affects more than 15.8 million people core respiratory business of Takeda.
The underlying cause of Values in action: Follow the science The deal includes the acquisition of non-US gout is hyperuricemia elevated serum uric Patients with SLE or lupus have only seen rights to Daliresp, which is known as Daxas acid, which leads to the deposition of one new treatment for their disease in almost in certain countries.
The transaction is crystals primarily in the joints and in 60 years and clinical development remains anticipated to close in early 2016. other tissues.
This can result in recurrent challenging.
With anifrolumab, we followed attacks of inflammatory arthritis and, the science behind the potential therapeutic In the pipeline if left uncontrolled, can lead to chronic, benefits of blocking the interferon pathway We received positive results from progressive arthritis, and tophus visible as a new treatment strategy.
Our Phase II the Phase III PINNACLE programme deposits of urate crystals formation.
data confirmed this approach and the FDA investigating the potential of PT003 to has granted the anifrolumab SLE improve lung function in patients with programme Fast Track designation.
PT003 is a twice-daily, fixed-dose 28 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Strategic Report Systemic lupus erythematosus SLE, or mavrilimumab, and two RDEA3170 trials SLE composite endpoints.
It also improved lupus, is an autoimmune disease.
It occurs in Japan and the US, two Phase III trial symptoms of lupus such as rash and when the immune system produces programmes brodalumab and Zurampic arthritis.
Anifrolumab is currently in Phase III antibodies that, instead of targeting viruses along with the initiation of various Phase II development for SLE.
A Phase II trial in or other foreign invaders, attack healthy trials, demonstrates the success of our R&D lupus nephritis and Phase I subcutaneous tissue in the body including skin, joints, efforts to deliver new medicines quickly.
administration study were initiated in late kidney, the brain and blood vessels.
The FDA assigned anifrolumab Fast can cause a wide range of symptoms.
In December 2015, the FDA approved Track designation for SLE, which facilitates Among these are pain, rashes, fatigue, Zurampic 200mg tablets in combination the development and expedites the review swelling in joints, and fevers.
SLE is with a xanthine oxidase inhibitor XOI for the process of medicine candidates that treat associated with a greater risk of death from treatment of hyperuricemia associated with serious conditions and fill an unmet medical causes such as infection, nephritis and gout in patients who have not achieved need.
Sifalimumab is a developmental MAb cardiovascular disease.
Current treatment of target serum uric acid sUA levels with an that specifically blocks the action of SLE focuses on suppressing symptoms and XOI alone.
Also in December 2015, the interferon alpha.
Driven by data from the controlling disease flares and, in the case of Committee for Medicinal Products for Phase II trials in SLE for both sifalimumab lupus nephritis, preventing renal failure.
Human Use CHMP of the EMA adopted and anifrolumab, we have progressed a Positive Opinion recommending the anifrolumab into Phase III and therefore we Although a biologic medicine was launched marketing authorisation of Zurampic 200mg do not intend to further develop sifalimumab for SLE in 2011, most therapies used are tablets for the adjunctive treatment of in SLE.
off-label and significant unmet medical need hyperuricemia in adult gout patients with remains.
Most emerging biologics are likely or without tophi who have not achieved Brodalumab is a human MAb that targets to be used in combination with standard target sUA levels with an adequate dose the interleukin-17 IL-17 receptor to treat therapies, such as corticosteroids and of an XOI alone.
programme in psoriasis included three Zurampic inhibits the urate transporter, studies evaluating treatment with Psoriasis is a chronic disease in which the URAT1, which is responsible for the majority brodalumab, two of which compared immune system causes skin cells to grow of the renal reabsorption of uric acid.
By brodalumab with ustekinumab and or rapidly.
Instead of being shed, the skin cells inhibiting URAT1, Zurampic increases uric placebo.
Results from all three clinical trials pile up, causing painful and itchy, red, scaly acid excretion and thereby lowers sUA.
showed that all primary and secondary patches that can bleed.
Brodalumab showed million people worldwide suffer from RDEA3170 is a potent selective uric acid superiority to ustekinumab in both psoriasis.
Despite available treatment options reabsorption inhibitor, also intended for use comparative studies.
In May 2015, Amgen for moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis, as a combination urate-lowering therapy terminated its participation in the comany patients do not experience a resolution with XOIs.
RDEA3170 is our lead development and commercialisation of of underlying inflammation, clearing of investigational urate-lowering therapy ULT brodalumab.
In September 2015, we symptoms or an improved quality of life.
in Asia and is entering Phase IIb in both announced a collaboration agreement with Japan and the US.
This granted an exclusive licence Rheumatoid arthritis is currently treated with for Valeant, as an expert in dermatology, to generic disease-modifying anti-rheumatic Anifrolumab is a developmental MAb that develop and commercialise brodalumab agents and, where appropriate, biologics.
targets the type I interferon IFN receptor globally except in Japan and certain Asian There is a need for novel treatments, since inhibiting the activity of all type I IFNs, which countries.
AstraZeneca submitted global only about a third of patients treated with play a central role in lupus.
Phase II trial regulatory filings on behalf of Valeant for biologics achieve their treatment goals.
results presented in November brodalumab in psoriasis in late 2015.
Although tumour necrosis factor TNF demonstrated that anifrolumab significantly Valeant assumes decision making on future alpha-blockers are currently the primary reduced disease activity in  and all development costs treatment for rheumatoid arthritis, use of severe SLE patients as measured by several associated with the regulatory approval other biologic approaches is expected for brodalumab.
Novel oral drugs targeting intra-cellular signalling pathways may Mavrilimumab, an investigational MAb provide anti-TNF-like levels of efficacy that inhibits a key pathway in the and potentially more convenient dosing, 300m development of rheumatoid arthritis, especially in patients who do not use achieved its primary endpoints in a Phase injectable biologics.
It is estimated that approximately IIb study.
Results, which were announced 300 million people worldwide in May 2014, showed that mavrilimumab In the pipeline suffer from asthma.
improved signs and symptoms of We are strengthening our pipeline and rheumatoid arthritis, measures of disability Source: Massoli et al, 2004. improving treatment options and clinical and patient-reported outcomes.
outcomes for patients with inflammation and autoimmunity diseases.
Completion of four Phase II trials anifrolumab and AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 29
