Strategic report | Group business model and strategy | 8 GROUP BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY ASSOCIATED BRITISH FOODS IS A DIVERSIFIED GROUP OF FOOD, INGREDIENTS AND RETAIL BUSINESSES We sell into more than 100 countries Our range of activities is broad in worldwide with operations in product, technology and market scope.
48 countries across Europe, Our businesses comprise sizeable operations southern Africa, the Americas, that achieve good revenue and profit growth: Asia and Australia.
mature, cash-generative operations: and smaller enterprises that afford exciting growth potential.
In our markets, we aim to achieve strong and sustainable positions through a combination of organic growth, acquisition of complementary new businesses and achievement of high levels of operating efficiency.
We provide high-quality, value-for-money food and clothing that are central to peoples lives.
History of dividends paid pence per share 34.3 32.4 29.4 25.4 24.1 21.7 20.4 19.8 19.0 18.3 17.2 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Group business model and strategy | 9 STRATEGY The corporate centre agrees strategy and budgets with the businesses and monitors their performance closely.
The group balance sheet is managed toensure long-term financial stability, regardless of the state of capital markets, and capital funding is made available to all of our businesses where returns meet or exceed clearly defined criteria.
The centre provides selected services where the scale of its operations enables a more cost-effective or efficient delivery, BUSINESS STRUCTURE ORGANIC GROWTH where expertise that might not be available at abusiness level can Our businesses are organised so Organic growth is achieved through be retained by the group, or where that they are close to the markets investment in marketing, in the the provision of such services and customers that they serve.
development of existing andnew would otherwise distract business products and technologies and They are managed as five business executives.
Such services include in targeted capital expenditure segments that bring together common investor relations, pensions, insurance, to improve efficiency and industry expertise, operational capability legal support, tax and treasury expand capacity.
Operational management, where specialist decisions are made locally because, expertise is brought together in one We are committed to innovation, the in ourexperience, they are most place for the benefit of thegroup as continuous pursuit of improvement successful when made by the people a whole.
The centre also co-ordinates and the maintenance of our efficient who have thebest understanding selected value-added capabilities to manufacturing capability.
of their markets and who have support the businesses intheir local We aim to operate in a sustainable, to implement them.
Thecorporate markets such as talent management ethical, efficient and safe manner.
centre aims to provide a framework and development, procurement, Wehave a strong culture of continuing in which our business leaders have and the sharing of best practice in, operational improvement and focus the freedom and decision-making for example, health and safety or ondelivering exceptional quality and authority to pursue opportunities engineering risk management.
The group takes a with entrepreneurial flair.
The operate to high ethical standards as long-term approach to investment and centre is small and uses short an organisation and expect the same iscommitted to increasing shareholder lines of communication to ensure of our employees.
We encourage value through sound commercial, prompt, incisive and unambiguous an open and honest culture in all our responsible and sustainable business decision-making.
It seeks to dealings and ensure that our core decisions that deliver steady growth ensure that business activities values are fully implemented inearnings and dividends.
are appropriately monitored throughout the group.
Acquisitions are made to complement Pages 10 and 11 Business strategies existing business activities and to Pages 12 to 45 Operating review exploit opportunities in adjacent markets orgeographies.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
