Strategic Report Strategy Business model Our Purpose and Values drive what we do and how we do it.
This includes our business model and our determination to create sustainable value across every medicines life-cycle.
AstraZenecas investor proposition How it works Science-led biopharmaceutical Strategic priorities company in three therapy areas Our strategic priorities reflect how we aim to achieve our Purpose.
They are to Productive Strong Sustainable Strategic priorities from page 16 R&D business organisation Platform of small Strong portfolio of Innovative, established products molecules and entrepreneurial Inputs biologics culture Global scale with Emerging Markets Sustainable model Strong talent base and growing earlystrength Efficient and Demographic trends are favourable to our stage pipeline Six platforms driving productive industrys long-term growth: while innovative Growing late-stage growth towards a organisation scientific research continues to deliver balanced portfolio pipeline with immunoBalanced pipeline new ways of fulfilling unmet medical need.
oncology strength of primary care and to drive sustainable As the Marketplace section from page 12 specialty care Protein engineering growth demonstrates, however, the economic, social medicines and political environment presents not only Durability through significant opportunities but challenges devices and as well.
companion diagnostics To achieve our Purpose, we seek to maximise the value of our resources, including our employees, IP and partners.
Disciplined Commitment to capital allocation progressive dividend Resources Review from page 52 We have strong commercial franchises that focus on Respiratory, Inflammation and Externalisation Autoimmunity: Cardiovascular and Metabolic Our business model includes externalisation as part of our portfolio management diseases: and Oncology.
We have combined a strategy and is a result of increasing R&D productivity and a focus on three broad portfolio of primary care and specialty main therapy areas.
Externalisation activities relate to specific riskand care medicines with a global reach.
We reward-sharing strategic collaborations that provide greater access to strong believe our capabilities, pipeline and portfolio will enable us to build on our leading science and broaden, accelerate and maximise the development and positions in Established Markets and achieve commercialisation potential for some of our medicines and help bring those further growth in Emerging Markets.
Milestone payments and royalties arising from externalisation activities are included in the income statement as Externalisation Therapy Area Review from page 24 Revenue.
Externalisation allows us to leverage the capabilities and expertise of others, focus on our main therapy areas and deliver the greatest benefit to patients and shareholders.
Externalisation activities in 2015 included our collaboration with Celgene, Sustainability leveraging the expertise of AstraZeneca in immuno-oncology along with the experience of Celgene in the study and treatment of blood cancers, for the In the wider world from page 55 development and commercialisation of durvalumab across a range of haematological malignancies.
Similarly, our collaboration with Lilly, entered into in 2014, combines the scientific expertise from our two organisations and, Purpose and Values by sharing the risks and cost of late-stage development, aims to accelerate the advancement of AZD3293 and progress a new approach to support the treatment of Alzheimers disease patients around the world.
AstraZeneca retains significant interest, and continued participation, in the key decision making undertaken within these strategic collaborations.
Financial Review on page 62 8 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 e t a p f o n o i t a s i l a i c r e m m o c d n a t n e m p Strategic Report o l e v e d, y r e v o c s i d n i t n e m t s e v n I s These priorities reflect the choices we have 1 2 3 made to focus our R&D and commercial investments, prioritise and accelerate promising assets and business development, Achieve scientific Return Be a great and transform our innovation model and the leadership to growth place to work way we work.
Business model Outputs We strive to operate in accordance with How we create and sustain value over Returns to shareholders a disciplined, value-creation framework the life-cycle of a medicine across our Revenue from the sale of our medicines that supports investment to generate chosen therapy areas generates cash flow, which helps us fund cash flows that we return to investors business investment.
It also enables us and reinvest in the business.
We also Investment in the R&D, Manufacturing and to meet our debt service obligations and Supply, and Sales and Marketing of innovative invest in targeted business development follow our progressive dividend policy.
This includes targeted business to strengthen our portfolio, pipeline This involves balancing the interests development through collaboration, in-licensing and capabilities.
of our business, financial creditors and acquisitions.
Our success depends on the creation and protection of our IP rights.
Financial Review from page 62 Developing a new medicine is risky, costly and time consuming: requiring Inputs Improved health Outputs significant investment over many years, Continuous scientific innovation is vital with no guarantee of success.
For to achieving sustainable healthcare as it Our investments to be viable, we must creates value by Purpose protect new medicines from being improving health outcomes and copied for a reasonable period of time.
transforming patients lives The loss of key product patents has enabling healthcare systems to reduce affected sales significantly in recent costs and increase efficiency years and will continue to do so.
As such, one of our main goals is to improving access to healthcare and sustain the cycle of innovation and healthcare infrastructure Reinvestment of returns from sales, continually refresh our portfolio of helping develop the communities externalisation see page 8 and divestments patented products.
to develop and sustain the next generation of in which we operate through local innovative medicines.
Life-cycle of a medicine overleaf We want to be valued and trusted by our stakeholders as a source of great medicines over the long term.
To that end, our sustainability commitments, which are driven by our Purpose and Values, underpin our business model.
Those commitments are aligned to, and support the delivery of, our business strategy.
We push the boundaries of science to deliver life-changing medicines.
Our Purpose underpins everything we do.
It gives us a reason to come We do the right thing.
It reminds us why we exist as a company.
It helps These Values determine how we work together and the us deliver benefits to patients and create value for shareholders.
It also behaviours that are integral to our drive for success.
Our Values sets the context for our employees activities and the roles of our guide our decision making, define our beliefs and foster a strong teams, partners and other collaborators.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 9 n r u t e r f o t n e m t s e v n i e R s e n i c i d e m d e t c e t o r p - t n s e n i c i d e m d e t c e t o r p - t n e t a p f o n o i t a s i l a i c r e m m o c d n a t n e m p o l e v e d, y r e v o c s i d n i t n e m t s e v n I Strategic Report Strategy Life-cycle of a medicine As a global science-led biopharmaceutical company, our activities span the entire life-cycle of a medicine from Research and Development to Manufacturing and Supply to the global Sales and Marketing of primary care and specialty care medicines that transform lives.
Research and development phases 1015 years 1 3 5 Find potential medicine Phase I studies Phase III studies Identify unmet medical need aligned with our Begin clinical studies with small groups of Engage in studies in a larger group of patients three therapy areas and undertake scientific healthy human volunteers small molecules to gather information about effectiveness and research to identify potential new medicines or patients biologics to understand how the safety of the medicine and evaluate the overall Initiate process of seeking patent protection potential medicine is absorbed into the body, benefit risk profile distributed around it and excreted Initiate branding for the new medicine in 2 Determine approximate dosage and identify preparation for its launch Pre-clinical studies side effects 6 Conduct laboratory and animal studies to 4 Regulatory submission and pricing understand if the potential medicine is safe to Phase II studies Seek regulatory approvals for manufacturing, introduce into humans and in what quantities Conduct studies on smallto medium-sized marketing and selling the medicine Determine likely efficacy, side effect profile groups of patients to test effectiveness and Submit clinical data to regulatory authorities and maximum dose estimates tolerability of the medicine and determine and, if requested, generate further data optimal dose increasingly in real-world settings to Design Phase III studies to generate data demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the needed for regulatory approvals and medicine to enable them to decide on whether pricing reimbursement globally to grant regulatory approvals Launch phase 510 years Post-exclusivity 20 years 7 8 9 Launch new medicine Post-launch research and development Post-exclusivity Raise awareness of patient benefit and Conduct studies to further understand the Patent expiry and generic entry appropriate use, market and sell medicine benefit risk profile of the medicine in larger Reinvestment of returns Clinicians begin to prescribe medicines and or additional patient populations and patients begin to benefit Life-cycle management activities to broaden Continuously monitor, record and analyse understanding of a medicines full potential reported side effects.
Review need to update Consider additional diseases or aspects of the side effect warnings to ensure that patients disease to be treated by or better ways of wellbeing is maintained administering the medicine Assess real-world effectiveness, and Submit data packages with requests for opportunities to support patients and life-cycle management to regulatory authorities prescribers, to achieve maximum benefit for review and approval from the medicine Primary care and specialty care Small molecule drugs Large molecule drugs biologics Primary care is general healthcare provided Typically composed of 20 to 100 atoms Small biologics eg peptides typically by doctors who ordinarily have first contact with a well-defined chemical structure 200 to 3,000 atoms.
Large biologics with patients and who may have continuing Potential for off target activity eg antibodies, typically 5,000 to care for them.
Specialty care is specific Manufactured through chemical 50,000 atoms healthcare provided by medical specialists synthesis.
Identical copies can be made High selectivity and specificity: potentially who do not generally have first contact with Wide variety of administration routes, immunogenic patients.
Specialty care medicines generally such as oral, inhaled, injected or Manufactured in a living system such as treat more severe diseases and an increasing topical delivery a microorganism, or plant or animal cells number of specialty care medicines require Administration route often intravenous, a diagnostic test for patient eligibility or to intramuscular or other parenteral route achieve the best outcomes.
10 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 s n r u t e r f o t n e m t s e v n i e R s e n i c i d e m d e t c e t o r p - t n e t a p f o Strategic Report n o i t a s i l a i c s r r e a m e y m o 5 c 1 d 0 n 1 a t s n e e s m a p h o p l e t v n e e d m, y p r e o l v e o v c e s d i d d n n i a t n h e c m r t a s e e s v e n I R Inputs Applying our resources to meet unmet medical need 1 Find potential medicine Outputs Returns to shareholders 2 Pre-clinical Improved health studies 9 3 PostPhase I exclusivity Our studies Purpose 8 Post-launch 4 research and Phase II development studies 7 5 Launch new Phase III medicine 6 studies Regulatory submission and pricing Note: This is a high-level overview of a medicines life-cycle and is illustrative only.
It is neither intended to, nor does Research and Development from page 42 it, represent the life-cycle of any particular medicine or of every medicine discovered and or developed by Manufacturing and Supply from page 46 AstraZeneca, or the probability of success or approval Sales and Marketing from page 48 of any AstraZeneca medicine.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 11 s n r u t e r f o t n e m t s e v n i e R y t i v i s u s l r c a x e e - y t s o 0 P 2 s r a e y 0 1 5 e s a h p h c n u a L Strategic Report Strategy Marketplace Despite global economic, political and social challenges, The global context According to the International Monetary the pharmaceutical industry is expected to enjoy longFund IMF, a return to robust and term growth.
This is due to favourable demographic synchronised global expansion remains elusive six years after the world economy trends and significant unmet medical need.
emerged from its broadest and deepest post-war recession.
Moreover, downside risks to the world economy appear more pronounced, particularly for emerging market and developing economies, and including renewed concerns about Chinas growth potential.
Overview The demand for healthcare, however, continues to increase.
While this is a Global pharmaceutical sales grew by 9.5% in 2015 favourable trend for long-term industry The sector remains highly competitive growth, challenges remain.
These include Patient populations are expanding and ageing expiring patents, competition from and Non-communicable diseases kill 38 million people each year growing use of generic medicines, The costs of developing a new medicine continue to rise obtaining regulatory approval, securing Priority Reviews and Breakthrough Therapies are becoming more prevalent reimbursement for new medicines, A highly regulated sector reflects the demand for safe, effective and improving R&D productivity and attaining high-quality medicines pricing and sales sufficient to generate Pricing and reimbursement continue to be challenging revenue and sustain the cycle of innovation.
Patents are expiring on some of the biggest-selling drugs ever produced The sector faces challenges in building and maintaining trust Expanding patient populations The number of people accessing healthcare is increasing, as is healthcare spending, particularly by the elderly.
For example, WHO estimates that, by 2050, the worlds population aged 60 years and older is expected to total two billion, up from 900 million in 2015 and that, by then, 84.0% $140bn 80% of all older people will live in lowand Generics constituted 84.0% Global investment in pharmaceutical middle-income countries.
As the diagram of prescriptions dispensed R&D expected to reach an estimated on pages 14 and 15 shows, we expect in the US.
$140 billion in 2015, a 30% increase developing markets to continue to boost from $108 billion in 2006. pharmaceutical growth.
Unmet medical need The prevalence of non-communicable diseases NCDs, such as cancer and cardiovascular, metabolic and respiratory diseases, is increasing worldwide.
NCDs are 12 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Strategic Report often associated with ageing populations such requests, and one-third of these have Global pharmaceutical sales and lifestyle choices, including smoking, already resulted in product approvals.
diet and lack of exercise.
Many NCDs World $bn require long-term management.
WHO The cost of developing new medicines 2015 904 estimates that NCDs kill 38 million people continues to rise.
Global R&D investment is 2014 826 each year and disproportionately affect expected to reach $140 billion in 2015.
While 2013 759 lowand middle-income countries where the growth rate of R&D spend has slowed in nearly three-quarters of these deaths occur.
recent years, pharmaceutical companies For example, more than 60% of the worlds continue to deliver new medicines.
In 2015 $904bn 9.5% total new annual cancer cases occur in the FDA approved 45 NMEs compared with Africa, Asia and Central and South America.
The number of These regions account for 70% of the approvals in 2015 is the largest since 1996 US $bn worlds cancer deaths.
2015 413 2014 369 The pharmaceutical sector: To ensure sustainable returns on R&D 2013 328 opportunities and challenges investment, the industry is working to As shown in the table on the right, global increase its success rate in developing pharmaceutical sales grew by 9.5% in 2015. commercially viable new drugs while $413bn 12.0% Established Markets saw average revenue achieving a lower, more flexible cost base.
growth of 9.3% and Emerging Markets Regulators and payers, however, are revenue growth at 10.3%.
The US, China, demanding greater evidence of comparative Europe $bn Japan, Germany and France are the worlds effectiveness of medicines.
This increases 2015 194 top five pharmaceutical markets.
In 2015, development times and costs.
Fortunately, innovative technology is helping accelerate product approvals.
A greater Science and technology emphasis on Proof of Concept is also $194bn 6.3% Innovation is critical to addressing unmet helping to improve productivity and reduce medical need.
The delivery of new costs by showing the potential efficacy of medicines will rely on a more advanced drugs earlier in the development process.
Established ROW $bn understanding of disease and the use of 2015 100 new technology and approaches, including Regulatory requirements 2014 96 personalised healthcare PHC and A highly regulated biopharmaceutical 2013 94 predictive science.
industry reflects the publics expectation of safe, effective and high-quality medicines.
Technological breakthroughs in the design Meeting this expectation requires $100bn 4.3% and testing of novel compounds present responsible testing, manufacturing and fresh opportunities for using small molecules marketing.
It also relies on maintaining as the basis for new medicines.
The use effective working relationships with health Emerging Markets $bn of large molecules, or biologics, has also authorities worldwide, including the FDA in 2015 198 become an important source of innovation.
the US, the EMA in the EU, the PMDA in 2014 179 Biologics are among the most commercially Japan, and the CFDA in China.
By 2020, biologics regulation and governmental policy are are expected to account for 46% of the being introduced to stimulate innovation in total sales revenue of the worlds top 100 drug development.
In the US, for example, $198bn 10.3% pharmaceutical products, having risen from the 21st Century Cures Act, passed by the 21% in 2006.
As such, most pharmaceutical House of Representatives in July 2015, and companies now pursue R&D in both small the related Senate Innovation for Healthier molecules and biologics.
Americans Legislative Initiative, are focused Data based on world market sales using AstraZeneca market definitions as set out in the Market definitions on page 247. on accelerating the discovery, development Source: IMS Health, IMS Midas Quantum Q3 2015 including Priority Reviews and Breakthrough and delivery of promising new treatments for US data.
Reported values and growth are based at CER.
Value figures are rounded to the nearest billion and growth Therapies are becoming more prevalent patients.
Similarly, the PDUFA reauthorisation percentages are rounded to the nearest tenth.
with more than half the Center for Drug legislation considered by the US Congress Evaluation and Research NME approvals in 2017 is anticipated to contain proposals in 2015 receiving a Priority Review and, aimed at accelerating innovation and almost a quarter having a Breakthrough modernising the regulatory environment.
Between the inception Additionally, the growing complexity and of the Breakthrough Therapy designation globalisation of clinical studies have led to programme in October 2012 and the end of an increase in public-private consortia.
Such 2015, the FDA has granted more than 100 consortia, which include industry, academia AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 13 Strategic Report Strategy Marketplace continued Estimated pharmaceutical sales and market growth 2019 North America EU South East and East Asia Latin America $574bn $224bn $206bn $90bn 7.0% 3.3% 7.1% 6.4% Africa CIS Middle East Other Europe Non-EU countries $32bn $27bn $27bn $22bn 9.6% 6.9% 7.4% 6.8% and government bodies, aim to drive The study of paediatric populations constraining healthcare providers, while innovation, streamline regulatory processes, continues to present challenges to the difficult economic conditions burden and define and clarify approval requirements industry as differences between study patients who pay out-of-pocket for for innovative drug and biologic products.
requirements and timeframes may vary medicines.
Pharmaceutical companies significantly among health authorities.
are now expending significant resources Regulatory health authorities continue However, there have been efforts to provide to demonstrate the economic as well as to implement programmes intended to incentives to stimulate paediatric research.
therapeutic value of their medicines.
address unmet medical need and to An example is EMAs initiative offering speed up patient access to transformative free-of-charge meetings early in drug In the US, the Affordable Care Act ACA medicines.
This is demonstrated by development.
Increased interest in the has had a direct impact on healthcare the Breakthrough Therapy programme availability of the paediatric rare disease activities.
It continues to reshape the market employed by the FDA and the EMAs piloting voucher programme in the US is another through various provisions designed to of a programme to implement adaptive noteworthy development.
reduce cost and improve healthcare and pathways, or staggered approval, to patient outcomes.
We, along with other improve timely patient access to new Regulatory requirements for the registration pharmaceutical companies, are working medicines.
In Japan, the SAKIGAKE of biosimilar products continue to be with policymakers and regulators to help strategy is fostering a more favourable developed and become better defined.
contain costs, improve outcomes and environment for drug development and This includes the publication of a new promote an environment that fosters accelerating the availability of currently pathway for China and the first biosimilar medical and scientific innovation.
unapproved medicines for serious and product approval in the US.
The lengthy review significant areas of regulatory policy are In Europe, governments continue to process in China extends new medicine still evolving.
Among these are transparency implement price control measures for approval periods to as long as five years.
of data to support approval of claims medicines, including mandatory discounts, This challenges the ability of pharmaceutical for biosimilarity in labelling, standards clawbacks and price referencing rules.
companies to deliver innovative medicines for interchangeability and pharmaceutical These measures are decreasing drug and treat unmet medical need in China.
substitution, and traceability of prices, particularly in the challenged However, proposed revisions to Chinas pharmacovigilance reports through economies of Greece, Romania and Italy.
Drug Administration Law, which are under naming conventions that permit In France, price negotiations are particularly review, may help address this issue.
For more challenging due to budget pressures.
information about biosimilars, please see In Germany, Europes largest pharmaceutical Greater transparency and public access Patent expiries and genericisation below.
market, manufacturers must now prove the to regulatory submissions that support added benefit of their drug over existing approval of new medicines continues Pricing of medicines alternatives if they are to avoid relegation to be an area of interest.
A recent example Pricing and reimbursement remain to a single reimbursement level or reference involves the EMA policy on publication challenging in many markets.
of clinical data for medicinal products for pharmaceutical sales are generated in human use, which provides guidance for highly regulated markets where In China, pricing practices remain a priority the publication of clinical reports that governments, insurers and other private for regulators.
Though free pricing has been underpin the EMAs decision making.
payers exert various controls on pricing introduced, provincial and hospital tenders These clinical reports include the overviews, and reimbursement.
These include continue to put increasing pricing pressures summaries and clinical study reports limitations on pharmaceutical spending on pharmaceutical companies.
In Russia submitted by the applicant, together with and the cost of readmitting patients to and selected Middle East markets, documentation of statistical methods.
Implementation of certain reforms governments are encouraging local and shifting market dynamics are further manufacturing by offering more favourable 14 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Strategic Report Japan Indian subcontinent $82bn $35bn 1.3% 12.3% Oceania Estimated pharmaceutical sales 2019.
$13bn Estimated pharmaceutical market growth 2014 to 2019.
In Japan, mandated Biologics typically retain exclusivity for Numerous companies, including those in biennial cuts are likely to continue.
In Latin longer than traditional small molecule the pharmaceutical industry, have been America, pricing is increasingly controlled by pharmaceuticals, with less generic investigated by the China Public Security governments as, for example, in Colombia.
With limited experience to date, Bureau following allegations of bribery, and the substitution of biosimilars for the original criminal and financial penalties have been For more information about price controls, branded product has not followed the same imposed.
Investigations by the DOJ and reductions and US healthcare reform, and price pattern as generic substitution in small SEC under the Foreign Corrupt Practices regulation in our major markets, please see molecule products and, as a result, erosion Act are continuing as are investigations by Geographical Review from page 227 and Risk of the original biologics branded market the UK Serious Fraud Office under the UK from page 212 share has not been as rapid.
This is due to Bribery Act.
Information about material legal Patent expiries and genericisation biologics complex manufacturing processes proceedings can be found in Note 27 to the Patent protection for pharmaceutical and the inherent difficulties in producing a Financial Statements from page 186. products is finite.
Patents are expiring biosimilar, which could require additional on some of the biggest-selling drugs ever clinical trials.
However, with regulatory Strategic responses produced and payers, physicians and authorities in Europe and the US continuing Our industry remains highly competitive.
patients have greater access to generic to implement abbreviated approval pathways It includes large, research-based alternatives both substitutable and for biosimilar versions, innovative biologics pharmaceutical companies such as analogue in many important drug classes.
are likely to face increased competition.
AstraZeneca that discover, develop and These generic alternatives are primarily Similar to biologics, some small molecule sell innovative, patent-protected prescription lower priced because generic manufacturers pharmaceutical products are in complex medicines and vaccines, smaller are largely spared the costs of R&D and formulations and or require technically biotechnology and vaccine businesses, and market development.
As a result, demand challenging manufacturing and thus may companies that produce generic medicines.
For prescriptions not follow the pattern of generic market While many of our peers face similar dispensed in the US in 2015, generics erosion seen with traditional, tabletted challenges, they tackle them in different constituted 84.0% of the market by volume pharmaceuticals.
For those products, the ways.
introduction of generic alternatives both strategy focused on branded prescription substitutable and analogue can be slower.
Others have diversified Generic competition can also result from by acquiring or building branded generics patent disputes or challenges before patent Building trust businesses or consumer portfolios.
Increasingly, generics companies The pharmaceutical industry faces number of companies are focused on are launching products at risk, for example, challenges in building and maintaining improving R&D productivity and operational before resolution of the relevant patent trust, particularly with governments and efficiency.
Other companies have looked litigation.
This trend, which is likely to regulators.
This reflects the past decades to geographic expansion, especially in continue, creates significant market legal disputes between pharmaceutical Emerging Markets and Japan.
Across the presence for the generic version while the companies and governmental and industry, business development deals litigation remains unresolved.
To address this including licensing and collaborations, unpredictable nature of patent litigation, challenge, companies are strengthening and competition for business development some companies have settled such a culture of ethics and integrity, adopting opportunities continued in 2015.
It is challenges on terms acceptable to the higher governance standards and improving estimated that the value of mergers innovator and generic manufacturer.
While relationships with employees, shareholders announced in the healthcare sector during competition authorities generally accept and other stakeholders.
the year amounted to more than $650 such agreements as a legitimate way to billion, accounting for 14% of all merger settle these disputes, they have questioned and acquisition activity.
some settlements as being anti-competitive.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 15 Strategic Report Strategy Strategic priorities What do we need to do?
How are we implementing this?
For more information We are focused on returning to growth in Therapy Area Review from page 24 Focus on innovative science in three therapy areas Our focus is on Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity: Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases: and Oncology.
We are Achieve scientific leadership also taking an opportunity-driven approach to Infection, Neuroscience and Gastrointestinal disorders.
our chosen therapy areas We are working across small molecules, biologics, immunotherapies, protein engineering and devices.
through a science-led Pipeline and Therapy Area Introduction Prioritise and accelerate our pipeline We are accelerating and investing in key R&D programmes.
15 new molecular entities NMEs are in Phase III pivotal Phase II from page 24 or under regulatory review compared with our March 2013 target of nine to 10 by the end of 2016. innovation strategy.
Between 2013 and the end of 2016, we have the potential for 12 to 16 Phase II starts: 14 to 16 NME and major line extension Development Pipeline from page 205 This strategy is based on regulatory submissions: and eight to 10 NME and major line extension regulatory approvals.
investing in three therapy We are strengthening our early-stage pipeline through novel science and technology.
areas, building a strong Research and Development from page 42 Transform our innovation and culture model Our two autonomous biotech units, MedImmune and IMED, drive science and innovation, and GMD drives our late-stage development unit.
and balanced portfolio We are focusing on novel science, such as immune-mediated therapy combinations and personalised healthcare PHC.
of primary care and To increase our proximity to bioscience clusters, we are co-locating around three strategic centres in Cambridge, UK: specialty care medicines, Gaithersburg, Maryland US: and Gothenburg, Sweden.
These moves will leverage our capabilities and foster collaboration with leading scientists and research organisations.
and accelerating key In the wider world from page 55 Accelerate through business development We are working to reinforce our therapy areas and are strengthening our portfolio and pipeline through targeted business R&D programmes.
It development, including collaborations, in-licensing and acquisitions.
also involves engaging We are collaborating strategically to broaden and accelerate the development of key pipeline assets externalisation and divesting non-core assets to realise value.
in targeted business Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases Focus on Growth Platforms Brilinta Brilique We are working to deliver Brilinta Briliques potential to reduce cardiovascular deaths through ongoing clinical development and Return to growth from page 30 studies and plans for market leadership.
leveraging our strong Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases Diabetes We are working to maximise the potential of our broad and innovative non-insulin, anti-diabetic portfolio from page 30 to transform patient care.
global commercial presence, particularly Sales and Marketing from page 48 Emerging Markets We are focused on delivering innovative medicines by accelerating our investment in Emerging Markets capabilities, with a focus on China and other leading markets, such as Russia and Brazil.
We are also expanding our in Emerging Markets.
commercial reach through multi-channel marketing and sales force excellence and building strong local medical and scientific affairs teams.
Transformation of our capabilities is supporting new products and improving access and affordability.
Respiratory, Inflammation and Respiratory We are working to maximise pipeline value, devices and medicines to fulfil unmet medical need and improve Autoimmunity from page 26 patient outcomes in asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis IPF.
Japan We are strengthening our Oncology franchise and working to maximise the success of our Diabetes medicines and Sales and Marketing from page 48 established brands: Symbicort, Nexium and Crestor.
Oncology from page 34 New Oncology Became our sixth Growth Platform in January 2015 and includes Lynparza, Iressa US and Tagrisso.
We are aiming to deliver six new cancer medicines to patients by 2020.
Transform through specialty care, devices We are transforming our business to become more sustainable, durable and profitable.
This involves focusing on specialty Therapy Area Review from page 24 and biologics care medicines, devices and biologics.
Biologics now account for half of the NMEs in development, potentially enhancing asset longevity.
A greater focus on innovative and differentiated delivery devices affords patient choice while ensuring product durability.
Our new specialty care portfolio is expected to balance our strength in primary care medicines.
Employees from page 52 Evolve our culture We are working to improve our employees identification with our Purpose and Values and to promote greater understanding Be a great place to work of and belief in our strategy.
We are investing in and implementing tailored leadership development programmes.
Simplify our business We are developing simpler, more efficient processes and flattening our organisational structure to encourage accountability and improve decision making and communication.
Attract and retain the best talent We are accelerating efforts to attract diverse, top talent with new capabilities.
In the wider world from page 55 Deliver business success over the long term We are supporting the sustainable delivery of our business strategy while delivering wider benefits to society and the environment.
Drive on-market value We invest in R&D and on-market Growth Platforms to return to growth.
Our aim is to deliver industry-leading productivity Financial Review from page 62 Achieve our Group by restructuring to create scope for investment and a flexible cost base.
financial targets Maintain a progressive dividend Our policy is to maintain or grow dividend per share.
Maintain a strong balance sheet Target a strong, investment-grade credit rating, operational cash balance and periodic share repurchases.
16 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Strategic Report What do we need to do?
For more information Therapy Area Review from page 24 Focus on innovative science in three therapy areas Our focus is on Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity: Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases: and Oncology.
We are working across small molecules, biologics, immunotherapies, protein engineering and devices.
Pipeline and Therapy Area Introduction Prioritise and accelerate our pipeline We are accelerating and investing in key R&D programmes.
15 new molecular entities NMEs are in Phase III pivotal Phase II from page 24 or under regulatory review compared with our March 2013 target of nine to 10 by the end of 2016.
Between 2013 and the end of 2016, we have the potential for 12 to 16 Phase II starts: 14 to 16 NME and major line extension Development Pipeline from page 205 regulatory submissions: and eight to 10 NME and major line extension regulatory approvals.
We are strengthening our early-stage pipeline through novel science and technology.
Research and Development from page 42 Transform our innovation and culture model Our two autonomous biotech units, MedImmune and IMED, drive science and innovation, and GMD drives our late-stage development unit.
We are focusing on novel science, such as immune-mediated therapy combinations and personalised healthcare PHC.
To increase our proximity to bioscience clusters, we are co-locating around three strategic centres in Cambridge, UK: Gaithersburg, Maryland US: and Gothenburg, Sweden.
In the wider world from page 55 Accelerate through business development We are working to reinforce our therapy areas and are strengthening our portfolio and pipeline through targeted business development, including collaborations, in-licensing and acquisitions.
We are collaborating strategically to broaden and accelerate the development of key pipeline assets externalisation and divesting non-core assets to realise value.
Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases Focus on Growth Platforms Brilinta Brilique We are working to deliver Brilinta Briliques potential to reduce cardiovascular deaths through ongoing clinical Return to growth from page 30 studies and plans for market leadership.
Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases Diabetes We are working to maximise the potential of our broad and innovative non-insulin, anti-diabetic portfolio from page 30 to transform patient care.
Sales and Marketing from page 48 Emerging Markets We are focused on delivering innovative medicines by accelerating our investment in Emerging Markets capabilities, with a focus on China and other leading markets, such as Russia and Brazil.
We are also expanding our commercial reach through multi-channel marketing and sales force excellence and building strong local medical and scientific affairs teams.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 17 Strategic Report Strategy Key performance indicators How we performed against the indicators by which we measure our success.
Achieve Group financial targets Achieve scientific leadership 1 Total Revenue Net cash flow from operating Phase III investment decisions NME or LCM project regulatory Clinical-stage strategic activities submissions in major markets transactions $24,708m $3,324m 6 12 10 $24,708m $3,324m 6 12 10 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 $26,547m $7,058m 9 6 3 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 $25,806m $7,400m 3 3 7 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 CER growth Actual growth Actual growth Anifrolumab: AZD9291 durvalumab: Brilinta PEGASUS US, EU, Japan : Licensing and or acquisition 2015 -7% 2015 -53% PT010: durvalumab tremelimumab CAZ AVI EU : Tagrisso AZD9291 opportunities helped us achieve 2015 1% 2014 5% 2014 3% 2014 -5% NSCLC : durvalumab tremelimumab US, EU, Japan : cediranib EU : our 2016 target three years ahead of 2013 -7% 2013 -9% 2013 7% bladder and head and neck : AZD9291 saxagliptin dapagliflozin EU : PT003 schedule and contribute to meeting adjuvant.
our target of sustainable delivery of two NMEs annually by 2020.
Total Revenue comprised Product Cash generated from operating Sales of $23,641 million down by activities reflects a modest increase 1% and Externalisation Revenue of in investment in working capital of $1,067 million up by 140%.
Decline $49 million compared to a decline of in Total Revenue at actual exchange $2,508 million in 2014.
Working capital Four for early-stage Phase I II rates reflected the particular weakness improvements made in 2014 have been opportunities, and three for late-stage of key trading currencies against the sustained minimising the impact of Phase II opportunities.
increased acquired diabetes and launch product inventory balances.
1 A s detailed on page 144, Total Revenue consists of Product Sales and Externalisation Revenue.
2 Dividend per share Core EPS NME Phase II starts NME and major LCM regional progressions approvals $2.80 $4.26 11 6 $2.80 $4.26 11 6 2015 2015 2015 2015 $2.80 $4.28 13 12 2014 2014 2014 2014 $2.80 $5.05 13 3 2013 2013 2013 2013 Dividend is consistent with the CER growth Actual growth MEDI8897: MEDI-551: MEDI7510: Bydureon Dual Pen Japan : Iressa progressive dividend policy pursuant 2015 7% 2015 0% AZD3241: AZD9412: AZD7594: US : Brilinta US for treatment of to which the Board intends to maintain 2014 -8% 2014 -15% AZD5069: AZD9150: AZD3759: history of heart attack : Tagrisso or grow the dividend each year.
AZD9291 US : Zurampic US : Faslodex 500mg China.
Increase in Core EPS demonstrated resilience in face of patent expiries as we position ourselves for a return to growth.
2 F irst and second interim dividend for the year.
Financial Review from page 62 Therapy Area Review from page 24 18 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Strategic Report Achieve scientific leadership Return to growth Phase III investment decisions NME or LCM project regulatory Clinical-stage strategic Brilinta Brilique Diabetes Japan submissions in major markets transactions 6 12 10 $619m $2,224m $2,020m sales sales sales 6 12 10 $619m $2,224m $2,020m 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 9 6 3 $476m $1,870m $2,227m 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 3 3 7 $283m $787m $2,485m 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 Anifrolumab: AZD9291 durvalumab: Brilinta PEGASUS US, EU, Japan : Licensing and or acquisition CER growth Actual growth CER growth Actual growth CER growth Actual growth PT010: durvalumab tremelimumab CAZ AVI EU : Tagrisso AZD9291 opportunities helped us achieve 2015 30% 2015 26% 2015 19% 2015 4% 2015 -9% 2015 44% NSCLC : durvalumab tremelimumab US, EU, Japan : cediranib EU : our 2016 target three years ahead of 2014 70% 2014 68% 2014 139% 2014 138% 2014 -3% 2014 -10% bladder and head and neck : AZD9291 saxagliptin dapagliflozin EU : PT003 schedule and contribute to meeting 2013 216% 2013 218% 2013 75% 2013 75% 2013 4% 2013 -14% adjuvant.
Growth was underpinned by Growth of 26% delivered, including Growth in sales of 4% driven by recently-extended US label and positive 76% in Emerging Markets.
Farxiga strong performance of Nexium, CHMP opinion.
Sales in the US and EU Forxiga grew by 137% to $492 million, Crestor, Symbicort and the Diabetes increased by 64% and 18% respectively with both US and EU growing strongly.
franchise, offsetting the headwinds and Emerging Market growth also from generic competition.
Four for early-stage Phase I II continued, most notably in China.
opportunities, and three for late-stage Phase II opportunities.
Contributions to growth of 12% were Growth of 7% was driven primarily by generated from across the region.
the performance of Pulmicort Respules Around 60% of Emerging Markets in Emerging Markets, where Pulmicort sales were derived outside China.
Therapy Area Review from page 24 Sales and Marketing from page 48 and Geographical Review from page 227 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 19 Strategic Report Strategy Key performance indicators continued Be a great place to work Organisational structure Employee belief in our strategy Employees who would recommend percentage of employees within six AstraZeneca as a great place to work management steps of the CEO 71% 89% 83% 1 1 71% 89% 83% 2015 2015 2015 2 2 75% 86% 82% 2014 2014 2014 3 70% 84% N A 2013 2013 2013 This is a key indicator of our progress This is a key indicator of employee This is a key indicator of whether in driving accountability and engagement.
employees believe AstraZeneca is improving decision making a great place to work.
1 1 S ource: January 2016 pulse survey across a Source: January 2016 pulse survey across a sample of the organisation.
2 2 Source: Global FOCUS all-employee survey.
Source: Global FOCUS all-employee survey.
3 S ource: January 2014 pulse survey across a sample of the organisation.
Employees from page 52 Do business sustainably 1 Dow Jones Sustainability Confirmed breaches of external Operational carbon footprint Screening, diagnosis and Index ranking sales and marketing codes or treatment of hypertension as regulations globally part of Healthy Heart Africa programme Top 5% 11confirmed breaches 704 kt CO e 1 million 2 of companies patients 2015 84% 2015 11 2015 704 kt CO2e 2015 1m 79% 6 735 kt CO2e N A 2014 2014 2014 2014 85% 11 704 kt CO2e N A 2013 2013 2013 2013 Met the target of maintaining position Continue to report and learn from Our 2015 operational carbon footprint In our first full year of Healthy Heart in the Dow Jones Sustainability World confirmed breaches of external codes met our target emission of 714 kt CO2e Africa, we exceeded our 2015 target and Europe Indexes comprising the top arising from external scrutiny and and represents a 21.2% reduction from by screening one million patients in 10% of the largest 2,500 companies voluntary disclosure byAstraZeneca.
Our overall target of Kenya for hypertension during with a score of 84%.
a 20% reduction from a 2010 baseline demonstration projects.
of 893 kt CO2e by the end of 2015 has been achieved.
1 O perational carbon footprint is emissions from all sources, excluding those from patient use of our inhalers.
Sustainability from page 55 20 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Strategic Report Risk overview What may challenge the delivery of our strategic priorities.
Risk management embedded in Viability statement Oversight and monitoring business processes In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Board: defines the Groups risk appetite, We strive to embed sound risk management 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the which enables the Group, in both in our strategy, planning, budgeting and Board has determined that a three-year quantitative and qualitative terms, performance management processes.
period to 31 December 2018 constitutes to judge the level of risk it is prepared an appropriate period over which to provide to take in achieving its overall objectives.
The Board has defined the Groups risk its viability statement.
appetite, expressing the acceptable levels SET: responsible for overseeing and of risk for the Group using three key The Board considers annually and on monitoring the effectiveness of the risk dimensions.
These are: i earnings and cash a rolling basis, a three-year bottom-up management processes implemented flow: ii return on investment: and iii ethics.
The Board also by management.
Annually, the Group develops a long-term considers a 10-year long-term strategic plan business plan to support the delivery of its but, given the inherent uncertainty involved, Management: Global Compliance, strategy.
The Board reviews this to ensure believes that the three-year statement Finance and Internal Audit Services that the plan conforms to its risk appetite.
presents readers of the Annual Report with support SET by advising on policy Our risk management approach is aligned a reasonable degree of assurance while still and standard setting, monitoring and to our strategy and business planning providing a longer-term perspective.
auditing, communication and training, processes.
We cross-check financial risks as well as reporting on the adequacy and opportunities identified through the The three-year detailed business plan of line management processes as they business planning process and integrate our captures risks to the sales and cost apply to risk management.
findings into the overall risk management forecasts at a market and SET function level reporting.
Line managers are accountable and is used to perform central net debt and for identifying and managing risks and for headroom profile analysis.
This analysis delivering business objectives in accordance considers a severe but plausible downside Managing risk with the Groups risk appetite.
scenario incorporating the Principal Risks As a global, science-led biopharmaceutical such as market pricing and access, delivery business, we face a diverse range of Within each SET function, leadership teams of pipeline and loss of IP.
The resilience of risks and uncertainties.
These could discuss the risks the business faces.
Every the Group to absorb further Principal Risk adversely affect our business.
Our year, we map these risks to AstraZenecas events such as regulatory litigious fines approach to risk management is therefore risk taxonomy.
This process provides a has also been analysed.
The Group has designed to encourage clear decision Group-wide assessment that is shared adequate resilience against these and the making on which risks we take and how with the Board, Audit Committee and SET.
other Principal Risks due to our diversified we manage these risks.
Fundamental to Quarterly, each SET function identifies any product portfolio: our global footprint: this process is a sound understanding changes to these risks, its mitigation plans our robust supply infrastructure: our access of every risks potential strategic, and new and emerging risks.
The quarterly to external financing, which includes commercial, financial, compliance, updates are assimilated into a Group Risk committed facilities: and our ability to legal and reputational implications.
Report for the Board, Audit Committee and manage our cost base.
Supporting tools are in place to assist We work to ensure that we have effective risk leaders and managers in managing, Based on the results of this analysis, the risk management processes in place to monitoring and planning for risk and we Directors have a reasonable expectation support the delivery of our strategic continue to work on developing our risk that the Company will be able to continue priorities.
This enables us to meet the management standards and guidelines.
in operation and meet its liabilities as expectations of our stakeholders and they fall due over the three-year period upholds our Values.
We monitor our We also develop business continuity of their assessment.
business activities and external and internal plans to address situations in which environments for new, emerging and specific risks have the potential to severely changing risks to ensure that these are impact our business.
These plans include managed appropriately.
training and crisis simulation activities for business managers.
The Board believes that existing robust processes and clear accountabilities, as More information about our Global Compliance function and the Code of Conduct can be found in described below, provide it with adequate the Corporate Governance Report from page 90 information on the Principal Risks and uncertainties we face.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 21 Strategic Report Strategy Risk overview continued Principal Risks Risk category and Principal Risks Context potential impact Management actions Trend versus prior year Link to strategy This table provides insight into Product pipeline and intellectual property the Principal Risks that could have a materially adverse effect Delivery of pipeline and new The development of any pharmaceutical product candidate is a complex, risky Prioritise and accelerate our pipeline Increasing importance of pipeline on the business or results of products and lengthy process involving significant financial, R&D and other resources.
Strengthen pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and collaborations contribution given loss of exclusivity operations.
We outline why A project may fail or be delayed at any stage of the process due to a number Focus on innovative science in three therapy areas on key brands of factors, which could reduce our long-term growth, revenue and profit effective management of these risks is important and relevant Meet quality, regulatory and Delays in regulatory reviews and approvals impact patients and market access, Quality management systems incorporating monitoring, training and assurance activities to the business, how we are ethical drug approval and and can materially affect our business or financial results Collaborating with regulatory bodies and advocacy groups to monitor and respond to disclosure requirements changes in the regulatory environment including revised process, timelines and guidance managing them and which risks are rising, falling or have Secure and protect product IP Discovering and developing medicines requires a significant investment of resources.
Active management of IP rights remained static during the For this to be a viable investment, through generation of sufficient revenues, new medicines must be safeguarded from being copied with a reasonable amount past 12 months.
of certainty for a reasonable amount of time Commercialisation Externally driven demand, Operating in over 100 countries, we are subject to political, socio-economic and Focus on Growth Platforms Global economic conditions placing pricing, access and competitive financial factors both globally and in individual countries.
There can be additional Demonstrating value of medicines health economics downwards pressure on healthcare Trend key pressures pressure from governments and other healthcare payers on medicine prices and sales Global footprint spending and therefore revenue Increasing risk in response to recessionary pressures, reducing our revenue, profits and cash flow Diversified portfolio Quality and execution of If commercialisation of a product does not succeed as anticipated, or its rate of sales Focus on Growth Platforms Loss of exclusivity on key brands Decreasing risk commercial strategies growth is slower than anticipated, there is a risk that we may not be able to fully Accelerate through business development and strategic collaborations increases challenge to achieve our recoup the costs in launching it and alliances shortto medium-term targets Unchanged Supply chain and business execution Strategy key Maintain supply of compliant, Delays or interruptions in supply can lead to recalls, product shortages, regulatory Business continuity and resilience initiatives, disaster and data recovery Supply chain evolving to incorporate quality product action, reputational harm and lost sales and emergency response plans new supply chains and to support Contingency plans including dual sourcing, multiple suppliers and stock levels product launches Achieve scientific leadership Quality management systems Return to growth Information technology and Significant disruption to our IT systems, including breaches of data security or Disaster and data recovery plans Several key transformational data security and privacy failure to integrate new systems, could harm our reputation and materially affect Strategies to secure critical systems and processes programmes involving large IT-related Be a great place to work our financial condition or results of operations.
This could lead to regulatory penalties aspects or non-compliance with laws and regulations Achieve Group financial targets Delivery of gains from Inappropriately managed initiatives could lead to low employee engagement and Appropriate project governance structure and oversight Ongoing restructuring and footprint productivity initiatives reduced productivity: increased absence and attrition levels: or even industrial action.
Regular review of strategic initiatives by appropriate senior executive and Board projects including Cambridge relocation All could adversely impact the value of the initiative level committees in the UK Attract, develop, engage and Failure to attract and retain highly skilled personnel may weaken our succession Evolve our culture Ongoing restructuring and footprint retain talented and capable plans for critical positions in the medium term.
Failure to engage our employees could Focus on simplification projects including Cambridge relocation employees at all levels impact productivity and turnover.
Both could adversely affect the achievement of our Development of our employees in the UK strategic objectives Legal, regulatory and compliance Safety and efficacy of marketed Patient safety is very important to us and we strive to minimise the risks and Robust processes and systems in place to manage patient safety and efficacy trends as products maximise the benefits of our medicines.
Failure to do this could adversely impact well as externally reported risks through regulatory agencies and other parties.
This our reputation, our business and the results of operations, and could lead to product includes a comprehensive pharmacovigilance programme supplemented by close liability claims monitoring and review of adverse events Defence of product, pricing and Investigations or legal proceedings could be costly, divert management attention Combined internal and external counsel management practices litigation or damage our reputation and demand for our products.
Unfavourable resolutions could subject us to criminal liability, fines or penalties, adversely affecting our financial results Meet regulatory and ethical Any failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations may result in civil Strong ethical and compliance culture Increasing government and regulatory expectations on commercial and or criminal legal proceedings and or regulatory sanctions, fines or penalties, Established compliance framework in place including annual Code of Conduct training scrutiny and evolving compliance practices and scientific impacting financial results for all employees challenges as complexity of business Further information on our key exchanges relationships increases risk management and assurance processes can be found in Risk Economic and financial from pages 212 to 226 which also includes a description of Achieve strategic plans and Failure to successfully implement our business strategy may frustrate the Focus on Growth Platforms Increasing requirement to balance longcircumstances under which meet targets and expectations achievement of our financial or other targets or expectations.
This failure could, Focus on innovative science in three therapy areas and short-term investments as we principal and other risks and in turn, damage our reputation and materially affect our business, financial Strengthen pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and collaborations navigate a period of loss of exclusivity uncertainties might arise in the position or results of operations Appropriate capital structure and balance sheet on key brands course of our business and their Portfolio-driven decision making process governed by committees potential impact 22 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Strategic Report Risk category and Principal Risks Context potential impact Management actions Trend versus prior year Link to strategy Product pipeline and intellectual property Delivery of pipeline and new The development of any pharmaceutical product candidate is a complex, risky Prioritise and accelerate our pipeline Increasing importance of pipeline products and lengthy process involving significant financial, R&D and other resources.
Strengthen pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and collaborations contribution given loss of exclusivity A project may fail or be delayed at any stage of the process due to a number Focus on innovative science in three therapy areas on key brands of factors, which could reduce our long-term growth, revenue and profit Meet quality, regulatory and Delays in regulatory reviews and approvals impact patients and market access, Quality management systems incorporating monitoring, training and assurance activities ethical drug approval and and can materially affect our business or financial results Collaborating with regulatory bodies and advocacy groups to monitor and respond to disclosure requirements changes in the regulatory environment including revised process, timelines and guidance Secure and protect product IP Discovering and developing medicines requires a significant investment of resources.
Active management of IP rights For this to be a viable investment, through generation of sufficient revenues, new medicines must be safeguarded from being copied with a reasonable amount of certainty for a reasonable amount of time Commercialisation Externally driven demand, Operating in over 100 countries, we are subject to political, socio-economic and Focus on Growth Platforms Global economic conditions placing pricing, access and competitive financial factors both globally and in individual countries.
There can be additional Demonstrating value of medicines health economics downwards pressure on healthcare pressures pressure from governments and other healthcare payers on medicine prices and sales Global footprint spending and therefore revenue in response to recessionary pressures, reducing our revenue, profits and cash flow Diversified portfolio Quality and execution of If commercialisation of a product does not succeed as anticipated, or its rate of sales Focus on Growth Platforms Loss of exclusivity on key brands commercial strategies growth is slower than anticipated, there is a risk that we may not be able to fully Accelerate through business development and strategic collaborations increases challenge to achieve our recoup the costs in launching it and alliances shortto medium-term targets Supply chain and business execution Maintain supply of compliant, Delays or interruptions in supply can lead to recalls, product shortages, regulatory Business continuity and resilience initiatives, disaster and data recovery Supply chain evolving to incorporate quality product action, reputational harm and lost sales and emergency response plans new supply chains and to support Contingency plans including dual sourcing, multiple suppliers and stock levels product launches Quality management systems Information technology and Significant disruption to our IT systems, including breaches of data security or Disaster and data recovery plans Several key transformational data security and privacy failure to integrate new systems, could harm our reputation and materially affect Strategies to secure critical systems and processes programmes involving large IT-related our financial condition or results of operations.
This could lead to regulatory penalties aspects or non-compliance with laws and regulations Delivery of gains from Inappropriately managed initiatives could lead to low employee engagement and Appropriate project governance structure and oversight Ongoing restructuring and footprint productivity initiatives reduced productivity: increased absence and attrition levels: or even industrial action.
Unfavourable resolutions could subject us to criminal liability, fines or penalties, adversely affecting our financial results Meet regulatory and ethical Any failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations may result in civil Strong ethical and compliance culture Increasing government and regulatory expectations on commercial and or criminal legal proceedings and or regulatory sanctions, fines or penalties, Established compliance framework in place including annual Code of Conduct training scrutiny and evolving compliance practices and scientific impacting financial results for all employees challenges as complexity of business exchanges relationships increases Economic and financial Achieve strategic plans and Failure to successfully implement our business strategy may frustrate the Focus on Growth Platforms Increasing requirement to balance longmeet targets and expectations achievement of our financial or other targets or expectations.
This failure could, Focus on innovative science in three therapy areas and short-term investments as we in turn, damage our reputation and materially affect our business, financial Strengthen pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and collaborations navigate a period of loss of exclusivity position or results of operations Appropriate capital structure and balance sheet on key brands Portfolio-driven decision making process governed by committees AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 23
