Strategic report | Business strategies | 10 BUSINESS STRATEGIES PROVIDING OUR BUSINESS LEADERS WITH THE FREEDOM AND DECISION-MAKING AUTHORITY TO PURSUE OPPORTUNITIES WITH ENTREPRENEURIAL FLAIR Five business segments that bring together common industry expertise, operational capability and market intelligence.
GROCERY SUGAR An enviable portfolio of leading A world-leading sugar business food brands focused on excellence Each of our Grocery businesses pursues AB Sugar is an advanced manufacturer an independent strategy, appropriate to and has a simple vision to be a its particular market position and stage world-leading sugar business.
As examples, Jordans remain cost competitive whilst exceeding Ryvita is focused on developing its brands the demanding and diverse needs of our in its core markets, whilst AB World Foods customers, and we must grow sustainably.
has had considerable success extending AB Sugar aims to achieve growth through its reach into new and emerging markets.
excellence in agriculture and operations All of these businesses are committed including the application of new to the consistent development of their technologies and the further expansion brands, and consumer research is of co-product opportunities.
We seek conducted locally and internationally to to ensure cost leadership in our various establish consumer needs and ensure regional supply chains through: appropriately targeted investment.
Our engagement with growers to ensure production facilities are well maintained optimum beet cane growing whilst and we take a long-term approach to providing fair returns to growers: continual capital investment, recognising the merits improvement in operating performance of building for the future.
Acquisitions by maintaining a well-invested asset base: are undertaken when opportunities are and by seeking out best practice to optimise presented to either strengthen or product quality and the efficiency of the complement existing businesses.
Pages 12 to 19 Operating review Pages 20 to 27 Operating review Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Business strategies | 11 AGRICULTURE INGREDIENTS RETAIL Driving value for businesses along Technology and innovation Up-to-the-minute fashion the food supply chain to meet customer needs at amazing prices As a unique community of leading Our Ingredients businesses are dedicated Primark offers great value for money agricultural businesses, AB Agris goal to understanding the key requirements of which it achieves by: incurring no isto improve the sustainability of food their customers and their end-use markets advertising costs, instead relying on its production.
We work in partnership with in order to ensure a relevant supply customers doing the talking about its customers to continually explore new of ingredients, systems, products and products: buying in vast quantities and ways of making agri-food production technology that create value.
They develop passing on the cost savings to customers: more efficient.
AB Agri operates through partnership relationships with customers keeping overheads to a minimum but individual, entrepreneurial businesses to achieve a genuine understanding of investing in state-of-the-art logistics empowered to grow their interests their products, formulations, equipment to enable its stores to replenish stocks independently, and through a strong and processes and the market environment quickly: and by not compromising network of contacts across the entire in which the products are sold.
They its high-quality standards, rigorously foodsupply chain.
aim to grow by providing outstanding testing products at the various stages customer service backed by a high level of production.
Organic growth is achieved through of investment in technology, innovation, innovative product development and In the world of fashion it is critical that research and development.
through extending the businesss once a style is seen on the fashion show already broad geographic reach into new Each business has its own business catwalk it reaches the stores as quickly as territories.
Using the diverse breadth model that determines an appropriate possible.
It can take as little as six weeks ofproducts, services and people within balance of emphasis across the full from initial design concept to being the AB Agri community, the business range of potential sources of competitive available on shelf, and merchandise is develops bespoke solutions tailored to advantage: innovative and distinctive sourced from all corners of the globe.
Extending this into products: an efficient and proprietary set Although Primark does not own the new geographies and into new areas that of production processes: and compelling companies or factories that produce are adjacent to its corecapabilities affords customer propositions comprising a blend its merchandise, it recognises its further growth opportunities.
AB Agri will of product performance and customer responsibility to the workers in those continue its successful strategy of seeking specific services.
factories, and to its customers, to ensure to make complementary acquisitions to that its products are made in good Pages 32 to 35 Operating review strengthen its portfolio of businesses and working conditions.
It will also continue Pages 36 to 45 Operating review to collaborate with other businesses in theABF group to harness new contacts and technologies.
Pages 28 to 31 Operating review Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
