Strategic report | Operating review | Retail | 36 RETAIL GOING FROM STRENGTH TO STRENGTH Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Operating review | Retail | 37 About Retail: Primark is one of the largest clothing retailers in Europe.
It has 293 stores and employs 61,000 people in the UK, Republic of Ireland, Spain, Portugal, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Austria, France and the USA.
It was founded in June 1969 in the Republic of Ireland where it continues to trade as Penneys.
Primarks organic growth has been achieved through a combination of like-for-like growth and increasing selling space.
The like-for-like growth reflects investment in buying, merchandising and our success in constantly refreshing the stores to ensure they remain exciting places to shop.
The increase in selling space has been driven by capital investment in freehold and leasehold properties as they have become available, first on the high streets of the UK and Ireland, and more recently on the high streets and in the shopping centres ofcontinental Europe and the USA.
2006 saw Primarks first foray into continental Europe with the opening of a store in Madrid and it now operates from over 11 million sq ft of selling space across ten countries.
With a unique combination of the latest fashion and lean operations, Primark offers customers quality, up-to-the-minute designs at value-for-money prices.
Buying and merchandising teams travel internationally to source and buy garments that best reflect each seasons key fashion trends.
Primarks range includes womenswear, lingerie, childrenswear, menswear, footwear, accessories, hosiery and homeware.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report | Operating review | Retail | 38 CEST MAGNIFIQUE!
Primarks star performer in 2015 was its business in France where we have five stores, all of which opened in 2013 14.
Collectively these stores marked Primarks most successful entry into a new country and now that we have been open more than a year, we continue to deliver very strong growth.
The French stores incorporate a number of new initiatives, for example: streamlining our till procedures: speeding up check out times: enhancing the fitting room experience: improving store navigation: widening the aisles: and delivering a more consistent in-store experience especially in areas where customers require assistance.
With exciting new stores scheduled to open in Lyon, Nice and Toulon in the coming financial year, and several more stores in the pipeline for the next two years, the future of our French business is bright.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Operating review | Retail | 39 RETAIL PRIMARK IS ONE OF THE LARGEST CLOTHING RETAILERS IN EUROPE Sales at Primark were 13% ahead of on purchases for the new autumn winter Revenue last year at constant currency mainly range.
Primark sources much of its driven by an increase in retail selling merchandise in US dollars and its strength, 5,347m space of 9%.
Like-for-like sales were particularly against the euro, will have 1% ahead of last year reflecting a a further adverse effect on margins in the 2014: 4,950m strong performance across a number new financial year, especially in the first Actual fx: 8% of countries.
Very high sales densities half.
However, more than half of the Constant fx: 13% were achieved by stores opened in potential impact has been successfully the last 18 months and especially by mitigated by our buying teams as they Adjusted operating profit our stores in France, which has been have placed orders for next year.
our most successful new market During this financial year we opened entry to date.
673m almost one million sq ft of selling space Like-for-like sales in the early part of bringing the total estate to 293 stores 2014: 662m the financial year were impacted by the and 11.2 million sq ft at the financial Actual fx: 2% unseasonably warm autumn followed year end.
20 new stores were opened Constant fx: 5% by strong trading across the important including relocations to larger premises Christmas period.
Spring trading was in Northampton and Murcia, Spain.
Adjusted operating held back by cool weather followed We closed our store on The Headrow in profit margin by strong trading in the fourth quarter Leeds, following the success of the much of our financial year.
Spain, Portugal and bigger store opened in the nearby Trinity Ireland all performed very well throughout shopping centre in December 2013, and 12.6% the year and the UK delivered a positive we also closed two very small stores, 2014: 13.4% like-for-like performance.
The success one in Margate and another in Naas in in these markets was partly offset by the the Republic of Ireland, bringing the net Return on average impact that the opening of new stores additions in the year to 15.
These new capital employed in the Netherlands and Germany had on stores included 77,000 sq ft at Downtown existing stores in that region, albeit that Crossing in Boston, our first store in the 31.1% this effect reduced in the fourth quarter.
US, which opened on 10 September.
As new stores opened, sales in existing Significant new space was added in the 2014: 33.2% stores declined as customers chose to Netherlands, Belgium and in Germany shop more locally rather than travelling where an additional six stores were the long distances that we saw in the opened, the largest of which were early days of trading in these countries.
Dresden, Braunschweig, Krefeld and Weiterstadt.
Our very successful trading in 2013 14 led to an unusually low level of markdown in that year.
As anticipated, markdowns returned to more normal levels this year with a consequent reduction in operating margin.
To a lesser extent, margin was also reduced by the effect of the stronger US dollar, at the end of the financial year, Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report | Operating review | Retail | 40 RETAIL CREATING A BUZZ IN STORE...
The opening of a new Primark store is always an exciting occasion, particularly for our customers but also for our staff.
The first days trading at our Berlin store, seen here, was no exception.
But the excitement isnt confined to the opening day.
In France, customers have taken Primark to their hearts and sales densities there have outstripped the rest of the group.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Operating review | Retail | 41... AND ONLINE Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report | Operating review | Retail | 42 RETAIL Store expansion by region Year ended 12 September 2015 Year ended 13 September 2014 DELIVERING # of stores sq ft 000 # of stores sq ft 000 UK 164 6,083 164 6,039 GREAT CONTENT Spain 40 1,369 40 1,338 Germany 19 1,194 13 829 FOR OUR DIGITAL Republic of Ireland 36 1,028 37 1,035 Netherlands 12 547 8 346 COMMUNITY Portugal 8 267 7 232 France 5 231 5 231 Austria 4 193 3 142 Belgium 4 166 1 34 USA 1 77 293 11,155 278 10,226 We have an extensive pipeline of Spain was doubled in size at the new stores to be opened over the next beginning of this year, the facility at few years with some 1.5 million sq ft Mnchengladbach in Germany was scheduled for the new financial year, increased by 60% and a new warehouse the major elements of which will be in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania was fully in the north-east US, the UK, Spain and operational in time for the opening of the France.
In the US we will add seven Boston store.
In September, we opened stores, totalling 0.4 million sq ft, most a new warehouse in Bor, on the western of which will open later next year: Spain border of the Czech Republic.
Next year includes a flagship, 133,000 sq ft, store will see the relocation of our Magna Park, on Gran Via in central Madrid which UK warehouse to a larger site at Islip in opened this October: and, following our Northamptonshire, close to our existing success in France this year, we will open warehouse at Thrapston.
This will in Lyon, Nice and Toulon.
We will also give rise to some dual running costs open our first Italian store at a new for a short period.
Another distribution shopping centre in Arese, north-west centre is currently under construction of Milan, early next summer.
at Roosendaal in the Netherlands which will come on stream late next We have made a significant investment year.
Located in one of Europes prime in our warehouse infrastructure and logistics hubs between Rotterdam further expenditure is planned for next and Antwerp, this facility will service year.
In total we will have doubled our our expanding network of stores in warehouse capacity since 2013.
existing warehouse in Torija in northern NEW STORE OPENINGS Germany Portugal The Netherlands Relocations or closures Braunschweig Porto Arnhem Spain Dresden Rotterdam Murcia UK Kaiserslautern The Hague Omagh UK Krefeld Venlo Walsall Leeds closed Stuttgart USA Margate closed Weiterstadt Belgium Boston Northampton Brussels Austria Ghent Republic of Ireland Graz Hasselt Naas closed Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Operating review | Retail | 43 Our social media focus has been to Primark.
com has been redesigned to Our very own social platform PRIMANIA grow our existing digital communities meet the expectations of our mobile-savvy encourages browsers and fans to post their and use them to promote exciting customers.
The new site, delivered in favourite Primark looks and be awarded news about fashion collections, new six languages, showcases the majority PRIMARKS for the best outfits.
store openings and job opportunities of our products and demonstrates our Social media plays an important part in the in new markets.
We have millions price leadership in every country in which way our customers live their lives and is an of followers across key social media we operate.
Additionally, customers can increasingly effective way of broadcasting channels such as Facebook and immerse themselves in a flavour of the the excitement of the Primark brand far Instagram, and over one million Primark brand and offering.
A store locator and wide, thereby enticing more customers people, and growing, visiting enables customers to find their nearest into our stores more frequently.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report | Operating review | Retail | 44 RETAIL New category product developments Sportswear: The Athleisure have helped drive our sales in the past Athletic Leisurewear trend and the year with the following departments growth of the performance apparel at the forefront of our fashion offering: market can be attributed to emerging changes in consumer lifestyle.
Home has become more contemporary Sportswear Activewear has now with the introduction of Home Accessory become an everyday must-have fashion products including scented candles, item as consumers pay increasing novelty LED lighting and decorative wall attention to personal health and items.
This range followed the seasonal fitness.
Innovative and functional fabric colour palettes of our fashion categories, technologies, combined with on trend creating a more cohesive offering.
apparel and accessories, have seen this Improved visual merchandising helped range go from strength to strength.
to create a more inspiring in-store environment, helping our customers Licensing: Many of the top catwalk to shop this area.
shows have adapted this trend featuring key Disney or Warner Bros Accessories are becoming more characters.
Primark delivered a strong of a focal point and are leading the way product offering across Womenswear, in completing many of our key looks.
Menswear and Childrenswear in Some great examples from the Autumn categories from fashion t-shirts to Winter 15 season include oversized tartan socks and nightwear which include scarves, ponchos, large bags and Fedora new and topical releases such as hats.
Our Accessories range has developed Star Wars.
With strongly executed beyond Womenswear and we have in-store campaigns like Universals seen strong demand from Childrenswear Minions achieving widespread customers for mini-me products in a lot success, we see Licensing continuing of these categories.
Menswear too has to be a strong seller across the group.
seen strong demand for the seasons key accessories which, this year, also include Health & Beauty is an area of huge watches, which have launched with a potential, having already experienced A BROADER, promising commercial response at very unprecedented growth since its launch.
The PS beauty brand is now available in all Primark stores.
The range continues Accessories have also expanded to create to grow, including everything from MORE a new mini-department, aptly named fragrances, self-tan and skincare to all Primarket which had an extremely of the standard make-up categories, encouraging launch this year focusing which drive high volume demand.
primarily on travel and technology DIVERSE accessories as well as stationery.
OFFERING Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Operating review | Retail | 45 We strive to provide an outstanding experience in every new store we openthrough meticulous attention ENHANCING to the design process.
Over the last few years we have made significant THE IN-STORE advances in window presentation, visual merchandising, digital communication, and the look and feel of each department EXPERIENCE notably the introduction of new denim, footwear and beauty departments.
We have also sought to provide an enhanced customer experience in a number of key stores in prime locations such as Berlin Alexanderplatz and Northampton.
Store environment plays an Berlin Alexanderplatz Situated on one of Berlins most historic important part in inspiring and iconic squares, Primark occupies our customers and engaging premises of 56,000 sq ft.
The brutalist concrete shell provided a backdrop for them in the fun and fashion us to create a store that reflects Berlins culture and feel.
Concrete has been left of Primark.
exposed, lifts climb through the space in open steel shafts and a local graffiti artist decorated the store with floor directories and local narrative.
An outstanding digital experience is delivered by a three-dimensional projected map wall that rises up three floors through the escalator atrium.
Overall the store gives our customers the excitement of shopping in a contemporary fashionable environment while enjoying a real Berlin experience.
Northampton Primark continuously reviews expansion and relocation opportunities in its core markets and identified an opportunity to relocate its small 10,300 sq ft store in Northampton into a new, purpose-built, location which, at 34,300 sq ft, was more appropriate for the market opportunity.
Ideally located in the redeveloped Grosvenor shopping centre, Primark opened for trade in December 2014 and, trading from two floors, immediately enjoyed significantly enhanced trading.
The store was fitted out in the latest store design including improved visual merchandising and windows, light boxes, LED screens, enhanced lighting and a new denim and footwear concept.
A relocated store provides an excellent opportunity not only to provide many new jobs but also to motivate the staff who relocate from the old store by providing them with a new working environment, not just on the shop floor, but also back of house.
Northampton was fitted with a new, open plan, fun and fashionable environment in which staff can relax.
The new back of house concept has been incorporated into all new and refitted stores since the end of 2013 and has had a direct positive impact on the morale of our people.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
