Governance | Directors report | 90 DIRECTORS REPORT Introduction be appointed as a director where details Employees The directors of Associated British Foods of that director have been provided at least During the year under review, the group plc the Company present their report seven and not more than 35 days prior employed an average of 124,036 people for the 52 weeks ended 12 September to the relevant meeting by at least two worldwide 2014: 118,209 of whom 2015, in accordance with section 415 members of the Company.
The Articles 42,416 were employed in the UK.
The UKLAs require directors to retire and submit groups business priority is to safeguard Disclosure and Transparency Rules and themselves for election at the first AGM the wellbeing, development and safety Listing Rules also require the Company to following appointment and all directors of its employees and those who work make certain disclosures, some of which who held office at the time of the two with it.
It also wants employees to have have been included in other appropriate preceding AGMs and, in any event, not opportunities to grow and progress as part sections of the annual report and accounts.
less than one-third of the relevant directors of an enjoyable career.
While the groups excluding those directors who retire other approach to human resource management The information set out on page93, and than by rotation, to submit themselves for is decentralised, with flexibility given to the following cross-referenced material, re-election.
The Articles notwithstanding, each of the businesses, as a group it is incorporated into this Directors report: all directors, with the exception of Lord Jay, abides by the following principles: likely future developments in the will stand for election or re-election at the equal opportunities the group groups business pages 12 to 45 : AGM this year in compliance with the is committed to offering equal UK Corporate Governance Code.
Details greenhouse gas emissions opportunities in recruitment, training, of unexpired terms of directors service page 50 : and career development and promotion to all contracts are set out in the Remuneration people, including those with disabilities, the board of directors and the Corporate report on page 88. having regard for their particular governance report pages 60 to 73.
Power of directors aptitudes and abilities.
As a matter of Results and dividends The directors are responsible for managing policy, full and fair consideration is given The consolidated income statement is the business of the Company and may to applicants with disabilities and every on page 96.
Profit for the financial year exercise all the powers of the Company effort is made to give employees who attributable to equity shareholders subject to the provisions of relevant become disabled whilst employed by amounted to 532m.
statutes, to any directions given by special the group an opportunity for retraining resolution and to the Companys Articles.
and for continuation in employment.
The directors recommend a final dividend The Articles, for example, contain specific It is group policy that the training, career of 25.0p per ordinary share to be paid, provisions and restrictions concerning development and promotion of disabled subject to shareholder approval, on the Companys power to borrow money.
persons should, as far as possible, be 8 January 2016.
Together with the interim As indicated above, powers relating to the the same as that of other employees: dividend of 10.0p per share paid on 3 July issuing of shares are also included in the 2015, this amounts to 35.0p for the year.
health and safety health and safety Articles and such authorities are renewed Dividends are detailed on page 112. are considered as equal in importance by shareholders at the AGM each year.
to that of any other function of the Directors Directors indemnities group and its business objectives and The names of the persons who were Three directors of operating subsidiaries the group is committed to providing directors of the Company during the benefited from qualifying third-party a safe and healthy workplace to protect financial year and as at 3 November 2015 indemnity provisions provided by the all employees, visitors and the public appear on pages 60 and 61.
All the Companys wholly owned subsidiary, from foreseeable work hazards.
The directors, with the exception of Lord Jay ABF Investments plc, during the financial health and safety policy is available who is retiring as a non-executive director year and at the date of this report.
on the Companys website at with effect from 30 November 2015, www.
co. uk: are standing for election or re-election The directors of a subsidiary company that at this years AGM in December.
acts as trustee of a group pension scheme harassment sexual, mental or benefited from a qualifying pension physical harassment in the workplace Appointment of directors scheme indemnity provision during the will not be tolerated.
It is expected The Companys articles of association financial year and at the date of this report.
that incidents of harassment are the Articles give the directors power reported to the appropriate human to appoint and replace directors.
Under Directors share interests resources director: the terms of reference of the Nomination Details regarding the share interests of the committee, any appointment must directors and their connected persons in human rights the group provides the share capital of the Company, including be recommended by the Nomination opportunities that promote human any interests under the long-term incentive committee for approval by the board rights and dignity every day through plan, are set out in the Remuneration of directors.
A person who is not the employment created, both directly report on pages 85 and 86. recommended by the directors may only and indirectly in its global supply chains and through the positive Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Governance | Directors report | 91 contribution its products make to The board confirms that, in accordance Information required Location in annual report peoples lives.
Ongoing engagement with the Listing Rules, on 14 November Dividend waiver Note 22 on page 128 and collaboration with a broad range of 2014 the Company entered into a Board statement interested and concerned stakeholder relationship agreement with Wittington on relationship groups is valued and the group is active and the trustees of the Foundation agreement with Directors report in its collaborative approach, seeking controlling shareholder on page 91 containing the required undertakings to remain sensitive to the risks of the Relationship Agreement.
Under adverse human rights impacts the terms of the Relationship Agreement, Relationship agreement with resulting from its products, services Wittington has agreed to procure controlling shareholders and operations.
Further details on compliance with the undertakings by Any person who exercises or controls, the groups approach to human rights the other individuals who are treated as on their own or together with any person can be found in the 2015 Corporate controlling shareholders the Non-Signing with whom they are acting in concert, Responsibility Update which is Controlling Shareholders.
The board 30% or more of the votes able to be available on the Companys website confirms that, during the period under cast at general meetings of a company is at www.
co. uk responsibility: review, that is, from entry into the known as a controlling shareholder under Relationship Agreement on 14 November the Listing Rules.
The Listing Rules require communication employees and their 2014 until 12 September 2015: companies with controlling shareholders representatives are briefed and consulted to enter into an agreement which is on all relevant matters on a regular basis the Company has complied with the intended to ensure that the controlling in order to take their views into account independence provisions included shareholders comply with certain with regard to decision-making and in the Relationship Agreement: independence provisions in the Listing to achieve a common awareness of so far as the Company is aware, the Rules and which must contain all the financial and economic factors independence provisions included undertakings that: affecting the performance of the group.
in the Relationship Agreement have Information relevant to the employees transactions and arrangements with the been complied with by the controlling will be provided systematically to controlling shareholder and or any of its shareholders and their associates: and employees: and associates will be conducted at arms so far as the Company is aware, the length and on normal commercial terms: security the security of our staff and procurement obligation included in customers is paramount and the group neither the controlling shareholder nor the Relationship Agreement as regards will at all times take the necessary any of its associates will take any action compliance with the independence steps to minimise risks to their safety.
that would have the effect of preventing provisions by the Non-Signing Controlling the listed company from complying Employees are provided with information Shareholders and their associates, has with its obligations under the Listing on the performance of their local business been complied with by Wittington.
Rules: and and their involvement is encouraged Major interests in shares in a variety of ways, such as through neither the controlling shareholder As at 28 October 2015, the Company engagement surveys, business forums, nor any of its associates will propose had received formal notification, under the executive leadership programmes and or procure the proposal of a shareholder Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the management presentations.
resolution which is intended or appears following material interest in its shares: to be intended to circumvent the proper The group encourages an open culture application of the Listing Rules.
in all its dealings between employees and % of Number issued Date of people with whom it comes into contact.
Wittington Investments Limited of ordinary share notification Effective and honest communication is Shareholder shares capital of interest Wittington and, through their control of essential if malpractice and wrongdoing The Capital Wittington, the trustees of the Garfield are to be dealt with effectively.
The Group 12 Weston Foundation the Foundation are groups whistleblowing procedure sets Companies, December controlling shareholders of the Company.
out guidelines for individuals who feel they Inc. 63,562,102 8.03 2014 Certain other individuals, including certain need to raise certain issues in confidence members of the Weston family who hold with the Company or their own business.
shares in the Company and including Share capital Every effort is made to protect the two of the Companys directors, George Details of the Companys share capital confidentiality of those who raise Weston and Emma Adamo are, under the and the rights attached to the Companys concerns, and employees may come Listing Rules, treated as acting in concert shares are set out in note 20 on page 125. forward without fear for their position.
with Wittington and the trustees of the The Company has one class of share 15 Foundation and are therefore also treated 22 Disclosures required under capital: ordinary shares of 5 p. as controlling shareholders of the Listing Rule 9.8.
4R The rights and obligations attaching to Company.
Wittington, the trustees of the The following table is included to meet these shares are governed by UK law Foundation and these individuals together the requirements of Listing Rule section and the Companys Articles.
comprise the controlling shareholders of 9.8.
The information required to No shareholder holds securities carrying the Company and, at 12 September 2015, be disclosed by that section, where special rights with regard to the control have a combined interest in approximately applicable to the Company, can be located of the Company.
There are no restrictions 59.06% of the Companys voting rights.
in the annual report and accounts at the on voting rights.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance | Directors report | 92 DIRECTORS REPORT There are no restrictions on the transfer withdrawal.
The most significant of Disclosure of information to auditors of the ordinary shares other than the these are the 1.2bn syndicated loan Each of the directors who held office at standard restrictions for a UK-quoted facility signed on 15 July 2014 which the date of approval of this Directors company set out in article 32 of the was undrawn at the year end: and report confirm that: Companys Articles.
in addition to these bank facilities, the so far as he she is aware, there is no Authority to issue shares Company has in issue US$680m of relevant audit information of which the At the AGM held on 5 December 2014, private placement notes to institutional Companys auditors are unaware: and authority was given to the directors to investors.
In the event of a change each director has taken all the allot unissued relevant securities in the in ownership of the Company, the reasonable steps that he she ought Company up to a maximum of an amount Company is obliged to make an offer to have taken as a director to make equivalent to two-thirds of the shares in of immediate repayment to the himself herself aware of any relevant issue of which one-third must be offered remaining note holders.
audit information and to establish that by way of rights issue.
This authority There are no agreements between the the Companys auditors are aware expires on the date of this years AGM Company and its directors or employees of that information.
No such providing for compensation for loss of shares have been issued.
The directors For these purposes, relevant audit office or employment that occurs as propose to renew this authority at the information means information needed a result of a takeover bid.
2015 AGM for the forthcoming year.
by the Companys auditors in connection Political donations with the preparation of their report on A further special resolution passed at that The Company did not make any political pages 94 and 95. meeting granted authority to the directors donations during the year.
to allot equity securities in the Company Auditors for cash, without regard to the pre-emption Financial risk management Ernst & Young LLP have agreed to be provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Details of the groups use of financial appointed as auditors of the Company This authority also expires on the date instruments, together with information with effect from 4 November 2015 in of the 2015 AGM and the directors will on our risk objectives and policies and our place of KPMG LLP.
Resolutions for the seek to renew this authority for the exposure to price, credit, liquidity, cash appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as forthcoming year.
flow and interest rate risks, can be found auditors of the Company and to authorise in note 24 on pages 129 to 138. the Audit committee to determine their Authority to purchase own shares remuneration are to be proposed at the The Companies Act 2006 empowers Research and development forthcoming AGM.
the Company to purchase its own shares Innovative use of existing and emerging subject to the necessary shareholder technologies will continue to be crucial Annual general meeting approval.
The Company has no existing to the successful development of new The AGM will be held on 4 December authority to purchase its own shares.
products and processes for the group.
2015 at 11.00 am at Congress Centre, 28Great Russell Street, London Amendment to Companys articles The Company has a major technical WC1B 3LS.
Details of the resolutions of association centre in the UK at the Allied Technical to be proposed are set out in a separate Any amendments to the Articles may be Centre.
Facilities also exist at ACH Notice of meeting which accompanies made in accordance with the provisions Food Companies in the US, Weston this report for shareholders receiving of the Companies Act 2006 by way of Technologies and AB Mauri in Australia hard copy documents and which is special resolution of the shareholders.
and the Netherlands, and AB Enzymes available at www.
co. uk for those in Germany.
These centres support Significant agreements change who have elected to receive documents the technical resources of the trading of control electronically.
At the 2015 AGM, all voting divisions in the search for new technology The group has contractual arrangements will be by poll using electronic handsets.
and in monitoring and maintaining high with many parties including directors, standards of quality and food safety.
On behalf of the board employees, customers, suppliers and banking groups.
The following Branches Paul Lister arrangements are considered to be The Company, through various subsidiaries, Company Secretary significant in terms of their potential has established branches in a number 3 November 2015 impact on the business of the group as of different countries in which the Associated British Foods plc a whole and could alter or terminate group operates.
Registered office: on a change of control of the Company: Post-balance sheet events Weston Centre the group has a number of borrowing There have been no significant events 10 Grosvenor Street facilities provided by various banking affecting the group from 12 September London W1K 4QY groups.
These facility agreements 2015 to the date of this report Company No.
293262 generally include change of control requiring disclosure.
provisions which, in the event of a change in ownership of the Company, could result in their renegotiation or Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
