Strategic Report Resources Review Employees To achieve our strategic priorities, we continue to acquire, We value the talents and skills of our 61,500 employees in more than 100 retain and develop a talented and diverse workforce countries.
Our people strategy, which united in the pursuit of our Purpose and Values.
supports our strategic priority of being a great place to work, is built around four key pillars: Build and develop organisations and capabilities: Develop a strong and diverse pipeline of leaders: Drive a vibrant, high-performing culture: and Generate Overview a passion for people development.
Hired 11,700 permanent employees to help us achieve our strategic priorities Build and develop organisations Continued to offer customised leadership programmes through MIT and capabilities Established a global personal development campaign and defined associated targets During 2015, we hired 11,700 permanent Increased the diversity of our leadership employees.
Additional employees joined Continued the STAR programme to teach emerging talent about enterprise leadership us through acquisitions, most notably the Continued to simplify our organisational structure transition of 560 BMS employees at our Mount Vernon, Indiana US manufacturing site.
We are committed to hiring and promoting talent ethically and in compliance with applicable laws.
Our policies and procedures are designed to help protect Gender diversity against discrimination on any grounds including disability and cover recruitment Directors of the Board of Directors and selection, performance management, Companys of the Company 12 career development and promotion, subsidiaries 360 transfer, training, retraining including retraining, if needed, for people who have Male 67% Male 72.1% Female 33% Female 27.9% become disabled and reward.
To help deliver our strategic priorities, we are identifying and recruiting emerging talent, as well as investing in internships and recruitment opportunities globally.
SET 13 AstraZeneca For example, we conduct a global employees 61,500 programme to hire recent graduates for our procurement, quality, engineering, IT and supply chain functions.
We also Male 69% Male 50.2% Female 31% Female 49.8% have a graduate programme for IMED, which complements our established IMED Post Doctorate Programme for researcher recruitment.
For the purposes of section 414C 8 c ii of the Companies Act 2006, Senior Managers are the SET, the directors of all of the subsidiaries of the Company and other individuals holding named positions within those subsidiaries.
52 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Strategic Report A global business 14,400 20,100 1,400 3,000 employees in employees in Europe employees in employees North America excluding Russia Russia in Japan 23% 33% 2% 5% 61,500 11,000 employees by geographical area employees in China 18% 6,500 3,400 Co-locating around three strategic R&D centres 1,700 employees in employees in Cambridge, UK 1,600 employees employees in Asia Pacific Central and Gaithersburg, Maryland US 2,900 employees Middle East excluding China, South America Gothenburg, Sweden 2,200 employees and Africa Japan and Russia 6% 3% 10% Hiring over recent years means that As shown in the gender diversity figure to offer leaders at all levels of the employees with less than two years service on the previous page, women comprise organisation appropriate, globally consistent now represent 36% of our global workforce 49.8% of our global workforce.
There are leadership development opportunities.
This provides a currently four women on our Board 33%.
greater balance in terms of refreshing talent Below Board level, the representation of In 2015, a further 270 people participated and retaining organisational experience.
women in senior roles ie roles at Career in our various talent development The composition of our international Level F or above which constitute the six programmes.
We continued to offer the workforce has also changed with our highest bands of our employee population STAR programme which teaches our business focus.
This can be seen in the increased to 42.0% in 2015, which emerging talent about enterprise leadership Sales and Marketing figures below, which exceeded our Scorecard target of 41% and provides an opportunity to discuss shows an increasing concentration in for this measure.
We continue to hire AstraZeneca case studies and interact with Emerging Markets.
high-quality leaders: 13% of the senior leaders.
We also continued our approximately 130 leadership roles that Insight Exchange programme to help foster Voluntary employee turnover increased report to our senior leadership team joined diversity and inclusion, and strengthen our marginally to 9.2% in 2015 from 8.8% in AstraZeneca in 2015.
To ensure our senior pool of emerging talent.
However, the voluntary employee leadership reflects our diverse geographic turnover rate among our high performers in footprint, we track the country of origin of Our efforts received external recognition 2015 reduced to 4.0% from 6.8% in 2014. senior leaders and reflect this in our diversity in 2015.
AstraZeneca was ranked second We seek to reduce regretted turnover targets.
In 2015, 15.6% of leadership roles among 400 businesses in Bloombergs through more effective hiring and induction, that report to our senior leadership team inaugural survey of The best place to work high-level reviews of resignations, risk have a country of origin that is an Emerging in corporate Britain, while the National assessments and retention plans.
Market or Japan an increase from 5% in Association for Female Executives ranked 2012, which exceeded our Scorecard target us as one of its 50 leading companies for Develop a strong and diverse pipeline of 13% for this measure.
We also featured of leaders among Working Mother Magazines 100 To foster innovation, we seek to harness To maximise our employees potential, we Best Companies.
different perspectives, talents and ideas as use leadership programmes, both online well as ensuring that our employees reflect and instructor-led, to help build the right Drive a vibrant, high-performing the diversity of the communities in which capabilities and culture.
continued our programme for emerging Continuing our emphasis on high leaders with the Massachusetts Institute performance, in 2015 we implemented During 2015, we reviewed our talent of Technology MIT.
These programmes a single global performance management management and succession planning aim to foster openness, inclusivity and framework and approach.
We require every processes, and implemented a revised innovation and are a part of a wider effort employee to have been set high-quality approach which is focused on ensuring we objectives, aligned to our strategy, which Sales and Marketing have robust succession plans in place for we monitor closely.
Managers are workforce our most business critical roles.
Embedded accountable for working with their composition % in this new approach is a focus on both employees to develop individual and team external sourcing and the development of Emerging performance targets, and for ensuring Markets 56% our people to ensure that we have the right employees understand how they contribute Established capabilities and leaders in place to deliver to our overall business objectives.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 53 Strategic Report Resources Review Employees continued We continue to track our progress with on the living wage, data management and these initiatives through our sample recruitment and the results have remained employee survey which shows an eight positive.
Where a gap to ILO minimum percentage point increase in the view that standards was identified, we are putting AstraZeneca has been successful at in place local plans to close those gaps.
eliminating obstacles to efficiency when As well as measuring living wage progress compared to FOCUS 2014. internally, we also conducted an independent external review so that we can Generate a passion for people assess developments in this area to inform Values in action: development our approach better.
As a first step we are We are entrepreneurial We endeavour to ensure that all our seeking accreditation from the Living Wage People development is a key global priority.
employees use their talents and abilities to Foundation in the UK and will treat this as In order to encourage a growth mindset the full and are provided opportunities for an experience to be evaluated alongside all and connect individual development to development.
In addition to simplification, other associated evidence in respect of achievement of our strategic ambitions, another area of improvement highlighted by seeking a global solution, for example, we held People Development Week our FOCUS 2014 employee survey was monitoring impact on our cost base.
As a result, we are participated in more than 70 face-to-face strengthening our efforts in this area.
Managing change events held in more than 50 countries.
In 2015, for example, we conducted over As outlined in Strategic priorities on page 16 Engagement by staff was demonstrated 70 Development Week events covering and 17, in 2013, we announced plans to by 6,600 comments on people development almost all our sites globally.
invest in three strategic R&D centres which in our sample employee surveys.
are shown on the map on the previous We encourage employees to take page.
This affected employees in the US ownership of their own development and and the UK.
We encouraged and supported Equally important are our performanceencourage leaders to spend time discussing employees to relocate and have made good related bonus and incentive plans.
For example, 1,600 employees encourage participation in various employee now work in Cambridge and, of these share plans, some of which are described The ability of managers and leaders to employees, 500 have relocated from other in the Directors Remuneration Report from develop their employees is critical, and is sites in the UK.
In addition to the 410 page 103, and also in Note 26 to the measured through our sample employee employees hired in 2015, over the next two Financial Statements, from page 182. surveys.
The scores for the survey questions years we expect to hire approximately a pertaining to people development now further 600 new employees to Cambridge.
We regularly conduct employee surveys contribute to our global Scorecard objective We are using interim infrastructure in and and an area of improvement highlighted of being a great place to work.
around Cambridge to house these by our FOCUS 2014 employee survey was employees until our new site is ready.
For the need to further simplify our organisation, Human rights employees who do not accept offers to and we use the scores for survey questions We are committed to respecting and relocate to Cambridge we provide career relating to simplification as a measure of promoting international human rights not support, outplacement support and our success towards achieving our only in our own operations, but also in our competitive severance packages.
wider spheres of influence such as our third party providers.
To that end, we integrate For more information on our restructuring programme, please see Financial Review from Across the Group, individuals, teams and human rights considerations into our page 68 departments are encouraged to identify policies, processes and practices.
opportunities for simplification by removing obstacles to efficiency and improving the We support the principles set out in the Employee relations way in which they work.
In 2015, these United Nations Universal Declaration of We seek to follow a global approach to efforts were highlighted and shared in a Human Rights and the International Labour employee relations guided by global virtual Simplification Week using our new Organizations ILO standards on child employment principles and standards, global intranet, Nucleus, and our global labour and minimum wages.
We are also local laws and good practice.
We work to social platform, Chatter.
members of the United Nations Global develop and maintain good relations with Compact on Human Rights.
local workforces and work closely with our To support our drive for simplification further, recognised national trade unions.
We we continue to widen the average span of In 2015, we completed a human rights also regularly consult with employee control 7.2 employees reporting to each labour review in all countries where we have representatives or, where applicable, trade manager in 2015, up from 6.3 in 2012 and a presence.
The review focused on ILO core unions, who share our aim of retaining key limit the number of reporting layers in the themes, including freedom of association skills and mitigating job losses.
We believe this will increase and collective bargaining, child labour, For further information on AstraZenecas approach to doing the speed of decision making, drive discrimination, working hours and wages.
business sustainably please refer to In the wider world from accountability and improve communication.
In this second survey we added questions page 55 and on our website, www.
54 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Strategic Report In the wider world Our employees are critical to achieving our strategic Our stakeholders include the patients and physicians for whom we provide priorities.
To realise our full potential, however, we also medicines for some of the most serious depend on a wider set of stakeholders and are committed diseases, and the universities and institutes that collaborate with our scientists.
to operating our business in a sustainable manner that Governments, regulators, payers, suppliers, is, in a way that delivers real value for our company, our other commercial organisations and the communities in which we operate are planet and society as a whole.
We outline our stakeholder relationships throughout our Business Review, including Research and Development from page 42 and Overview Sales and Marketing from page 48.
In Manufacturing and Supply from page Over 240 major or strategically important business development transactions over 46, we examine our relationships with the past three years suppliers and our commitment to working Created external Sustainability Advisory Board to help confirm our sustainability only with those that embrace standards of priorities and shape our strategy ethical behaviour consistent with our own.
Undertaking a materiality assessment to identify the most significant sustainability This commitment extends to joint venture issues for AstraZeneca and co-promotion partners, and research Met our aggressive 2010 to 2015 carbon footprint reduction target and licensing partners.
Surpassed our 2015 reduction targets for lost time injury and illness rate and vehicle collision rate Partnering Finalised, with SET and Board approval, a new 2016 to 2025 Safety, Health and As outlined in Strategic priorities on Environment Strategy page 16 and 17, business development, Community investment strategy focuses on healthcare in the community and specifically partnering, is an important science education element of our business.
It supplements Young Health Programme has reached over 1.4 million young people and strengthens our pipeline and our efforts to achieve scientific leadership.
As noted in Research and Development from page 42, we strive to access leading science from within and outside our laboratories.
Our partners include academia, governments, industry, scientific 1.4m organisations and patient groups.
240 We pursue strategically aligned valueYoung Health Programme enhancing business development More than 240 major or strategically has reached over 1.4 million opportunities and focus on important business development young people transactions over the past three years increasing early-stage research transactions and academic alliances exploring value-creating peer collaborations AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 55 Strategic Report Resources Review In the wider world continued Vehicle collisions pursuing partnering, in-licensing and Over the past three years we have acquisitions to strengthen our therapy completed more than 240 major or Collisions Year per million km Target area portfolios.
strategically important business 2015 4.15 5.60 development transactions, including 2014 4.66 6.10 Our business model also encompasses some 122 in 2015.
Of these transactions, externalisation as a component of our 24 were related to clinical stage assets Lost time injury illness portfolio management strategy.
This or programmes, 48 to pre-clinical assets includes strategic collaborations to broaden or programmes and 11 to PHC and Lost time injury illness rate Year per million hours worked Target and accelerate the development of key biomarkers.
Thirty-nine transactions 2015 1.37 1.91 pipeline assets in our three therapy areas.
helped expand our biologics capabilities.
2014 1.59 2.10 We also leverage opportunities in other Approximately 30 agreements related to areas where we retain an interest in the our expanding commitment to Open future development of projects.
Acquisitions completed in the collaborations with Lilly and Celgene are year included the acquisition of Actavis examples of this approach.
For more respiratory franchise in the US and the information on these externalisation acquisition of ZS Pharma.
Agreements partnerships, see Business model on regarding the acquisition of Takedas pages 8 and 9, and Financial Review from respiratory portfolio and the acquisition page 62.
We also divest medicines that of a controlling equity position in Acerta can be deployed better by a partner with Pharma were signed in 2015.
These were a primary focus in the relevant area.
not, however, included in the 2015 data as the Takeda transaction is due to complete Sustainability framework A sustainability framework is embedded in the way we operate: Board Non-Executive Director, Genevive Berger, oversees implementation of the sustainability framework and reporting to the Board SET SET is responsible for the framework.
Senior managers throughout the Group are accountable for operating in Sustainability Stakeholders line with the sustainability commitments within their areas, taking into Advisory Board account national, functional, and site issues and priorities.
Regular engagement Line managers are accountable for ensuring that their teams understand with stakeholders, which Established in 2015 and the requirements and that people are clear about what is expected of takes place with a range will meet twice annually them as they work to achieve our business goals.
of socially responsible to provide external investors and other insight, feedback, and Sustainability Council interest groups, provides advice to help sharpen The Council is chaired by a SET member, currently Katarina Ageborg.
the opportunity for our understanding of, Members comprise senior leaders from each relevant SET function.
Its sustainable issues or and responses to, agenda will focus on driving long-term value creation by, among other things concerns to be raised established and and discussed.
emerging sustainability agreeing sustainability priorities for the Group in line with strategic issues.
The Advisory business objectives Board will also help managing and monitoring the annual process of setting sustainability identify opportunities objectives and targets, as well as reviewing performance against KPIs for further innovation and collaboration.
agreeing appropriate policy positions to support our objectives and reputation management.
Sustainability Working Group The Working Group of SET function representatives supports the Council.
The Working Group reviews issues with the potential to impact AstraZenecas sustainability agenda.
As appropriate, it prepares proposals for the Councils consideration.
56 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Strategic Report in the first half of 2016 and the transaction Operational greenhouse gas footprint For more information on our approach to with Acerta Pharma completed in February sustainability, benchmarking and assurance, see emissions tonnes CO 2 Sustainability: supplementary information from 2016.
In addition, four transactions that page 234 and the Sustainability pages on our 704,073 2015 contribute to Externalisation Revenue website, www.
com 735,218 2014 were completed in 2015 with a further 10 704,273 2013 divestments or out-licences also completed.
Safety, health and wellbeing We work to promote a safe, healthy and For more information on our partnering activity energising work environment in which our in 2015, please see Therapy Area Review from Waste production tonnes employees and partners are able to express page 24, Research and Development from page 42, their talents, drive innovation and improve Financial Review from page 62 and Note 24 to the 38,452 2015 business performance.
Our five-year target Financial Statements from page 173 35,797 2014 period ended in 2015.
The targets for 2015 32,750 2013 Sustainability included We want to be valued and trusted by our stakeholders as a source of great medicines no fatalities 3 Water use m over the long term.
That means operating lost time injury illness rate per million in a way that recognises the interconnection hours worked of no more than 1.91 3,932,598 2015 between business growth, the needs of a 25% reduction from the 2010 baseline 3,786,963 2014 society, and the limitations of our planet.
no more than 5.6 collisions per million 3,714,674 2013 Our sustainability efforts are aligned to, kilometres driven 40% reduction from and support the delivery of, our business 2008 baseline Note: Significant site purchases in 2014 and 2015 have strategy in five core areas that are most at least 80% of sites and marketing been absorbed into the annual data without historical relevant to our business companies to offer six essential health rebasing of data.
Increasing access to healthcare see page 50 and Healthy Heart Africa on page 51 Our highest priority remains driver safety, hazardous waste to 0.633 tonnes $m Natural resource efficiency below particularly among our sales force who form sales and non-hazardous waste to Responsible research from page 44 the largest group of employees driving on 0.473 tonnes per employee 3 Ethical business practices see Working AstraZeneca business.
We monitor water use to 3.4 million m. with suppliers, Sales and marketing ethics performance centrally to assess progress and Community investment on pages 47, and identify areas for improvement.
In 2015, We are working to reduce our greenhouse 50 and 58 respectively we delivered our five-year target for reducing gas emissions by, among other things, Being a great place to work see Develop collisions per million kilometres driven, improving energy and fuel efficiency and a strong and diverse pipeline of leaders, achieving a 55% reduction from baseline.
pursuing lower-carbon alternatives to fossil Human rights and Safety, health and We regret, however, that one employee was fuels.
During 2015, our air and road travel wellbeing on pages 53, 54 and 57 killed in a traffic accident while driving on and freight transport emissions decreased respectively.
We carried out a due to greater achievement in switching detailed investigation into this accident and freighting of goods from air to sea and Further information about our sustainability developed an action plan to address the reducing business air travel significantly.
agenda is available on the Sustainability pages findings.
Actions were monitored and what Procurement of energy from certified on our website, www.
com was learnt from the incident was shared renewable sources increased to represent widely across the business.
Having already 6.1% of total consumption.
During 2015, we commissioned an achieved our 2015 lost time injury illness rate independent think-tank to review our current target two years early, we achieved a further Our pMDI inhaler therapy relies on focus areas, examine our areas of strength reduction in 2015.
This equates to a 46% hydrofluoroalkane HFA propellants which and weakness, and help identify our overall reduction from the 2010 baseline.
While HFAs priorities going forward.
An internal focus have no ozone depletion potential and a group meeting took place to refine and The 2015 health and wellbeing target was third or less of the global warming potential calibrate the high-level findings.
This missed, with 60% of sites offering six than the chlorofluorocarbons they replace, involved assessing risks and opportunities, essential health activities, compared to the they are still greenhouse gases.
Excluding as well as the current level of integration, 80% target.
Although this is disappointing, emissions from patient use of our inhaler for each issue.
This assessment is 84% of sites now offer at least five activities, therapy, our aim by 2015 was to reduce our continuing and, will become the foundation compared to only 28% in 2011. operational greenhouse gas footprint by for the priorities and improvement targets 20% from our 2010 level.
We achieved this, that define the next stage of our journey.
Natural resource efficiency with our operational greenhouse gas footprint Our goal is to ensure that sustainability is 1 Our 2015 targets included reducing totalling 704,073 metric tonnes in 2015, a effectively aligned to our business strategy reduction of 21.2% from our 2010 baseline.
and truly embedded into the way in which operational greenhouse gas footprint we operate and define success.
For more information on carbon reporting, to 714,375 tonnes CO 2 please see Sustainability: supplementary information from page 234 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 57 Strategic Report Resources Review In the wider world continued Waste management is another key of APIs do not exceed our internal standards aspect of our commitment to minimise for safe discharges at our manufacturing environmental impact.
We aimed to reduce sites and we periodically conduct our hazardous and non-hazardous waste compliance assessments.
We also follow by 15% from our 2010 levels, indexed a progressive approach to ensure appropriately.
While waste prevention is ecopharmacovigilance.
This involves Values in action: Do the right thing an essential goal, we seek to maximise regularly reviewing emerging science and Michael Baldinger, CEO of RobecoSAM, treatment by material recycling and avoiding literature for new information that might said: As one of the top-scoring companies landfill disposal when prevention is impact the environmental risk management in the pharmaceutical industry, AstraZeneca impractical.
In 2015, our total waste was plans for our products.
PLC has qualified for inclusion in the 2016 38,452 metric tonnes with a tonnes $m Sustainability Yearbook and has received index of 1.56.
We have reduced hazardous Further information, including environmental risk assessment data for our medicines, is the Silver Class distinction for its excellent waste by 22% since 2010, due principally available on our website, www.
to changing production patterns and major investment at a UK manufacturing site in 2012 to enable recycling and reuse of New Safety, Health and Environment solvent wastes.
Hazardous waste generation Strategy indexed to $m revenues increased 5%, In 2015, we finalised a new 2016 to 2025 missing our 2015 target.
We reduced SHE Strategy to build on our 2010 to 2015 non-hazardous waste by 14% since 2010, performance and ensure that we are but when indexed against staff numbers protecting the health and safety of our the metric has not improved due to staff people and doing our fair share to protect reductions since the baseline was set.
As an output of this strategic initiative, we have established a set of We recognise the need to use water targets aimed at keeping AstraZeneca responsibly and, where possible, to among the sector leaders in SHE minimise water use in our facilities.
Our targets for 2025 reach our 2015 water use reduction target are shown over.
of 25% from 2010 levels, we initiated water conservation plans at our largest sites.
Achieving these targets during a period 3 In 2015, our water use was 3.9 million m, of expected strong business growth will a reduction of 14% from our 2010 baseline.
require significant business engagement This fell some distance short of achieving and investment in resource efficiency.
our very ambitious five-year target.
Water In light of this challenge, and in recognition 3 use indexed to revenues was 159 m $m that we narrowly missed our 2010 to 16% from 2010 baseline.
2015 water and waste efficiency targets, we have established a dedicated fund for We are also working on measuring and capital projects that can drive substantial reporting the environmental impact of improvement in natural resource efficiency.
our external manufacturing activity and We disclose our carbon and water encourage setting of appropriate performance and targets to external environmental targets with our suppliers.
indices including the Carbon Disclosure We believe we have captured data for Project CDP.
In the build up to COP 21, more than 90% based on spend of the the 2015 Paris Climate Conference, we globally managed outsourced manufacture signed up to the CDP commitments for of key intermediates and APIs, formulation science-based targets and public disclosure and packaging for our established brands.
of information associated with climate Understanding and management of change performance.
our external supplier footprint will be a continued focus of our Safety, Health and Community investment Environment SHE improvement efforts Our global community investment strategy going forward.
focuses on healthcare in the community and science education.
We are committed We continue to integrate environmental to operating responsibly, which means considerations across a medicines entire supporting our community and maximising life-cycle, from discovery, research the benefit of our investment for all and development to manufacturing, stakeholders.
For example, 2015 was the commercialisation and disposal.
We follow fifth year of our partnership with the UK a progressive compliance programme to educational charity Career Ready to support ensure that our manufacturing emissions 58 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Strategic Report increased participation by 16 to 19 year-olds Young Health Programme the community.
The programmes have also in science, technology, engineering and We continued to develop the three strands trained more than 12,000 frontline health maths subjects.
of our Young Health Programme YHP : workers in adolescent health.
advocacy: research: and evidence In 2015, we spent a total of approximately generation.
These on-the-ground We continue to support research evidencing $680 million 2014: approximately programmes focus on the primary the importance of adolescence in future $880 million on community investment prevention of non-communicable diseases health, and undertake advocacy activities to sponsorships, partnerships and charitable NCDs and associated adolescent risk ensure adolescent health and the prevention donations worldwide, including our behaviours.
With over 1.4 million young of NCDs are global and local priorities.
The product donation and patient assistance people in communities across five engagement and involvement of youth is programmes which make our medicines continents directly provided with the skills at the core of the YHP.
Activities in 2015 available free of charge or at reduced and information they need to improve their included commissioning research on NCD prices.
Through our three patient assistance health, we have well exceeded our Clinton risk behaviours and participation in the 4 programmes in the US we donated Global Initiative Commitment to Action of development of an NCD prevention chapter products valued at an average wholesale reaching 250,000 young people directly for UNICEF Facts for Life book.
We also price of over $617 million 2014: over by the end of 2015.
Over 14,600 of these funded YHP side meetings at WHO Geneva $800 million.
We also donated products young people have been trained to share May 2015 and United Nations General worth over $17 million, valued at this health information with their peers and Assembly in September 2015. average wholesale price, to charitable Further information on YHP can be found on its organisation AmeriCares.
com Disaster relief New Safety, Health and Environment Strategy targets, The British Red Cross continues to act as our global disaster relief partner, 2016 to 2025 channelling the bulk of our disaster relief donations.
In addition to the charitable Eliminate workplace accidents Protect natural resources donations referenced in Community and illnesses investment above, in April 2015 we donated 50,000 via British Red Cross to the Nepal Accidents: Carbon: Earthquake Appeal, $200,000 in July to fund the replenishment of the Kuala Lumpur Emergency Response Unit and 50,000 in 75% 30% September to Europe Refugee Crisis 75% reduction in total injury rate Compared to a 2015 baseline, Appeal.
In December, and as part of wider from 2015 baseline operational carbon at the same level and AstraZeneca support for those affected by 3 reduce overall carbon intensity by 30% the floods in Chennai, where over 1,000 Health and wellbeing: AstraZeneca employees are based, we Waste: donated $30,000 to SEWA International.
1 F igures have been revised from those previously published 80% to incorporate our biologics capabilities into our targets.
80% of sites marketing companies have 10% Our targets for 2011 to 2015 were set in 2010.
2 2 H ealthy Eating & Drinking, Tobacco Cessation, Physical all four Essential Health Activities 10% absolute reduction from 2015 Activity, Workplace Pressure Management.
3 baseline C arbon target follows the science and uses the ScienceBased Target Setting tool developed by the World Resources Driver safety: Institute.
Operational footprint energy and process Water: emissions, business travel, waste incineration, freight logistics, 1st tier supply chain energy and patient use of Cap usage from 2015 baseline inhalers.
Carbon intensity CO tonnes $m sales.
2 55% 4 F or 2015 we have revised our reporting to reflect what was shipped from AstraZeneca for use in our Patient Assistance 55% reduction in collisions per million Programs as opposed to what was actually dispensed to kilometres driven patients, and have also moved to reporting the wholesale acquisition cost as opposed to average wholesale price.
90% As a result, the 2015 numbers reported are lower than 90% of API syntheses meet resource reported in 2014. efficiency targets at launch and establish equivalent targets for biologics Ensure the environmental safety of our products Ensure effective environmental management of our products from pre-launch through to product end-of-life AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 59 Strategic Report Resources Review Intellectual Property Discovering and developing medicines requires a significant investment of resources by research-based pharmaceutical companies.
The process can take a decade or more.
For this to be a viable investment, new medicines must be safeguarded from being copied with a reasonable amount of certainty for a reasonable period of time.
Our industrys principal economic safeguard clinical trials and regulatory approval In the US, new chemical entities NCEs are is a well-functioning patent system that processes.
Patent Term Extensions PTE entitled to a period of five years exclusivity recognises our efforts and rewards are available in certain major markets, under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic innovation with appropriate protection and including the EU and the US, to compensate Act.
This period of exclusivity runs parallel to allows time to generate the revenue we for these delays.
The term of the PTE any pending or granted patent protection need to reinvest in pharmaceutical can vary from zero to five years, depending and starts at the approval of the new innovation.
Patent rights are limited by on the time taken to obtain any marketing application.
As with RDP, there are territory and duration.
The maximum patent term, circumstances where this protection could of a patents duration can be spent during when including PTE, cannot exceed 15 be the sole IP right protecting a product R&D, before it is possible to launch the years EU or 14 years US from the first from being copied.
Further, under the protected product.
Therefore, we commit marketing authorisation.
Biologics License Application process, the significant resources to establishing and FDA will grant 12 years data exclusivity for defending our patent and related IP Patent expiries a new biologic to an innovator manufacturer.
The tables on pages 210 and 211 set out certain patent expiry dates and sales for Under Orphan Drug laws in the EU and US, Patent process our key marketed products.
exclusivity is granted to an innovator who We file patent protection applications for our gains approval for a pharmaceutical product inventions to safeguard the large investment Other exclusivities developed to treat a rare disease.
What required to obtain marketing approvals for In addition to patent protection, regulatory qualifies as a rare condition differs between potential new drugs.
As we further develop data protection RDP or data exclusivity the EU and US.
Qualifying Orphan Drugs are a product and its uses, these new is an important IP right, which arises in granted 10 years market exclusivity in the EU developments may necessitate new patent respect of data which is required to be and seven years market exclusivity in the US.
We apply for patents through submitted to regulatory authorities to obtain government patent offices around the world.
marketing approvals for our medicines.
Under the Generating Antibiotics Incentives These assess whether our inventions meet Significant investment is required to generate Now Act, the FDA may grant Qualified the strict legal requirements for a patent to such data for example, through conducting Infectious Disease Product QIDP status.
Our competitors can challenge global clinical trials and this proprietary data An antibiotic achieving QIDP status is our patents in patent offices and or courts.
is protected from use by third parties such granted five years exclusivity while QIDPs We may face challenges early in the patent as generic manufacturers for a number of that are also NCEs are entitled to 10 years application process and throughout a years in a limited number of countries.
The exclusivity, extending to 12 years if the patents life.
The grounds for these period of such protection, and the extent disease state is an orphan.
The period of challenges could be the validity of a patent to which it is respected, differs significantly exclusivity granted to a product with QIDP and or its effective scope and are based among countries.
RDP is an important status runs concurrently with any pending on ever-evolving legal precedents.
We are protection for our products, and we strive to or granted patent protection.
experiencing increased challenges in the enforce our rights to it, particularly as patent US and elsewhere in the world such as rights are increasingly being challenged.
Compulsory licensing in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Europe Compulsory licensing where a Patent and Japan and there can be no guarantee The RDP period starts from the date of the Authority imposes a licence on the of success for either party in patent first marketing approval from the relevant Patentee is on the increase in certain proceedings.
For information about third regulatory authority and runs parallel to any markets in which we operate.
We recognise party challenges to patents protecting our pending patent protection.
RDP generally the right of developing countries to use the products, see Note 27 to the Financial expires prior to patent expiry in all major flexibilities in the World Trade Organizations Statements from page 186.
If a product takes an unusually Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of information on the risks relating to patent long time to secure marketing approval, or if Intellectual Property Rights including the litigation and early loss and expiry of patent protection has not been secured, has Doha amendment in certain circumstances, patents, please see Risk from page 212. expired or has been lost, then RDP may be such as a public health emergency.
We the sole IP right protecting a product from believe this should apply only when all other The basic term of a patent is typically 20 copying.
Generic manufacturers should not ways of meeting the emergency needs have years from the filing of the patent application be allowed to rely on AstraZenecas data to been considered and where healthcare with the relevant patent office.
However, support the generic products approval or frameworks and safeguards exist to ensure a product protected by a pharmaceutical marketing until the RDP right has expired.
the medicines reach those who need them.
patent may not be marketed for several In the EU, the RDP period is eight years years after filing, due to the duration of followed by two years marketing exclusivity.
60 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Strategic Report Infrastructure The Group owns and operates R&D and production facilities and conducts sales and marketing activities around the world.
Significant information technology and information services resources support these activities.
R&D resources Westborough, Massachusetts: West In the beginning of 2014, we launched a We have approximately 8,900 employees Chester, Ohio: Mount Vernon, Indiana wide-ranging IT Transformation Programme in our R&D organisation, working in various and Coppell, Texas, China Wuxi and to better support our business priorities.
Our small molecule Taizhou, Russia Vorsino, France Reims Since then, we have made various sites are located in the UK Alderley Park, and Dunkerque, Japan Maihara, changes to our operating model and Cambridge and Macclesfield, Sweden Australia North Ryde, Indonesia Jakarta, organisational structure to improve Gothenburg, the US Gaithersburg, Egypt Cairo, India Bangalore, Puerto efficiency, responsiveness and innovation.
Maryland and Waltham, Massachusetts, Rico Canvanas, Germany Wedel, Japan Osaka and China Shanghai.
Mexico Lomas Verdes, Brazil Cotia and Our IT vision is to deliver world-class Our biologics sites are located in the UK Argentina Buenos Aires.
Our Taizhou performance in terms of speed, quality, Cambridge and in the US Gaithersburg, supply site won the 2015 Facility of the cost and innovation.
At the same time, we Maryland and Mountain View, California.
Year award in the category of Project are relying on IT to enable simplification of Our Gaithersburg, Maryland, US: Cambridge, Execution by the International Society our business processes.
To achieve this we UK: and Warsaw, Poland sites focus on for Pharmaceutical Engineering.
need to improve our current performance late-stage development for small molecules significantly while reducing our overall and biologics across our entire portfolio.
We operate sites for the manufacture of spend.
We will measure our success by Our strategic expansion in Emerging APIs in the UK and Sweden, complemented tracking customer satisfaction and recording Markets continues and includes the by the efficient use of external sourcing.
Our the number and severity of incidents with ongoing growth of our R&D facility principal tablet and capsule formulation sites business impacts as well as the speed with in China Shanghai.
are in the UK, Sweden, Puerto Rico and the which we respond to and mitigate such US.
We also have major formulation sites incidents.
We will also take into account R&D spend analysis for the global supply of parenteral and or project delivery and cost absolute and inhalation products in Sweden, France, as a percentage of revenue as compared 2015 2014 2013 Australia and the UK.
Discovery and early-stage development 39% 47% 55% For biologics, our principal commercial Protecting our IT systems, IP and manufacturing facilities are in the US confidential information against cyberattacks Late-stage development 61% 53% 45% Frederick, Maryland, Greater Philadelphia, is a key concern.
Our IT organisation is Pennsylvania and Boulder, Colorado, the constantly developing and implementing Core R&D 1 expenditure $5,603m $4,941m $4,269m UK Speke, and the Netherlands Nijmegen robust, effective and agile risk-based with capabilities in process development, approaches to protect our resources 1 R eported R&D expenditure was $6.0 billion 2014: $5.6 billion: 2013: $4.8 billion.
manufacturing and distribution of biologics, and keep pace with the rapidly evolving including global supply of MAbs and cybersecurity risk landscape.
To help In 2015, Core R&D expenditure was influenza vaccines.
guard against cybercrime, we have adopted $5.6 billion in our R&D organisation 2014: a comprehensive cybersecurity process $4.9 billion: 2013: $4.3 billion.
In addition, At the end of 2015, approximately 12,500 and policy, which we regularly review we spent $1,341 million on acquiring people at 29 sites in 17 countries were and update.
We are equally vigilant in product rights such as in-licensing 2014: working on the manufacture and supply monitoring our systems and data with $907 million: 2013: $635 million.
This includes invested $258 million on the implementation educating our employees about cybercrime, of our R&D restructuring strategy 2014: Information technology and internet use and best practices to mitigate $497 million: 2013: $490 million.
The information services resources the risk of attack.
allocations of spend by early-stage and At the end of 2015, our IT organisation late-stage development are presented in comprised approximately 2,800 people the R&D spend analysis table above.
across our sites in the UK Alderley Park and Macclesfield, Sweden Sdertlje and Manufacturing and supply resources Gothenburg, the US Wilmington, Delaware Our principal small molecule manufacturing and Gaithersburg, Maryland, and our facilities are in the UK Avlon and new technology centre in India Chennai.
Macclesfield, Sweden Grtuna and A further 250 IT people worked in our Sdertlje, the US Newark, Delaware: R&D and operations sites and key marketing companies.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 61
