Strategic Report Therapy Area Review Therapy area world market MAT Q3 15 Cardiovascular $173.0bn and Metabolic diseases Annual worldwide market value We push the boundaries of science to create life-changing High blood pressure medicines for patients that reduce morbidity, mortality $38.9bn Abnormal levels of and organ damage by addressing multiple risk factors.
blood cholesterol $26.8bn Diabetes $58.7bn Thrombosis $8.8bn Other $39.8bn Our strategic priorities at more than 5,700 sites worldwide.
We are disease and with Professor Doug Melton, Our strategy and focus is on bringing also concentrating on diabetes research, Harvard Stem Cell Institute, applying life-changing medicines to patients to which includes more than 50 clinical studies revolutionary techniques transforming reduce morbidity, mortality and organ worldwide with an enrolment target of nearly human stem cells into beta cells that damage by addressing multiple risk 40,000 patients.
factors across cardiovascular CV disease, For information on our CV collaborations, We are expanding our core capabilities and including thrombosis blood clotting, please see the Research and Development section research programmes into new modalities atherosclerosis hardening of the arteries, from pages 42 to 45 and regenerative medicine.
Our aim is to dyslipidaemia abnormal levels of blood provide new treatment paradigms for heart lipids, and hypertension, diabetes and Cardiovascular disease failure, diabetes and CKD.
To help achieve chronic kidney disease CKD.
Acute coronary syndromes ACS is an scientific leadership, we are engaging in umbrella term for sudden chest pain and Despite improvements in the diagnosis and collaborations that focus on scientific other symptoms due to ischaemia treatment of CVMD, unmet medical need innovation in CVMD.
For example, in 2015, insufficient blood supply to the heart.
The prevalence of these we entered into collaborations with the is associated with considerable mortality diseases and associated complications French National Institute of Health and and morbidity.
There is a significant need continues to increase worldwide.
Medical Research Inserm to investigate to improve patient outcomes and reduce new therapeutic approaches to Type 2 We invest heavily in clinical development treatment costs.
diabetes and CKD, with the University of and life-cycle management.
Nearly 60,000 Michigan to advance the treatment of CKD patients participate in our R&D-led CV trials through the improved understanding of the Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases CVMD Phase I Phase II Phase III Applications LCM projects under review Small molecule Large molecule Large molecule Small molecule Small molecule AZD4076 MEDI8111 MEDI6012 Brilinta Brilique ZS-9 Brilinta Brilique Farxiga Forxiga EUCLID DECLARE-TIMI 58 # MEDI0382 Epanova Brilinta Brilique F Farxiga Forxiga approved but not PEGASUS-TIMI 54 Type 1 diabetes launched MEDI4166 Farxiga Forxiga Brilinta Brilique Kombiglyze XR Komboglyze SOCRATES # roxadustat Brilinta Brilique Onglyza THEMIS SAVOR-TIMI 53 Key Brilinta Brilique saxagliptin F dapagliflozin FDC HESTIA Addition Bydureon Xigduo XR No change Xigduo EXSCEL Progression Approved launched Bydureon F New filing Dual Chamber Pen # Partnered product Bydureon Farxiga in the US: Forxiga weekly suspension in the rest of the world Kombiglyze XR in the US: Epanova Komboglyze in the EU STRENGTH 30 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Breaking through conventional thinking Because we know that cardiovascular disease CVD is a well-known consequence of diabetes and chronic kidney disease CKD, AstraZeneca takes an integrated patient approach and seeks to further reduce cardiovascular CV morbidity and mortality, and organ damage by Pancreatic beta cells at different addressing multiple CV risk factors.
stages of regeneration: AstraZeneca is investing in research that could stimulate the regeneration of beta cells in the pancreas with the aim of stopping the progression of, or reversing, the course of diabetes.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 31 Strategic Report Therapy Area Review Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases continued Our 2015 focus The SOCRATES trial evaluating the efficacy Our marketed products Brilinta Brilique, one of our Growth Platforms, of Brilinta Brilique compared to aspirin in is an oral antiplatelet treatment for ACS.
It is reducing thrombotic events in patients with Cardiovascular disease approved in over 100 countries, including acute ischaemic stroke and high-risk 1 Atacand Atacand HCT Atacand Plus candesartan cilexetil the US, Canada and Brazil under the trade transient ischaemic attack, saw its last name Brilinta, and in the EU, Iceland and patient randomised in November 2015.
This Brilinta Brilique ticagrelor Norway under the trade name Brilique.
It is trial is scheduled to report data in the first half 2 Crestor rosuvastatin calcium currently under regulatory review in three of 2016.
SOCRATES involves 13,200 patients Plendil felodipine additional countries.
Since launch, more in 33 countries and is part of the broader Seloken Toprol-XL metoprolol succinate than one million patients have been treated PARTHENON life-cycle programme for 3 Tenormin atenolol with Brilinta Brilique, and it has been Brilinta Brilique discussed further overleaf.
4 Zestril lisinopril dihydrate included in 12 major ACS treatment Crestor is approved in 109 countries guidelines globally.
In August 2015, the Metabolic disease for the treatment of dyslipidaemia and European Society of Cardiology updated  elevated Bydureon exenatide XR injectable suspension NSTE-ACS guidelines and continued to cholesterol.
The medicine has been shown Byetta exenatide injection recommend ticagrelor over clopidogrel in to effectively lower low-density lipoprotein Farxiga Forxiga dapagliflozin ACS for all patients at moderate-to-high cholesterol LDL-C and achieve LDL-C risk of ischaemic events, regardless of initial Kombiglyze XR saxagliptin and metformin HCl goals and to increase high-density treatment strategy and including those Komboglyze saxagliptin and metformin HCl lipoprotein cholesterol HDL-C and reduce pre-treated with clopidogrel.
Crestor faces Symlin pramlintide acetate The PEGASUS-TIMI 54 study investigated competition from atorvastatin Lipitor and Xigduo dapagliflozin and metformin HCI the efficacy and safety of ticagrelor at both other generic products.
The substance 60mg and 90mg twice daily, plus low-dose patent protecting Crestor in the US expired Xigduo XR dapagliflozin and metformin HCI aspirin, compared to placebo plus low-dose on 8 January 2016 and the existing aspirin, for the long-term prevention of paediatric exclusivity period expires Full product information on page 203 atherothrombotic events in patients who on 8 July 2016.
Subsequently, generic 1 Licensed from Takeda Chemicals Industries Ltd. had suffered a heart attack one to three competition from various companies 2 L icensed from Shionogi.
The extension of the global years prior to study enrolment.
Both 90mg is expected in the US market.
Actavis licence agreement with Shionogi for Crestor and the modification of the royalty structure became effective and 60mg study doses of ticagrelor with is permitted to begin selling generic 1January 2014. aspirin significantly reduced the primary rosuvastatin in the US in May 2016 as 3 D ivested US rights to Tenormin to Alvogen Pharma US Inc. effective 9 January 2015. composite endpoint of CV death, myocardial the result of a litigation settlement with 4 L icensed from Merck.
Divested US rights to Zestril to infarction MI, also known as heart attack AstraZeneca.
Patents protecting Crestor Alvogen Pharma US Inc. effective 9 January 2015. or stroke compared to placebo and aspirin.
have been challenged in various The full results of the study were published jurisdictions.
Details of these matters in the New England Journal of Medicine are included in Note 27 to the Financial in March 2015.
In September 2015, the FDA approved a Epanova omega-3-carboxylic acids is the new 60mg dosage strength for Brilinta first FDA approved prescription omega-3 to be used in patients with a history of heart fatty acid in free fatty acid form.
It has the attack beyond the initial one-year treatment potential to help patients with severe with Brilinta 90mg to reduce the rate of  by reducing high cardiovascular death, MI and stroke in patients with ACS.
In December, CHMP of the EMA adopted a Positive Opinion recommending approval of Brilique 60mg for the treatment of patients with a history 17.5m of heart attack and at high risk of having a Values in action: We play to win further coronary event.
The opinion states An estimated 17.5 million people die Acquiring ZS Pharma gave us access to the that treatment may be started as continuation annually from CV disease, representing potassium-binding compound ZS-9, therapy after an initial one-year treatment 31% of all global deaths.
More than a potential best-in-class treatment for with dual anti-platelet therapy.
In the US, we three-quarters of these deaths occur hyperkalaemia high potassium levels are in early stages of patent litigation against in lowto middle-income countries.
which affects more than three million people multiple generic companies after they sent 415 million people worldwide have diabetes: in the US alone who suffer from chronic so-called Paragraph IV notices challenging WHO projects that diabetes will be the kidney disease and chronic heart disease.
patents listed in the FDA Orange Book with seventh leading cause of death in 2030.
With submissions under way, we expect reference to Brilinta.
Source: WHO Factsheet 2015 data from 2012.
ZS-9 to accelerate our return to growth.
Source: IDF Atlas 2015 and WHO Factsheet 2015.
32 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Strategic Report triglycerides TG levels.
Epanova is approved support the outcomes benefits of the This announcement does not affect in the US as an adjunct to diet to reduce new class.
interactions with other health authorities as TG levels in adult patients with severe part of these application procedures for the We have a broad anti-diabetes portfolio  TG levels 500mg dL.
FDC, including an ongoing review by the EU with products in the three fastest growing for the FDC.
Clinical studies classes of diabetes treatments SGLT2, In addition to the PEGASUS and SOCRATES GLP-1 and DPP-4.
The Phase III programme for a once-weekly trial described above, Brilinta Brilique is suspension of Bydureon continues In 2015, we saw ongoing approvals and being studied in two other clinical trails to progress.
launches for Farxiga Forxiga for the under the PARTHENON programme.
Starting with Through our strategic collaboration with PARTHENON is AstraZenecas largest ever the EU in 2012, it is now approved in over FibroGen and Astellas, we continue to CV outcomes programme involving nearly 50 countries.
It is under regulatory review develop roxadustat, a potential first-in-class 80,000 patients.
It includes five key studies in 20 additional countries.
oral compound in Phase III development covering broad patient populations across for the treatment of anaemia in patients varying timescales and aims to support four Xigduo is approved in 33 countries, with CKD, including those who are dialysis new indications for Brilinta Brilique over the including the US with Xigduo XR ongoing dependent and non-dialysis dependent.
In 2015, we Roxadustat is in Phase III in the US, Europe continued to see the approval and launch of AstraZeneca continues to explore the unmet and China, and is just completing Phase II the Bydureon Pen, which is now launched medical need in cholesterol management, in Japan.
The Phase III programme consists in 17 countries globally, including the US, building on the well-established clinical trial of seven studies enrolling more than 7,000 Japan and key European countries.
Crestor has been patients worldwide.
To date, roxadustat has Bydureon Pen is a pre-filled, single-use pen studied in more than 120 ongoing or been studied in over 1,100 subjects in injector.
In the US, we are engaged in patent completed clinical trials and involving more completed Phase I and II studies.
litigation against multiple generic companies than 67,000 patients worldwide over the after they sent so-called Paragraph IV In December 2015, we acquired ZS Pharma past 13 years.
notices challenging patents listed in the FDA to strengthen our CVMD portfolio.
This We are also committed to further evaluating Orange Book with reference to Onglyza.
A provided us access to ZS-9, a potential the clinical profile of Epanova and identifying trial is scheduled to take place during 2016. best-in-class treatment for hyperkalaemia other patient groups it may benefit.
which complements our increasing focus on In April 2015, an FDA Endocrinologic and AstraZeneca recently commenced a CKD.
ZS-9 has been submitted for approval Metabolic Drugs Advisory Committee voted large-scale CV outcomes trial, STRENGTH, in the US, EU and Australia.
In November 13 to one that the results of the Saxagliptin STatin Residual risk reduction with EpaNova 2015, data presented at the American Assessment of Vascular Outcomes in hiGh cardiovascular risk paTients with Society of Nephrology meeting showed Recorded in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus , to evaluate the positive interim results from ZS005, SAVOR study demonstrated that the use of safety and efficacy of Epanova on CV a long-term safety study of ZS-9.
saxagliptin in patients with Type 2 diabetes outcomes in combination with statin therapy For more information please see Financial has an acceptable cardiovascular risk for the treatment of patients with mixed Review from page 62 profile.
AstraZeneca will conduct further dyslipidaemia who are at increased risk investigation to better understand the signal of cardiovascular disease.
Clinical studies of hospitalisation for heart failure found in The Dapagliflozin Effect on CardiovascuLAR the SAVOR results.
Metabolic and renal diseases Events DECLARE study, a large CV Type 2 diabetes is a chronic progressive outcomes trial to assess the impact of In the pipeline disease that accounts for more than 90% Farxiga Forxiga on CV risk benefit, when We are developing an FDC of saxagliptin of diabetes cases worldwide.
Disease added to a patients current anti-diabetes and dapagliflozin, which combines two prevalence continues to grow, particularly therapy, continued in 2015. complementary mechanisms designed to among those at a younger age, and many help more patients with Type 2 diabetes The trial will enrol approximately 17,000 adult patients require multiple medications.
In October 2015, patients with Type 2 diabetes.
DECLARE AstraZeneca received a Complete Response Various oral generic and branded treatments was fully enrolled in 2015 and is expected Letter CRL from the FDA regarding the exist and newer classes of treatments to be completed in 2019.
NDA for the investigational FDC of saxagliptin continue to enter the market.
and dapagliflozin for the treatment of adult The Exenatide Study of Cardiovascular Our 2015 focus patients with Type 2 diabetes.
The CRL Event Lowering EXSCEL study also AstraZeneca is focused on redefining the states that more clinical data are required continued during 2015.
This study, which Type 2 diabetes treatment approach and to support the application.
We are working began in 2010 and is expected to end in harnessing complementary mechanisms closely with the FDA to determine the 2017 is evaluating the impact of Bydureon, of action, as well as evaluating potential appropriate next steps for the NDA and in addition to usual care on CV outcomes cardiovascular outcomes benefit.
Our remain committed to the development of in patients with Type 2 diabetes.
current portfolio is well-positioned to enable saxagliptin and dapagliflozin.
We will file combination treatment, and data from our additional clinical data from a study which Phase III programmes is expected to further is now completed and continue our conversations with the FDA.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 33
