Strategic report | Operating review | Sugar | 20 SUGAR CONTINUED PROGRESS IN SUGAR THE CHANGING CEMENTING OUR WORLD REPUTATION FOR OF SUGAR INNOVATION page 22 page 25 Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Operating review | Sugar | 21 About Sugar: AB Sugar is a leading countries and has 29 plants with the as well as our own farms.
We seek to business in the expanding international capacity to produce over 5 million ensure the early transfer of technology markets for sugar and sugar-derived tonnes of sugar and 600 million litres and best practice across AB Sugar.
We are a significant employer in each In the EU, Azucarera is the major We also have the capacity to generate of our countries of operation, some of producer in Iberia and British Sugar is power sufficient to meet most of which are among the least developed the sole processor of the UK sugar beet our internal needs and, in a number in the world.
AB Sugar seeks to ensure crop and is one of Europes most efficient of locations, we export power into the wellbeing of all its employees, their processors.
Illovo Sugar, in which the the local grid.
families and the wider community and group has a 51% stake, is the largest in the developing countries we provide As a consumer of a large quantity of sugar processor in Africa and is one of more wide-ranging social support agricultural inputs, we have a number the worlds foremost low-cost producers.
including the provision of hospitals, of programmes to maximise crop We also have substantial businesses schooling, housing and healthy yields whilst also minimising the usage in China producing cane sugar in the living programmes.
of herbicides, pesticides and water.
south and beet sugar in the north-east.
This applies equally to our out-grower The group currently operates in ten estates, funded jointly with our growers, Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report | Operating review | Sugar | 22 SUGAR THE CHANGING WORLD OF SUGAR EUmarket experienced major price shifts European Farm Ministers 2006 REFORM THE START the like of which had not been anticipated.
OF THE PROCESS have agreed to thefinal First, the reduction in EU production and exports reduced sugar availability on a The first round of changes moved abolition of the system of EU global scale as non-EU countries were theEUsugar market from surplus to sugar production quotas from unable to increase production to fill the structuraldeficit with the aim of providing gap.
World prices subsequently rose to increased access for exports from the 1 October 2017 and many 30-year highs reducing the attractiveness worlds least developed countries LDCs of sales to the EU and hence, supplies commentators have described and the Africa, Caribbean and Pacific forthe EU market.
The Commission ACP countries associated with the thesituation that will likely then applied exceptional measures in EU.
By reducing support prices for both an attempt to fill the EU supply deficit sugarandsugar beet, the changes also prevail thereafter.
The and check price increases.
sought to increase competition amongst consequences of these EU producers.
To facilitate the process, However, the level of bids for additional aself-financing restructuring scheme changes can, to some extent, supplies meant that EU prices didnot was introduced to encourage high cost reduce as much as expected.
Asaresult, be informed by what happened businesses to rationalise and to reduce the exceptional measures were extended surplus capacity.
When the structural during the last round of even when supplies had been restored changes were complete, however, the regulatory changes.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Operating review | Sugar | 23 to more normal levels, then resulting In such a scenario a number of key in over-supply in the EU.
Following four EU sugar price t features are likely: years of global surpluses coupled, more July 20102015 Beet sugar processors recently, with the dramatic weakening 800 suppliers to the European market of the Brazilian real against theUS dollar, 700 willneed to further improve their world sugar prices weakened substantially efficiency and competitiveness.
600 and EUsugar prices plummeted to the Thiswillinclude energy efficiency, levels that we seetoday.
500 process technology and co-product 400 All suppliers to the European market have development.
Well-targeted and been affected by these changes including 300 effective investments will bekey: beet growers, processors, preferential 200 with inflation in other major world exporting countries and refiners.
Across 100 market suppliers outstripping that the industry substantial restructuring in theEU, we have already seen EU 0 and investment programmes have been 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 beet sugar producers improve their implemented to improve efficiency position in world league tables for and meet these challenges.
With the exception So what then of the 2017 changes?
of distortions generated by movements World sugar price cents Ib in currencyexchange rates, such as Sept 2010 Sept 2015 AFTER 2017 A SUBSTANTIALLY weare currently seeing between theBrazilian real and the US dollar, 40 DEREGULATED SECTOR it is anticipated that this trend will 35 The final round of changes to the bemaintained: EUsugarregime in 2017 will abandon 30 Beet growers production quotas, remove minimum 25 continuing growth in beet sugar beetprices and abolish the artificial productivity will be essential to distinction between sugar sold for food 20 supportthese changes.
This has and industrial applications in the EU.
15 alreadyled to EU white sugar yields, Furthermore, World Trade Organization expressed on a per-hectare basis, 10 WTO export constraints will no longer exceeding those of Brazil: beapplicable to European producers 5 following the abolition of quotas.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 the relative profitability of alternative crops will become even more of a In short, the EU sugar market will become keydeterminant of production scale more volatile.
However, it should be noted inthe EU, as growers look to that WTO-governed import duties for 2015 sugar production by region maximisetotal farm profitability: non-preferential sugars into the EU 1 Illovo 38% willremain in place.
Sugar companies 2 China 12% Raw sugar refiners 3 Spain 16% will be freeto increase production, and EU refiners may need to take a more 4 UK 34% 1 so too will starch producers be able to opportunistic view of refining, for increase production of caloric sweeteners, example, by focusing on periods furtherincreasing EU supplies.
whereworld sugar prices are sufficiently below EU prices to When world market prices are high, generateattractive returns: and EU sugar can be exported and when low, supply will exceed demand.
As a Global trade 4 consequence, sugar prices in the EUare global trade flows will adjust to likely to move moreinline with world accommodate EU exports and sales 2 prices than has previously been thecase.
into regions outside Europe, some 3 ofwhich may be new markets.
In such adynamic market, increased pressure willbe placed on the The above analysis leads us to expect competitiveness of the total EU sugar that the EU will experience significant Sugar production supply chain.
Growers, processors, turbulence through the years of transition, haulage companies and otherkey during which we will likely see some 4.3 million tonnes stakeholders will need to ensurethe further consolidation of the industry.
competitiveness of their component We believe that, withcontinued emphasis offerings in order to maintain the ability on total supply chain efficiency, and access Sugar cane ofthe sugar industry as a whole to global markets, the long-term future tocompete.
for the EU sugar industry, and the UK industry in particular, can remain strong.
45% 55% Sugar beet Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report | Operating review | Sugar | 24 SUGAR A WORLD-LEADING SUGAR BUSINESS FOCUSED ON EXCELLENCE Revenue and adjusted operating profit Revenue for AB Sugar were substantially lower AZUCARERA than the previous year primarily driven Historically, sugar produced by our 1,818m by the further decline in EU sugar factories in Spain has been stored prices, and the underlying decline 2014: 2,083m in factory silos and transported as in profit was even greater given the required to customers plants via road Actual fx: -13% non-repeat of last years restructuring tanker.
Although this transportation Constant fx: -9% charge.
In light of the structural complies with strict food and safety changes in the worlds sugar industry, regulations, some customers Adjusted operating profit we remained focused on delivering increasingly require a further level significant cost reduction across of compliance such as product all of our businesses through our 43m exclusivity, meaning that a tanker ongoing performance improvement cannot transport anything other than 2014: 189m programme.
This will reduce our cost sugar.
This can result in a costly base but the reductions in the year Actual fx: -77% challenge for manufacturers as it could not compensate for the impact Constant fx: -76% means that tankers cannot be used on of lower prices.
It also adds considerable complexity to supply chain logistics, Adjusted operating Sugar prices in the EU stabilised towards particularly where customers are profit margin the end of the financial year and with some distance from our factories or quota stock levels expected to reduce are close to competitors.
A flexible back towards historic norms during 2.4% approach is therefore vital.
2015 16, we have seen some price 2014: 9.1% recovery for the 2015 16 marketing year.
During sugar beet production, Prices in China increased during the year Azucarera, our Iberian sugar business, Return on average as a consequence of lower domestic now uses big-bag packaging as capital employed production and reduced imports, although well as tankers to transport sugar.
they remain at a premium to import prices.
Many of these big-bags are stored 2.4% World sugar prices remained under in warehouses local to customers pressure declining to below 11.0 cents 2014: 10.5% and once an order is received, the bags per pound at one point, thereby holding are ripped and tipped into a tanker for back domestic prices in some regions.
the short journey from the distribution point to the customers final destination.
UK sugar production of 1.45 million tonnes was driven by very high beet yields and By storing and transporting sugar excellent factory performances.
The UK in this way, Azucarera has improved crop for the 2015 16 season has made order fulfilment and delivery times, good progress but, with a reduction as well as creating logistics savings.
for that year in the contracted area Compared to typical tanker haulage, under cultivation in excess of 25%, and this approach can reduce costs by a return to more typical beet yields, sugar as much as 40%.
production is expected to be just short of 1.0 million tonnes.
This will lead to a welcome fall in our stock levels following this years high sugar production.
Logistic savings 40% Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Operating review | Sugar | 25 Delivered beet costs for the 2015 16 campaign will be some 20% lower than the current year with a further substantial CEMENTING OUR REPUTATION FOR cost reduction now secured for the 2016 17 campaign.
INNOVATION AND BETTER YIELDS In Spain, all factories performed well.
Total production was ahead of last year at Collaboration with an existing client, one Recognising an opportunity 709,000 tonnes of which 414,000 tonnes of the largest organic growers in the US, was from beet and 295,000 tonnes to establish a partnership led to a deeper understanding of the key from refined raw sugars.
The area under challenge primarily that the pathogen cultivation for 2015 16 is expected to be with one of the largest organic problems associated with seeds during similar to this year.
vegetable growers in the US, a short growth cycle put the crop at risk.
Illovo produced 1.64 million tonnes in the Joint research led to a review of protocols Germains set about creating year to September, marginally less than and techniques for removing disease last year.
The effect of drought on cane from seeds in an economically viable and a new product for organic growth in South Africa was largely offset large-scale way.
Germains knowledge Swiss chard using an approach by strong production volumes across and experience of successful all other countries of operation.
Zambia manufacturing processes in their sugar that disinfected various achieved record sugar production and beet business unit, coupled with their seed-borne diseases leading further development at the factory is knowledge of seed disinfection in key now planned which will increase sugar horticultural markets, resulted in a similar to a better yielding crop.
refining capacity and create new sugar approach for organic Swiss chard.
conditioning and storage facilities to Already established as one of the worlds Following successful field trials and enable the supply of higher-quality leading seed technology suppliers, modest additional capital investment, sugars to the region.
The Malawi sugar Germains realised that it could also Germains utilised existing manufacturing market has been seriously disrupted support key growers in developing assets to deliver all of its clients by the countrys continued economic enhanced sustainable products for the requirements for that planting season.
difficulties and sales volumes and prices expanding organic vegetable market The process from the initial client meeting were lower as a result.
In Tanzania, currently growing at over 20% pa.
This to placing an order took just six months.
sugar production increased with the had the merits of improving its product benefit of better growing conditions By putting the customer at the heart of differentiation and extending its expertise and an improved factory performance.
their business, Germains has created a in research and development to become Some improvement in the local trading partnership based on mutual trust which more technically-based and conditions enabled an increase in has resulted in both crop and commercial consumer-solution orientated.
domestic pricing and an improved success.
It has also cemented Germains sales mix, with pre-packed sugar taking reputation as an innovator, leading the agri an increasing share of the domestic industry in large-volume, organic solutions market.
Illovo continued its focus on the and new product development.
development of domestic and regional sales, which have become increasingly important as world and EU prices become less attractive.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report | Operating review | Sugar | 26 SUGAR China saw some recovery in market We have now commenced the relocation prices and profitability improved as a of most of our management team from result.
In the south, cane volumes were the head office in Beijing to our remaining A GROWERsome 30% below the previous year due operating sites.
to a combination of a lower planted area Vivergo Fuels CENTRIC and poorer yields due to adverse weather This business was formed in 2007 as conditions.
Sugar production reduced a joint venture between ABF, BP and from 560,000 tonnes to 413,000 tonnes AGRICULTURE DuPont, which built a world-scale, in the year, benefiting from good factory wheat-fed, bioethanol plant at Saltend extraction rates.
In May, we assumed BPs share STRATEGY our remaining northern beet factories, in the business thereby increasing Qianqi and Zhangbei, were excellent our interest to 94%.
In recent years the with good factory throughput and better European market for bioethanol has been beet availability following our success in weaker than expected and we foresee working with the growers over a number Chinas urbanisation policy is that we may need to run this plant at a of years.
Together, these two factories small loss in the short term.
However, driving demographic change, produced 94,000 tonnes of sugar as the percentage of ethanol inclusion in 2014 15. in gasoline increases in line with EU and rural migration is In January, we announced our decision mandated targets by 2020, this market changing the agricultural to cease sugar operations in Heilongjiang.
is forecast to move from surplus to Achieving beet yields sufficient to provide deficit which we expect to lead to a landscape.
Both are creating our factories in this region with an adequate price increase.
Further operational opportunities for land supply of raw materials, at a competitive improvements were made at Vivergo cost, has been particularly challenging for Fuels this year but continuing low prices consolidation and a number of years, even with the benefit resulted in the business sustaining an production efficiency.
of significant advances made both in operating loss.
We Now celebrating its 20th anniversary concluded that our factories at Yian and in the region, AB Sugar China embraces BoCheng were likely to remain uneconomic these changes and new ways of working for the foreseeable future.
We have now which are reflected in the annual plan for sold both factories and the final cost of its north China operations.
ceasing these operations was 100m all of which was a non-cash charge.
This plan has three strategic objectives that firmly put growers at the centre of our business.
The first, to ensure sustainable beet supply, helps growers increase their crop yield and ILLOVO-KILOMBERO SUGAR profitability.
Growers are provided with Kilombero Sugar, Illovos business in of sale communication will be updated mechanised solutions appropriate to their Tanzania, is re-launching its pre-packed from English to Kiswahili and the requirements, and levels of service and sugar proposition to provide better domestic market sales team are support have been enhanced, thereby alignment with local consumer needs.
working with local distribution partners improving the crop attractiveness and thus After investing in local market research to expand the availability across the supply stability.
The second objective, to to understand the preferences and retail marketplace.
drive cost efficiency, is aimed at improving shopping habits of Tanzanian consumers, upstream supply chain efficiencies and With the importance of domestic the business has expanded its Bwana reducing the cost of sucrose delivered markets to the Illovo business, this Sukari which means Mr Sugar in to the factory.
With greater insight into kind of insight-led product development the Kiswahili language range.
This now the capabilities of the grower base and is shaping the marketing plans across includes 1kg and 500g pre-packed sugar the quality of their land we are able to the group, with research work now in improved packaging that reflects the prioritise geographic areas that deliver the also underway in Malawi and Zambia.
brand proposition more appropriately highest-quality sugar beet at the lowest and highlights the local sourcing and cost.
The third objective is to increase beet proud heritage that are so important quality by enhancing sugar content and to local consumers.
This is achieved, for example, through R&D investment in In a market that has historically been seed development, and the management dominated by bulk 50kg and 25kg bags of water and fertiliser.
that are then on-sold in scoop format in a traditional and fragmented retail One of AB Sugar Chinas agricultural marketplace, this pre-packed offering priorities is to extend grower engagement provides an affordable, hygienic and in order to develop closer links with guaranteed pack weight solution that the upstream agricultural industry and meets the needs of local, cash-poor establish long-lasting relationships with consumers.
All packaging and point Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Operating review | Sugar | 27 the most progressive growers.
A major Early indications are that AB Sugars THE OBJECTIVES success has been working with a diverse north China operations will increase the group of growers, collectively identifying crop planting area in 2015 16 by more problems and developing solutions than 30%, reversing two years of crop based on partnership, and the sharing area regression.
This will be a direct result ENSURE SUSTAINABLE of knowledge and good practice.
of embracing a grower-centric business SUPPLY TO INCREASE strategy, adopting a customer orientated Value-added services, such as enhanced 01 YIELD AND PROFITABILITY mindset when working with growers communications, have been introduced to and developing the supply chain for support engagement with large growers.
A mobile phone application that sends daily updates to growers on real-time DRIVE COST EFFICIENCY pertinent topics, and enables interactivity TO IMPROVE UPSTREAM between growers and experts, helps 02 SUPPLY CHAIN EFFICIENCIES growers improve crop productivity.
Loyalty schemes, incentive programmes and training also play a central role in maintaining a contented grower base INCREASE BEET QUALITY BY which, in turn, contributes towards ENHANCING SUGAR CONTENT a stable and sustainable beet supply.
03 AND REDUCING IMPURITIES Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
