Strategic Report Therapy Area Review Therapy area world market MAT Q3 15 Oncology Our combination-focused pipeline exploits the power $72.2bn Annual worldwide market value of four scientific platforms, and we are driven by an ambition to help eliminate cancer as a cause of death Chemotherapy $19.2bn through scientific discovery and collaborations.
Hormonal therapies $10.0bn Monoclonal antibodies MAbs $22.4bn Small molecule Our strategic priorities 2020.
In 2015, we decided to consider all tyrosine kinase For more than 40 years we have developed new Oncology launches, including Lynparza, inhibitors TKIs $18.6bn cancer drugs.
Many of these have increased Iressa US and Tagrisso, as our sixth Immunotherapies survival rates for patients around the world.
Growth Platform, under the designation $2.0bn Significant unmet medical need remains for of New Oncology.
therapies that increase survival, cure rates and time to recurrence.
Our vision is to help Our broad pipeline of next-generation meet this need by redefining the cancer medicines is focused on four main disease treatment paradigm.
We are doing this areas breast, ovarian, lung and through scientific innovation, accelerated haematological cancers, using four key clinical programmes and collaboration.
approaches: immunotherapy, tumour drivers Several submissions are under way and we and resistance mechanisms, DNA damage aim to deliver at least four new cancer repair, and antibody-drug conjugates.
therapies and 12 new line extensions by Oncology Phase I Phase II Phase III LCM projects Small molecule Large molecule Combination Small molecule Large molecule Combination Small molecule Large molecule Combination Small molecule Combination molecules molecules molecules molecules # # # # # AZD0156 MEDI0562 Tagrisso AZD1775 MEDI-551 AZD5069 cediranib F durvalumab durvalumab Faslodex Tagrisso # AZD9291 AZD9291 durvalumab ICON6 HAWK tremelimumab FALCON # # combination durvalumab AZD9150 ALPS # TATTON CAURAL durvalumab # # # # # # # AZD2811 MEDI0639 durvalumab AZD2014 MEDI-573 durvalumab selumetinib durvalumab durvalumab Lynparza dabrafenib tremelimumab ASTRA PACIFIC tremelimumab GOLD trametinib gastric cancer ARCTIC # # # # # # AZD5312 MEDI0680 durvalumab durvalumab selumetinib moxetumomab durvalumab Lynparza Tagrisso AZD9291 Iressa SELECT-1 tremelimumab OlympiA BLOOM CONDOR AZD3759 BLOOM # # AZD6738 MEDI1873 durvalumab AZD4547 Tagrisso F tremelimumab durvalumab Lynparza MEDI0680 AZD9291 DETERMINE tremelimumab OlympiAD AURA, AURA 2 DANUBE # # # # AZD8186 MEDI3617 durvalumab AZD5363 acalabrutinib durvalumab Lynparza # MEDI6383 tremelimumab POLO EAGLE # # # AZD8835 MEDI4276 durvalumab savolitinib Tagrisso durvalumab Lynparza AZD9291 tremelimumab tremelimumab SOLO-1 AURA 3 solid tumours KESTREL # # # # # AZD9150 MEDI-565 MEDI-551 selumetinib durvalumab Lynparza rituximab tremelimumab SOLO-2 MYSTIC # # Key AZD9496 MEDI6383 durvalumab Lynparza tremelimumab SOLO-3 Addition NEPTUNE No change MEDI9197 MEDI9447 Lynparza Progression prostate Phase II Approved launched # durvalumab Tagrisso F New filing AZD9291 # Partnered product FLAURA Tagrisso AZD9291 ADAURA 34 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Even as research and development continues to Redefining break boundaries in how we understand and fight cancer, there are still more than eight million lives lost every year to the disease.
At AstraZeneca, the treatment we are committed to advancing the science of oncology to deliver life-changing medicines to paradigm people most in need.
Oncology Antibody that blocks Phase I Phase II Phase III LCM projects inhibitory signals from Small molecule Large molecule Combination Small molecule Large molecule Combination Small molecule Large molecule Combination Small molecule Combination the tumour to cells molecules molecules molecules molecules of the immune system # # # # # AZD0156 MEDI0562 Tagrisso AZD1775 MEDI-551 AZD5069 cediranib F durvalumab durvalumab Faslodex Tagrisso resulting in enhanced # AZD9291 AZD9291 durvalumab ICON6 HAWK tremelimumab FALCON anti-tumour immunity.
# # combination durvalumab AZD9150 ALPS # TATTON CAURAL durvalumab # # # # # # # AZD2811 MEDI0639 durvalumab AZD2014 MEDI-573 durvalumab selumetinib durvalumab durvalumab Lynparza dabrafenib tremelimumab ASTRA PACIFIC tremelimumab GOLD trametinib gastric cancer ARCTIC # # # # # # AZD5312 MEDI0680 durvalumab durvalumab selumetinib moxetumomab durvalumab Lynparza Tagrisso AZD9291 Iressa SELECT-1 tremelimumab OlympiA BLOOM CONDOR AZD3759 BLOOM # # AZD6738 MEDI1873 durvalumab AZD4547 Tagrisso F tremelimumab durvalumab Lynparza MEDI0680 AZD9291 DETERMINE tremelimumab OlympiAD AURA, AURA 2 DANUBE # # # # AZD8186 MEDI3617 durvalumab AZD5363 acalabrutinib durvalumab Lynparza # MEDI6383 tremelimumab POLO EAGLE # # # AZD8835 MEDI4276 durvalumab savolitinib Tagrisso durvalumab Lynparza AZD9291 tremelimumab tremelimumab SOLO-1 AURA 3 solid tumours KESTREL # # # # # AZD9150 MEDI-565 MEDI-551 selumetinib durvalumab Lynparza rituximab tremelimumab SOLO-2 MYSTIC # # AZD9496 MEDI6383 durvalumab Lynparza tremelimumab SOLO-3 NEPTUNE MEDI9197 MEDI9447 Lynparza prostate Phase II # durvalumab Tagrisso AZD9291 FLAURA Tagrisso AZD9291 ADAURA AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 35 Strategic Report Therapy Area Review Oncology continued Immunotherapy: Our ambition is to be It received US approval in July 2015.
Our marketed products a scientific leader in immunotherapy, a Iressa is also the first EGFR-TKI to include Arimidex anastrozole promising therapeutic approach that blood-based diagnostic testing where harnesses the patients own immune a suitable tumour sample is not available Casodex Cosudex bicalutamide system to help fight cancer.
We are in its European label.
Faslodex fulvestrant working to understand how cancer Iressa gefitinib evades the immune system and to identify Faslodex 500mg is approved in more than Lynparza olaparib approaches that enhance the immune 80 countries, including the EU, the US Nolvadex tamoxifen citrate systems ability to fight cancer.
We are currently exploring the Tagrisso osimertinib Tumour drivers and resistance efficacy and safety of Faslodex 500mg Zoladex goserelin acetate implant mechanisms: Potent inhibition of genetic compared with Arimidex in the 1st line disease drivers is a clinically validated advanced breast cancer setting hormoneFull product information on page 204 approach to shrink tumours and improve nave patients in the Phase III FALCON progression-free survival.
We are engaged in patent litigation, however, eventually develop resistance including in the US and Europe, in relation to these therapies.
Our programmes seek to generic challenges to Faslodex.
Details to develop therapies that target resistance of litigation relating to Faslodex are included mechanisms and the mutations that in Note 27 to the Financial Statements cause cancer cells to proliferate.
DNA damage repair: Exploiting mechanisms that selectively damage Zoladex continues to be a significant asset tumour cell DNA is another clinically to our in line portfolio and a driver of our validated approach to shrink tumours prostate cancer and breast cancer portfolios.
Our programmes focus on identifying Lynparza is an oral PARP inhibitor approved and exploiting vulnerabilities unique to in 36 countries for the treatment of adult tumour cells to kill the tumour cells while patients with platinum-sensitive relapsed minimising toxicity to the patient.
BRCA-mutated germline and or somatic Antibody-drug conjugates: The use high-grade serous epithelial ovarian, of antibody-drug conjugates is a clinically fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer.
validated, highly potent approach that selectively targets cancer cells.
We Tagrisso is the first approved EGFR-TKI seek to combine innovative antibody indicated for patients with metastatic EGFR engineering capabilities with cytotoxic T790M mutation-positive NSCLC.
This drug molecules to attack and kill the indication was approved in November 2015 Values in action: We follow the science tumour while minimising toxicity to under the FDAs Accelerated Approval The DNA inside our cells, our genetic the patient.
Programme based on tumour response rate blueprint, is continually being damaged by and duration of response.
Conversion to full environmental factors, ultraviolet light and We are also focused on identifying and approval for this indication is contingent even natural growth and division.
Our upon verification and description of clinical contain multiple repair mechanisms to fix immuno-oncology portfolio, which we benefit in confirmatory trials.
damage to DNA strands because, if this believe is one of the most comprehensive isnt repaired, the cells die.
Cancer cells in our industry, enables us to explore and In December 2015, Tagrisso received a very commonly have one repair mechanism exploit scientific and biological synergies Positive Opinion by CHMP for the treatment missing or not functioning, which creates to pursue combinations that improve of adult patients with locally advanced or an Achilles Heel making them sensitive outcomes and maximise patient benefit.
metastatic EGFR T790M mutation-positive to being killed if another repair mechanism NSCLC.
In Japan, Tagrisso was granted is targeted by a medicine.
Our scientists Our 2015 focus Priority Review by the PMDA.
Interactions are exploiting this Achilles Heel of Our marketed oncology products generated with regulatory authorities in the rest of the sensitivity to develop new medicines which sales of more than $2.8 billion worldwide world are ongoing.
specifically block DNA repair and cause in 2015.
We continue to explore ways to cancer cells to die, while sparing the maximise the benefit of our medicines normal cells which have multiple repair for patients.
One such treatment is Lynparza which blocks PARP a protein Iressa was the first EGFR-TKI to be involved in DNA repair in cancer cells that approved in advanced NSCLC.
Now already have loss of the BRCA protein approved in 90 countries, it is the leading which is a critical part of the homologous EGFR-TKI for patients with advanced repair pathway.
EGFRm NSCLC in Europe and Asia.
36 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Strategic Report Tumour drivers and resistance In the pipeline Other immuno-oncology agents in early mechanisms franchise Our Oncology pipeline continued to development include: MEDI6383, a Tagrisso AZD9291 is a highly selective, progress in 2015.
It now includes five NMEs human tumour necrosis factor receptor irreversible inhibitor of the activating in late-stage development and another 26 superfamily, member 4 OX40 agonist: sensitising EGFR mutation and the NMEs in Phases I and II.
We also expanded MEDI9447 targeting ecto-5-nucleotidase resistance mutation T790M.
The product several of our projects to incorporate novel CD73 and MEDI1873 targeting is being investigated in Phase III studies in combinations and various types of cancer.
 tumour necrosis the adjuvant setting for the treatment of Some of our projects from each of our factor receptor-ligand GITRL.
These patients with EGFRm NSCLC and in the platforms include: agents are in Phase I development for advanced setting as a 1st line treatment a range of solid tumours and have the of EGFRm NSCLC and as a 2nd line Immuno-oncology franchise potential for combination with other treatment of EGFRm T790M NSCLC.
Durvalumab MEDI4736 is an anti-PD-L1 molecules in the portfolio.
Additionally, studies in combination with antibody in Phase III development for Some of our 2015 strategic collaborations small molecules and immunotherapies NSCLC as a monotherapy and in include: are under investigation.
combination with tremelimumab and A collaboration with Immunocore, Selumetinib is a mitogen-activated protein Tagrisso.
The lung cancer programme a UK-based biotechnology company, kinase inhibitor in Phase III development includes studies in the 1st line, 2nd line to combine durvalumab PD-L1 with for 2nd line Kirsten rat sarcoma viral and 3rd line setting.
Additional registration IMCgp100, Immunocores lead T-cell oncogene homolog KRAS mutant studies are progressing in squamous cell receptor-based investigational NSCLC.
The selumetinib programme also carcinoma of the head and neck 1st and therapeutic, for the treatment of includes a Phase III study for adjuvant 2nd line, and bladder cancer 1st line.
differentiated thyroid cancer and a Phase The development programme also A collaboration between MedImmune II study for 2nd line KRAS mutation not includes additional Phase I and Phase II and Innate Pharma, a biopharmaceutical detected NSCLC.
studies in a broad range of solid tumours company focused on cancer and AZD5363 is a protein kinase B AKT and an extensive range of combination inflammation.
The aim is to accelerate inhibitor in Phase II development for programmes.
and broaden the development of breast and prostate cancer.
Innates proprietary anti-NKG2A Savolitinib AZD6094 is a hepatocyte antibody IPH2201, including in growth factor receptor c-MET inhibitor.
combination with durvalumab PD-L1 It is in Phase II development for lung and across a broad range of solid tumours.
14m A collaboration between MedImmune AZD2014 is an inhibitor of the mammalian and Mirati Therapeutics, an oncology target of rapamycin serine threonine Annual cancer cases are expected to rise company focused on genetic and kinase TORC1, TORC2 and is in Phase II from 14 million in 2012 to an estimated epigenetic drivers of cancer.
We are development for the treatment of solid 22 million within the next two decades.
evaluating the safety and efficacy of and haematological tumours.
durvalumab PD-L1 in combination Source: WHO Factsheet February 2014 data from 2012.
AZD9496 is a selective oestrogen with mocetinostat, Mirati Therapeutics receptor down-regulator SERD in investigational spectrum-selective Phase I development for the treatment histone deacetylase inhibitor.
An agreement with Heptares under Tremelimumab, an anti-Cytotoxic which AstraZeneca will acquire  protein 4 exclusive global rights to develop, antibody, is being investigated as a manufacture and commercialise the monotherapy in a pivotal study for the adenosine A2A receptor antagonist, treatment of malignant mesothelioma.
MEDI0680 is an antiprogrammed cell death protein 1 PD-1 MAb that may help promote an effective anti-tumour immune response by blocking the interactions between PD-1 and its ligands.
It could 8.2m also improve the intrinsic functionality of T-cells by triggering internalisation of PD-1, a mechanism that may be unique to MEDI0680.
MEDI0680 is in Phase I Cancer is a leading cause of death development for solid tumours as a worldwide and accounted for 8.2 million monotherapy and in combination deaths in 2012. with durvalumab.
Source: WHO Factsheet February 2014 data from 2012.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 37 Strategic Report Therapy Area Review Oncology continued DNA damage repair franchise Brutons tyrosine kinase BTK inhibitor, Institutes of Health NIH, to advance Lynparza olaparib is being evaluated in acalabrutinib ACP-196, currently in early-stage research and development a broad range of Phase III trials, including Phase III development for B-cell blood in immunotherapy and tumour-targeted advanced gastric cancer, BRCAm cancers and in Phase I II clinical trials therapies for cancer.
adjuvant and metastatic breast cancer, in multiple solid tumours.
A five-year collaboration between gBRCAm pancreatic cancer, and MedImmune and the University of gBRCAm ovarian cancer.
Lynparza For more information please see Note 30 Cambridges Department of Chemical to the Financial Statements on page 193 is also in Phase II development for Engineering and Biotechnology CEB prostate cancer.
designed to generate breakthrough AZD1775 is a Wee1 inhibitor in Phase II Earlier in 2015, we established several research in biopharmaceutical development for ovarian and other collaborations that reflect the attractiveness development, including activities in solid tumours.
of our immuno-oncology portfolio, as cell engineering and formulation and Phase I clinical studies are progressing demonstrated by: analytical science.
for the ATR inhibitor AZD6738 2nd line A five-year agreement with the University gastric cancer with Lynparza and also Our externalisation agreement with of Manchester to harness clinical in combination with ionizing radiation Celgene, a global leader in haematological bioinformatics to deliver personalised in solid tumours and the ATM inhibitor cancers, for the development and healthcare for cancer patients.
The AZD0156 for the treatment of gastric commercialisation of durvalumab, research will be carried out in partnership and colorectal cancers.
anti-programmed death-ligand 1 antibody with the state-of-the-art clinical trials unit PD-L1 across a range of blood cancers, of The Christie National Health Service Antibody-drug conjugates franchise including non-Hodgkin lymphoma NHL, NHS Foundation Trust, which is at the Moxetumomab pasudotox, an anti-CD22 myelodysplastic syndromes and multiple forefront of experimental cancer medicine recombinant immunotoxin, is being myeloma.
investigated in a Phase III study for adult The expansion of our existing immunoA licence agreement and collaboration patients with hairy cell leukaemia who oncology collaboration with Lilly to further between MedImmune and Inovio have relapsed after, or not responded to, explore novel combinations across the Pharmaceuticals, a biotechnology standard therapy.
company developing DNA-based MEDI4276 is a HER2 bispecific ADC, This collaboration will include evaluations immunotherapies for cancer and which entered clinical development for of the safety and efficacy of durvalumab infectious diseases, to acquire a range of solid tumours.
PD-L1, with select Lilly agents targeting exclusive rights to Inovios INO-3112 A strategic collaboration with Tanabe the immune system or tumour drivers and immunotherapy.
This agent targets Research Laboratories TRL, a subsidiary resistance mechanisms.
cancers caused by the human of Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Our collaboration with Juno Therapeutics, papillomavirus HPV types 16 and 18 is looking at ways to combine a biopharmaceutical company.
This and is in Phase I II development for MedImmunes  focuses on re-engaging the bodys cervical, and head and neck cancers.
based cytotoxic molecules and linker immune system to treat cancer and to MedImmune intends to study INO-3112 technology with TRLs antibodies.
The aim evaluate safety, assess tolerability, and in combination with selected is to generate monospecific and bispecific preliminary efficacy of durvalumab immunotherapy molecules within conjugates ADCs for a broad range of combinations with CD19-directed its pipeline in HPV-driven cancers.
chimeric antigen receptor CAR T-cell candidates for patients with NHL.
Our Oncology collaborations Collaboration is key to accessing the best In addition to the collaborations mentioned science and technology, achieving scientific above, during 2015 we have also entered leadership and delivering innovative, into a range of collaborations in early 60% life-changing medicines.
In 2015, we science with several scientific and research continued to strengthen our portfolio and institutions and biotechnology and More than 60% of the worlds total new accelerate clinical programmes through diagnostic companies.
These additional annual cancer cases occur in Africa, Asia acquisitions and collaborations.
collaborations include: and Central and South America.
These regions account for 70% of the worlds In December 2015, we announced entry Two Co-operative Research and cancer deaths.
into an agreement to invest in a majority Development Agreements between Source: WHO Factsheet February 2014 data from 2012. equity stake in Acerta Pharma.
The MedImmune and the National Cancer transaction provides AstraZeneca with Institute NCI, a part of the National a potential best-in-class irreversible oral 38 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 attenuated influenza vaccine MAA for a global influenza pandemic virus in March 2015.
In September 2015, AstraZeneca Infection, Neuroscience entered into an agreement with Daiichi Sankyo for the development and and Gastrointestinal commercialisation of FluMist Quadrivalent in Japan.
We continue to engage in Our opportunity-driven strategy seeks to maximise the discussions with other governments to help protect children against influenza, the most value of our pipeline and portfolio through focused R&D, common vaccine-preventable disease in the licensing and collaboration.
In 2015, we made progress developed world.
in developing several assets and launched Movantik Respiratory syncytial virus Moventig in the US, Canada and in key markets across Since its approval in 1998, Synagis has helped protect more than 2.8 million babies the EU.
In partnership with Lilly, we also made advances globally against respiratory syncytial virus in clinical trials for our BACE inhibitor, AZD3293, a RSV.
RSV affects approximately half of all infants in their first year of life.
It is the leading potential treatment for Alzheimers disease.
cause of hospitalisations and admissions to paediatric intensive care units.
Synagis is approved in more than 80 countries and is the global standard of care for RSV prevention.
We continue to work with our Infection Our strategic priorities worldwide partner, AbbVie, to protect We have a long history in the fields of Our focus in Infection is on respiratory vulnerable infants.
In July 2014, the Infection, Neuroscience, and viruses and serious bacterial infections.
American Academy of Pediatrics Committee Gastrointestinal ING diseases, which Our differentiated and leading on-market on Infectious Diseases COID issued represent a significant area of unmet portfolio and pipeline were active in 2015. guidance to further restrict premature infants medical need for patients around the world.
from eligibility for preventive therapy with We group these fields into one therapy area.
A majority of the payers in the US This helps to support existing medicines, Seasonal influenza is a serious public health implemented these guidelines this year.
As a develop and commercialise new therapies, problem that causes severe illness and result, demand in the US was adversely prioritise resources, enable effective and death in high-risk populations.
Clinical data impacted with the majority of the impact efficient investment and maximise value for from Fluenz Tetra FluMist Quadrivalent has seen in the 2014 to 2015 season, when patients and shareholders.
In February demonstrated superiority to traditional volume declined approximately 40% versus 2015, we created a new company, Entasis inactivated influenza vaccines in children.
The 2015 to 2016 season Therapeutics, to develop programmes in In addition to being used in the UKs started in November in most parts of the US our small molecule early-stage anti-infective largest vaccination programme to date, and season to-date volume has been in line portfolio.
In July 2015, we also announced Fluenz Tetra was included in Finlands with expectations.
We have not seen a the creation of a new antibiotics organisation National Immunization Program for the direct replication of these guidelines in other in order to develop and commercialise 2015 2016 influenza season.
The regulatory countries at a national level.
effective antibiotics to combat the growth filing in Australia in July 2015 followed on of resistant infections.
from the submission of an EU pandemic live Infection, Neuroscience and Gastrointestinal Phase I Phase II LCM projects Applications under review Small molecule Large molecule Small molecule Large molecule Small molecule # # # # ATM AVI MEDI3902 CXL MEDI4893 linaclotide F CAZ AVI F serious infection # AZD8108 MEDI1814 AZD3241 MEDI7510 Nexium CAZ AVI F paediatrics HAP VAP # AZD3293 MEDI8897 Nexium MEDI-550 F stress ulcer prophylaxis Key MEDI8852 Diprivan Zinforo No change Progression F New filing # Partnered product R egulatory acceptance is anticipated in H1 2016 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 39 Strategic Report Therapy Area Review Infection, Neuroscience and Gastrointestinal continued In 2015, we strengthened our leadership threatening bacterial infections.
ASPRs Our marketed products position in RSV, securing FDA Fast Track Biomedical Advanced Research and designation for MEDI8897, a MAb that may Development Authority BARDA and Infection require dosing only once per RSV season.
AstraZeneca will manage and fund the 1 Fluenz FluMist influenza vaccine live We also launched Phase IIa clinical trials.
portfolio over the next five years.
In the 1,2 Fluenz Tetra FluMist Quadrivalent Additionally, we launched Phase II clinical arrangement, BARDA initially will provide influenza vaccine live trials to assess the efficacy of MEDI7510, $50 million towards ATM AVI development 3 Merrem Meronem meropenem MedImmunes RSV sF antigen plus the and could provide up to a total of $170 4 Synagis palivizumab synthetic molecule GLA, for the prevention million for development of additional 5 Zinforo ceftaroline fosamil of acute RSV-associated respiratory illness products in the portfolio during the in older adults.
Full product information on page 204 1 Intra-nasal.
Serious bacterial infections Neuroscience 2 D aiichi Sankyo holds rights to Fluenz Tetra FluMist Governments increasingly recognise Quadrivalent in Japan.
Our strategic priorities 3 L icensed from Dainippon Sumitomo Pharmaceuticals antibiotic or anti-microbial resistance as We have a long history in anaesthesia Co. Limited.
We have a 4 and analgesia, and a sizeable business U S rights only.
AbbVie holds rights to Synagis outside the US.
broad and innovative portfolio of medicines in psychiatry rooted in Seroquel IR and 5 L icensed from Forest now a wholly-owned subsidiary for serious Gram-positive and GramSeroquel XR.
The patent protecting the of Allergan.
AstraZeneca holds global rights, excluding negative bacterial infections.
We are now the US, Canada and Japan.
active ingredient in Seroquel IR and developing additional medicines to fight Seroquel XR, quetiapine, expired worldwide these infections.
However, in most European Neuroscience resistance to current antibiotics, deadly countries, the formulation patent covering Diprivan propofol infections could, again, become Seroquel XR does not expire until 2017.
As EMLA lidocaine and prilocaine uncontrollable.
In May 2015, AstraZeneca such, Seroquel XR remains a key product.
Movantik Moventig naloxegol submitted a filing to the EMA for CAZ AVI, We are vigorously defending the patent an innovative combination of ceftazidime Naropin ropivacaine protecting Seroquel XR.
We are seeking full Seroquel IR quetiapine fumarate however, has been subject to various approvals for complicated intra-abdominal challenges and revocations.
Details of Seroquel XR quetiapine fumarate infections cIAI, complicated urinary 1 litigation relating to Seroquel XR are Vimovo naproxen and esomeprazole tract infections cUTI, and nosocomial magnesium included in Note 27 to the Financial pneumonia NP including hospital-acquired Statements from page 186.
Xylocaine lidocaine pneumonia and  Zomig zolmitriptan pneumonia.
In April 2015, we announced full Phase III results from CAZ AVI Full product information on page 204 pivotal studies RECLAIM-1, -2, and -3 1 L icensed from Pozen.
Divested US rights to Horizon and REPRISE, with positive Phase III Pharma USA, Inc. effective 22 November 2013. cUTI results for RECAPTURE-1 and -2 announced in September.
During the year, Gastrointestinal we launched antibiotic Zinforo in Mexico: the product is now available in 34 markets.
Losec Prilosec omeprazole Nexium esomeprazole magnesium In addition to CAZ AVI in our late-stage pipeline, we are developing aztreonam Full product information on page 204 avibactam ATM AVI, a Phase I compound being developed jointly with Forest now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Allergan.
It targets Gram-negative bacteria with a  resistance Values in action: We are entrepreneurial mechanism.
This bacteria is endemic in The antibiotics organisation has been India and spreading throughout the world.
created with a clear vision to be a In September 2015, AstraZeneca entered global leader in the development and into a public-private partnership agreement commercialisation of life-saving with the US Department of Health and antibiotics by 2020.
With the formation of Human Services Office of the Assistant this separate and dedicated unit, we will Secretary for Preparedness and Response focus on the fast growing global health ASPR to develop a portfolio of medicines, threat of multidrug resistant bacterial of which ATM AVI is the first candidate infections and continue to bring scientific medicine in the portfolio, to combat innovation from our antibiotics portfolio bioterrorism threats and other lifeto doctors and patients around the world.
40 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Strategic Report Neurology Biologics are an emerging treatment for Alzheimers disease remains one of the pain control.
We are exploring treatments in largest areas of unmet medical need and focused pain areas, with patients selected continues to generate significant social and on the basis of their characteristic symptoms.
To address this, in addition to our BACE inhibitor, AZD3293, which is Movantik Moventig is the first orally currently advancing in our externalisation administered, once-daily,  with Lilly in Phase II III clinical acting mu-opioid receptor antagonist to trials as a potential treatment for Alzheimers be approved for the treatment of opioidValues in action: We play to win disease, we continued to develop MEDI1814 induced constipation OIC in adult patients.
In 2015, we made Movantik Moventig, the in Phase I clinical trials.
We also entered into The indication varies by jurisdiction.
OIC is first peripherally-acting mu-opioid receptor multiple collaborations with academic and the most common side effect of chronic antagonist PAMORA, available to patients scientific institutions to advance disease use of opioid pain medicines.
These are suffering from opioid-induced constipation understanding and identify potential new taken by over 69 million people worldwide, in the US, Canada, UK, Germany, Ireland medicines.
For example, we started a and the incidence of OIC in patients with and the Nordic countries.
collaboration with the University of chronic pain varies and has been suggested Cambridge focusing on advancing research to be as high as 81%.
Of these patients, in neurodegenerative diseases, and only about half achieve desired treatment continued to work with the Karolinska outcomes with current options, such as Institutet Sweden, the Banner Alzheimers OTC and prescription laxatives, which to generic competition in Australia, where Institute US, the National Institute of treat general constipation symptoms.
the first generic entry occurred in August Radiological Sciences Japan and Movantik Moventig was developed using 2014.
Patents protecting Nexium have Vanderbilt University US, focusing on Nektar Therapeutics oral small molecule been subject to a number of challenges psychosis and other neuropsychiatric polymer conjugate technology as part in different jurisdictions.
Details of these symptoms associated with major brain of a 2009 licence agreement with matters are included in Note 27 to the diseases, such as Alzheimers disease Nektar Therapeutics.
Financial Statements from page 186. and schizophrenia.
We also renewed or continued our collaborations with the In March 2015, AstraZeneca announced Pfizer acquired the exclusive global rights Lieber Institute for Brain Development a co-commercialisation agreement with to market Nexium for OTC indications US and Tufts University US, focusing Daiichi Sankyo, for Movantik in the US, in worldwide in 2012, and launched OTC on understanding brain diseases and line with delivering on our externalisation Nexium 20mg in the US and Europe in 2014. disorders, including Alzheimers disease strategy to create value from the science and autism spectrum disorders.
In another that exists in the product pipeline.
The brand In July 2015, we announced the completion collaboration, we joined the Medical launched in the US, UK, Canada, Sweden, of an agreement with Tillotts Pharma, Research Council Dementias Platform Denmark, Norway, Finland and Germany in part of the Zeria Group.
This covered the UK, a large public-private partnership, to 2015.
Additional launches will occur through divestment of global rights, outside the US, accelerate and share dementia research.
the first half of 2016. to Entocort budesonide, a gastroenterology In addition, we are developing AZD3241, medicine for patients with mild-to-moderate a myeloperoxidase inhibitor, to potentially Crohns disease and ulcerative colitis.
Gastrointestinal delay progression of disability in patients In December 2015, we entered into an Our strategic priorities with multiple system atrophy.
The National agreement with Perrigo for the divestment Nexium remains one of the most used Institute on Drug Abuse in the US is of US rights to Entocort, granting Perrigo therapies in the world.
In 2015, its use conducting and funding a Phase II trial of the rights to sell Entocort capsules and the continued to grow in markets including AZD8529 in smoking cessation.
AZD7325 authorised generic Entocort capsules China and Japan.
Demand for Nexium in is in a clinical trial sponsored by the National marketed by Par Pharmaceuticals.
China is expected to grow significantly and Institute of Mental Health in the US to be will complement its position in Japan as the tested as a potential treatment for autism top-selling medicine in its class.
Nexium is generally subject to generic Pain control competition in Europe.
In the US, we Our anaesthesia portfolio consists of expected the first generic entry in 2014 but various compounds, including an that did not occur.
In January 2015, Teva intravenous general anaesthetic received approval from the FDA to market sedative and local anaesthetics available a generic version of Nexium.
Since then, in different formulations.
The portfolio Mylan, Hetero Camber, Dr Reddy Labs includes injectables, creams, gels, sprays and Torrent received approval for generic and suppositories.
Nexium is also subject AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 41
