Governance | Board of directors | 60 BOARD OF DIRECTORS John Bason Finance Director age 58 John was appointed as Finance Director in May 1999.
He was previously the finance director of Bunzl plc and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Other appointments: He is a non-executive director of Compass Group PLC, a trustee of Voluntary Service Overseas and chairman of the charity FareShare.
Charles Sinclair George Weston Chairman age 67 Chief Executive age 51 Charles was appointed a non-executive director George was appointed to the board in 1999 in October 2008 and as Chairman in April 2009. and took up his current appointment as Chief With wide business experience of both the UK Executive in April 2005.
In his former roles at and overseas, his executive career was previously Associated British Foods, he was Managing with Daily Mail and General Trust plc, where he Director of Westmill Foods, Allied Bakeries was chief executive from 1989 until he retired and George Weston Foods Limited Australia.
from that role and the board in September 2008.
Other appointments: He was elected Warden of Winchester College He is a non-executive director of Wittington in 2014.
Investments Limited and a trustee of the Committee membership: Garfield Weston Foundation.
Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration committees.
Emma Adamo Non-executive director age 52 Emma was appointed as a director in December 2011.
She was educated at Stanford University and INSEAD in France.
Other appointments: She is a director of Wittington Investments Limited, and of the W Garfield Weston Foundation in Canada.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Governance | Board of directors | 61 Ruth Cairnie Timothy Clarke Javier Ferrn Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director age 61 age 58 age 59 Ruth was appointed a director in May 2014.
Tim was appointed a director in November 2004 Javier was appointed a director in November She has extensive overseas experience including and has been Senior Independent Director since 2006.
He spent the earlier part of his career international marketing and supply chain.
Tim has extensive experience with Bacardi Group, where latterly he served was formerly Executive Vice President Strategy of retailing.
Until 2009, he was chief executive as president and chief executive officer.
He has & Planning at Royal Dutch Shell Plc.
This role of Mitchells & Butlers plc, following its demerger in-depth knowledge of consumer brands on an followed a number of senior international roles from Six Continents PLC where he also held international basis and in international financing.
within Shell, including Vice President of their the position of chief executive.
Previously he Other appointments: Global Commercial Fuels business.
She is had been a partner of Panmure Gordon & Co He is a partner at Lion Capital LLP, a a physicist by qualification.
before joining Bass PLC in 1990.
London-based private equity firm, and a Other appointments: Other appointments: non-executive director of SABMiller plc.
She is a non-executive director of Keller Group plc He is a non-executive director of two pub and Committee membership: and of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc.
brewing companies, Hall & Woodhouse Limited, Member of the Nomination and and Timothy Taylor & Company Limited, and Committee membership: Remuneration committees.
also Triple Point VCT 2011 PLC.
Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration committees.
Committee membership: Member of the Nomination and Remuneration committees.
Wolfhart Hauser Lord Jay of Ewelme GCMG Peter Smith Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director age 65 age 69 age 69 Wolhart was appointed a director in January 2015.
Lord Jay was appointed a director in November Peter was appointed a director in February 2007 Starting his career with various research activities, 2006 and has broad experience of government and brings broad experience of international he went on to establish and lead a broad range and international business.
During his career financial matters.
Formerly, he was senior partner ofsuccessful international service industry in public service he was British Ambassador at  PwC in the UK.
He was chief executive of Intertek to France from 1996 to 2001 and Permanent He served for two years as chairman of Coopers Group plc for ten years until he retired from that Under Secretary at the Foreign & Commonwealth & Lybrand International and as a member of role and the board in May 2015.
He was previously Office from 2002 to 2006.
He was previously the global leadership team of PwC.
He was also chief executive officer and president of TV a non-executive director of Candover chairman of RAC plc and a non-executive director Sddeutschland AG for four years and chief Investments plc, Valeo the French-based of Safeway plc.
executive officer of TV Product Services for automobile parts company and of Electricite Other appointments: tenyears.
He is chairman of Savills plc and Templeton Other appointments: Other appointments: Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc, and a He is chairman of FirstGroup plc.
He is also a He has been an independent member of the House member of the supervisory board of Rothschild non-executive director of RELX Group plc and its of Lords since 2006.
He is also chairman of the & Co SCA.
He is also chairman of the Land listed parent companies RELX PLC and RELX NV.
British Library Advisory Council and a trustee of Restoration Trust.
the Thomson Reuters Founders Share Company.
Committee membership: Committee membership: Member of the Audit and Committee membership: Chairman of the Audit committee and a member Remuneration committees.
Member of the Audit, Nomination and of the Nomination and Remuneration committees.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
