Strategic report | Operating review | Agriculture | 28 AGRICULTURE Revenue 1,211m 2014: 1,312m DRIVING Actual fx: -8% Constant fx: -8% Adjusted operating profit RESPONSIBLE 60m 2014: 50m Actual fx: 20% Constant fx: 18% AGRI-FOOD Adjusted operating profit margin 5.0% 2014: 3.8% PRODUCTION Return on average capital employed 19.2% 2014: 17.3% Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Operating review | Agriculture | 29 GROWTH THROUGH COLLABORATION AB AGRI CHINA AB Agri in China is playing a significant part in improving the safety and efficiency of meat production in the country by supplying safe, high-performance animal nutrition and services to feed producers, livestock farms and food processors.
Feed and food safety, and commodity cost management are currently the subject of much focus in China and represent a key challenge to the livestock industry.
These are no different to the challenges faced by livestock producers globally, but the step changes in how food is produced i. e. away from small farm holdings, are bringing a unique set of challenges and opportunities to all businesses that operate within the food supply chain in China.
Since our first investment in China in 1996 our vision and ambition has been to build a Chinese business that benefits Chinese people by leading improvements in food safety and efficiency.
A constant element of this approach has been to invest in local people and, through consistent training and a wide range of support mechanisms, ensure About Agriculture: AB Agri is a AB Agris operations comprise: that the business is founded on loyalty major business in UK agriculture and is AB Connect a feed supply business and highly responsible technology increasingly operating on a global scale.
serving the UKs food and farming and practices.
It supplies feed and technology-based community: products and services to farmers, AB Agri China has an enviable record feed and food manufacturers, AB Vista an international supplier of staff loyalty, the majority of the processors and retailers.
It also buys of world-leading feed ingredients General Managers having been with grain from UK farmers and supplies and technical services: the business for more than ten years.
them with agronomy advice and This is significant because it underpins Speciality Nutrition a supplier of crop inputs through its joint venture, the building of key relationships and high-quality, bespoke, vitamin mineral Frontier Agriculture.
trust which provides a strong platform premixes, starter feed and to facilitate effective and relevant Operating across the agricultural micro-ingredients, with world-class knowledge transfer.
It gives us the supply chain, AB Agri manufactures nutrition and formulation expertise: opportunity to take western learnings high-performance compound feeds, AB Sustain a specialist in designing, and technologies and adapt and provides world-leading analytical developing and delivering bespoke apply them into the local market.
services, nutritional advice and poultry sustainable agricultural supply chain By opening up dialogue and building marketing services for customers.
solutions for clients: trust a consistent pipeline of It provides a value-added service to improvement practices have been, food, drink and bioethanol companies AB Agri China a high-performance and continue to be, channelled into internationally, by marketing their feed manufacturer for the ruminant, the fast-changing China food industry.
co-products as animal feed, which pig and poultry sectors, a co-product in turn helps to reduce the costs of marketing and feed additives business This is the foundation of AB Agri production for its farming customer and an industrial services business Chinas success well trained local base.
Working globally it supplies working with large-scale processors people who are close to, and have the livestock and pet industries with to optimise the food supply chain: and a good understanding of, their premixes, enzymes and other technical market but who also have access to Frontier Agriculture a joint venture ingredients and plays a key role in world-class nutrition and management which is the UKs leading crop inputs delivering supply chain integrity for practices via established links into and grain marketing organisation.
the wider AB Agri network.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report | Operating review | Agriculture | 30 AGRICULTURE supply of crop inputs such as fertilisers, seeds and agronomy services has grown DRIVING VALUE FOR significantly and now exceeds that from its original grain marketing business.
BUSINESSES ALONG THE This year, the business traded at similar levels to last year with added complexity in its grain trading operations, and lower FOOD SUPPLY CHAIN than normal protein levels in domestic wheat which increased the demand AB Agri had another record year and modernisation of the UK premix plant for quality wheat imports.
with strong performances across all at Rugeley enabled the business to meet AB Agri China delivered a strong result businesses.
Adjusted operating profit higher domestic demand and this year driven by good procurement and a was 18% ahead of last year at constant has also seen the further extension of its favourable product mix.
The new feed currency but revenues were 8% lower European operations into the strategically mills are performing well with Zhenlai than last year as a result of softer important Spanish swine market.
delivering substantial cost savings to its commodity prices.
Importantly, cash In response to the UK governments major customer and Rudong, which was margins in the UK feed business commitment to reducing the countrys built to supply feed exclusively to a major were maintained.
greenhouse gas emissions, AB Agri international processor, already UK feed volumes held up well despite has now gained accreditation for its performing to plan.
continued pressure on the UK dairy sector energy management system which AB Vista, our international feed ingredients where AB Connects range of ruminant has been deployed across all of its UK business, continued to deliver strong feed products offered a cost-effective way manufacturing sites and major offices.
growth in both sales and profit, driven by of maintaining or improving milk yields This will result in better measurement further success for Quantum Blue which and quality.
It was a year of recovering and management of energy use in the achieved significant market share gains volumes in the poultry sector following business and will increasingly inform in the phytase market.
Encouragingly, a difficult period, whilst in the pig sector, its strategic investment decisions.
we see further growth opportunities in feed volumes were slightly ahead of last Frontier Agriculture, our joint venture new applications and geographies where year.
Market concerns remain over the arable operation, celebrated its 10th AB Vista currently has a lower presence, relative cost of British pork compared with anniversary this year.
Formed in April and planned expansion of AB Enzymes euro-denominated imports, but consumers 2005, the business has since doubled in fermentation plant in Finland will ensure have continued to support British produce.
size and now serves 10,000 customers.
supply can match our growth expectations.
In Speciality Nutrition, the recent expansion Over this decade the income from the With no blueprint from which to operate standard.
AB Agri was invited to join THE FIRST AGRICULTURE and with limited information from factory a UK cross-sector working group to ACCREDITED CARBON MODEL carbon processes, AB Agri brought create such a standard.
The result was AB SUSTAIN together a team with expertise in farm PAS2050 which provides a consistent, metrics, agricultural management internationally applicable, method for In the early 2000s a growing awareness systems, data modelling and nutrition.
of the impact that carbon emissions Information about the levels of carbon The AB Agri models are the only ones were having on climate change led to a dioxide emitted by the growing of in agriculture to receive PAS2050 Tier 3 spotlight on agriculture and, in particular, most crops and their manufacture into certification the highest available.
methane emissions from animals and feedstuffs, or about the levels of methane nitrous oxide emissions from fertiliser.
In 2009, Sainsburys, having recognised emitted by different species or breeds At this time, little was known about the potential contribution that on-farm of animal and variations attributable to carbon emissions in agriculture and no data collection and benchmarking could size, age and diet, was either very limited, large-scale or practical models existed make to improve their supply chains, incomplete or non-existent.
Nor was to capture data and insights.
contracted with AB Agri exclusively to go there any guidance on how to develop a beyond dairy and build carbon models for Insight from AB Agris on-farm data methodology to create calculations where their other UK farm categories.
In 2010, capture and improvement programmes none existed.
Using the teams agri-science a three-year contract was agreed to provided an opportunity for the business expertise, methodologies, calculations and include beef, lamb, pork, egg and broiler to lead the way in this emerging formulae were systematically designed and farms.
This was extended to include landscape.
Recognising that a scalable built for each missing element to create other UK-based agri-food producer model which measured greenhouse a workable model.
This included a unique groups and today we are providing more gases could be an attractive proposition, methane equation which made the model than 2,000 UK farm carbon assessments both for retailers and brand owners, an the most advanced and accurate of its a year.
We also undertake a range of outline concept was presented to Dairy kind in the world.
ad-hoc agri supply chain data information Crest in 2006 who in turn shared the Imperial College London and the consultancy projects and have gone idea with one of their largest retail milk Carbon Trust, were engaged to provide beyond UK shores with carbon modelling customers Sainsburys.
Their positive independent validation of the model of more than 100 New Zealand sheep response inspired the business to turn which, today, would be routine but then farms and the measurement of this concept into reality.
there was no relevant certification Sainsburys Maldivian tuna supply chain.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Operating review | Agriculture | 31 One of several key trends identified was a move towards MAKING LIGHT WORK miniaturisation the software being operated on smaller, AUNIR: HANDHELD NIR more portable machines.
In line with its strategy of delivering world-class calibrations via multiple channels Aunir is our globally recognised, independent, near infrared within its chosen industries Aunir has forged strategic reflectance NIR calibration development and delivery partnerships with a number of companies developing micro business.
It delivers NIR analysis for customers internationally NIR hardware to provide gold-standard Ingot calibrations through the use of Ingot the biggest NIR calibration on portable NIR platforms.
Aunirs reputation as a leader in the application of NIR With over 30 years experience, Aunir is totally focused solutions within agricultural supply chains means that a on NIR spectroscopy.
It sits at the centre of the NIR industry number of businesses are keen to partner with them.
One and works with all major NIR platforms.
Its software packages example is JDSU who first introduced themselves to Aunir are used in a wide range of markets where organic materials in 2011.
A legal framework was put in place to allow for an need to be measured and controlled, such as animal feed open dialogue and sharing of knowledge.
The combination of and ingredients, forages, cotton production, sugar their technology advances and Aunirs expertise in calibration production, and plant breeding.
development represented an opportunity for a step change The business started life as an integral part of our UK feed in NIR analysis.
Continued investment and learning business and the majority of users were laboratory-based highlighted the commercial value of the offering and quality control departments of feed manufacturing sites.
In 2011, the Aunir team worked closely with our emerging The subsequent journey was typical of boundary-pushing micro ingredients business, AB Vista, as well as the technologies: developing prototypes, testing, sourcing AB Agri strategy team to conduct an in-depth review components, redesigning products, and yet more testing.
of the business including: In April 2015, NIR4 Farm was formally launched into the its historical roots and its position in the market: UK and Ireland dairy market, providing a unique hand-held, real-time-result delivery device for farmers and their advisors its core strengths: to predict accurately the nutritional content of forage on farm, where it created real value for customers: at an accessible price.
Following an overwhelming amount of interest for the technology to be applied to other industries, the direction of travel of the world of NIR, its hot prospects work is already underway to expand into new applications and where it should be targeting its efforts: and and new geographies.
the identification of opportunities to develop new products, services or delivery methods, and or enter new markets.
% ADF VFA Ash pH Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
