Strategic report Chief Executives strategic review continued Increasingly our customers are demanding a combination of our products and this, backed by our one AVEVA sales strategy, is driving wider adoption of all our products.
We now have more than 230 customers It is a testament to the dedication of all of The Future who have licensed AVEVA E3D, and our people around the world that we were Adapting to shifting customer priorities the cumulative revenue to date since able to deliver significant cost efficiencies Efficiency is even more important than launch has exceeded 11.0 million.
Thus, in the second half of the year and looking ever for our customers and it is AVEVAs as we look at the current financial year ahead we shall have an even greater goal to provide the tools to deal with ever AVEVA E3D is expected to be a material focus on costs during the current financial shorter time-frames and greater cost contributor to revenue for the first time year.
Whilst we recognise the challenges constraints.
Via the creation of the Digital and the long-term outlook is exciting.
in our markets, we are focused on the Asset we help our customers to focus on opportunities that lie before us both profitability and a lean organisation.
This Strategic development through M&A strategically and operationally.
As a result, is a journey for our customers, many of The acquisition of 8over8 Limited in the Board is confident that we can achieve whom are now placing the Digital Asset January 2015 was strategically important our growth targets over the medium term.
at the heart of their technology vision.
and is being integrated according to Our solutions in the design world are plan.
8over8s core software platform, Richard Longdon increasingly being called upon to integrate ProCon, is sold principally to organisations Chief Executive information about the as-built asset, via that design, build and operate high 19 May 2015 integrated laser modelling capabilities, as value assets, where it is used as a risk well as operational asset information, via management tool for increased project AVEVA NET.
As a result OOs can extend control and capital discipline.
Acquiring the life of their assets whilst our EPC this business is an example of how we can customers can use our solutions to design use M&A as a strategic tool for growing more efficient assets, handling the data in our business into related technologies and the project phase far more efficiently and market areas and shows our disciplined incorporating operational lessons learned approach to acquisitions.
There is a ready to handover to the operator.
strong logical fit and we have several AVEVA NET customers who have ProCon Summary and outlook implemented alongside our solution.
For much of the year under review AVEVA AVEVA has always had the capabilities for has faced more challenging market managing changes in design and other conditions.
We have been particularly data via our existing tools and solutions affected by the reduction in activity in the and now ProCon brings us the capability upstream Oil & Gas sector.
Over time we to manage the impact of those changes expect capital investment in Oil & Gas on a projects cost and outcome.
We are, infrastructure to return to growth, but therefore, optimistic that this acquisition the timing of this is uncertain.
Despite opens up a range of new opportunities the mixed trading environment, we have for growth both in our existing markets demonstrated our ability to capitalise on and other related industries.
our strengths: a broad international reach and strong competitive positioning in all of our markets.
We aim to continue to lead through innovation and, as has been demonstrated by the milestones achieved with AVEVA E3D, to drive growth through exciting new offerings.
20 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
