STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Customers are investing in new technologies from AVEVA to maximise their competitiveness and efficiency.
During the year we were pleased The Board to acquire 8over8 Limited.
Based in I am pleased to report further progress in Over 1,600 Northern Ireland, 8over8s core product, developing the Boards role in supporting employees ProCon, is a software solution designed and reviewing the Groups strategy for to minimise risk and increase control long-term growth.
I believe that the and capital discipline for some of the scope and effectiveness of this process worlds most complex projects.
This is now delivering results which can be demonstrates AVEVA is well placed to use clearly seen in the various strategic its balance sheet to deliver well-timed, and organisational achievements strategically important acquisitions with noted above.
As a Board, we continue a strong logical fit.
We are confident that to monitor closely the achievement the addition of 8over8 will enable us to of business objectives alongside the further broaden our relationships with oversight of risks and the maintenance the OO community, and serve to further of strong governance processes.
differentiate AVEVA in its markets.
Dividend Market environment AVEVA has a progressive dividend policy, The lower oil price has led to a reduction in reflecting the Boards confidence in the global upstream E&P capital expenditure, underlying strength of the business and and it is well documented that a number of its ability to deliver profitable long-term projects have been postponed or mothgrowth and strong cash generation.
balled, although the overall effect for Consequently, the Board is recommending AVEVA is mixed.
This has had an impact a final dividend of 25 pence 2014 on our EPC customers, their backlogs and 22pence, an increase of 14% over the 158.2m 8% general levels of activity.
prior year, payable on 3 August 2015 to Recurring revenue 5yr growth in shareholders on the register on 3 July recurring revenue We have market-leading, well-invested 2015.
This gives a full year dividend of technology solutions that underpin our 30.5pence 2014 27 pence, an increase competitive advantage across our target of 13% over last year.
Our mission to enable our customers to work globally Outlook with less risk, shorter lead-times and I believe that the quality and commitment Group revenue greater business efficiency throughout of the AVEVA team worldwide has the asset lifecycle ensures we are aligned been central to our ability to show the 208.7m to robust long-term growth drivers, resilience of our business in the face of 2014 237.3m particularly given demand for energy, more challenging and uncertain market the increasing complexity of their assets, conditions, and on behalf of the Board the focus on health and safety and I would like to thank everyone in the Full year dividend environmental considerations.
However, organisation for the effort and dedication despite some stabilisation in the oil price, that has enabled us to achieve this.
30.5 pence it is difficult to predict when the delayed 2014 27 pence capital projects will be restarted.
The Board is convinced that there continues to be exciting growth opportunities for Operationally, we demonstrated our ability AVEVA in the coming years, and that the to react with agility to changing market strength of the long-term fundamentals conditions, and our early actions enabled across our various end markets remains us to deliver cost efficiencies ahead of our undiminished.
We will continue to focus original plans.
This protected profitability on managing our cost base to further in the second half of the financial year.
As a result, we are confident in our ability to make further progress in capitalising on these opportunities in the future.
Philip Aiken Chairman 19 May 2015 Read more on www.
com 5 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Customer proposition Digital Assets that shape our world INCREASE Predictability and reliability across the entire life cycle Managing continual change Recent major fluctuations in the global energy market clearly Read more on www.
com digitalasset strategies demonstrate the difficulty of our customers business.
They are building and operating highly complex assets costing billions of dollars that require an army of skilled professionals across a huge range of disciplines and specialities.
Managing this environment in the best of times is difficult, but when changing market conditions demand business agility, the challenge grows even more difficult.
At AVEVA we are helping our customers take on these challenges with software solutions that give them the engineering, design and information management tools they need to create a more agile business.
This is what our Digital Asset approach is all about.
By partnering with AVEVA our customers can create a trusted source of information that is accessible throughout the entire life cycle of an asset: from front-end design until decommissioning.
This strategy means that EPCs and Shipbuilders can achieve greater project predictability and OOs can improve productivity, safety and reliability.
However, no organisation can achieve these results on their own.
The complexities of the constantly evolving challenges demand that we work closely with our customers in a genuine partnership.
To do this we must understand their organisation, the technical disciplines and the local culture and business climate.
Operating in over 50 locations around the world staffed by a team of industry experts, we are uniquely positioned to understand the needs of our customers and respond with solutions that help them CAPEX achieve their goals.
This infrastructure is a major investment for While there is a great diversity in the types of AVEVA, but it also brings great benefits to our business and that major capital projects, one thing they all have of our customers.
Over the decades we have formed long-term in common is the need to find an effective relationships with our customers and our shared vision of a balance between quality, time and cost.
AVEVAs Digital Asset is truly shaping the world around us.
project solutions are all focused on increasing predictability through a wide range of features Read more on and capabilities.
They give project stakeholders www.
com the design, engineering and information standards they need to understand and controltheir project environment.
OPEX The operational demands of a complex asset are relentless.
They are in a constant state of change, requiring continual maintenance and improvement.
Operators must be in a position to thoroughly monitor and manage the life cycle of the asset to reduce risk, optimise efficiency and comply with regulatory authorities.
To support this process, AVEVAs solutions for operational activities are designed to increase asset reliability, by ensuring that OOs have the information they need to easily visualise the status of an asset to make rapid and informed decisions.
6 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
