STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ENABLE CONTROL Digital Asset strategies targeted The processes and capabilities at different audiences that ensure success Read more on Read more on www.
com digitalasset solutions INTEGRATED PROJECT EXECUTION INTEGRATED ENGINEERING The IPE strategy employs best practice standards & DESIGN to improve on-schedule completion and the The IE&D solution dramatically improves design quality of deliverables for major capital projects.
and engineering process efficiency for major The ability to access project data across all capital projects, as well as for asset modification engineering disciplines allows efficient control, and revamps.
A unique Compare & Update and communication and response to change and Change Highlighting functionality allows project inconsistencies, enabling business processes disciplines to easily and dynamically share design to collaborate in a highly efficient way and and engineering information in order to control improved communication with the asset owner.
INTEGRATED SHIPBUILDING ENTERPRISE RESOURCE AVEVA offers the most complete solution for MANAGEMENT integrating all aspects of the shipbuilding process, The ERM solution delivers measurable ROI enabling effective information sharing and throughout every step of the material management, workflow management.
By creating a trusted planning and construction process.
This easyand open Digital Asset, AVEVAs Integrated to-use solution ensures efficient planning and Shipbuilding strategy delivers maximum execution of a marine or plant project and optimum capability and effective collaboration within the management of multiple projects to create shipyard and across globally distributed suppliers.
OPERATIONS INTEGRITY DIGITAL ASSET SOLUTIONS MANAGEMENT The information management capabilities offer a At the centre of an OIM strategy is the range of solutions for EPCs, OOs and shipbuilders Digital Asset, connecting capabilities and based on our unique AVEVA NET technology.
processes to enhance operational reliability.
They create an open environment that provides Removing the barriers between information access to information regardless of the silos is crucial to a successful OIM strategy, application source.
The result is a single, trusted improving information quality to provide reliable source of information that reduces risk through information for decision support, delivering rapid and better-informed decision making.
safe, reliable and efficient operations.
7 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Business model Our organisation and business model Creating a business that responds to the needs of our customers GLOBAL SALES SOLUTIONS & DIGITAL ASSET BUSINESS FINANCE BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY PROJECTS STRATEGY & LEGAL SERVICES Focused on & MARKETING selling our A unified A single service Meeting the Delivering the full product technology organisation Defining our essential people, talent and solution organisation delivering a business financial and IT business portfolio to all responsible for full range of strategy and management, systems that are of our EPC, OO the development consulting and communicating legal and critical to the and Shipbuilding and integration implementation AVEVAs vision contractual efficiency and customers of all our services to all internally and requirements of growth of the software and our customers to our target a growing global organisation solutions around the world markets organisation OPERATIONS Driving AVEVAs business strategy across all geographic regions to support the long-term success of the Company Business model At the core of AVEVAs business is the We operate a right-to-use licensing model The amount of service required to deploy intellectual property generated in our for our software.
Typically, customers our software varies depending on the software products.
The Group sells its licence our software for a specified type of solution.
Typically our services proprietary software products by licensing number of users by paying an initial licence consist of consulting, implementation rights to use the software directly to fee followed by an obligatory annual fee or and customisation, which are provided customers through our network of global by paying a rental fee over a fixed period either on a fixed contract or on a time sales offices.
This strategy provides of time.
In both cases, the customer has andmaterial basis.
customers with local sales and support to continue to pay a fee in order to use the and helps AVEVA to work closely with software.
This model continues to provide leading companies principally in the Oil a strong recurring revenue base for AVEVA & Gas, Power and Marine markets.
which allows us to invest in the future roadmap of our products.
8 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
