Strategic report Chairmans statement Strategic progress Introduction The resilience of the Notwithstanding the tougher market Overview backdrop, I am pleased to report that Groups business I am pleased to report that AVEVA has AVEVA has continued to make excellent made good progress in difficult market strategic progress on a number of model has been a conditions, and that the resilience of the fronts.
This is particularly evident in the Groups business model has been a key key feature of the newly realigned organisation within our feature of the past twelve months.
sales, Research & Development and past twelve months.
A year ago The full year results reflect our particular we introduced One AVEVA to better focus on execution in the second half support our Engineering, Procurement and of the financial year.
Total recurring Construction EPC and Owner Operator revenue for the second half of the OO customers through a single sales year was up 5%, demonstrating the approach.
This has proved to be very resilience of our business.
We were effective at helping us to grow the number also able to deliver the 10.0 million of of solution sales we make.
In addition, we cost efficiencies we had targeted.
have recently unified our development teams across all of our solutions and Group revenue of 208.7 million 2014 technologies and streamlined our solution 237.3 million, was in line with our revised delivery capabilities.
expectations and adjusted profit before Philip Aiken tax was 62.1 million 2014 78.3 million, Chairman We have continued to make very good resulting in an adjusted profit margin of 19 May 2015 progress with our Global Accounts.
The reported profit Many customers are responding to more before tax was 54.9 million 2014 69.0 uncertain markets by investing in new million.
Adjusted basic earnings per share technologies from AVEVA to maximise declined 16% to 74.51 pence 2014 89.05 competitiveness and efficiency.
Basic earnings per share declined E3D has been an outstanding example 17% to 65.07 pence 2014 78.12 pence.
of this and has proved to be a powerful We closed the year with net cash of catalyst for us to deepen our relationships 103.8million 2014 117.5 million.
As a result we are pleased to be able to report significant This result reflects a reduced market new contracts with Aker Solutions, WS demand throughout the year due to the Atkins and KBR, among others.
significantly lower oil price and subsequent reduction in customer activity, as well AVEVA E3D is a clear example of AVEVAs as the previously reported weakness in position as the leading innovator within South America and North East Asia during its industry.
We have also delivered a the first half.
The strength of sterling range of new products and functional also had a pronounced negative effect enhancements to many of our other on our reported results, trimming Group products over the last twelve months.
Of revenue by 6%, as our overseas revenue particular note is the Activity Visualisation was translated at less favourable rates Platform and the new Cloud-enabled compared to the last financial year.
version of AVEVA E3D, both of which have generated much excitement from customers in recent months.
4 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
