STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Non-Executive Directors Implementation of remuneration policy for NEDs in 2015 As noted in the Policy Report, the fees for the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are determined taking account of the individuals responsibilities, time devoted to the role and prevalent market rates.
2014 15 fees Role Chairman 165,880 Basic Non-Executive Director fee 47,150 Committee Chairman fee Audit and Remuneration 10,700 Senior Independent Director 10,700 Fees for 2015 16 shall increase by the same rate as the salary increase for UK employees 2%.
Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors Audited The table below shows a single figure of remuneration for each of our Non-Executive Directors, for the years 2014 15 and 2013 14.
2014 15 2013 14 fees fees Philip Aiken Chairman 165,880 150,800 Jennifer Allerton 47,150 34,320 Jonathan Brooks 57,850 56,160 Herv Couturier 11,440 Philip Dayer 68,550 66,560 From date of appointment.
NEDs interests in shares The table shows the interests in AVEVA ordinary shares of Non-Executive Directors and their connected persons as at 31 March 2015.
Shares owned Shares owned outright at outright at 31March 1 April 2015 2014 Philip Aiken Chairman 1,537 937 Jennifer Allerton 3,000 1,000 Jonathan Brooks 1,500 Philip Dayer 7,696 6,562 There have been no changes to Directors holdings between the year end date and the publication of this report.
This Remuneration Committee report has been approved by the Board of Directors and is signed on its behalf by: Philip Dayer Remuneration Committee Chairman 19 May 2015 59 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Directors report Other statutory information Results and dividends The interests all of which are beneficial in the shares of the The Group made a profit for the year after taxation of 41.6 million Company of Directors who held office at 31 March 2015 in respect 2014 51.0 million.
Revenue was 208.7 million 2014 237.3 of transactions notifiable under Disclosure and Transparency Rule million and comprised software licences, software maintenance 3.1.
2 that have been disclosed to the Company are as follows: and services.
At 31March At 31March 2015 2014 The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of ordinary ordinary shares shares 25pence per ordinary share 2014 22.0 pence.
If approved at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be Philip Aiken 1,537 937 paid on 3 August 2015 to shareholders on the register at close of Philip Dayer 7,696 6,562 business on 3 July 2015.
Jonathan Brooks 1,500 Jennifer Allerton 3,000 1,000 Business review and future developments Richard Longdon 249,632 246,349 A review of the Groups operations during the year and its plans James Kidd 13,108 6,901 for the future is given in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives statement and the Finance review.
No changes took place in the interests of Directors in the shares of The Key Performance Indicators used by AVEVA to measure the Company between 31 March 2015 and 19 May 2015. its own performance at the Group level include total revenue, recurring revenue, adjusted profit before tax, adjusted earnings Directors share options are disclosed in the Remuneration per share and headcount.
The figures for the year ended 31 March Committee report on pages 45 to 59.
2015 are set out on page 21, together with figures for the previous year and a discussion of the principal risks and uncertainties facing No Director had a material interest in any significant contract, the Group is included on pages 22 and 23. other than a service contract or contract for services, with the Company or any of its subsidiaries at any time during the year.
Research & Development The Group continues an active programme of Research & Resolutions will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting for Development which covers the updating of and extension to the re-election of all current Directors.
Brief biographical details of the Groups range of products.
all Directors appear on pages 40 and 41.
Intellectual property Conflict of interest The Group owns intellectual property both in its software tools Throughout the year the Company has operated effective and the products derived from them.
The Directors consider such procedures to deal with potential or actual conflicts of interest.
properties to be of significant value to the business and have a During the year no conflict arose requiring the Board to exercise comprehensive programme to protect it.
Financial instruments Share capital The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are Details of the issued share capital can be found in note 28 to the discussed in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
The rights attaching to the Companys shares are set out in its Articles of Association.
Going concern The Group has significant financial resources, is profitable and Subject to any restrictions referred to in the next section, has a strong position in the markets it serves.
At 31 March 2015 members may attend any general meeting of the Company.
the Group had cash and treasury deposit balances of 103.8 million 2014 117.5 million and no debt.
Therefore, after making There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the enquiries and considering the cash flow forecasts for the Group, Company other than: certain restrictions which may from time the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider adequate resources to continue its operational existence for the trading laws : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the Conduct Authority whereby Directors and certain employees going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the ordinary shares and pursuant to the Articles of Association Directors and their interests where there is default in supplying the Company with information The Directors who served during the year under review are concerning interests in the Companys shares.
There are no shown below: special control rights in relation to the Companys shares.
Philip Aiken Chairman Philip Dayer Non-Executive Director and Senior IndependentDirector Jonathan Brooks Non-Executive Director Jennifer Allerton Non-Executive Director Richard Longdon Chief Executive James Kidd Chief Financial Officer 60 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Voting rights Change of control Subject to any restrictions below, on a show of hands every All of the Companys share-based plans contain provisions relating member who is present in person or by proxy at a general meeting to change of control.
Outstanding awards and options normally has one vote on each resolution and, on a poll, every member who vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the is present in person or by proxy has one vote on each resolution satisfaction of any relevant performance conditions at that time.
for every share of which he she is the registered member.
A proxy will have one vote for and one vote against a resolution There are no other significant agreements to which the Company on a show of hands in certain circumstances specified in the is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of Articles of Association.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting control of the Company following a takeover bid.
specifies deadlines for exercising rights.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors A resolution put to the vote of a general meeting is decided on a or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or show of hands, unless before or on the declaration of the result employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
of the show of hands, a poll is demanded by the Chairman of the meeting.
The Articles of the Company also allow members, in Substantial shareholdings certain circumstances, to demand that a resolution is decided Interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company are set out by a poll.
A member may vote personally or by proxy at a general meeting.
The Company had been notified, in accordance with Disclosure Any form of proxy must be delivered to the Company not and Transparency Rule 5, of the following interests in the ordinary less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the share capital of the Company: meeting or adjourned meeting at which the person named in the As at As at appointment proposes to vote for this purpose, the Directors 31March 19May may specify that no account shall be taken of any part of a day 2015 2015 that is not a working day.
A corporation which is a member of the Percentage Percentage Name of holder Number held % Number held % Company may authorise such persons as it thinks fit to act as its representatives at any general meeting of the Company.
Aberdeen Asset Management 6,738,494 10.5 6,738,494 10.5 No member shall be entitled to attend or vote, either personally Threadneedle or by proxy, at a general meeting in respect of any share if any Investments 4,070,850 6.4 4,070,850 6.4 call or other sum presently payable to the Company in respect 1818 Partners 3,579,808 5.6 3,579,808 5.6 of such share remains unpaid or in certain other circumstances Allianz Global specified in the Articles of Association where there is default in Investors Europe 3,325,180 5.2 3,325,180 5.2 supplying the Company with information concerning interests Oppenheimer Funds 3,282,080 5.1 3,282,080 5.1 inthe Companys shares.
BlackRock 3,141,009 4.9 3,141,009 4.9 Standard Life Dividends, distributions and liquidation Investments 2,023,327 3.2 2,023,327 3.2 Members can declare final dividends by passing an ordinary HMI Capital Partners 1,955,000 3.1 1,955,000 3.1 resolution but the amount of the dividends cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board can pay interim dividends provided the distributable profits of the Company Articles of Association justify such payment.
The Board may, if authorised by an ordinary Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company resolution of the members, offer any member the right to elect to may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies receive new shares, which will be credited as fully paid, instead of Act by way of special resolution.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for 12 years after it became due for payment will be forfeited and will Powers of the Directors then revert to the Company.
Members may share in surplus assets The business of the Company is managed by the Directors, on a liquidation.
who may exercise all powers of the Company, subject to the Companys Articles of Association, relevant statutory law and If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the sanction to any direction that may be given by the Company in general of the members by special resolution and any other sanction meeting by special resolution.
Subject to the Companies Act, required by law, divide among the members all or any part of shares may be issued by Board resolution.
At the Companys last the assets of the Company and he she can value any assets and Annual General Meeting, powers were granted to the Directors determine how the divisions shall be carried out as between the subject to limits set out in the resolutions to issue and to buy members or different classes of members.
The liquidator can back its own shares: similar powers are proposed to be granted at also transfer the whole or any part of the assets to trustees upon the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The buy-back authority any trusts for the benefit of the members.
No members can be was limited to 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
No compelled to accept any asset which would give them any liability.
shares have been bought back under this authority.
There are no agreements between holders of securities that are known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights, save as described below in relation to the Employee Benefit Trust.
61 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Directors report Other statutory information continued Appointment of Directors Disabled employees The Articles of Association limit the number of Directors to not The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment less than two and not more than ten save where members decide from disabled persons where the candidates particular aptitudes otherwise.
Members may appoint Directors by ordinary resolution and abilities are consistent with adequately meeting the and may remove any Director subject to the giving of special requirements of the job.
Opportunities are available to disabled notice and, if desired, replace such removed Director by ordinary employees for training, career development and promotion.
New Directors may be appointed by the Board but are subject to election by members at the first Annual General Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups Meeting after their appointment.
A Director may be removed from policy to provide continuing employment wherever practicable office if requested by all other Directors.
in the same or an alternative position and to provide appropriate training to achieve this aim as well as reasonable adjustments to The Companys Articles of Association require that at each the workplace and other support mechanisms.
AGM there shall retire from office and be subject to re-election by members any Director who shall have been a Director at Employee involvement the preceding two Annual General Meetings and who was not The Group places considerable value on the involvement of appointed or re-appointed then or subsequently.
However, its employees and has continued to keep them informed of in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the matters affecting them as employees and on the various factors Company requires all Directors who held office at 31 March 2015 to affecting the performance of the Group.
This is achieved through stand for re-election.
formal and informal meetings, employee newsletters, the Group intranet and presentations from senior management.
There is an Listing Rules disclosures employee representative committee which meets on a regular For the purpose of LR9.8.
4C R, the only applicable information basis to discuss a wide range of matters affecting their current required to be disclosed in accordance with LR9.8.
4 R can be and future interests.
All employees are entitled to receive an found in the section below titled Employee benefit trust.
The annual discretionary award related to the overall profitability of the information concerned is in respect of shareholder waiver of Group subject to the performance of the individual and the Group.
The Group conducts employee-wide surveys from time to time to gauge the success or otherwise of its policies and uses this Annual General Meeting information to improve matters as appropriate.
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 9 July 2015 at The Trinity Centre, 24 Cambridge Science Park, Milton Road, Directors indemnity Cambridge CB4 0FN.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting The Company has granted an indemnity to its Directors against is being sent to shareholders along with this annual report, which liability in respect of proceedings brought by third parties, subject contains details of the resolutions proposed.
to the conditions set out in the Companies Act.
Such qualifying third party indemnity provision remains in force as at the date of Employee benefit trust approving the Directors report.
The AVEVA Group Employee Benefit Trust 2008 was established in 2008 to facilitate satisfying the transfer of shares to employees Greenhouse gas emissions reporting within the Group on exercise of vested options under the various The Company is required to state the annual quantity of emissions share option and deferred bonus share plans of the Company.
The in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from activities for which Trust holds a total of 44,722 ordinary shares in AVEVA Group plc the Group is responsible, including the combustion of fuel, the representing 0.07% 2014 72,626 shares representing 0.11% of operation of any facility, and resulting from the purchase of the issued share capital at the date of this report.
Under the terms electricity, heat, steam or cooling.
Details of our emissions are set of the Trust deed governing the Trust, the trustees are required out within the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic unless the Company directs otherwise to waive all dividends and Report and form part of the Directors Report disclosures.
abstain from voting in respect of ordinary shares in AVEVA Group plc held by the Trust except where beneficial ownership of any Auditor such ordinary shares was passed to a beneficiary of the Trust.
In A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor for the same way as other employees, the Executive Directors of the the ensuing year will be put to the members at the Annual Company are potential beneficiaries under the Trust.
62 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
