Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 24 Support Services Trusted to deliver in complex and critical markets In line with the Groups strategic objectives, the Support Services division is delivering growth in its businesses, in both the UK and overseas, by developing and building upon its core capabilities.
It continues to differentiate itself in its chosen markets by successfully integrating complex engineering and technical expertise to deliver added value to its long-term customer relationships.
Strategy in action Cavendish Fluor Partnership Ltd signed decommissioning contract for 12 Magnox and RSRL nuclear licensed sites London Fire Brigade, 21 year, Rail continuous development fleet management contract started Across the UK, Babcock has successfully mobilised the November 2014 plain line track framework in new geographies, undertaking a large scale programme of change to integrate staff and Ten year contract mobilised to support embed Babcock operating methodology.
This year we Lafarges Canadian Readymix fleet have also mobilised the new electrification projects worth 900 million as part of Network Rails National NTI set up a new training facility Electrification Framework programme.
The ABC joint venture, between Alstom, Babcock and Costain is leading in Oman in two national electrification programmes and substantial levels of project work are now underway: additional Cavendish Nuclear signs Lifetime Support electrification work has been secured through the 16 year service contract Edinburgh and Glasgow Improvement Programme.
with EDF Plain line track works per year Cavendish Nuclear and Balfour Beatty 200km signed Phase 3 of a decommissioning Link to Group strategy support facility build contract Strategic report 25 Building customer focused, long-term relationships Working in partnership with the London Fire Brigade LFB, we deliver over 200 training programmes for c 5,000 firefighters from two new state-of-the-art training facilities at Park Royal and Beckton.
We are delivering 97,000 delegate days of training each year and working with the LFB to save a third of their total training spend.
Babcock has built on this partnership further, with the 21 year contract signed this year to manage and maintain the LFBs vehicle fleet of over 500 vehicles and 50,000 pieces of specialist equipment, and increasing the fleets resilience and efficiency.
The addition of MacNeillie, our new leading specialist vehicle converter, will also strengthen Babcocks through-life asset management capability for the LFB.
LFB contracts until 2036 Link to Group strategy Complex and critical with Cavendish Nuclear In September 2014, Cavendish intensive 12 month consolidation Nuclear consolidated its position period, rolling out its initial plans to as the UKs leading nuclear services implement ten strategic programmes.
company following the share transfer The programmes will safely deliver the of the Magnox and RSRL site licensed contractual cost savings by optimised companies to our joint venture, schedules and employing a standardised Cavendish Nuclear Fluor Partnership engineering approach across all the Ltd.
Under this arrangement the sites.
Proven technical innovation will joint venture is managing 12 also feature, building on world-class licensed sites across the UK, with experience and techniques from a highly skilled workforce of 3,500 both partner organisations.
and is saving the taxpayer more than Total contract value 1.5 billion, over a 13.5 year period.
During 2014, the Cavendish Fluor c 4.2 billion Partnership Ltd team started an Link to Group strategy h p t u p w o u r o o r G r G f g o f o % e Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 26 Support Services 2015 performance highlights KPI Return on revenue % 7.7% 10 29% 33% 7.5 5 KPI 2.5 0 12 13 14 15 27% outsourced solutions, with many services Group is delivering synergy benefits Market overview being delivered through second and through customer account management third generation contracts.
However, and maximising the benefit of investment The markets served by the Support customers continue to market-test the in core capabilities.
Services division remain attractive as services they outsource and this can Our growth markets, including nuclear, existing and potential customers seek result in increased pressure on margins complex asset management and to reduce their costs and maximise in both contract delivery and competitive technical training, continue to be service levels.
With the UK government bids.
We have responded to this supported by a strong order book and now in the fifth year of what is projected challenge by seeking to differentiate bid pipeline opportunities.
Each core to be a ten year fiscal consolidation ourselves from competitors through market sector is underpinned by a period, we expect that demand for innovations in engineering, technology, clear strategic plan to deliver growth, public sector outsourcing will continue customer analysis and information-rich supported by organic investment and into the foreseeable future.
This positions us to deliver acquisitions, to enhance our service responding to this demand by developing market-leading engineering and capabilities and market coverage.
new solutions to maximise service quality technical support solutions, at optimal and volumes, whilst minimising cost of cost in our markets.
The division continues to make headway service delivery for the customer.
in targeted international markets, underpinned by existing divisional The division continues to pursue Strategy capabilities.
Success has been achieved outsourcing opportunities in the nuclear, in expanding our activities within our complex fleet management and training In order to maximise opportunities existing international footprint and markets and the scale of the addressable in these markets, the divisions proven contracts won in new geographies.
markets open to us remains substantial.
strategy continues to be the delivery We have sized the addressable market of profitable growth through a focus As a service business, our people are opportunities at 14 billion annual on specific markets and capabilities.
critical to the success of our strategy.
revenue, which includes 1.8 billion The divisions strategy is aligned with the In support of this we have launched in the UK civil nuclear market and wider strategic objectives of the Group.
being babcock, a set of principles that 3.0 billion in global mining and We continue to focus upon the delivery outline the behaviour we expect from construction fleet management.
of integrated engineering and technical all our people and that will reinforce expertise through long-term customer our trusted to deliver reputation as Both public and private customers are relationships.
The alignment across the we seek to grow our business.
becoming increasingly accustomed to % k o e u o u n b n e e r v e v e d e R r O R 9.6 8.8 9.2 7.7 Strategic report 27 and Lewisham BSF holdings, we expect plan will be extended to 2029.
Dounreay Financial review margins are likely to be reduced to c 7%.
continues to challenge itself against a declared objective to be recognised The Support Services division has as the pre-eminent reference site for continued to deliver strong growth Operational review decommissioning in Europe.
in revenue, which increased by 27% Cavendish Nuclear has continued to to 1,316.4 million 2014: 1,040.1 At Sellafield, in partnership with Balfour strengthen its market position as the million, of which 23% was organic Beatty, we are constructing a major UKs leading supplier to the nuclear growth.
This has mainly been a result new decommissioning support facility.
Cavendish of growth achieved in Cavendish Phase 3 of the Silos Maintenance Facility Nuclear remains focused on site Nuclear, particularly from the Magnox contract was awarded in June 2014, operations, maintenance, decommissioning contract which started worth a total of 160 million over a decommissioning and new build.
on 1 September 2014, as well as from three year period.
We have continued the Critical Services business which saw to strengthen our position on the Following the formal award of the increased activities across all its business Design Services Alliance Framework and Magnox and RSRL decommissioning streams.
The division also benefited successfully rebid for the Environmental contract in September 2014, prior from a full period of results from Conbras Laboratories contract worth 45 million detailed planning and mobilisation in Brazil as well as growth from the over the next ten years.
activities ensured a smooth and efficient NTI and Skills2Learn businesses which start to the contract.
The Cavendish Cavendish Nuclear signed a 16 year, offset lower volumes in the Network Fluor Partnership in which Cavendish 600 million contract with EDF in January Engineering business.
Nuclear is the lead partner continue 2015.
The Lifetime Enterprise Agreement to work through the 12 month Operating profit, including jvs, increased means Cavendish Nuclear will continue consolidation phase embedding the by 19% to 100.9 million 2014: 85.1 to provide fuel route and other technical new contract programme.
Included in these results is 8.5 services to EDF Energys seven advanced continues to demonstrate Cavendish million profit on disposal of the divisions gas-cooled reactor stations and services Nuclears capability as a trusted delivery equity holding in Greenwich Building to its pressurised water reactor at Sizewell partner of the Nuclear Decommissioning Schools for the Future jv and a provision for the remainder of their operating lives.
Authority NDA to carry out complex of 4.1 million made against overtime Cavendish Nuclear continues to pursue decommissioning work across its estate.
As indicated previously, and opportunities in the UK nuclear new as a result of the Magnox contract and At Dounreay, good progress has been build sector.
It submitted the bid for the other new, long-term contracts, made on the programme with key delivery of the Balance of Nuclear Island the division has started during the past milestones being achieved on schedule.
work at Hinkley Point C. In the meantime two financial years, operating margins Significant additional programme we continue to work with EDF to reduced to 7.7% 2014: 8.2%.
For the work scope is also being introduced, understand the scope of work to be 2015 16 financial year, taking into in response to a change in the national delivered under this contract.
consideration a full year of Magnox and strategy for the consolidation of nuclear the impact of the sale of both Greenwich materials, and as a result the site closure Cavendish Nuclear In January 2015 Cavendish Nuclear signed two major agreements with EDF Energy to support the continued operation of its nuclear power stations, which provide around a sixth of the UKs electricity.
Under the Lifetime Enterprise Agreement, Cavendish Nuclear and EDF Energy will work in collaboration to support the ongoing operation of the power stations and support plans to extend the reactors operational lives, providing long-term security for UK electricity supplies and the jobs of some 400 Cavendish Nuclear employees across the UK.
16 years remaining operating life Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 28 Support Services continued Cavendish Nuclear delivered a number number of new opportunities in this progress has also been made in our of projects for Hitachi-GE Nuclear Energy, market.
The Metropolitan Police Service programme of course redesign, including in respect of the development of its has started the process for re-tendering the initial training provided under the strategy for the construction of an the contract for fleet maintenance Firefighter Development Programme.
advanced boiling water reactor for services and our team is fully engaged With support from the LFB and the Trades its Horizon programme.
The business in this process.
The existing contract is Union, this flagship course has been continues to explore options for a due to end in March 2016. redesigned to be delivered in ten weeks, long-term involvement in the project.
In January 2015, Critical Services down from the existing 17 weeks, whilst Critical Services has delivered acquired MacNeillie, the leading specialist maintaining the quality output.
year-on-year revenue growth of over vehicle converter.
MacNeillie will To reinforce this long-term relationship, 10%, excluding the recent acquisition strengthen the Critical Services whole the signed 21 year contract to support of MacNeillie, and has met or exceeded life asset management capability and we LFBs fleet of 500 vehicles and 50,000 operational and availability KPIs across believe this will create opportunities for pieces of equipment has started well.
all its contracts as well as achieving both Babcock and MacNeillies existing We are continuing to drive improved financial efficiencies for its customers.
customers as well as new customers.
availability of the fleet and extensive Building on existing contracts, the At Heathrow we continue to manage redevelopment, and improvements to business has continued to secure the operations and maintenance of all the Ruislip technical facility have already new business wins in North America.
the baggage handling equipment across begun to support the delivery of The Mining and Construction business the estate and successfully deliver this contract.
has continued to grow over the past maintenance for British Airways fleet of We are in the process of re-tendering 12 months with the mobilisation of the ground support equipment.
Through an our contracts with BMW, to provide Lafarge Readymix contract in Western extensive efficiency programme we are training to its UK dealer network, and Canada for 700 assets with a contract delivering savings to Heathrow Airports with Network Rail, to deliver their value estimated at c 60 million.
In Limited, in line with our contract.
addition, the business has also secured Our Skills and Learning business has seen a ten year contract with Holcim as a We have successfully integrated the a year of steady progress.
In the training new customer in the eastern United two acquisitions made in the Skills sector, our contract with Volkswagen States.
New business has been secured in and Learning business during the last Audi Group to deliver training to its the UK, with the award and mobilisation financial year into the wider business, dealer network through its National of the Lafarge Tarmac contract in respect both acquisitions are performing ahead Learning Centre has started well.
In the of 700 vehicles over 208 sites across of expectations.
emergency services sector, our contract the UK, which is expected to be worth with the London Fire Brigade LFB In Oman, NTI is operating at full capacity c 8 million per annum.
It started new contracts Contracts for the Metropolitan Police state-of-the-art, dedicated training with Petroleum Development Oman and Highways Agency, as well as facilities, designed and built by Babcock, in February 2015, worth just under the New Dimensions contract have have been opened in Beckton and Park 10 million, to provide technical skills performed well and, building on this Royal, transforming the quality of training training to young Omanis.
We have success, the business is pursuing a for London firefighters.
Significant expanded two training centres to MacNeillie In February 2015, Babcock acquired MacNeillie, a leading specialist vehicle converter which will benefit from significant growth opportunities that our scale, broader customer portfolio and international operations can offer.
MacNeillie is a long established supplier to the emergency services, civil service, military and other security focused companies which in turn will strengthen Babcocks through-life asset management capability.
100 years experience Strategic report 29 accommodate the increase in demand.
contract by the London Borough of support, civil engineering and mechanical Additional opportunities also exist in Richmond upon Thames to deliver an engineering.
Our aim is to ensure that Oman and the wider Gulf Cooperation integrated property and estate Babcock is a more inclusive place to Council region to export our UK training management solution which is expected work.
This year, we have introduced a capability in the emergency services to be worth c 56 million over a seven divisional diversity and inclusion charter and rail sectors.
year period, with the option to extend and policy, invested in inclusive the contract for a further three years.
leadership training for line managers The Skills2Learn business has also secured The BBC World Service contract and offered a number of internships to new contracts for its immersive e-learning continues to perform well and we have talented, disabled students as part of products with a number of new strengthened our Media Services business Leonard Cheshires Change 100 scheme.
customers, including some existing with the acquisition of WRN Broadcast Babcock customers.
We have also been In September 2014, we launched a which provides innovative solutions to able to provide these services to other two year charity partnership with deliver television and radio content to Babcock divisions, including the provision St. John Ambulance which is supported any platform or device anywhere around of support to the Defence and Security by the divisions staff with all business the world.
division with the redesign of its training units participating in local and national programme for the Royal Navy.
programmes, and fund raising efforts.
Sustainability During the year, the Rail business Our never compromise on Health has been engaged in significant and Safety principle is core to how The introduction of being babcock demobilisation and mobilisation activities we operate.
As such, we have rolled out provides a clear framework to drive following the award of framework a bespoke health and safety framework positive behaviour across the division contracts for conventional plain line track and a series of operational standards that and ensures our strategy and business works in new geographies, as well as are bringing more consistency to how performance is sustainable in the new electrification framework we operate across the division.
We have created professional programmes.
We managed a smooth programmes, tailored to reflect our practice communities to develop transition and maintained a high quality varied operations.
We ask employees personal and corporate capabilities by of delivery as work started under the new to challenge unsafe behaviour in our connecting people across the division arrangements.
The ABC jv between dont walk by programme and praise to share knowledge and experiences.
Alstom, Babcock and Costain is delivering safe behaviour.
In support of this, we This programme is supported by a work through the two national have trained the division on how to have dedicated knowledge base, training electrification programmes as well as productive safety conversations, under and development opportunities.
the Edinburgh Glasgow Improvement the brand of Face2Face.
Organic growth is supported by Programme EGIP.
During this year, Our performance continues to show continued investment in business the EGIP project moved from design year-on-year improvement, with our development and bidding capability.
Future prospects over three-day lost time and all injury Major bid support has been enhanced for the electrification market look frequency rates improving by 16% and through improved processes, resources promising, with further growth expected.
The challenge to and guidance, together with bespoke Our Power business has seen a significant improve on this performance grows training programmes to further develop reduction in demand for refurbishment each year and the division continually business winning skills.
In addition, we and new build schemes from National seeks opportunities to improve our continue to operate a structured account Grid and the lower demand has increased safety culture and systems.
management and planning process for competition in the market, impacting our major customers.
However, in the Outlook We are committed to identifying, year this has largely been offset by developing and deploying talented demand from other distribution and The demand for outsourcing within individuals by giving them a range transmission network operators, for our selected markets remains high.
of opportunities to help build their example SP Energy Network.
We believe our track record of delivering experience, knowledge and skills.
complex projects, the depth of our In the Integrated Services business, Our talent development programme technical knowledge and our Conbras, in Brazil, is performing well now has 108 senior leaders participating understanding of our customers with current contracts all performing in leadership and development requirements set us apart from others as expected.
The business has a number programmes.
To date, 59 of these senior in our sector.
We seek to underpin of new opportunities that it is currently leaders have been promoted or moved our position by the continued pursuing in its existing markets as well to new roles within the division or the enhancement of our technical capabilities as in new sectors.
In this year we started wider Group.
and the development of our people.
delivering facilities management, In September 2014, 45 graduates We therefore remain confident the baggage and air bridge maintenance joined our divisional, two year graduate division is well placed to pursue the services to So Paulo-Guarulhos programme, taking the total number significant opportunities available to International Airport and we believe of graduates on our programme to 88. it in the UK and overseas.
there are further opportunities for We have 49 apprentices developing skills, expansion in the Brazilian airports market.
ranging from motor vehicle, grounds We have been awarded a seven-year
