Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 14 Chief Executives review continued International Our strategy in action We continued to deliver Typhoon aircraft to the Kingdom Continue to drive value from our of Saudi Arabia during 2015 and the Groups extensive defence platforms and services in-Kingdom training and support activities are at a high tempo.
The Royal Saudi Air Force has achieved high Global footprint of the utilisation and aircraft availability across its Typhoon and Tornado eets, operating under demanding conditions.
F-35 programme We reached agreement with the Saudi customer for theprovision of a further 22 Hawk Advanced Jet Trainer aircraft, associated ground equipment and training aids forthe Royal Saudi Air Force, which form part of an enhancement to the Kingdoms pilot training capacity.
As the 50th anniversary of the relationship approaches, BAE Systems continues to address current and potential new requirements as part of the long-standing agreements between the UK government and the Kingdom.
In Australia, the second of the two Landing Helicopter Dock LHD ships was successfully delivered into service with the Royal Australian Navy.
Whilst we welcomed the BAE Systems is a principal subcontractor on the Australian governments announcement ofits intention worlds largest defence programme, the F-35 tolaunch a naval shipbuilding strategy, the viability of Lightning II, with high-technology manufacturing, theWilliamstown, Melbourne, shipyard remains uncertain.
development and support activities carried out in With no near-term prospect of work beyond the LHD the US, the UK andAustralia.
programme and Air Warfare Destroyer block manufacture, In the US, BAE Systems is delivering significant we announced further headcount reductions in November, elements of the F-35 programme, including together with other cost reduction measures across the theaircrafts electronic warfare suite, Australian businesses.
In addition, a non-cash impairment vehiclemanagement computer and active charge has been taken against the carrying value of the inceptorsystems.
At BAE Systems advanced manufacturing In India, BAE Systems has a long-standing relationship with facilityinthe UK see page 41, the Group has Hindustan Aeronautics Limited HAL.
Delivery of a second several workshare areas, including manufacture batch of HAL-assembled Hawk aircraft continues and ofthe aftfuselage, and vertical and horizontal negotiations are underway to agree a third batch.
We arealso providing integration support Group has also commenced discussions with HAL for toenable operations from the UKs new Queen further co-development of Indian Hawk aircraft to meet Elizabeth Class aircraft carriers.
potential requirements for new capabilities.
BAE Systems Australia produces titanium The Group continues to discuss the potential sale of M777 components for the F-35s vertical tails, as well howitzers, including prospective local arrangements for asspecialist electronic warfare equipment for assembly, integration and testing, to address Indias large customers in the US.
requirement for new-generation artillery systems.
BAE Systems is a 37.5% shareholder in the MBDA guided More online weapons business.
MBDA continues to win significant baesystems.
com order intake, including naval weapon systems and weapons awards in support of multiple combat aircraft types.
The business expects to win further orders from recently announced, and anticipated, international sales of European combat aircraft.
MBDA is expected to generate strong growth in later years from this rising order book.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 15 Cyber security Responsible business A substantial expansion of the Groups Applied Intelligence BAE Systems continues to instil responsible behaviour business into commercial markets is underway, with across the Group by supporting employees in making significant recruitment and product development alongside theright ethical decisions.
During 2015, a revisedCode integration of the former SilverSky business, acquired at ofConduct was launched and cascaded toemployees the end of 2014.
Sales growth is expected to continue, viaface-to-face briengs.
underpinned by continued good order intake as cyber The safety of our employees, and anybody who works security becomes an increasingly important part of on, orvisits, our sites, is a key priority.
We provide training government security and a core element of stewardship and tools to employees to help them understand the forcommercial enterprises.
Senior leadership plays Acquisitions and disposals akey role in maintaining the focus on safety and leading through example.
In April, BAE Systems completed the sale of its 75% holding in BAE Systems Land Systems South Africa Pty We are saddened to report that, during 2015, there Limited to Denel SOC Limited for cash consideration weretwo air incidents that resulted in seven fatalities, of655 million Rand 36m.
fourof our employees and three from other companies.
We have been supporting investigations with air accident In June, we acquired Eclipse Electronic Systems, Inc. authorities in Saudi Arabia and the US, and are carrying fromEsterline Corporation.
The Texas-based business out internal reviews into the incidents.
provides advanced Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance products and services to the US Engaging and developing the skills and talent of our defenceand intelligence community.
employees and future workforce to address our customers complex and challenging projects remained a key focus Balance sheet and capital allocation during 2015, including continuing to develop an inclusive The Groups balance sheet continues to be managed and diverse work environment to help drive innovation.
conservatively in line with its policy to retain its investmentgrade credit rating and to ensure operating Looking forward exibility.
Consistent with this approach, the Group BAE Systems has a large order backlog generated by a meetspension obligations, pursues organic investment well-balanced portfolio of businesses serving the needs of opportunities, plans to pay dividends in line with its customers in many of the worlds larger accessible markets.
policyof long-term sustainable cover of around two Many contracts are multi-year and our current order timesunderlying earnings and to make accelerated backlog will deliver a significant proportion of our sales returnsof capital to shareholders when the balance over the next five years, providing long-term visibility sheetallows and only when the return from doing so is in ofrevenues.
excess of theGroups Weighted Average Cost of Capital.
Investment invalue-enhancing acquisitions is considered Having demonstrated good resilience through an extended where marketconditions are right and where they deliver period of economic challenge in many of its markets, the on theGroups strategy.
Group is well placed to continue to generate attractive returns for shareholders as defence budgets increase.
The Group continues to fund the pension deficits of theUK schemes under funding agreements determined following the last UK valuations in 2014.
The next valuations of the UK pension schemes are expected tobegin in April 2017.
In February 2013, we initiated a share repurchase programme of up to 1bn over three years.
As at 31December 2015, a total of 120.5million shares had beenpurchased for 502m under the programme.
Ian King Chief Executive BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 |
