Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 63 Group Tender and Investment Committee Summary of role The Committee has been chaired by the Group Chief Executive, or in his absence by the Chief Financial Officer, or in his absence by the Chief Executive of Investments other than for Infrastructure Investments tenders.
In November 2015, three more members of the Committee were approved by the Board to chair meetings.
Similar restrictions apply to each of them in relation to review of proposals from those areas of the business for which each has executive responsibility.
The main purpose of the Committee is to review all major proposed tenders with projected values above specified levels, with a specific focus on risk.
The Committee also has authority to approve capital expenditure applications and any proposed acquisitions or disposals up to certain specified limits determined by the Board.
For example, currently the Committees terms of reference require contracts for construction or services in the UK of a value exceeding 100 million to be submitted for review, whilst other limits vary according to geography and nature of the contract.
Any member may convene a meeting of the Committee to discuss any of the tender reviews in more detail.
In addition to those members of the Committee most relevant for the consideration of each proposed tender, meetings are attended by key members of the bid team concerned and their divisional, operational and financial leaders.
Minutes of all meetings are made available to all Directors.
Finance and General PurposesCommittee Summary of role The Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Executive or, in his absence, by the Chief Financial Officer.
Its principal purpose is to approve various routine banking and treasury matters, grants and exercises of employee share options and other matters relating to share capital.
A summary of the business conducted at the meetings is provided to all Directors.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
