Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 22 Financial review continued Tax strategy BAE Systems operates internationally and is subject to taxin many different jurisdictions.
The Group employs The Groups tax strategy is to: professional tax managers and takes appropriate advice ensure compliance with all applicable tax laws and from reputable professional rms.
The Group is routinely regulations: and subject to tax audits and reviews which can take a manage the Groups tax expense in a way that is considerable period of time to conclude.
Provision is consistent with its values and its legal obligations madefor known issues based on managements inallrelevant jurisdictions.
interpretation of country-specic legislation and the likely outcome of negotiations or litigation.
The assessment The Group promotes collaborative professional working andmanagement of tax risks are regularly reviewed by with tax authorities in order to build open, transparent theAudit Committee, as is the Groups tax strategy.
As part of this, the Group engages in open and early dialogue to discuss tax Arms length principles are applied in the pricing of planning, strategy, risks and significant transactions, allintra-group transactions of goods and services in anddiscloses any significant uncertainties in relation to accordance with Organisation for Economic Co-operation taxmatters.
Queries and information requests by tax and Development guidelines.
Where appropriate, the authorities are responded to in a timely fashion and the Groupengages with governments in relation to proposed Group ensures that tax authorities are kept informed legislation and tax policy.
The Group endorses the abouthow issues are progressing.
The Group seeks to statement of tax principles issued by the Confederation resolve issues in real-time and before returns are led ofBritish Industry in May 2013 www.
Fair, accurate and timely disclosures are media 2051390 statement of principles.
made in tax returns, reports and documents that the P119 Group les with, or submits to, tax authorities.
Where Note 6 to the Group accounts disagreements over tax arise, the Group works proactivelyto seek to resolve all issues by agreement where possible and reach reasonable solutions.
Whilst the Group aims to maximise the tax efficiency of itsbusiness transactions, it does not use structures in its tax planning that are contrary to the intentions of the relevant legislature.
The Group interprets relevant tax lawsin a reasonable way and ensures that transactions arestructured in a way that is consistent with a relationship of co-operative compliance with tax authorities.
It also actively considers the implications of any planning for theGroups wider corporate reputation.
The Group is open and transparent with regards to decision-making, governance and tax planning in its business, keeping tax authorities informed of who hasresponsibility, how decisions are reached, how thebusiness is structured and where different parts ofthebusiness are located.
