Strategic report 11 Strategy Our strategy Our strategic focus has remained consistent for over a decade, when the Company began its transformation to become the UKs leading engineering support services company.
Our objective is to grow from this position both in the UK and overseas, whilst delivering superior and sustainable value for our shareholders.
We seek to achieve this by creating and growing a balanced portfolio of businesses based on our strategy.
Leading market Preferred customer Customer focused positions characteristics long-term relationships We expect our businesses to be, or have Our customers tend to be government We place great emphasis on doing the plans to be, one of the top three in their departments, public bodies, regulated right thing for our customers: we listen market sectors, with the aim of ensuring industries or blue chip companies that and seek to be flexible and responsive we achieve economies of scale and own or utilise large, strategically to their needs.
We work collaboratively, create strong competitive positions.
We often through long-term partnerships or encourage our customers to partner with alliances, to ensure we understand their us and to build long-term relationships.
priorities and our objectives are aligned.
Integrated Balancing risk Excellent health and engineering and reward safety record and technical expertise We are able to integrate a broad range We mainly operate through long-term, We never compromise on health of engineering and technical expertise integrated output-based contracts: and safety and expect all our divisions to provide services and training that we believe this creates a commercial to deliver a sector leading safety are complex, critical and bespoke.
framework which fairly balances risk performance.
We believe all our We manage the interface between all and reward with our customers.
Target employees and others working on or these activities to provide full operational cost incentive fee contracts incentivise visiting our operations should be able outcomes and helping to take risk from us to remove cost with a pain-share to return home safe and well at the end our customers.
Our strategy defines us as a business and it has enabled us to become the business we are today.
We will continue to focus on our strategy to build further on our core capabilities, to meet or exceed our customers expectations and to continue to create value for our shareholders and other stakeholders.
Each of our divisions has its own strategy, based on the Group strategy, which underpins the Groups long-term strategic objective.
