Governance 119 Directors report The Company Listing Rule Topic Location Babcock International Group PLC, registered and domiciled 9.8.
4 1 Interest capitalised by the Financial in England and Wales, with the registered number 2342138, Group during the year statements, is the holding company for the Babcock International Group note 14 of companies.
The principal activities of the Group and its 9.8.
4 2 Publication of unaudited financial Not applicable subsidiaries are described in the Strategic report on pages 2 information as required by and 3 and in note 38 to the accounts on pages 181 to 182.
4 4 Details of any long-term incentive Not applicable The Directors and their powers scheme as described in Biographies of the current Directors of the Company are to LR 9.4.
The table on page 77 shows the Directors who served during the year to 31 March 2015.
4 5 Waiver of emoluments by Directors a director remuneration A summary of the rules relating to the appointment and report removal of Directors can be found on page 76.
4 6 Waiver of future emoluments Not applicable The powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys by a director Articles of Association, which may be amended by way of a special resolution of the members of the Company.
4 7 Non pre-emptive issues of Not applicable information see page 74. equity for cash 9.8.
4 8 Non pre-emptive issues of Not applicable Results and dividends equity for cash by any major The profit attributable to the owners of the parent Company subsidiary undertakings for the financial year was 260.2 million 2014: 180.5 million.
An interim dividend of 5.5p per 60p ordinary share 9.8.
4 9 Parent participation in a Not applicable was declared in the year 2014: 5.0p.
The Directors are placing by a listed subsidiary recommending that shareholders approve at the forthcoming 9.8.
4 10 Contracts of significance in which Not applicable Annual General Meeting a final dividend for the year of a director is interested 18.1p 2014: 16.4p, as adjusted for the rights issue on each 9.8.
4 11 Provision of services by Not applicable of the ordinary shares of 60p to be paid on Wednesday, a controlling shareholder 12 August 2015 to those shareholders on the register at the 9.8.
4 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Financial close of business on Friday, 3 July 2015. statements, note 24 Corporate Governance Compliance Statement A statement regarding compliance with the UK Corporate 9.8.
4 13 Shareholder waivers of Financial Governance Code is included in the Governance Statement future dividends statements, on page 74. note 24 9.8.
4 14 Agreements with Not applicable Information contained in the Strategic report controlling shareholders Details of important events affecting the Group which have occurred since 31 March 2015 and an indication of likely Authority to purchase own shares future developments in the business of the Group can be At the Annual General Meeting in July 2014, members found in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 69. authorised the Company to make market purchases of up to 50,133,313 of its own ordinary shares of 60p each.
Information contained in the Directors report That authority expires at the forthcoming Annual General This report is required to be produced by law.
The UKLAs Meeting in July 2015 when a resolution will be put to renew Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs and Listing Rules it so as to allow purchases of up to a maximum of no more than LRs also require us to make certain disclosures.
10% of the Companys issued share capital.
No shares in the The Corporate Governance statement along with the reports Company have been purchased by the Company in the period of the Nominations, Audit and Risk and Remuneration from 21 July 2014 the date the current authority was granted Committees, which can be found on pages 72 to 118, form part to the date of this Report.
The Company currently does not hold of this Directors report.
8 R the required Details of issues to and purchases of the Companys shares content of the Management report can be found in the made in the year to 31 March 2015 by the Babcock Employee Strategic report and this Directors report including the sections Share Trust and the Peterhouse Employee Share Trust in of the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by reference.
connection with the Companys executive share plans are to be found in note 24 on page 166 and details of purchases of For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4C R, the information required to the Companys shares by Capita IRG Trustees Limited in be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R and which forms part of this connection with matching share awards under the Babcock Directors Report can be found in the following locations: Employee Share Plan can be found in note 25 on page 167.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 120 Directors report continued to deliver our best for our customers and to safeguard the Major shareholdings future of Babcock.
As at 31 March 2015, the Company has been notified pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR of the following Research and development major interests in voting rights attached to its ordinary shares.
The Group commits resources to research and development to Number of 60p % of issued share the extent management considers necessary for the evolution ordinary shares on capital on date of and growth of its business.
Name date of notification notification The Capital Group Political donations Companies Inc. 40,328,869 8.03 No donations were made during the year for political purposes.
Standard Life Investments Financial risk management Limited 35,446,848 7.06 Details relating to financial risk management can be found Cantillon Capital LLC 17,938,977 4.97 in note 2 on pages 142 to 145.
Legal & General Group Plc 14,325,920 3.97 Greenhouse gas emissions On 1 April 2015 Standard Life Investments Limited notified The disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions required the Company that its interest had increased to 40,735,809 by law are included in the Strategic report on page 59. shares representing 8.11% of the share capital.
There had been no further notifications between then and the date of Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions this report.
The holdings set out above relate only to those The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with each institutions which have notified the Company of an interest in of its Directors who served during the year and who are the issued share capital pursuant to DTR5.
currently directors which are qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the purpose of the Companies Act 2006 in Employee involvement respect of their Directorships of the Company and, if applicable, Engagement with our employees is key to Babcocks success.
The Company operates a UK approved share plan, the Babcock Under their respective Articles of Association, Directors of Employee Share Plan which is open to all employees of Group UK subsidiary companies may be indemnified by the participating UK Group Companies.
The Plan allows for the company concerned of which they are or were Directors against Company to award free and or matching shares to participants liabilities and costs incurred in connection with the execution and this year the maximum monthly contribution allowable of their duties or the exercise of their powers, to the extent into the Plan was increased.
The shares bought on behalf of permitted by the Companies Act 2006. the employee are held in a tax-approved employee trust.
There are also qualifying third-party indemnity provisions The trustees of the Plan exercise voting rights attached to entered into between the Company and Archie Bethel and those shares in accordance with directions from the employees Kevin Thomas in their capacity as Directors of International on whose behalf they are held.
Nuclear Solutions PLC a former subsidiary of the Company Senior employees of the Group are given awards under the which were in force at the date of approval of this report.
Companys Long Term incentive Plans as detailed in the Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions are also in Remuneration report on pages 86 to 118.
Shares intended place for the benefit of Directors of the Group companies to be used for satisfying existing share awards and options are that act as trustees of Group pension schemes.
held by the trustees of the Babcock Employee Share Trust and the Peterhouse Employee Share Trust.
The trustees of these Significant agreements that take effect, alter or Schemes have no present intention of exercising the voting terminate upon a change of control rights attached to the shares held by them.
Many agreements entered into by the Company or its Twice a year representatives from across the UK attend subsidiaries contain provisions entitling the other parties to the Babcock International Group Employee Forum.
terminate them in the event of a change of control of the Group Company concerned, which can often be triggered by Further information regarding our employees and their a takeover of the Company.
involvement within the business, including the Companys policy towards discrimination and diversity, can be found within Although the Group has some contracts that on their own the Sustainability report on page 57. are not significant to the Group, several may be with the same customer.
If, upon a change of control, the customer decided Employment of disabled persons equal opportunities to terminate all such agreements, the aggregate impact could Babcock is committed to equal opportunities and will not be significant.
discriminate on the basis of disability, age, race, colour, ethnic origin, gender, marital status, religious or political beliefs or The following agreements are those individual agreements sexual orientation.
which the Company considers to be significant to the Group as a whole that contain provisions giving the other party a We believe that only by encouraging applicants from the widest specific right to terminate them if the Company is subject to pool of talent possible and then selecting the best candidate a change of control.
based on their ability to do the job, can we ensure we continue Governance 121 Marine Support Services Articles of Association of Devonport Royal Dockyard Limited Parent Body Agreement between Cavendish Fluor Partnership and Rosyth Royal Dockyard Limited CFP and the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority NDA The Articles of Association of Devonport Royal Dockyard Limited dated September 2014 DRDL and Rosyth Royal Dockyard Limited RRDL, both CFP, a joint venture between the UKs Cavendish Nuclear, part of subsidiaries of the Company, grant the MoD as the holder of Babcock International, and US-based Fluor Corporation with a special share in each of those companies certain rights in ownership split 65:35 to Cavendish and Fluor respectively, is the certain circumstances.
Such rights include the right to require parent body organisation PBO for the site licence companies, the sale of shares in, and the right to remove Directors of, Magnox Limited and Research Sites Restoration Limited RSRL.
Magnox Limited and RSRL are responsible for ten Magnox The circumstances in which such rights might arise include nuclear power plants, as well as the Harwell and Winfrith where the MoD considers that unacceptable ownership, research centres.
The sites are all owned by the Nuclear influence or control domestic or foreign has been acquired Decommissioning Authority NDA.
The NDA has appointed over the company in question and that this is contrary to CFP as the PBO in respect of the management of the 12 UK the essential security interests of the UK.
This might apply, nuclear sites and their respective decommissioning programs.
for example, in circumstances where any non-UK person s Under the terms of appointment the NDA may terminate directly or indirectly acquire control over more than 30% of CFPs appointment if there is change of control to which it has the shares of the Company, though such a situation is not of not consented.
itself such a circumstance unless the MoD in the given situation Group considers it to be so.
Any level of ownership by particular foreign MCS Operators Licences or domestic persons may, on the facts of the case, be so treated.
Certain of the operating subsidiaries of Babcock Mission The Company believes that RRDL presently has the right under Critical Services Limited engaged in the provision of the air its Articles of Association to request that the special share held services described on pages 30 to 35 of this report are by the MoD in RRDL be redeemed.
required to hold operating licences in order to operate their principal business.
1008 2008 Terms of Business Agreement ToBA dated 25 March 2010 the Regulation, a holder of an operating licence is required between 1 The Secretary of State for Defence 2 Babcock to be majority owned and effectively controlled by European International Group PLC 3 Devonport Royal Dockyard Limited Economic Area EEA nationals which includes for these purposes 4 Babcock Marine Clyde Limited and 5 Babcock Marine nationals of member states of the European Union, Norway Rosyth Limited and Switzerland.
If the relevant operators cease to be owned The ToBA confirms Babcock as the MoDs key support partner and effectively controlled by EEA nationals, this could lead to in the maritime sector and covers the 15-year period from aviation regulators refusing, withholding, suspending or 2010 to 2025.
The MoD may terminate the ToBA in the event revoking the relevant operating licence which in turn could of a Change in Control of the Company in circumstances where, have a material adverse effect on the business, financial acting on the grounds of national security, the MoD considers condition and or operations of the Group.
The Board believes that it is inappropriate for the new owners of the Company to that the Company currently satisfies the relevant nationality become involved, or interested, in the Marine division.
Change requirements of the Regulation.
However, as compliance with in Control occurs where a person or group of persons that the Regulation is an on-going requirement, the risk of this control the Company ceases to do so or if another person or ceasing to be so cannot be ruled out.
group of persons acquires control of the Company.
See also  on share ownership Maritime Support Delivery Framework Agreement dated on page 122 below.
October 2014 between 1 The Secretary of State for Defence 2 Babcock International Group PLC 3 Devonport Royal Borrowing facilities Dockyard Limited 4 Babcock Marine Clyde Limited and On 2 December 2014 the Company as borrower and guarantor 5 Babcock Marine Rosyth Limited entered into a facility of 750,000,000 with Australia and In October 2014, Babcock signed the Maritime Support Delivery New Zealand Banking Group Limited, Barclays Corporate, Framework MSDF with MoD.
Working within ToBA, which BNP Paribas, HSBC Bank plc, J. P. Morgan Limited, Lloyds Bank plc, runs through to 2025, MSDF confirms the continuation of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Santander and Sumitomo Mutsui Babcocks contract to deliver services at HMNB Clyde and Banking Corporation as mandated lead arrangers and Bayerische HMNB Devonport to March 2020, replacing Babcocks Warship Landesbank, London Branch, The Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ, Support Modernisation Initiative WSMI contracts.
The MSDF Ltd and Crdit Industriel et Commercial as arrangers.
agreement also covers a number of surface ship projects which The facility refinanced the Companys 500,000,000 will be delivered through the Surface Ship Support Alliance.
In facility agreement dated 17 June 2011 and provides funds line with ToBA, if there is a change of control of the Company in for general corporate and working capital purposes.
The facility circumstances where, acting on the grounds of national security, agreement provides that in the event of a change of control the MoD considers that it is inappropriate for the new owners of of the Company, the lenders may, within a certain period, call the Company to become involved or interested in the Marine for the prepayment of any outstanding loans and cancel the division, then the MoD can terminate the MSDF agreement.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 122 Directors report continued Multi-Currency Loan Notes Share capital and rights attaching to the On 21 January 2010, the Company issued two series of loan Companys shares notes to Prudential Investment Management Inc. and certain  on share ownership of its affiliates : a 60 million 4.995% Series A Shelf Notes As noted on page 121 above under MCS Operators due 21 January 2017 the Series A Shelf Notes : and b 40 Certificates certain group companies must comply with the million 5.405% Series B Shelf Notes due 21 January 2020 requirements of EC Regulation 1008 2008 the Regulation the Series B Shelf Notes together, the Multi-Currency Loan which, amongst other things, requires those companies to be Notes.
Each series is unsecured and unsubordinated and ranks majority owned and effectively controlled by EEA nationals.
pari passu with all other unsecured and unsubordinated financial At the Companys Annual general Meeting in July 2014, indebtedness obligations of the Company.
Unless previously shareholders approved the amendment of the Companys redeemed or purchased and cancelled, the Company will Articles of Association the Articles to include provisions redeem the Series A Shelf Notes on 21 January 2017 and intended to assist the Company in ensuring continuing the Series B Shelf Notes on 21 January 2020, respectively at compliance with these obligations by giving the Company their principal amount.
In the event of a change of control and the Directors powers to monitor and, in certain of the Company before then, the Company must offer to circumstances, actively manage nationality requirements as pre-pay the Multi-Currency Loan Notes together with a regards ownership of its shares with a view to protecting the make whole premium.
value of the group undertakings that hold the relevant US Dollar Loan Notes operating licences.
A summary of these powers is set out below.
On 17 March 2012, the Company issued to 21 financial Reference should, however, also be made to the Companys institutions: i US$150 million aggregate principal amount Articles, a copy of which may be found on its website at of 4.94% Series A Senior Notes due 17 March 2018: and www.
In the event of any conflict ii US$500 million aggregate principal amount of its 5.64% between the Articles and this summary, the Articles shall prevail.
Series B Senior Notes due 17 March 2021.
Each series is Relevant Shares unsecured and unsubordinated and ranks pari passu with all Relevant Shares are any shares which the Directors have other unsecured and unsubordinated financial indebtedness determined or the holders have acknowledged are shares obligations of the Company.
In the event of a change of owned by non-EEA nationals for the purposes of the Regulation control of the Company before then, the Company must offer Relevant Shares.
It is open to shareholders to make to pre-pay the Notes.
representations to the Directors with a view to demonstrating that shares should not be treated as Relevant Shares.
1,800,000,000 Euro Medium Term Note Programme Maintenance of a register of non-EEA shareholders In September 2014, the Company established a Euro Medium Following the adoption of the amendments to the Articles at Term Note Programme under which the Company could issue last years Annual General Meeting the Company now maintains notes up to 1,800,000,000.
In October 2014, the Company a register which is separate from the statutory register of issued 550,000,000 1.750 per cent Notes due in 2022. members containing details of Relevant Shares.
This will assist If there is a change of control of the Company and the notes the Directors in assessing, on an on-going basis, whether the then in issue either carry an investment grade credit rating number of Relevant Shares is such that action as outlined which is either downgraded to non-investment grade or carry below may be required to prevent or remedy a breach of a non-investment grade rating which is further downgraded or the Regulation.
withdrawn or do not carry an investment grade rating and the The Directors will remove from the separate register Company does not obtain an investment grade rating for the particulars of shares where they are satisfied that either the notes, a noteholder may require that the Company redeem share is no longer a Relevant Share or that the nature of the or, at the Companys option repurchase, the notes.
interest in the share is such that the share should not be treated as a Relevant Share.
Share plans The Companys share plans contain provisions as a result of Disclosure obligations on share ownership which options and awards may vest and become exercisable The Articles empower the Company to, at any time, require on a change of control of the Company in accordance with the a shareholder or other person with a confirmed or apparent rules of the plans.
interest in the shares to provide in writing such information as the Directors determine is necessary or desirable to ascertain Contracts with employees or Directors such persons nationality and, accordingly, whether details of A description of those agreements with Directors that contain the shares should be entered in the separate register as Relevant provisions relating to payments in the event of a termination Shares or are capable of being Affected Shares see below.
of employment following a change of control of the Company is set out on pages 95 and 96.
One senior employee, who is If the recipient of a nationality information request from the not a Director of the Company, has an agreement providing Company does not respond satisfactorily to the request within for payment of 12 months salary plus 40% in lieu of all benefits the prescribed period being 21 days from the receipt of the in the event of a dismissal including constructive dismissal by notice, the Company has the power to suspend the right of the Company within 12 months following a change of control.
such shareholder to attend or speak whether by proxy or person at any general or class meeting of the Company or Governance 123 to vote or exercise any other right attaching to the shares in However, so far as practicable, the Directors shall have regard question.
Where the shares represent at least 0.25% of the to the chronological order in which the relevant shares have aggregate nominal value of the Companys share capital, been entered in the separate register.
the Company may also subject to certain exceptions refuse Right to refuse registration to register the transfer of such shares.
The Articles provide the Directors with the power to refuse The Articles also require that a declaration in a form prescribed registration of a share transfer if, in their reasonable opinion, by the Directors relating to the nationality of the transferee is such transfer would result in shares being treated or continuing provided to the Directors upon the transfer of any shares in the to be treated as Affected Shares.
Company, failing which the Directors may refuse to register The Articles also provide that the Directors shall not register such transfer see further below.
any person as a holder of any share in the Company unless the Power to treat shares as Affected Shares Directors receive a declaration of nationality relating to such The Articles empower the Directors, in certain circumstances, person and such further information as they may reasonably to treat shares as Affected Shares.
If the Directors determine request with respect to that nationality declaration.
that any shares are to be treated as Affected Shares, they may The Directors believe that currently the Companys nationality serve an Affected Share Notice on the registered shareholder requirements are met and, based on the Companys and any other person that appears to have an interest in those understanding of the application of the Regulation and of its shares.
The recipients of an Affected Share Notice are entitled shareholder base, more than 65% of the Companys issued share to make representations to the Directors with a view to capital is owned by EEA nationals or funds managed in the EEA.
demonstrating that such shares should not be treated as There can however be no guarantee that this will continue to Affected Shares.
The Directors may withdraw an Affected Share be their assessment and that it will not be necessary to declare Notice if they resolve that the circumstances giving rise to the a Permitted Maximum or exercise any other of their or the shares being treated as Affected Shares no longer exist.
Companys powers in the Articles referred to above.
Consequences of holding or having an interest in Generally Subject to the section above Affected Shares Nationality Restrictions on Ownership : A holder of Affected Shares is not entitled, in respect of those Under the Companys Articles of Association, any share in shares, to attend or speak whether by proxy or person at any the Company may be issued with such rights or restrictions, general or class meeting of the Company or to vote or to whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or exercise any other right at such meetings and the rights otherwise, as the Company may from time to time by ordinary attaching to such shares will vest in the Chairman of the resolution determine or, in the absence of any such relevant meeting who may exercise, or refrain from exercising, determination, as the Directors may determine.
The Directors such rights at his sole discretion.
practice is to seek annual authority from shareholders at The Affected Shares Notice may, if the Directors determine, each years Annual General Meeting to allot shares including also require that the Affected Shares must be disposed of within authority to allot free of statutory pre-emption rights up to 10 days of receiving such notice or such longer period as the specified amounts and also to buy back the Companys Directors may specify such that the Affected Shares become shares, again up to a specified amount.
owned by an EEA national, failing which the Directors may At a general meeting of the Company, every member has one arrange for the sale of the relevant shares at the best price vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, one vote for each share reasonably obtainable at the time.
The net proceeds of any held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for sale of Affected Shares would be held on trust and paid exercising voting rights, either by proxy or by being present together with such rate of interest as the Directors deem in person, in relation to resolutions to be proposed at a appropriate to the former registered holder upon surrender general meeting.
of the relevant share certificate in respect of the shares.
No member is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled Circumstances in which the Directors may determine that to attend or vote, either personally or by proxy, at a general shares are Affected Shares meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being a The Articles provide that where the Directors determine that it shareholder if they or any person with an interest in their shares is necessary to take steps in order to protect an operating has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies licence of the group they may: i seek to identify those shares Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power which have given rise to the determination and to deal with to require the provision of information with respect to interests such shares as Affected Shares: and or ii specify a maximum in their voting shares and they or any interested person have number of shares which will be less than 50% of the Companys failed to supply the Company with the information requested issued share capital that may be owned by non-EEA nationals within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
The Board may and then to treat any shares owned by non-EEA nationals in also decide that no dividend is payable in respect of those excess of that limit as Affected Shares the Directors will publish default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall a notice of any specified maximum within 2 business days of be registered.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt resolving to impose such limit.
In deciding which shares are to by the Company of a notice of an approved transfer of the be dealt with as Affected Shares the Directors shall be entitled shares or all the information required by the relevant section to determine which Relevant Shares in their sole opinion have 793 notice, whichever is the earlier.
directly or indirectly caused the relevant determination.
