Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 21 Critical accounting policies Treasury Certain of the Groups significant accounting policies The Groups treasury activities are overseen by the Treasury areconsidered by the directors to be critical because of Review Management Committee TRMC.
Two executive thelevel of complexity, judgement or estimation involved directors are members of the TRMC, including the Group intheir application and their impact on the consolidated Finance Director who chairs the Committee.
The TRMC financial statements: also has representatives with legal and tax expertise.
The Group operates a centralised treasury department that is Revenue and profit recognition accountable to the TRMC for managing treasury activities Revenue 16.8bn year ended 31 December 2015 in accordance with the treasury policies approved by See note 1 to the Group accounts theBoard.
Carrying value of intangible assets Intangible assets 10.1bn at 31 December 2015 Objectives policies See note 8 to the Group accounts Net debt Valuation of retirement benefit obligations Maintain a balance between the continuity, exibility and Groups share of 4.5bn at 31 December 2015 cost of debt funding through the use of borrowings from IAS19decit, net See note 20 to the Group accounts arange of markets with a range of maturities, currencies and interest rates, reecting the Groups risk prole.
P106 For more information Material borrowings are arranged by the central treasury department and funds raised are lent onward to operating Capital subsidiaries as required.
Objectives Interest rates Maintain the Groups investment grade credit rating and Manage the exposure to interest rate uctuations on ensure operating exibility, whilst: meeting its pension borrowings through varying the proportion of xed rate obligations: pursuing organic investment opportunities: debt relative to oating rate debt with derivative instruments, paying dividends in line with the Groups policy of including interest rate and cross-currency swaps.
long-term sustainable cover of around two times A minimum of 50% and a maximum of 90% of gross underlying earnings: making accelerated returns of capital debt is maintained at xed interest rates.
to shareholders when the balance sheet allows and only when the return from doing so is in excess of the Groups Liquidity Weighted Average Cost of Capital: and investing in Maintain adequate undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
value-enhancing acquisitions, where market conditions An undrawn committed Revolving Credit Facility of 2bn areright and where they deliver on the Groups strategy.
contracted to December 2018 and 1.9bn contracted Policies from December 2018 to December 2020 is available to The Group funds its operations through a mixture of meet expected general corporate funding requirements.
equity funding and debt nancing, including bank and Monitor and control counterparty credit risk and credit capital market borrowings.
The capital structure of the Group reects the judgement The Group adopts a conservative approach to the of the directors of an appropriate balance of funding investment of itssurplus cash.
It is deposited with required.
Three credit rating agencies publish credit financial institutions with the strongest credit ratings ratingsfor the Group: forshort periods.
Agency Rating Outlook Category Currency Moodys Investors Baa2 Stable Investment Reduce the Groups exposure to transactional volatility Service grade inearnings and cash ows from movements in foreign Standard & Poors BBB Negative Investment currency exchange rates.
Ratings Services grade All material rm transactional exposures are hedged.
Fitch Ratings BBB Negative Investment The Group does not hedge the translation effect of grade exchange rate movements on the income statements P150 orbalance sheets of foreign subsidiaries and equity Note 22 to the Group accounts accounted investments it regards as long-term investments.
P156 Note 27 to the Group accounts BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 |
