Strategic report BAE Systems at a glance | iv Our key products and services BAE Systems has strong, established positions supplying defence equipment, electronics and services, and cyber, intelligence and security solutions for governments.
We also have a growing position in adjacent commercial markets, including avionics and cyber security.
Typhoon manufacture F-35 Lightning II design Unmanned and future air Air support and training anddevelopment andmanufacture system capabilities Provision of support to operational capability.
The Group provides Manufacture of major Typhoon Design and manufacture of Development of future air system maintenance, support and training assemblies.
Aircraft assembly and sub-assemblies, including the aft capabilities, including unmanned air forTyphoon aircraft in service with expansion of the capabilities of aircraft fuselage and empennage, in the systems, with the potential for a joint theUK and Saudi Arabian air forces.
in service with the Royal Air Force and UKand provision of equipment, unmanned combat air system Under the Saudi British Defence Royal Saudi Air Force.
including the electronic warfare programme with France.
Co-operation Programme, the Group suite, inthe US.
BAE Systems has a has contracts to provide manpower, signicantworkshare on the worlds logistics and training, as well as training largest defence programme.
aircraft, including Hawk, and upgrades to Tornado aircraft in Saudi Arabia.
TheGroup provides support for Hawk aircraft in service in 14 countries.
Defence avionics equipment Commercial avionics Complex warships Submarines equipment Design and manufacture of avionics Design and manufacture of two Design and manufacture of seven equipment across a range of US and 65,000tonne aircraft carriers and AstuteClass nuclear-powered attack Design and manufacture of avionics other Western military aircraft threeOffshore Patrol Vessels for the submarines for the Royal Navy, together equipment across multiple commercial programmes, including a leadership Royal Navy, together with design, with design, and anticipated aircraft platforms, including engine and position in the electronic warfare andanticipated manufacture, on manufacture, of nuclear-powered ight controls, and cabin and cockpit market.
BAE Systems has been selected theRoyal Navys Type 26 frigate submarines to carry the UKs Trident systems, together with aftermarket by Boeing to design and manufacture programme.
The aircraft carriers nuclear deterrent.
The third of class support services.
BAE Systems is a anew electronic warfare system for areexpected to complete sea trials Astute boat, Artful, is now being major supplier to Boeing.
operated by the Royal Navy, with the final boat expected to enter service towards the middle of the next decade.
Ship repair and naval support Weapon systems Combat vehicles Cyber security Provision of naval and commercial ship Design and manufacture of naval gun Products and services include upgrade Delivery of a broad range of services repair and modernisation services in systems, torpedoes, radars, naval of US Army tracked vehicles, including toenable the US military and theUS, UK and Australia, together with command andcombat systems, artillery Bradley Fighting Vehicles, design and government to recognise, manage support to the navies of the US, UK and systems, missile launchers and, through manufacture of the US Armys M109 anddefeat threats.
In the US, BAE Systems has a 37.5% interest in MBDA, missiles self-propelled howitzer and Armored andother government agencies in facilities located on the East, West and andmissile systems.
Multi-Purpose Vehicle, design, theirintelligence missions.
Provision of Gulf coasts, as well as Hawaii, and is manufacture and support of the defence-grade solutions for commercial investing in new dry dock facilities at CV90combat vehicle for international cyber applications worldwide.
itsSan Diego shipyard to support customers, and vehicle upgrade and theUSNavys increased focus on support to the British Army.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 01 Contents Strategic report Chairmans BAE Systems at a glance i letter Our business ii P04 Our key products and services iv Read more Financial and operational highlights 02 Chairmans letter 04 Group strategic framework 06 How our business works 08 Chief Executives review 10 Financial and Financial review 16 operational highlights Guidance for 2016 23 P02 Segmental performance 24 Read more Electronic Systems 26 Cyber & Intelligence 30 Platforms & Services US 34 Platforms & Services UK 38 Platforms & Services International 42 Responsible business 46 How we manage risk 52 Principal risks 54 Directors report How our Chief Executives Governance summary 58 business works review Board of directors 60 Corporate governance report 62 P08 P10 Read more Read more Audit Committee report 65 Corporate Responsibility Committee report 68 Nominations Committee report 70 Remuneration Committee report 71 Annual remuneration report 73 Financial Responsible Preface to the Directors review business remuneration policy 87 Directors remuneration policy 88 P16 P46 Read more Read more Statutory and other information 97 Independent Auditors report 102 Financial statements Index to the financial statements 105 Segmental Investor resources performance Shareholder information 176 P24 Read more BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 |
