Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 70 Board Directors and Company Secretary The business of Babcock International is managed by our Board of Directors.
Biographical details of the Directors and the Company Secretary as at 18 May 2015 are as follows: CHAIRMAN EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 1.
Franco CBE CBE Martinelli Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Mike Turner was Peter Rogers joined Franco Martinelli appointed to the the Board as Chief joined the Board Board as a NonOperating Officer as Group Finance Executive Director in June 2002 and Director in August on 1 June 2008 and became Chief 2014 having served 12 years with the Group as as Chairman of the Board on 1 November 2008.
Until his retirement Group Financial Controller.
Before joining Since 3 May 2012 he has also been Chairman from its board on 30 April 2015, Peter was Babcockhe was Group Financial Controller of GKN plc, where he was previously Senior Senior Independent Director and latterly atPowell Duffryn plc and before that Independent Director.
He is a former Chief Deputy Chairman of Galliford Try plc.
He is a he held divisional and group roles at Executive of BAE Systems plc and a former former Director of Courtaulds PLC and Acordis BV.
Courtaulds, James Capel and BP.
Chairman of the UK Defence Industries Council He has also served as a President of ADS DIC.
He is a member of the UK Governments Aerospace Defence Security.
Time served on Board: 8 months Apprenticeship Ambassadors Network and is a Time served on Board: 12 years, 11 months Non-Executive Director of Lazard Limited.
Time served on Board: 6 years, 11 months Chairman of the Board and the NominationsCommittee N 4.
Kevin Thomas Chief Executive, International Chief Executive, Division Support Services Division Bill Tame joined the Board as Group Kevin Thomas became Finance Director a Director on 1 May in January 2002, 2010.
He joined the Group in June 2002.
Before a position he held until August 2014 when he joining Babcock, he spent 12 years in facilities was appointed Divisional Chief Executive for the management, including seven years with Serco Groups enlarged International division.
He is a Group PLC and 15 years in local government with former Finance Director of Scapa Group PLC.
He Merton, Surrey and Southwark Councils.
Kevin is was a Non-Executive Director of Carclo plc until 31 an independent Non-Executive Director of Harvey March 2015 and was appointed a Non-Executive Nash Group plc.
He is a fellow of the Royal Institute Director of Southern Water in January 2015. of Chartered Surveyors and a Freeman of the City of London.
Time served on Board: 13 years, 3 months Time served on Board: 5 years 6.
John Davies Bethel CBE Chief Executive, Defence and Chief Executive, Security Division Marine and Technology John Davies joined Division Babcock in 2010, following the Archie Bethel became acquisition of VT a Director on 1 May 2010.
He joined the Group Group.
He was appointed Divisional Chief in January 2004.
He is a Chartered Engineer and Executive, Defence and Security in 2010 and a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
joined the Group Board on 1 January 2013.
He is also President of the Society of Maritime John is a lawyer by background and a graduate Industries and is a Lay Member of the Court of of the University of Manchester and Chester Law A Audit and Risk Committee the University of Strathclyde.
He has worked extensively across the support services and defence sectors including Time served on Board: 5 years Remuneration Committee R within Bombardier, BAE Systems and VT Group.
Nominations Committee N Time served on Board: 2 years, 4 months Governance 71 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 8.
Kate Swann Omand GCB Independent Independent Senior Non-Executive Non-Executive Independent Director Director Director Ian Duncan joined Kate Swann joined the Board as a the Board as a Sir David joined the Board as a NonNon-Executive Director Non-Executive in November 2010.
Executive Director in April 2009 and became Senior Independent Director He is a chartered accountant and is a former She is currently Group Chief Executive of SSP Group Finance Director of Royal Mail Holdings PLC.
She is a former Chief Executive on 1 January 2012.
He is a former Non-Executive Director of Finmecannica UK Limited and is a visiting Ian is currently a Non-Executive Director and Officer of WH Smith PLC, former Managing Chairman of the Audit Committees of WANdisco Director of Argos and a former Managing Director professor in the Department of War Studies, Kings College London.
He left UK Government service in plc, Mouchel Group and Bodycote plc.
He has of Homebase Ltd. She is also a member of the also formerly been Corporate Finance Director at Advisory Board at Selfridges Group.
2005 having served in various senior roles, including as UK Government Security and Intelligence British Nuclear Fuels plc, Chief Financial Officer Time served on Board: 3 years, 11 months and Senior Vice President at Westinghouse Coordinator, Permanent Secretary of the Home Office, Director of GCHQ the UK Signals Intelligence Electric Company LLC in Pennsylvania, USA, and A R N a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the and Information Assurance Agency and Deputy Under-Secretary of State for Policy Audit Committee of Fiberweb plc.
in the Ministry of Defence.
Time served on Board: 4 years, 6 months Time served on Board: 6 years, 1 month Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee A R N A R N 11.
Myles Lee Stewart Independent Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Independent Director Director Non-Executive Director Jeff Randall joined Myles Lee was the Board as a appointed to the Anna Stewart became Non-Executive Director Board on 1 April 2015. a Non-Executive on 1 April 2014.
He was Chief Executive Director of the Company in November 2012.
He had a long career as a journalist and Officer of CRH plc between 2009 and 2013, She is Chief Executive of Laing ORourke, where broadcaster until he stepped down as a presenter serving before that from 2003 as its Finance she was previously Group Finance and Commercial for Sky News in March 2014 and as editor-at-large Director, having joined CRH in 1982 and serving Director.
Since January 2015 she has been a of the Daily Telegraph at the end of 2013.
He was in a number of roles and management positions.
Non-Executive Director of the Major Projects business editor of the BBC between 2001 and Myles holds a degree in civil engineering and is Association and is also a UK Government Business 2005, the launch editor of Sunday Business and, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Ambassador.
Anna is a Fellow of the Royal for six years, was City Editor of the Sunday Times.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Institution of Chartered Surveyors and a Fellow He is a former director of Times Newspapers.
Ingersoll-Rand plc which is listed on the New York of the Institute of Civil Engineers.
He is also a Visiting Fellow of Oxford Universitys Stock Exchange.
Time served on Board: 2 years, 6 months Said Business School where he specialises in Time served on Board: 1 month corporate reputation, and is an honorary professor A R N at Nottingham Universitys Business School.
A R N Time served on Board: 1 year, 1 month Chairman of the Remuneration Committee COMPANY SECRETARY A R N 14.
Albert Dungate Group Company Secretary and General Counsel Albert Dungate is a solicitor.
He has been Group Company Secretary and General Counsel since February 2002.
He is Secretary to the Board and to the Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
