Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 86 Annual remuneration report continued Remuneration Committee composition and advisers The Committee members comprise Paula Rosput Reynolds Chairman from 24 June 2015, Elizabeth Corley appointed to the Committee on 1 February 2016 and Nick Rose.
Carl Symon served as Chairman until he stepped down as a director on 12 June 2015 and Chris Grigg served as a member of the Committee throughout 2015, stepping down from the Committee on 16 February 2016.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee are shown below.
Adviser Services provided Appointment Governance Fees Kepler part of Mercer Advises Committee Committee appointment.
Kepler engages directly with the 32,685 members on members of the Committee.
Fee basis: Hourly remunerationmatters, Kepler does not undertake any other including independent workforthe Company.
advice on the information Kepler is a member of the and proposals presented  Group to the Committee by RCG and is a signatory to the Company executives.
Linklaters Provided legal services, By the Company with Only provides legal compliance, 33,037 in respect of services principally regarding share theapproval of the legaldrafting and reviewservices, provided to the Committee plan rule amendments in Committee.
anddoes not advise the Committee.
Fee basis: Hourly respect of corporate The Committee is aware that governance requirements.
Linklatersis one of a number of legalrms that provides legal advice andservices to the Company on a rangeof matters.
Linklaters is regulated by the LawSociety.
 Provides information on By the Company at The Committee is aware that 73,000 in respect of services market practice in relation therequest of the  provides provided to the Committee to different aspects of Committee.
avariety of other services to the Fee basis: Hourly remuneration, market Company, including tax and pensions trends and benchmarking advice.
 also of the remuneration provides a range of consultancy services.
packages for the executive The nature of the advice provided population.
totheCommittee is primarily related tomarket comparator information anddoes not include advice on the design of remuneration policy.
 is a member ofthe Remuneration Consultants Group RCG and is a signatory to the RCGs code of conduct.
New Bridge Street Advises on the TSR By the Company.
The Committee is aware that New 9,500 in respect of services partofAon Hewitt outcomes as required Bridge Street provides a variety ofother provided to the Committee forassessing the HR-related services to theCompany.
Fee basis: Fixed fee performance condition The nature of the advice provided to under the Performance theCommittee is limited to factual Share Plan.
information concerning the performance of the Companys shares.
New Bridge Street is a member of theRemuneration Consultants Group RCG and is a signatory to theRCGs code of conduct.
During the year, the Committee received material assistance and advice on remuneration policy from the Group Human Resources Director, Lynn Minella, and the Human Resources Director, Reward, Paul Farley.
Ian King, Chief Executive, also provided advice that was of material assistance to the Committee.
Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee The non-executive directors fees are set by the Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee which comprises Sir Roger Carr, Philip Bramwell, Jerry DeMuro and Ian King.
