Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 64 Directors report other disclosures Business and financial review As at 31 December 2015, the Company had been notified in The Chairmans introduction on pages 2 and 3, the Group Chief accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Executives review on pages 4 and 5, the market and strategic Financial Conduct Authority of the following interests in its ordinary reviews on pages 10 to 17, the Chief Financial Officers review on share capital.
pages 18 to 21, the performance review on pages 22 to 33 and the Number Percentage of ordinary of ordinary section titled Building a sustainable business on pages 34 to 41 are shares held shares held incorporated by reference into the Directors report.
Causeway Capital Management LLC 55,778,133 8.08 Prudential plc 40,072,886 5.81 Results and dividends Norges Bank 34,534,864 5.01 The results for the year are shown in the audited financial Newton Investment Management statements presented on pages 90 to 177 and are explained Limited 31,347,697 4.55 more fully in the Chairmans introduction, the Chief Financial Officers review and the performance review.
No ordinary Invesco Limited 29,102,945 4.21 dividends were paid in 2015 2014: 5.6p net per ordinary share.
Preference dividends totalling 10.75p gross per preference share Auditor were paid in 2015 2014: 10.75p gross.
As explained on page 61, during 2015, the Board completed a competitive tender process for the appointment of the external The Directors continued to offer the dividend reinvestment plan, auditor, as a result of which KPMG LLP was selected as the which allows holders of ordinary shares to reinvest their cash Companys auditor for the year ending 31 December 2016. dividends in the Companys shares through a specially arranged A resolution for their appointment will be proposed at the share dealing service.
Innovation, research and development Articles of Association Information concerning innovation, research and development The Company has not adopted any special rules regarding the is set out on pages 34 to 36 and forms part of the Directors appointment and replacement of Directors or the amendment report disclosures.
of the Articles of Association, other than as provided under UKcompany law.
Branches As the Group is a global business, there are activities operated Relations with shareholders through branches in certain jurisdictions.
The Board attaches great importance to maintaining good relationships with all shareholders and ensures that shareholders Share capital and shareholders are kept informed of significant Company developments.
Details of the share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2015, including the rights attaching to each class of share, are The Company continued its programme of communication with set out in Note 29 on pages 145 and 146.
During the year ended institutional investors and sell-side analysts throughout 2015.
31 December 2015, no ordinary or preference shares were Presentations of the half-year and full-year results were made in repurchased for cancellation.
210,214 ordinary shares were issued accordance with the practice of previous years, and teleconferences following the exercise of options held under the Companys have been held for Interim Management Statements.
Through the year, approximately 102 one-on-one and group At 31 December 2015, the Directors had authority under meetings were held at regular intervals with institutional shareholders resolutions approved at the AGM and at the shareholders 2014: approximately 207.
Current and prospective Class Meeting of preference shareholders held in May 2015 to shareholders, brokers and analysts were also given the opportunity purchase through the market 68,950,577 ordinary shares and to engage with Balfour Beatty during hosted roadshows in London, 16,775,968 preference shares at prices set out in those resolutions.
This authority expires at the earlier of the conclusion of the Class This communication programme will be maintained and expanded Meeting of preference shareholders which will follow the 2016 where appropriate, subject to the constraints of regulation and AGM or on 1 July 2016. practice.
The 2016 investor relations programme will focus on Throughout the year, all the Companys issued share capital was ensuring investors and the analyst community understand the publicly listed on the London Stock Exchange and it remains so Group, its operations and strategy, and that international institutions as at the date of this report.
There are no specific restrictions on continue to be given the opportunity to meet with management.
the size of a shareholding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the Articles of Association and the prevailing law.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
No person has special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 65 Care is exercised to ensure that any price sensitive information is Corporate responsibility released to all shareholders at the same time in accordance with A full description of the Groups approach to sustainability, including UKListing Authority requirements.
information on its community engagement programme, appears on pages 34 to 41.
Executive Directors report regularly to the Board on meetings or other contact with shareholders or their representatives.
The nonThe Groups published policies on health and safety, the environment, executive Directors continue to believe that, through their direct business conduct and ethics remain in place and are subject to and ready access to, and contact with, the Chairman and the Senior regular reviews.
Independent Director and through the regular reports to the Board, they are kept fully aware of the views of the larger shareholders in Greenhouse gas emissions the Company and the investment community generally.
Details of emissions during the year and the actions which the Group is taking to reduce them are set out on pages 39 and 40 and The Board continues to retain the services of independent form part of the Directors report disclosures.
external corporate and investor relations consultants who provide advice on the relationship between the Company and its Employment institutional investors.
The Balfour Beatty Group operates across multiple territories and Further information on our investor relations programme can be end markets.
However, there are key principles in the design and found at: practice of employment policy that are applicable across the Group.
com investors provide a safe, open, inclusive and challenging environment that The Board regards the Companys general meetings as an attracts and retains the best people opportunity to communicate directly with private investors and enable all employees to perform at their best and realise actively encourages participative dialogue with all the Companys their full potential, assisted by appropriate training and shareholders.
The chairs of the Board Committees attend the AGM career development each year along with the other Directors and are available to answer questions from shareholders.
The circular setting out the Notice of communicate the strategy of the Group, the objectives of the 2016 AGM provides a detailed explanation of the business to be each respective business and the role and objectives of each transacted and includes contact details which shareholders can use employee within that business to make any comments or ask any questions concerning the AGM.
actively consult with all employees and engage in a participating environment that fosters the exchange of best practice The website is regarded by the Company as an important and collaboration source of information on the Group, including financial press releases, shareholder documentation, annual and half-year results provide market competitive pay and benefits that reward both presentations and the terms of reference of the principal Board individual and collective performance Committees.
The Companys website continues to be developed to ensure that all job applicants receive fair treatment, regardless ensure it remains a principal source of information on the Group and ofage, origin, gender, disability, sexual orientation, marital status, its activities.
religion or belief ensure that all employees similarly receive fair treatment Political donations throughout their career At the AGM held in May 2015, shareholders gave authority for the provide a working environment of respect and free Company and its UK subsidiaries to make donations to political from harassment.
organisations up to a maximum aggregate amount of 25,000 in the European Union.
This approval is a precautionary measure in Information concerning employee diversity is set out on page 38 view of the broad definition of these terms in the Companies Act.
and forms part of the Directors report disclosures.
No such expenditure or donations were made during the year and Balfour Beatty strives to provide employment, training and shareholder authority will be sought again at the 2016 AGM.
development opportunities for disabled people wherever possible.
In the US and Canada, corporate political contributions The Group is committed to supporting employees who become totalling 35,000 were made by business units during 2015 disabled during employment and helping disabled employees 2014: 282,000.
Any political contributions or donations are tightly make the best use of their skills and potential, consistent with controlled and must be approved in advance in accordance with the allother employees.
Companys internal procedures and must also adhere strictly to the Companys policies on probity set out in its Code of Conduct.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 66 Directors report other disclosures continued Employment continued Financial instruments The Company also operates an all employee Share Incentive The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies and Plan SIP which enables UK-based employees to acquire the its exposure to the following risks foreign exchange, interest rate, Companys ordinary shares on a potentially tax-favourable basis, price and credit are detailed in Note 38 on pages 155 to 162. in order to encourage employee share ownership and provide additional alignment between the interests of employees and Statement of Directors responsibilities shareholders.
Participants in the SIP are the beneficial owners of The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report shares but not the registered owners, and the voting rights to such and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law shares are exercised by the trustee of the SIP at the discretion of and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements Information concerning the performance of the Group and the for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors are required Companys share price is provided to all employees via the Group to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with intranet, 360, and through the Companys website.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and Events after the reporting date they have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial As at 14 March 2016, there were no material events after the statements under IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Under company law, reporting date.
the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of Change of control provisions affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for The Groups bank facility agreements contain provisions that, on that period.
In preparing these financial statements, International 30 days notice being given to the Group, the lender may exercise Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: its discretion to require prepayment of the loans on a change of properly select and apply accounting policies control of the Company and cancel all commitments under the present information, including accounting policies, in a agreement concerned.
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and A number of significant joint venture and contract bond agreements understandable information include provisions which become exercisable by a counterparty provide additional disclosures when compliance with the on a change of control of the Company.
These include the right specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to of a counterparty to request additional security and to terminate understand the impact of particular transactions, other events an agreement.
and conditions on the Companys and the Groups financial The Groups US private placement arrangements require the position and financial performance Company, promptly upon becoming aware that a change of control make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as of the Company has occurred and in any event within 10 business agoing concern.
days, to give written notice of such fact to all holders of the notes The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting and make an offer to prepay the entire unpaid principal amount of records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys the notes, together with accrued interest.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, The Groups convertible bond arrangements provide that the holder the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure of bonds can require the Company to redeem its bonds following that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act a change of control of the Company at their principal amount, 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of together with accrued interest.
The Company is required to notify the Company and for taking reasonable steps for preventing and the bond holder within 14 days of a change of control.
detecting fraud and other irregularities.
Some other commercial agreements, entered into in the normal The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of course of business, include change of control provisions.
the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and The Groups share and incentive plans include usual provisions dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation relating to change of control, as do the terms of the Companys inother jurisdictions.
cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares.
There are no agreements providing for compensation for the Directors or employees on a change of control.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 67 The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
In light of the work undertaken by the Audit and Risk Committee reported in greater detail on pages 59 to 61 and the internal verification and approval process which has been followed this year, the Directors are able to state that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
Statements of Directors as to disclosure of information toauditors Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware the Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
By order of the Board Andrew Astin Company Secretary 14 March 2016 Registered Office: 5 Churchill Place, Canary Wharf London E14 5HU Registered in England Number 395826 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
