Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 30 Segmental performance Cyber & Intelligence 1 Cyber & Intelligence, with 12,900 employees, comprises the US-based Intelligence & Security business and UK-headquartered Applied Intelligence business, and covers the Groups cyber security, secure government, and commercial andnancial security activities.
Intelligence & Security delivers a Applied Intelligence collects, manages broad range of services to the US and exploits information to provide military and government.
intelligence enabling government and commercial customers to maintain GEOINT-ISR develops and supports security, manage risk and optimise mission software and systems for US performance.
intelligence and defence customers, leveraging domain expertise in Alongside its secure governmentgeospatial, Intelligence, Surveillance focused activities, thebusiness is and Reconnaissance ISR and asupplier of solutions that combine missionmanagement.
large-scale data exploitation, intelligence-grade security and Global Analysis & Operations services and solutions integration provides innovative, mission-enabling tocommercial customers, with a analytic solutions and support to the focus on financial services, US government.
telecommunications, and energy Integrated Electronics & Warfare andutility companies.
Systems provides systems engineering, Primary operations are located in integration and through-life support theUK, Denmark, Ireland, Australia, services for USdefence and coalition Malaysia and the US.
IT Solutions delivers operational secure solutions that enable US national security customers to perform operations and protect their data and networks.
Our strategy in action Accelerate the growth of our cyber, intelligence and security business Commer cial cyber security Growth in the cyber security domain has been achieved by accelerating technology and market positions through targeted acquisitions.
The core of this strategy was the acquisition in 2008 ofDetica plc to complement and expand the Groups capabilities incyber security for governments.
Whilst this continues to be a growth activity, with high technical barriers to entry, commercial markets offer higher growth opportunities.
BAE Systems has developed a range ofproduct and service offerings, building on our capabilities in the secure-government environment andestablishing channels to take defence-grade cyber solutions to commercial customers.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 31 Operational and strategic highlights 1 Sales by business % Intelligence & Security Applied Intelligence Intelligence & Security Strategic review of manpower and services businesses 25% 75 % determined that retaining the businesses delivers greater value Secured a ten-year contract with an expected value of over $1.0bn 0.7bn to provide information technology services to high-priority US government agencies Secured a five-year, $278m 189m re-compete award to provide logistics and sustainment engineering services for radar, optical and telemetry systems Applied Intelligence 1 Sales analysis: Intelligence & Security % Integration of the acquired SilverSky business IT Solutions substantially completed GEOINT-ISR 20% 20% significant investment in engineering capabilities and product development Government Strong performance in commercial cyber security 100% Global Analysis products, with multi-year contracts awarded & Operations 14% Launch and initial take-up of cloud-based cyber security products in Europe, Canada and Asia-Pacic Continued growth of security and digital services projects in government and critical national Integrated Electronics infrastructure in the UK and internationally & Warfare Systems 46 % Financial performance 1 Sales analysis: Applied Intelligence % 2 2015 2014 1 International Services Sales 1,848m 1,658m KPI & Solutions 3 Commercial Solutions Underlying EBITA KPI 145m 153m 26 % Return on sales 7.8% 9.2% 34 % 4 Cash inow KPI 93m 125m 1 Order intake KPI 2,029m 1,784m Government 1,5 security Order backlog 2.4bn 2.0bn 40% 1 In aggregate, sales increased by 3% to $2.8bn 1.8bn.
The US Commercial business saw just a 1% decrease largely in government IT services.
60% Growth in the Applied Intelligence business was at 31%, of which 13% came from the acquisition of SilverSky and 18% organically, largely from non-UK government customers.
The return on sales reduced to 7.8% 2014 9.2% due to a higher UK Services level of costs expensed in Applied Intelligence as the business focuses on further growth.
40% 4 3 Cash conversion of underlying EBITA for the year was at 82%, 1.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
Re-presented for the reallocation of the Integrated Electronics & Warfare Systems activities from Platforms & Services US to Cyber & Intelligence.
1,5 In aggregate, order backlog increased to $3.5bn 2.4bn.
Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance backlog in the US business grew by 13% largely on imagery analysis costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items.
Net cash inow from operating activities after capital expenditure net, and cyber support awards.
In the Applied Intelligence business, order financial investment and dividends from equity accounted investments.
backlog increased by 21% over the year driven mainly by international 5.
Comprises funded and unfunded unexecuted customer orders.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 32 Segmental performance Cyber & Intelligence Operational performance Global Analysis & Operations IT Solutions In full motion video and intelligence, Intelligence & Security was selected to Intelligence & Security surveillance and reconnaissance analysis, provideinformation technology services to GEOINT-ISR Geospatial Intelligence thebusiness has more than 500 analysts theUS government in a single-award contract Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance globally sustaining mission critical activities with a potential value of over $1.0bn 0.7bn Intelligence & Security continues to mature its onprogrammes worth over$400m 271m.
capabilities in software-based data analytics with an emphasis on big data, production, The business secured a five-year re-compete The business secured a five-year re-compete automation and efficiencies to help the contract worth up to $145m 98m to award with a potential ceiling value of intelligence and defence communities provide counter-terrorism analysis services.
$47m 32m to continue its support of the transform data into actionable intelligence.
USDepartment of Homeland Security Ofce Integrated Electronics & Warfare Systems of Biometric Identity Management with The business continues to build on its legacy of The business secured a five-year, $278m large-scale, mission-critical ngerprint analysis support to the National  189m re-compete award to provide logistics and verication services.
Under the Consolidated Library and sustainment engineering services for programme, the business was awarded a USDepartment of Defense radar, optical and The business was selected for three important 15-month, $18m 12m contract for a Flexible telemetry systems used by the Department indefinite Delivery, indefinite Quantity IDIQ Content Management System that provides ofDefense, Department of Energy and NASA, contracts in the year.
Under the Network new exible and adaptable capabilities that as well as international government agencies.
Operations and Infrastructure and Application can be deployed to enhance intelligence Services Full and Open multiple-award On the US Air Forces Intercontinental collection and tradecraft.
contracts, the business is pursuing task orders BallisticMissile Integration Support Contractor to expand its IT services footprint with the US Since winning the Geospatial Data Services programme, the business has been awarded Air Force.
The third IDIQ contract award Foundational GEOINT Content Management $174m 118m in additional engineering positions the business to pursue task orders programme in 2014, the business has been scope change proposals in 2015.
Since for mission support services to the Federal awarded orders valued at over $104m 71m.
assuming control of the programme in 2014, Bureau of Investigation.
the team has supported five successful missile The business is performing well on two new test launches.
Applied Intelligence contracts awarded in 2015 to assist new US Applied Intelligences markets are highly intelligence community customers with the The business was awarded a five-year US competitive with fast-changing customer development of advanced GEOINT data Marine Corps Air Trafc Control and Landing requirements.
It typically faces competition processing and next-generation geospatial Systems re-compete contract, with a potential from multiple vendors.
Whilst it has won intelligence data collection solutions.
positions on a number of framework The Mobility Air Force Automated Flight The US Army awarded BAE Systems a five-year agreements, business tendered under Planning Service programme is developing contract, potentially worth $76m 52m, to thesecontracts is still competitive.
Whilst advanced mission planning software for test Command, Control, Communications, continuing to grow in the UK market, it USAirForce non-combat aircraft.
The software Computers and Intelligence C4i systems for wasdisappointingto note the loss in the generates four-dimension optimised ight tactical vehicles, and then prototype, engineer Metropolitan Police Service Integration and plans to minimise fuel consumption and take and upgrade more than 2,000 vehicles per year.
Applications Management competition this advantage of new and evolving air space regulations.
The latest software version has been delivered to the customer for formal qualication testing and is on track to be operational in 2016.
Signal Innovations Group, Inc. acquired Our strategy in action Accelerate the growth of our cyber, in2014, has been integrated into the intelligence and security business  Products business.
The new organisation is combining enhanced The US Air Force has awarded BAE Systems full motion video imagery capabilities with Maintaining ave-year contract for the Instrumentation existing geospatial analytic software products Radar Support Programme IRSP to to pursue new opportunities in the US providemultiple agencies with a wide space radars intelligence and defence communities.
IRSP, a  co-op programme From 1 January 2016, the GEOINT-ISR that BAE Systems has managed since 1985, business will be managed and reported was established to provide support to withinElectronic Systems.
severalagencies with similar radar, telemetryand optical tracking systems, aswell as compatible missions.
Currently, IRSP supports more than 500 systems with workranging from logistical upgrades to complete depot-level overhauls.
com BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 33 year.
The business continues to focus on UK Services Looking forward delivering a value-for-money service to all UK Services is a provider of systems integration itscurrent and prospective customers in this and consulting services to UK government, Intelligence & Security area of government business.
national security customers and critical national In the US, further clarity regarding infrastructure providers, with a particular focus The strategy for the Applied Intelligence potential market improvement on digital, data analytics and cyber security.
business is to create market-leading positions wasgained after Congress reached The business has continued to grow.
in the commercial cyber security market and agreement on anew budget deal increasing the scale of systems and service The business has strengthened its relationship that provides for defence and integration contracts to the UK government with Network Rail, being awarded a three-year and for government customers overseas.
contract for its business intelligence IT portfolio, domestic programme spending winning a contract to provide cyber security above the Budget Control Act caps The integration of the SilverSky business in the systems integration services to help mitigate the US, acquired in 2014 to accelerate the drive through 2017. cyber threats to the UKs national rail network into the commercial cyber security market, has and winning a contract to support the digital In April, BAE Systems announced been a success and is substantially completed.
enablement of the UK rail network as part of thatit had engaged advisers to During the year, the business has invested in Network Rails Digital Railway Initiative.
support a strategic assessment of engineering and product development and Demand for Applied Intelligences cyber the sales team to support growth.
In 2015, theIntelligence & Security sectors security services continues, with contracts Applied Intelligence recruited 1,200 employees, Global Analysis & Operations, awarded for a cyber security and information including 700 engineers.
assurance managed service at the Ministry of Integrated Electronics & Warfare Commercial Solutions Justice, for digital identity and fraud analytics Systems and IT Solutions businesses.
Commercial Solutions focuses on the at theDepartment for Work and Pensions and The review determined that retaining provisionof cyber security, counter-fraud toprovide cyber threat intelligence strategy the businesses within BAE Systems, Inc. andcompliance software and solutions, consulting services for a major international primarily to commercial organisations.
The business has delivers greater value.
alsobeen awarded a position on the The sale of products and services which provide Following a period of market UKgovernments Defence Science and multi-year or recurring revenue streams has contraction in the US government Technology Laboratory framework for continued to grow.
Applied Intelligences electronic warfare and cyber research.
services sector, the Group believes cloud-based e-mail protection products, the outlook is now stabilising.
launched in Europe, Canada and Asia-Pacic Applied Intelligences digital and data during the year, have been deployed by a transformation business continues to grow, Intelligence & Security has reduced leading international airline and a leading with new contracts including a data migration costs to address government UKmedia producer and broadcaster.
strategy project for the Atomic Weapons Establishment, a secure, cloud-based, budgets, whilst pursuing growth New managed security services awards include open-source IT platform for Lloyds Register opportunities, particularly in critical, a three-year contract to provide advanced and a digital capability assessment project for a threat detection services toan international mission-focused areas.
leading UK television and broadband provider in law rm and a three-year networking security support of its digital transformation programme.
monitoring services contract with one of the Applied Intelligence main national UK television broadcasters.
International Services & Solutions Applied Intelligence has invested International Services & Solutions focuses on The CyberReveal threat analytics solution, inengineering and product cyber and communications intelligence services which defends organisations against development and the sales team and solutions for international governments sophisticated cyber attacks, continues to and communications service providers, pulling togrow further its order backlog receive orders from both new and existing through Applied Intelligences commercial andpipeline of opportunities customers, including major financial product-based solutions where relevant.
institutions in Europe and North America.
fromcommercial and government The business continues to see demand in customers in North America, Europe, During the year, new NetReveal wins Asia-Pacic and the Middle East in support included Metro Bank in the UK to provide a Asia-Pacic and the Middle East.
In range of anti-money laundering services and Europe, the business was awarded a contract alarge credit union in the US to provide an to provide a long-term government partner enterprise fraud solution.
Growth in existing with a solution to investigate new concepts accounts has included the procurement of a forsituational awareness using the trade finance fraud solution by a large IntelligenceReveal all-source analysis solution.
The year also saw the successful implementation of a managed In the second half of the year, the business fraud analytics platform for Canadian National won major contracts to provide integrated Insurance Crime Services CANATICS, the intelligence solutions to support the missions largest insurance consortium in Canada.
of South European and Asian customers.
It also won a substantial cyber security services contract in Asia to build an advanced Security Operations Centre.
