Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 97 Statutory and other information Company registration Ofce of Fair Trading undertakings Issued share capital BAE Systems plc is a public company limited As a consequence of the merger between As at 31 December 2015, BAE Systems byshares registered in England and Wales British Aerospace and the former Marconi issuedshare capital of 86,686,002 comprised with the registered number 1470151.
Electronic Systems businesses in 1999, the 3,467,440,044 ordinary shares of 2.5p each Company gave certain undertakings to the and one Special Share of 1.
Directors Secretary of State for Trade and Industry The current directors who served during the Share buyback nowthe Secretary of State for Business, 2015 financial year are listed on pages 60 During the year, 1,450,000 ordinary Innovation and Skills.
Carl Symon also served as a director sharesof2.5p each were repurchased Company was released from the majority until his retirement from the Board on 12 June underthe buyback programme announced ofthese undertakings and the remainder 2015.
Elizabeth Corley was appointed to the on21 February 2013 and such repurchased havebeen superseded and varied by a new Board on 1 February 2016. shares have been cancelled.
Compliance with the consideration for the purchase of the shares, The Company has announced that Charles undertakings is monitored by a compliance including commission and stamp duty, was Woodburn will be joining the Board in the officer.
Further information regarding the 6,708,336. newly-created role of Chief Operating officer undertakings and the contact details of with effect from a date in the second quarter thecompliance officer may be obtained The percentage of called up share capital of 2016. through the Company Secretary at the excluding treasury shares as at 31 December Companys registered ofce or through 2015, which the shares repurchased in 2015 Dividend theCompanys website.
An interim dividend of 8.4p per share was paid on 30 November 2015.
The directors profit forecast Treasury shares propose a final dividend of 12.5p per ordinary In its trading update announcement on As at 1 January 2015, the number of shares share.
Subject to shareholder approval, the 12November 2015, the Group made the held in treasury totalled 315,826,614 having final dividend will be paid on 1 June 2016 to following statement, which is regarded as atotal nominal value of 7,895,665 and shareholders on the share register on 22 April aprot forecast for the purposes of the representing 9.1% of the Companys called up 2016.
Information on dividend waivers is given Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rule share capital at 1 January 2015.
18 andwhich replaced the profit the Company used 14,018,511 treasury shares forecastmade in the Groups full-year results having a total nominal value of 350,463 and Annual General Meeting AGM announcement on 19 February 2015, the representing 0.4% of the Companys called up The Companys AGM will be held on 4 May Annual Report2014 and its half-year share capital at 31 December 2015 to satisfy 2016.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting resultsannouncement on 30 July 2015 : awards under the Free and Matching elements is enclosed with this Annual Report and details of the Share Incentive Plan 6,162,973 shares the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting.
Including a benefit of some 2 pence from in aggregate, awards under the Matching adjustment of certain overseas tax provisions Certain information in the Strategic report element of the International Share Incentive in the light of rulings received, the Groups The following items are set out in the Strategic Plan 16,352 shares in aggregate, awards underlying earnings per share for 2015 are report on pages i to iv and 1 to 57: vested under the Restricted Share Plan expected to be around 38 pence.
2,154,228 shares, and options exercised disclosures in relation to the use of financial Underlying earnings per share was 38.0p in under the Executive Share Option Plan instruments: 2014.
In 2015, underlying earnings per share 5,684,958 shares.
The treasury shares particulars of important events affecting was 40.2p.
utilisedin respect of the Share Incentive Plan, theGroup which have occurred since the International Share Incentive Plan and Employees 31December 2015: theRestricted Share Plan were disposed of The Group is committed to giving full and bythe Company for nil consideration.
The an indication of likely future developments fairconsideration to applications for 5,684,958 shares disposed of by the Company in the business of the Group: employment from disabled people who in respect of the Executive Share Option Plan meetthe requirements for roles, and making an indication of the activities of the Group were disposed of by the Company for an available training opportunities and inthe eld of research and development: aggregate consideration of 11,634,317.
As at appropriate accommodation to disabled 31 December 2015, the number of shares held actions taken to introduce, maintain or people employed by the Group.
in treasury totalled 301,808,103 having a total develop arrangements aimed at employees: Political donations nominal value of 7,545,203 and representing and No political donations were made in 2015.
8.7% of the Companys called up share capital greenhouse gas emissions.
The rights to treasury shares are restricted inaccordance with the Companies Act and, inparticular, the voting and dividend rights attaching to these shares are automatically suspended.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 98 Statutory and other information continued Rights and obligations of ordinary shares Restrictions on transfer of securities awards of shares made under the Companys On a show of hands at a general meeting every The restrictions on the transfer of shares in Long-Term Incentive Plan 2014, Deferred holder of ordinary shares present in person theCompany are as follows: Bonus Plan, Performance Share Plan, Share and entitled to vote shall have one vote, and Matching Plan, Restricted Share Plan, Share the Special Share may only be issued to, every proxy entitled to vote shall have one Incentive Plan, International Share Incentive heldby and transferred to the Special vote unless the proxy is appointed by more Plan, Group All-Employee Free Shares Plan Shareholder or his successor or nominee: than one member in which case the proxy and International profit Sharing Scheme are hasone vote for and one vote against if the the directors shall not register any allotment subject to restrictions on the transfer of proxy has been instructed by one or more or transfer of any shares to a foreign person, shares prior to vesting and or release.
members to vote for the resolution and by or foreign persons acting in concert, who The Company is not aware of any oneor more members to vote against the atthe time have more than a 15% voting arrangements between its shareholders resolution: or ifthe proxy has been instructed interest in the Company, or who would, thatmay result in restrictions on the transfer by one or more shareholders to vote either for following such allotment or transfer, have of shares and or voting rights.
or againsta resolution and by one or more of such an interest: those shareholders to use his discretion how significant direct and indirect holders the directors shall not register any person to vote.
On a poll, every member present in ofsecurities asa holder of any shares unless they have person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall As at 31 December 2015 and unchanged as received: i a declaration stating that upon have one vote for every ordinary share held.
at 17 February 2016, the Company had been registration, the share s will not be held by Subject to the relevant statutory provisions advised of the following significant direct and foreign persons or that upon registration and the Companys Articles of Association, indirect interests in the issued ordinary share theshare s will be held by a foreign person holders of ordinary shares are entitled to a capital of the Company: or persons: ii such evidence if any as the dividend where declared or paid out of Percentage directors may require of the authority of protsavailable for such purposes.
Subject Name of shareholder notied thesignatory of the declaration: and iii tothe relevant statutory provisions and the such evidence or information if any as to AXA S. A. and its group of companies 5.00% Companys Articles of Association, on a the matters referred to in the declaration Barclays PLC 3.98% returnof capital on a winding-up, holders of asthe directors consider appropriate: ordinary shares are entitled, after repayment BlackRock, Inc. 5.00% of the 1 Special Share, to participate in such the directors may, in their absolute The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 6.05% areturn.
There are no redemption rights in discretion, refuse to register any transfer relation to the ordinary shares.
ofshares which are not fully paid up but Franklin Resources Inc. and afliates 4.92% not so as to prevent dealings in listed shares Rights and obligations of the Special Share Invesco Limited 9.97% from taking place : The Special Share is held on behalf of the Silchester International Investors LLP 3.01% Secretary of State for Business, Innovation the directors may also refuse to register any andSkills the Special Shareholder.
Certain instrument of transfer of shares unless the Exercise of rights of shares in employee provisions of the Companys Articles of instrument of transfer is in respect of only share schemes Association cannot be amended without one class of share and it is lodged at the The Trustees of the employee trusts do not theconsent of the Special Shareholder.
place where the register of members is kept, seek to exercise voting rights on shares held Theseprovisions include the requirement that accompanied by a relevant certicate or inthe employee trusts other than on the no foreign person, or foreign persons acting such other evidence as the directors may direction of the underlying beneciaries.
inconcert, can have more than a 15% voting reasonably require to show the right of the Novoting rights are exercised in relation to interest in the Company, the requirement that transferor to make the transfer: shares unallocated to individual beneciaries.
the majority of the directors are British, and the directors may refuse to register an the requirement that the Chief Executive and Restrictions on voting deadlines allotment or transfer of shares in favour any executive Chairman are British.
The notice of any general meeting shall specify ofmore than four persons jointly: the deadline for exercising voting rights and The holder of the Special Share is entitled where a shareholder has failed to provide appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in toattend a general meeting, but the Special the Company with certain information relation to resolutions to be proposed at the Share carries no right to vote or any other relating to their interest in shares, the general meeting.
The number of proxy votes rights at any such meeting, other than to directors can, in certain circumstances, for, against or withheld in respect of each speak in relation to any business in respect refuse to register a transfer of such shares: resolution are publicised on the Companys ofthe Special Share.
Subject to the relevant website after the meeting.
statutory provisions and the Companys certain restrictions may from time to time Articles of Association, on a return of capital beimposed by laws and regulations for on a winding-up, the holder of the Special example, insider trading laws : Share shall be entitled to repayment of the restrictions may be imposed pursuant to 1capital paid up on the Special Share in theListing Rules of the Financial Conduct priority to any repayment of capital to any Authority whereby certain of the Groups other members.
employees require the Companys approval The holder of the Special Share has the right to deal in shares: and to require the Company to redeem the Special Share at par or convert the Special Share into one ordinary share at any time.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 99 Appointment and replacement of directors Powers of the directors Conicts of interest Subject to certain nationality requirements The directors are responsible for the As permitted under the Companies Act 2006, mentioned below, the Company may by management of the business of the Company the Companys Articles of Association contain ordinary resolution appoint any person to and may exercise all powers of the Company provisions which enable the Board to authorise beadirector.
subject to applicable legislation and regulation, conicts or potential conicts that individual and the Articles of Association.
The directors also have the power to make appointments to the Board at any time.
At the 2015 AGM, the directors were given To avoid potential conicts of interest the Anyindividual so appointed will hold ofce the power to buy back a maximum number Board requires the Nominations Committee until the next AGM and shall then be eligible of315,464,024 ordinary shares at a minimum tocheck that any individuals it nominates for for re-election.
The maximum price was appointment to the Board are free of potential the higher of i an amount equal to 105% of conicts.
In addition, the Boards procedures The majority of directors holding ofce must the average of the middle market quotations and the induction programme for new be British.
Otherwise, the directors who are of the Companys ordinary shares as derived directors emphasise a directors personal not British shall vacate ofce in such order from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial responsibility for complying with the duties thatthose who have been in ofce for the List for the five business days immediately relating to conicts of interest.
The procedure shortest period since their appointment shall preceding the day on which such ordinary adopted by the Board for the authorisation vacate their ofce first, unless all of the shares are contracted to be purchased, and ofconicts reminds directors of the need to directors otherwise agree among themselves.
ii the higher of the price of the last consider their duties as directors and not grant Any director who holds the ofce of either independent trade and the highest current an authorisation unless they believe, in good Chairman in an executive capacity or Chief independent bid on the London Stock faith, that this would be likely to promote the Executive shall also be British.
Exchange as stipulated in Article 5 1 of the success of the Company.
As required by law, The Company must have not less than six Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation.
the potentially conicted director cannot vote directors holdingofce at all times.
If the on an authorisation resolution or be counted This power will expire at the earlier of the number is reduced to below six, then such in the quorum.
Any authorisation granted may conclusion of the 2016 AGM or 30 June 2016. number of persons shall be appointed as be terminated at any time and the director is A special resolution will be proposed at the directors as soon as is reasonably practicable informed of the obligation to inform the 2016 AGM to renew the Companys authority to reinstate the number of directors to six.
Company without delay should there be any to acquire its own shares.
TheCompany may by ordinary resolution material change in the nature of the conict fromtime to time vary the minimum number At the 2015 AGM, the directors were given orpotential conict so authorised.
the power to issue new shares up to a nominal Directors indemnities amount of 26,286,039.
This power will At each AGM of the Company, any director The Company has entered into deeds of expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the who was elected or last re-elected at or indemnity with all its current directors and 2016 AGM or 30 June 2016.
Accordingly, a beforethe AGM held in the third calendar those persons who were directors for any part resolution will be proposed at the 2016 AGM year before the then current calendar year of 2015 which are qualifying indemnity to renew the Companys authority to issue must retire by rotation and such further provisions for the purpose of the Companies further new shares.
At the 2015 AGM, the directors must retire by rotation so that in Act 2006. directors were also given the power to issue totalone-third of the directors retire by new issue shares up to a further nominal The directors of BAE Systems Pension Funds rotation each year.
A retiring director is amount of 26,286,039 in connection with Trustees Limited, BAE Systems 2000 Pension eligiblefor re-election.
It is the Boards anoffer by way of a rights issue.
This authority Plan Trustees Limited, BAE Systems Executive intention that all directors will stand for too will expire on the earlier of the conclusion Pension Scheme Trustees Limited and Alvis election or re-election in 2016 in compliance of the 2016 AGM or 30 June 2016, and a Pension Scheme Trustees Limited benefit from with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
resolution will be proposed at the 2016 AGM indemnities in the governing documentation Amendment of the Companys Articles to renew this additional authority.
of the BAE Systems Pension Scheme, the ofAssociation BAE Systems 2000 Pension Plan, the The Companys Articles of Association may BAE Systems Executive Pension Scheme and only be amended by a special resolution at a the Alvis Pension Scheme, respectively, which general meeting of shareholders.
Where class are qualifying indemnity provisions for the rights are varied, such amendments must be purpose of the Companies Act 2006. approved by the members of each class of All such indemnity provisions are in force as shares separately.
atthe date of this Directors report.
In addition, certain provisions of the Articles ofAssociation cannot be amended without the consent of the Special Shareholder.
These provisions include the requirement that no foreign person, or foreign persons acting in concert, can have more than a 15% voting interest in the Company, the requirement that the majority of the directors are British, and the requirement that the Chief Executive and any executive Chairman are British.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 100 Statutory and other information continued Change of control significant agreements In July 2009, BVT Surface Fleet Limited In August 2008, BAE Systems Land The following significant agreements contain nowBAE Systems Surface Ships Limited Systems Munitions & Ordnance Limited provisions entitling the counterparties to and the UK Ministry of Defence MoD now BAE Systems Global Combat Systems exercise termination, alteration or other similar entered into a denitive Terms of Business Munitions Limited and the MoD entered rights in the event of a change of control of Agreement ToBA which sets out a 15-year into a 15-year partnering agreement for the Company: partnering arrangement, including lead roles theprovision of ammunition to UK Forces for the BVT business on dened surface the Munitions Acquisition Supply Solution The Group has entered into a 2bn shipbuilding and support programmes.
Where Revolving Credit Facility dated 12 December Where the MoD considers that a proposed theMoD considers that a proposed change 2013 which provides that, in the event of change of control of BAE Systems Surface of control of BAE Systems Global Combat achange of control of the Company, the Ships Limited would be contrary to the Systems Munitions Limited would be lenders are entitled to renegotiate terms, defence, national security or national contrary to the defence, national security orif no agreement is reached on negotiated interest of the UK, then the change of ornational interest of the UK, then the terms within a certain period, to call for the control shall not proceed until agreement change of control shall not proceed until repayment or cancellation of the facility.
with the MoD is established.
In the event agreement with the MoD is established.
TheRevolving Credit Facility was undrawn that there is a change of control of Inthe event that there is a change of control asat 31 December 2015.
BAE Systems Surface Ships Limited of BAE Systems Global Combat Systems The Company has entered into a Restated notwithstanding the objection of the MoD Munitions Limited, notwithstanding the and Amended Shareholders Agreement on such grounds, the MoD shall be entitled objection of the MoD on such grounds, with European Aeronautic Defence and to terminate the ToBA immediately without theMoD may, having followed the dispute Space Company EADS N. V. EADS and compensation or termination charges.
resolution process, terminate the MASS Finmeccanica S. p. A. Finmeccanica relating agreement for default.
On 30 September 2014, BAE Systems to MBDA S. A. S. dated 18 December 2001 Surface Ships Limited and the MoD entered In November 2012, BAE Systems Marine as amended.
In the event that control of into an agreement which sets out terms for Limited entered into a contract with the the Company passes to certain specified the progressive suspension, amendment and MoD for the design, construction, testing third-party acquirors, the agreement allows termination of the ToBA through the entering and commissioning of Boat 4 of the Astute EADS and Finmeccanica toexercise an into of other contracts, such as the Maritime Class programme.
In November 2015, option to terminate certain executive Support Delivery Framework MSDF BAE Systems Marine Limited entered into management level nomination and voting agreement see below which triggered the acontract with the MoD for the design, rights, and certain shareholder information deletion of elements of the ToBA relating to construction, testing and commissioning of rights of the Company in relation to the surface ship support.
The current scope of Boat 5 of the Astute Class programme.
Following the exercise the ToBA has, therefore, been reduced to Where the MoD considers that a proposed of this option, the Company would have focus on surface shipbuilding and the MoD change of control of BAE Systems Marine theright to require the other shareholders retains its right to terminate the ToBA if Limited would be contrary to the defence, topurchase its interest in MBDAat fair there is a change of control notwithstanding national security or national interest of the market value.
UK, then the change of control shall not The Company and EADS have agreed proceed until agreement is established with The MSDF agreement between BAE Systems thatifFinmeccanica acquires a controlling the MoD.
In the event that there is a change Surface Ships Limited and the MoD became interest in the Company, EADS will increase of control of BAE Systems Marine Limited, effective on 1 October 2014 and establishes its shareholding in MBDA to 50% by notwithstanding the objection of the MoD a framework until March 2019 for the purchasing the appropriate number of on such grounds, the MoD shall be entitled provision of surface ship support work shares in MBDA at fair market value.
to terminate the agreements immediately.
andservices relating to HM Naval Base The Company, BAE Systems, Inc. Portsmouth.
Where the MoD considers In addition, the Companys share plans BAE Systems Holdings Limited and thata proposed change of control of containprovisions as a result of which options BAE Systems Holdings Inc. entered into BAE Systems Surface Ships Limited would and awards may vest and become exercisable aSpecial Security Agreement dated be contrary to the defence, national security on a change of control of the Company in 23October 2015 with the US Department or national interest of the UK, then the accordance with the rules of the plans.
of Defense regarding the management change of control shall not proceed until Auditors ofBAE Systems, Inc. in order to comply agreement with the MoD is established.
KPMG LLP have indicated their willingness withthe US governments national security Ifthere is a change of control without tobe re-appointed as the auditors for the requirements.
In the event of a change notice or notwithstanding the objection Company and a resolution proposing their ofcontrol of the Company, the Agreement ofthe MoD, the MoD shall be entitled re-appointment will be put to the AGM.
may be terminated or altered by the US toterminate the MSDF.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 101 Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for keeping Responsibility statement of the inrespect of the Annual Report and adequate accounting records that are directorsin respect of the Annual financial statements sufficient to show and explain the parent Reportand financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing companys transactions, and disclose with Each of the directors listed below confirms theAnnual Report, and the Group and parent reasonable accuracy at any time the that to the best of their knowledge: company financial statements in accordance nancialposition of the parent company the financial statements, prepared in with applicable law and regulations.
andenable them to ensure that its financial accordance with the applicable set of statements comply with the Companies Company law requires the directors to accounting standards, give a true and Act2006.
They have general responsibility prepareGroup and parent company financial fairview of the assets, liabilities, financial fortaking such steps as are reasonably statements for each financial year.
Under position and profit or loss of the Company, opento them to safeguard the assets of thatlaw they are required to prepare the and the undertakings included in the theGroup, and to prevent and detect fraud Group financial statements in accordance consolidation taken as a whole: and andother irregularities.
withInternational Financial Reporting the Strategic report and Directors report, Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and Under applicable law and regulations, the taken together, include a fair review of applicable law, and have elected to prepare directors are also responsible for preparing a thedevelopment and performance of the the parent company financial statements in strategic report, directors report, directors business, and the position of the Company accordance with UK accounting standards remuneration report and corporate and the undertakings included in the andapplicable law UK Generally Accepted governance statement that comply with consolidation taken as a whole, together Accounting Practice, including Financial thatlaw and those regulations.
with a description of the principal risks and Reporting Standard FRS 101, Reduced The directors are responsible for the uncertainties that they face.
maintenance and integrity of the corporate In addition, each of the directors considers that Under company law the directors must not and financial information included on the the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, approve the financial statements unless they Companys website.
Legislation in the UK balanced and understandable, and provides are satisfied that they give a true and fair view governing the preparation and dissemination the information necessary for shareholders of the state of affairs of the Group and parent of financial statements may differ from toassess the Companys position and company, and of their profit or loss for that legislation in other jurisdictions.
performance, business model and strategy.
In preparing each of the Group and Statement of disclosure of information parent company financial statements, the toauditors Sir Roger Carr Chairman directors are required to: The directors who held ofce at the date Ian King Chief Executive select suitable accounting policies and ofapproval of this Directors report confirm Jerry DeMuro President and Chief thenapply them consistently: that, so far as they are each aware, there is Executive officer of norelevant audit information of which the make judgements and estimates that BAE Systems, Inc. Companys auditors are unaware: and each arereasonable and prudent: director has taken all the steps that he she Peter Lynas Group Finance Director for the Group financial statements, ought to have taken to make himself herself Elizabeth Corley Non-executive director statewhether they have been prepared aware of any relevant audit information and Harriet Green Non-executive director inaccordance with IFRSs as adopted by toestablish that the Companys auditors are theEU: aware of that information.
Chris Grigg Non-executive director for the parent company financial Paula Rosput Reynolds Non-executive director On behalf of the Board statements, state whether applicable UK Nick Rose Non-executive director accounting standards have been followed, David Parkes subject to any material departures disclosed Ian Tyler Non-executive director Company Secretary and explained in the parent company 17 February 2016 financial statements: and On behalf of the Board prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate Sir Roger Carr to presume that the Group and the parent Chairman company will continue in business.
17 February 2016 BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 |
