Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 30 International Page title Delivering growth and international expansion, safely The divisions key strategic principles remain delivering highly complex and bespoke engineering services which are mission-critical, strongly focused on the customer, have benefits of scale and are above all, safe.
We continue to build upon brand recognition and long-term synergies, and will establish capability awareness using marketleading positions to create growth opportunities for the wider Group.
Strategy in action Avincis became a part of Babcock Above all, safety in May 2014, and was renamed In South Africa, the Disabling Injury Mission Critical Services Incident Rate has fallen to 0.17, against a country benchmark of 0.78, and our RIDDOR is at 0.03, making Babcock one Awarded a ten year contract to provide of the safest companies to work for.
air ambulance services in Australia MCS is also committed to the highest levels of safety, operating a world-leading Won a six year rebid to provide integrated safety management system.
firefighting for the Italian Government Babcock has contributed to a significant improvement in air safety, with MCS being Acquired Scandinavian AirAmbulance air accident free for over 12 months.
Safety leadership, integrated systems and Created HeliOffshore, a global safety processes support our drive to continuous improvement and development of optimal trade body for the offshore industry training programmes for our staff.
Gained a market share increase in Home Safe Every Day Volvo equipment produced in China Link to Group strategy Won a significant order for pipework for Kusile power station in South Africa Growing market share for DAF truck sales Strategic report 31 Market-leading HEMS MCS has just been awarded a contract by the government of Victoria and Ambulance Victoria, to provide HEMS in a ten year contract.
MCS currently operates two aircraft, flying 1,200 hours annually.
The contract will see an additional six helicopters, and a back-up, fully operational in 2016.
During the six year relationship to date, MCS has flown 330 missions, responding in under ten minutes.
The contract makes MCS the largest HEMS operator in Australia.
area covered 2 250,00km Link to Group strategy Supporting defence partners Since 2008, MCS has been in over the contract duration and partnership with Dfense Conseil therefore cost efficiency.
Contracts International, 49% owned by the such as these, and Business French MoD, to purchase, upgrade and Development Directors in place across service 36 helicopters for the French Europe, allow us to establish capability Army and provide flying hours for army awareness to wider international pilot training at the Hlidax base.
The audiences and promote Group-wide Hlidax contract enables high safety growth opportunities with preferred and quality standards, secure visibility customer characteristics.
Contract length Contract value 22 years 140 million Link to Group strategy h p t u p w o u r o o r G r G f g o f o % e Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 32 International 2015 performance highlights KPI Return on revenue % 14.4% 15 18% 10% 10 5 KPI 0 12 13 14 15 192% The majority of MCS oil and gas business, products and consequently have Market overview which accounts for less than a third of reduced mining activity.
However, despite total MCS revenue, is experiencing only these headwinds, our core markets and Mission Critical Services MCS limited impact from the fall in the oil activities supporting power generation, The emergency services market, which price, with some delays to the award distributing Volvo and DAF equipment accounts for over two thirds of the MCS of contracts for new projects and to and providing plant hire have seen good business and delivers vital and politically exploration activity.
However, in MCS growth in Rand terms.
sensitive services, remains attractive and markets in the UK North Sea and As the aging Eskom power stations continues to create opportunities.
The Australia, where activities support struggle to meet demand there have market is increasingly supported by existing production facilities, there been staged power outages to protect positive trends in the macro-economic has been no significant change to the the grid, which has led to an increased situation affecting our Southern European long-term contract structures.
demand for generation support, customers in particular.
We see the breakdown and preventative maintenance possibility of further outsourcing in South Africa as well as life extension programmes.
this sector, particularly in the provision In 2014 15, the South African economy Over the next five years we expect new of search and rescue services, which are experienced ongoing weaknesses in the opportunities to arise as new power currently performed by the military in Rand and inflation has led to subdued stations are commissioned.
We continue to see consumer spending and GDP growth opportunities from future military dropped from 2.5% to 2.1%, impacted Although the new construction outsourcing in the maintenance, repair by low global commodity prices and equipment market has remained flat, and overhaul MRO market, particularly a lack of consistent power supplies.
equipment owners have sought in France where we currently operate Extended strikes in the mining sector efficiencies by extending the life of a joint venture with Dfense Conseil and the slowdown in Asian economies, their equipment fleets and demand for International to provide the purchase, particularly in China, have affected coal, parts and service has also increased.
upgrade and full maintenance service copper, platinum and iron ore prices The market for specialist production of 36 helicopters for the French Army.
all traditionally South African export machines has increased.
In the near-term, % k o e u o u n b n e e r v e v e d e R r O R 6.9 8.9 8.4 14.4 Strategic report 33 we expect demand for new equipment Our strategy is also to build on existing The market for external training is and for plant hire to increase based on customer relationships and market growing throughout the region and indications from the South African knowledge to create growth we are currently exploring opportunities Finance Minister that the planned opportunities for the wider Group.
in South Africa and Mozambique, infrastructure spend programme will The initial focus will be on Spain, Italy in partnership with the new government.
progress in 2015. and France, where we have already Though our plans to expand into external recruited local Business Development training have been delayed until later Directors, who are working to identify in 2015, we continue to develop our Strategy new markets and opportunities where existing apprentice training school and Babcock can add value.
Using MCS currently have 120 apprentices Mission Critical Services local reputation and relationships we undergoing full-time training.
The MCS strategy is fully aligned with can establish awareness of Babcocks the Babcock strategy and we will now broader capabilities.
In addition, specific Financial review strategic actions will be put in place to South Africa The significant growth in revenue, enhance returns.
We have built close For the equipment business our strategic operating profit and margin for the relationships with our customers through focus is on continued market share International division as a whole, our locally branded operating companies, growth for our Volvo construction has come from the inclusion of the MCS all of which have been trusted to deliver equipment, in particular there is business unit formerly Avincis acquired the most sensitive of life-saving increasing demand for the new Chinese on 16 May 2014.
The International operations for many years in highly built Volvo equipment.
We will seek to division reported total revenue of regulated environments.
grow our positions in Zambia, Namibia, 811.4 million 2014: 277.6 million, Botswana and particularly Mozambique MCS businesses are well positioned for total operating profit of 116.8 million where activity in the oil and gas markets growth across all our lines of business.
2014: 23.2 million which resulted is increasing and will support demand Realising growth potential in existing in an operating margin of 14.4%.
markets will require MCS to deepen Within the total divisional results, MCS customer relationships, retain our As Eskom, the national power company, reported revenue of 536.9 million industry-leading, emergency, medical continues to struggle to meet increasing for the period since acquisition, achieving and firefighting expertise, gain new demand this opens up opportunities our expectation of 22% growth on a full outsourcing opportunities and adopt for us.
In these market conditions, our year pro forma basis.
This was driven by Babcock best practice in bid strategy is to increase outage efficiencies new emergency medical services EMS management.
We can build on our and sell our engineering expertise on life contracts in France, growth from renewal unparalleled expertise by entering into extension programmes and maintenance of EMS contracts in Italy and new new markets through customer and to both Eskom and industrial power firefighting contracts with both the supplier-led opportunities, extending markets.
We will seek to increase demand Spanish and Portuguese governments our portfolio through new technology for plant hire in this market, building on and the acquisition of Scandinavian and innovation and taking existing lines a strong second half following strikes AirAmbulance SAA that was completed of business into new geographies.
which affected demand in the first half.
Mission critical response MCS has delivered HEMS to the citizens of northern Italy for the past 20 years.
Working for the local government, the company operates four custom configured helicopters from four permanent bases.
Our trained specialist crews respond in under five minutes to a wide range of emergency calls, from road traffic accidents to heart attacks.
Last year we flew 1,500 flight hours, 2 covering an area of 22,500km.
2,600 Missions in 2014 Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 34 International continued The Oil and Gas businesses achieved HEMS.
Despite the unsuccessful bid Operational review good growth from contracts awarded for the New South Wales Air Ambulance in the previous financial year which contract this year, the addition of Mission Critical Services started operating during this year in the Ambulance Victoria contract will Since acquisition, MCS has continued Australia and in the UK North Sea.
make MCS the largest operator of HEMS to make good progress as part of Babcock in Australia.
MCS operating profit was 95.7 million with all contracts meeting or exceeding which resulted in an operating margin We have been awarded a four year our customers requirements.
As MCS benefits further from contract, with a potential two year Over the last financial year, MCS has being part of Babcock, for example by extension, to provide HEMS in Spains maintained a high total contract win rate being able to access improved operating Galicia region, following a competitive of over 70% and over 90% for renewals.
lease terms and increased procurement tender.
This service has been operated Thirty-six contracts and extensions have savings, we expect to achieve further by Inaer Spain for the Public Foundation been won over the past 12 months with improvements in operating margin.
of Health Emergencies since 1990. a total value of around 550 million.
The South African operations have In France, we have won a number In the Emergency Medical Services made further good progress, achieving of contracts to provide regional HEMS, business, Australian Helicopters is a 10.5% increase in revenue in including a six year contract to deliver mobilising for the start of a new ten local currency, although results in helicopters for medical transfer and year contract to provide air ambulance Sterling remained flat on last year emergency missions for Nantes, Angers, services awarded by the Victoria at 274.5 million 2014: 277.6.
La Roche-sur-Yon, Brest and St Brieuc government and Ambulance Victoria.
Growth in the business was driven by in western France.
The contract forms The agreement sees the supply of six strong equipment sales as well as an part of the French Ministry of Healths new, twin-engine helicopters and includes increase in parts and servicing and strong new process of placing regional a dedicated back-up aircraft to maintain demand for the powerlines business, contracts, which have introduced the services when heavy aircraft maintenance which offset stable power generation requirement for additional technology, is required.
The new helicopters will activities and reduced demand for crane such as mandatory autopilot and night be operational from January 2016 hire during the first half.
vision goggles NVG, where Inaer and will be located at bases in Essendon, France is the only French operator Operating profit in South Africa increased Warrnambool, the Latrobe Valley certified to use NVG.
by 15% in local currency and by 3% in and Bendigo.
Sterling terms to 24.7 million 2014: In Italy, we were awarded a six year We currently operate two helicopters 23.9 million, which resulted in an renewal to provide HEMS in the Alto for Ambulance Victoria and have operating margin of 9% 2014: 8.6%, Adige region.
This contract utilises new supplied the service for the past six years.
the increase being driven by the growth aircraft from Airbus Helicopters operated During the year, we learnt that we had in Powerlines activities and set up costs from bases in Bolzano and Bressanone.
been unsuccessful in our bid to deliver for new businesses outside of South Africa The renewal amalgamates two existing Helicopter Emergency Medical Services in the previous year.
HEMS contracts in a region where Inaer Committed to search and rescue MCS has responded to 460 calls in under ten minutes for North Sea offshore search and rescue contracts.
Specialist pilots, engineers and medically trained winch crew fly a range of 200 nautical miles, using two specially configured aircraft.
MCS have been trusted to deliver in a contract lasting nine years.
A new five year contract was signed to continue the service, which started in April 2015.
1,500 Flight hours, annually Strategic report 35 Developing technology to support growth Partnering with European agencies and industrials, MCS has designed and developed EINFOREX: an intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance system for tackling fires.
The trademarked Babcock product enables better emergency response and management and, offered with new contracts and as a bolt-on to existing contracts, is driving new business and customers.
This commercial product gathers intelligent data, sent in real time to command and control centres, allowing much improved decision making, enhancing efficient firefighting tactics and ground safety for firefighters.
In June 2014, the acquisition of SAA MCS is already benefiting from its Italy has provided a continuous service was completed.
SAA operates 22 aircraft, integration into the broader Babcock since 2000.
Additionally, we are currently from bases across Sweden and Finland Group, with its processes and reporting preferred bidder for an eight year renewal and is one of Scandinavias largest air now aligned and the Groups expertise of the contract to provide HEMS in the ambulance companies, delivering primary helping to roll out engineering, safety, Emilia Romagna region, from bases in and secondary emergency medical procurement and IT systems which will Bologna, Pavullo, Parma and Ravenna.
services across Sweden and Finland.
allow the business to drive efficiency.
This contract combines four existing The business has a strong management With significantly greater abilities to lease contracts in a region where Inaer Italy team and integration is progressing well and finance aircraft at lower cost, has delivered HEMS for around 20 years.
and has performed in line with our the pipeline of opportunities remains In the UK, through Bond Air Services, expectations since acquisition.
We are stable and robust and MCS is utilising we continue to operate services for air now evaluating further opportunities Babcocks experience to optimise bid ambulance charities, with two seven year in Norway and Denmark.
The fleet contracts for Thames Valley and Chiltern optimisation project currently being In our Oil and Gas business, we have Air Ambulance, and Hampshire and undertaken is designed to capture cost increased our geographic footprint Isle of Wight Air Ambulance, announced savings through improved training with strategic, customer-led entries in September.
These contracts extend efficiencies for pilots and engineers and into new regions.
existing relationships and enable the improve inventory management as well charities to provide a full, round the In Australia, we have begun to operate as reduce operational complexity.
services for ConocoPhillips, in support example, our largest operating company of its offshore activities.
In Spain, the in Spain has 26 aircraft types in its current In the Emergency Services surveillance business was awarded a five year fleet.
Our goal is to reduce those to 16 business, Bond Air Services won a two extension to its existing contract with aircraft types by the 2019 financial year.
year renewal for the provision of services for Police Scotland.
We also provided Enegas in November.
In the UK, we were As well as working with the South an additional helicopter to support the awarded a three year renewal from Eni African business to support potential Commonwealth Games in Glasgow.
and Centrica to provide services for their opportunities for MCS in Mozambique, In Spain, we were awarded a two year offshore installations in the southern MCS continues to work with other extension from Agencia Estatal fide North Sea, operating two aircraft from Babcock divisions to help facilitate Administracion Tributaria to provide Blackpool, as well as a contract with growth through existing MCS customer surveillance for the customs authority Maersk and a new contract to provide oil relationships, operational credibility and throughout mainland Spain.
The Italian and gas search and rescue services in the administration in the geographies in firefighting business won a six year North Sea.
We have also been awarded a which it operates.
contract for the provision of firefighting three year extension to our contract to services for the Italian Central provide crew change services from Sicily Government with 19 amphibious for Edisons offshore operations.
Plans are water-bombers spread across the country.
in hand to build on the existing oil and gas expertise and customer relationships within the wider Babcock Group.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 36 International continued Integrated engineering firsts Eskom contracted Babcock to redesign the first full main steam system on the Matimba power station.
The project called for a logistically complex approach to ensure the work was completed in the least time, as the return of supply was critical to national power demand.
The team re-engineered the plant using 200 3D scans to inform detailed fabrication drawings, calculations and stress analysis in under three months.
The replacement was successfully carried out during a routine overhaul cycle, minimising downtime.
487m of pipework, running at 545C Growth in the Rentals business has been South Africa Sustainability steady, although demand for cranes During this year, there been strong was held back slightly by delays in demand for equipment in South Africa Mission Critical Services maintenance activities by one of our and Mozambique despite the impact of Our primary focus is safety, which remains major private energy customers.
As wage mining strikes and low global commodity at the heart of everything we do, assuring settlements were finalised and strikes prices.
We have experienced increasing safe operations across the business.
ended, demand for cranes has increased.
demand for the Volvo Chinese value We are implementing a world-leading brand products which were introduced During the year, Eskom postponed integrated safety management system last year and growth has been supported a number of scheduled outages in that controls the risks to our customers, by further penetration into the an attempt to balance maintenance our people, our business and the neighbouring markets of Zambia, activities with the increasing demand environment.
Our strategic focus is Namibia, Mozambique and Botswana.
We continue to work with on real-time operational performance During the year, our share of the Eskom to develop more efficient monitoring and risk management and we construction equipment market increased working practices for both planned have continued to implement initiatives to just under 10% and we are now the and unscheduled outages to support such as flight data monitoring, visual largest provider of Chinese construction the demands on generating capacity.
monitor safety performance indicators equipment in the region.
Going forward, Eskom have announced and fatigue risk management.
We are that maintenance activity will be Sales of DAF trucks have improved benefiting from the experience and increased to improve operating through our dealerships across South expertise of the wider Group in health efficiencies on ageing plant.
Africa and we continue to develop and safety management systems and relationships with fleet operators to processes, in particular we are working The business continues to pursue support further growth.
After a lengthy to ensure that we have a best-in-class opportunities in the new build absence from the South African market, safety culture.
power station market, winning a the brand is gaining renewed traction significant order for pipe work on the This year, we developed a comprehensive and market share has grown from 1% new Kusile power station.
We anticipate safety training oversight organisation to 3%.
This has been helped by the successful completion of this project which draws together the systems and establishment of our own finance leading to other project opportunities.
processes used in each of our local company which is able to obtain external As investment into new transmission lines operating companies.
This has been bank finance and offer finance leases continues, there has been increasing developed to meet local needs and to our DAF customers.
demand for the Powerlines business, individual national, aviation authority which has been working at full capacity legislation.
From this, an MCS-wide throughout the year.
The business training oversight organisation will be also continues to bid on new created to provide end-to-end evidence opportunities and nine bids are based training, which meets the highest currently under evaluation.
The aim is to develop Strategic report 37 and install common systems and field of airborne emergency medical care.
We support the development of our standards across the business, enabling Experts from Inaer have taught modules employees and this year four managers greater inter-operability amongst for Europes only post-graduate degree in are being registered in the Babcock individual MCS companies.
Additionally, Forest Fire Science and Management, MBA programme.
the organisation serves the business organised by the Universities of Lleida, strategic training development needs, Cordoba and Leon.
The degree is Outlook in a market that is increasingly competing designed to give students a thorough for crew resource.
understanding in the control of forest We continue to see significant prospects fire: including how to predict its for growth as MCS progresses bids in the In October, working together with four behaviour, prevention, extinguishing pipeline and opportunities in tracking other helicopter operators, we launched strategies and technology.
that have yet to come to market.
HeliOffshore, a new global industry We are looking to build on our long-term association for organisations with an South Africa relationships with customers, and on our interest in safety in offshore helicopter This year, our health and safety records proven expertise and technology focus transport, for the oil and gas industry.
Babcock in South to create further opportunities for HeliOffshore will use cross-industry Africa remains one of the safest growth.
We are also developing a number cooperation as a platform for enhancing companies to work for, for all employees of opportunities in new geographies, the industrys overall strong safety record, including a large number of temporary such as Africa and South America.
sharing best practices, developing and workers.
The Disabling Injury Incident applying advanced technology and Rate has fallen to 0.17 against a country For the South African business, the encouraging common global flight benchmark of 0.78 and our RIDDOR is primary focus remains the growth of standards.
We continue to focus on rolling market share in the commercial transport organisation has continued to attract out the Babcock Safety Lens programme and construction equipment market, interest and applications for membership on the path to Zero Harm.
as well as expansion in our export from over 70 organisations including markets.
Continuing strong demand is We also participate in a number of OEMS, oil companies, operators expected for the Powerlines business and corporate and social responsibility and suppliers.
the power generation support market, programmes such as including the supply of portable diesel In Spain, Inaer has continued to build supporting 22 underprivileged children generator sets.
Furthermore, we will be on its world-leading expertise in HEMS through private high schools exploring opportunities in the training and firefighting.
This year the company sponsorship of three full-time student sector and aviation support.
increased its long-standing collaboration bursaries at South African universities with the University of Alicante to develop Across the International business units, support for a children with its first specialist HEMS and airborne we are making good progress in a aids orphanage medical assistance course.
This new number of areas where we are building annual funding for nine science and course is one of the most demanding on the financial, operational and bidding mathematics teachers, working in international training programmes in the expertise of the wider Group.
underprivileged areas, to upgrade their skills.
Maritime safety MCS in Spain has developed a 25 year relationship with Salvamento Maritimo, operating 14 specially configured aircraft over 13 bases, using proprietary technology to ensure the 1,250 missions to date have been successful.
With around 300 technical staff, fully integrated with the customer, we have ensured the response time remains under ten minutes.
