Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 12 Marine and Technology Building on long-term relationships and experience The division is seeking to enhance and build on its established position as the UKs leading through-life support partner to the Royal Navy and in doing so, grow its naval marine presence internationally.
The division is seeking to apply its engineering expertise in adjacent commercial energy and marine markets.
Strategic supply partner Babcock is working closely with BP to manufacture 73 subsea structures for the BP Quad 204 redevelopment project, Strategy in action West of Shetland, in one of the largest ever single subsea fabrication orders placed Signed the MSDF to deliver services in the UK.
at Clyde and Devonport until 2020 Recent significant investment in our Rosyth facilities enables us to deliver efficiently HMS Vengeance LOPR nears completion a scope that includes: detailed engineering: on time and in budget material procurement: integration of supplier equipment: fabrication and HMS Vanguard LIFEX planning underway assembly: acceptance testing and load out support.
All completed undercover, at one Achieved record order book value location with our non-tidal basin enabling easy load out and access to the North Sea.
for liquid gas transport systems The project management and Progressively securing equipment manufacturing excellence has so far ensured BPs delivery of this critical management contracts and similar equipment within a narrow offshore programmes with MoD weather window, significantly contributing to the overall success of the programme.
Awarded a five year support contract Link to Group strategy for WHLS and SSE on all in-service submarines Design, development and procurement contract for long-lead Successor items Strategic report 13 Extending relationships in New Zealand Building on an existing contract at Devonport dockyard in Auckland, Babcock is now working in partnership with the New Zealand Defence Force and Royal New Zealand Navy to deliver extended and enhanced services such as technical programme management, collaboration on capital acquisition programmes, improved availability of fleet assets, and continuous engineering support, through a new, output-based contract from March 2015.
Seven-year contract value NZ$300m Link to Group strategy Queen Elizabeth class aircraft carrier support In July 2014, Her Majesty The Queen the ninth time.
Following the ceremony The contract underpins our position, named the first of two Queen Elizabeth the dock was flooded, and the largest maintaining design and engineering class QEC aircraft carriers.
Babcock is vessel ever commissioned by the influence, to support and optimise both responsible for delivering whole-ship Royal Navy, was floated into the basin.
vessels availability and capability assembly of both vessels as part of the through the expected 50 year lifespan.
While assembly has started on the Aircraft Carrier Alliance ACA along second vessel, Babcock strengthened Weighing in at 65,000 tonnes with over 50% of the detailed design.
its strategic partnership with the MoD Assembly, integration and commissioning through an initial contract, along with In-service in 2020 of both vessels is taking place at Rosyth BAE Systems, to design the first phase of dockyard, which has just received the the support solution for QEC, as part of British Safety Council 5-Star award for the wider Support Development Phase.
Link to Group strategy h p t u p w o u r o o r G r G f g o f o % e Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 14 Marine and Technology 2015 performance highlights KPI Return on revenue % 11.1% 15 35% 29% 10 5 KPI 0 12 13 14 15 13% the Royal Navy whilst maintaining the expected to announce the transformation Market overview highest levels of availability.
The SSSA will of the Defence Materiel Organisation and be the contracting mechanism to deliver an increased focus on capital expenditure Over the past year, our main market all future surface ship support solutions.
related to naval platforms, including the in the UK for the Marine and Technology We believe the MoDs expenditure on future submarine programme.
division has remained positive as the surface ship procurement and support We continue to identify global Ministry of Defence MoD continues with will be 18 billion over the next decade.
opportunities in the commercial marine its strategy to manage its critical naval The Submarine Enterprise Performance sector, which are well suited to our infrastructure and assets by outsourcing, Programme SEPP, an alliance between expertise in complex and critical through a range of long-term partnership the MoD, Babcock, BAE Systems and Rolls engineering services.
A predicted contracts and alliance programmes.
Royce, continues to drive availability and increase in demand for gas transportation The MoDs equipment programme support efficiencies across the submarine is generating opportunities for specialised continues to reflect sustained investment enterprise.
The MoD is forecast to spend systems for gas transport ships and in naval platforms over the next decade, 40 billion on the entire submarine further opportunities are expected from including the Queen Elizabeth class QEC programme during the next decade.
ageing offshore oil and gas production aircraft carriers, the Type 26 frigates and infrastructure and increasing demand for the Astute and Successor submarine Building on its positions in the UK, offshore renewable energy.
Following the General the division continues to grow its activities in the UKs nuclear new build Election in May 2015, the UK government international and commercial activities and decommissioning markets are also is expected to undertake a Strategic where we believe market conditions driving demand for our engineering Defence and Security Review.
We do not present opportunities.
In Canada, we design and manufacturing capabilities.
currently anticipate any significant impact continue to monitor naval infrastructure to our existing naval marine contracts and in-service support opportunities that Cyber-security remains a top priority however, and believe any budget are driven by the Canadian governments for the UK government and it is working reduction could drive an increased focus proposed renewal and expansion of the to increase cyber awareness across on achieving further value for money Royal Canadian Navy fleet through the all business sectors.
As businesses from future support solutions.
Can$33 billion National Shipbuilding increasingly recognise the importance Procurement Strategy.
The Australian of cyber-security we anticipate future The Surface Ship Support Alliance SSSA government is due to publish its Defence sustained growth in demand for our was established in 2009 to provide the White Paper in June 2015, which is services in this area.
best and most cost effective solutions for % k o e u o u n b n e e r v e v e d e R r O R 11.3 11.4 11.2 11.1 Strategic report 15 services drawing on the cyber knowledge support activities through both the Strategy and capability of ContextIS.
Naval Marine and Technology business units.
The Technology and Energy and In the UK, our close working relationship Building on the success of the BP Marine Services business units have both with the MoD, through the 15 year Terms Quad 204 subsea infrastructure delivered growth in their commercial of Business Agreement ToBA, continues programme, we are focusing on activities for oil and gas customers, to provide a strong platform to grow and growing our commercial marine business including BP and Total.
Additionally, we develop our through-life naval support by providing integrated engineering, have seen continued growth in demand businesses.
The Maritime Support Delivery design and manufacturing services for liquid gas transportation systems.
Framework MSDF contract reinforces our for major offshore energy operators.
These increases, along with growth in position as the MoDs strategic partner We believe our skills and experience in Australian naval support activities, have at Her Majestys Naval Bases HMNB providing long-term asset management offset some reduction in volumes as Devonport and Clyde until 2020. services in complex environments a result of timing of activities on the positions us well to penetrate the We expect to consolidate our position Canadian submarine programme.
potentially significant offshore oil and in the SSSA and the SEPP by working with gas decommissioning market.
We will Operating profit increased broadly in the MoD to drive improved performance continue to work with Cavendish Nuclear line with revenue by 13% to 173.9 in both the submarine and surface ship to deliver complex manufacturing million 2014: 153.9 million.
Our contract at solutions to support both the civil At constant exchange rates, organic HMNB Clyde positions us well to meet nuclear decommissioning and new growth was 14%.
Operating margins the anticipated increase in demand for build markets.
remained broadly in line with last year engineering services as the MoD seeks at 11.1% 2014: 11.2%.
to establish HMNB Clyde as the UKs In addition to protecting and expanding Submarine Centre of Specialisation our UK and developing international and the base port for all submarines.
businesses, we will continue to look for Operational review We expect the introduction of new Royal opportunities to acquire capabilities The division continued to deliver Navy platforms over the next decade, and businesses which are consistent in-service support and deep maintenance e. g. QEC aircraft carriers, Type 26 frigates with our growth ambitions and to which to the Royal Navys RN fleet of and Astute submarines, will continue to we can add value.
submarines and warships and maintain provide us with opportunities to exploit its role as the MoDs strategic partner our technical expertise in the support Financial review at HMNB Devonport and Clyde.
These and commissioning of naval capability.
activities are all carried out under the The Marine and Technology division Building on our UK home market ToBA with the MoD, which runs until had a successful year, reporting a total positions, our international naval 2025.
Through the long-term increase in revenue of 13%, to 1,562.5 customer base is growing.
Alongside programmes and alliances we have million 2014: 1,377.3 million.
Organic our established naval support businesses with the MoD, we have been able to growth at constant exchange rates was in Canada, Australia and New Zealand, maximise availability of the fleet whilst 14% 2014: 13%.
The main drivers of we continue to develop future naval remaining focused on the delivery of growth this year have been the continued opportunities around waterfront cost reductions.
increase in activities on the QEC aircraft infrastructure and engineering capability.
carrier programme and other warship As well as identifying further potential commercial opportunities.
Following on from the successful Trusted to deliver design stage of the Weapon Handling System project for South Koreas The first Irish Naval Service Offshore Jangbogo III submarine programme we Patrol Vessel built at our Appledore are also pursuing targeted opportunities facility, was officially named and beyond our core established international commissioned in May 2014. markets to provide equipment and In March 2015, the second engineering design services to foreign vessel started sea trials prior to navies.
Building on the success of the commissioning.
Building on these Irish Naval Service Offshore Patrol Vessel successes the Irish Naval Service OPV programme, we aim to enhance exercised an option to purchase our position as a provider of OPVs by a third OPV.
targeting international design and build programmes.
In response to the cyber-threat 2016 environment we are developing a Managed Security Service business that Scheduled delivery will provide Security Operations Centre Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Marine and Technology continued In September 2014, we concluded vessel, installation of vital electrical and Vanguard class life extension programme discussions with the MoD and signed the mechanical systems and the start of the VLIFEX to ensure there is no disruption Maritime Support Delivery Framework assembly phase for HMS Prince of Wales.
to the UKs ability to meet Continuous MSDF contract.
Working within the We are already working with MoD and At Sea Deterrence.
Preparation work is ToBA, MSDF confirms the continuation of the ACA to develop the long-term already underway for the first Vanguard our contract to deliver services at HMNB engineering support solution for the QEC class life extension package and refuelling Devonport and Clyde through to 2020, carriers when they become operational on HMS Vanguard.
replacing the previous Warship Support from 2017 and 2023.
Planning and preparations for HMS Modernisation Initiative WSMI contracts.
All current warship and submarine refit Astute, the first Astute class submarine, MSDF will also cover a number of surface contracts are performing in line with are already taking place for her first ship projects which will be delivered in our financial expectations and are deep maintenance period.
Additionally, conjunction with the SSSA.
The contract aligned with the customers programme through the Astute Class Training Service is valued at a total of 2.6 billion, of milestones and KPIs.
we are providing high quality training which 600 million had already been solutions to the RN, which also presents included within the Groups order book We continue to play a central role in opportunities to expand our role in as part of nominated roles under the the SSSA with the completion of a submarine training in the UK and ToBA.
The new contract enables Babcock major refit on the helicopter carrier, internationally.
to provide continuity and development HMS Ocean, and the commencement of the range of activities and services of a significant reactivation package on The Vanguard class replacement, delivered to the MoD and RN, as well the amphibious assault ship, HMS Albion.
Successor future submarine programme, as deliver improved efficiencies and a We will also be undertaking the life continues to present opportunities.
further 250 million of cost reductions extension work packages for all of the Through the Technology business we on the agreed programme of work.
RNs Type 23 frigates at our frigate refit are progressing activities to support complex in Devonport.
Building on the the design phase, through-life support, Our role in the Aircraft Carrier Alliance strength of our UK position, we continue planning and the key tactical weapons ACA remains strategically important to identify opportunities to export our launch systems for Successor, which as we deliver both QEC aircraft carriers warship support capability.
remains on schedule for Main Gate with our alliance partners.
Significant decision by the MoD in 2016.
We progress has been made over the past We have maintained our position as continue to deliver weapons handling year on both HMS Queen Elizabeth and the leading support partner for the and launch systems to support the HMS Prince of Wales at our facility in UK submarine fleet by successfully current Astute, Type 26 and QEC Rosyth.
Assembly of HMS Queen Elizabeth supporting the Trafalgar and Vanguard build programmes in the UK, as well was completed and, following the classes, as well as the new Astute class as the submarine builds in Spain and naming ceremony, she was flooded submarines as they enter service.
up and successfully floated into the currently completing the Long Overhaul basin during July 2014.
Activities are Period Refuel for HMS Vengeance, and As through-life support partners to now focused on the fitting out of the are planning and preparing for the the RN, planning work on the proposed solution for the dismantling of redundant submarines at our Rosyth and Devonport facilities continues to make good Long-term support partner to MoD progress, with preparatory work starting for the demonstration pilot vessel Babcock works closely with the MoD to implement at Rosyth.
VLIFEX the life extension programme for the Vanguard class submarines, originally designed for a service life of The first of the offshore patrol vessels 25 years.
The 2010 SDSR identified benefits gained from being built by our Appledore facility for maximising the useable life of the class and optimising the the Irish Naval Service was commissioned design and build programme for the follow-on Successor into service in May 2014 and the second class submarines, with an in-service date of 2029. vessel is currently undergoing sea trials.
These successes have led to the customer To meet the challenge, Babcock has adopted a exercising an option for a third ship, programme providing both technical and management which is currently under construction support, as well as a wider support solution, that delivers and due for delivery by July 2016. logistics, infrastructure, manning and training in an integrated programme.
HMS Vanguard will be the first Our contracts to support the Australian, vessel to receive the VLIFEX package of work in 2016.
New Zealand and Canadian navies are all performing well, achieving excellent KPI performance and delivering improved availability and efficiencies for our 1.3 billion customers.
In Canada, under the Victoria class in-service support contract, which Estimated value of VLIFEX is set to run until 2024, HMCS Chicoutimi Strategic report 17 has returned to the Royal Canadian Navy In the past 12 months, we have the business.
As well as developing the after an extended docking work period continued to develop our presence in potential of our own employees, and we are now working on the refit of the oil and gas market.
The former LGE a schedule of Science, Technology, HMCS Corner Brook.
We have delivered business is also making good progress Engineering, and Mathematics STEM the refit contract for the Canadian on a number of liquid gas system projects community engagement activities, Coastguard ship, Louis St Laurent, on time having won orders worth 320 million designed to engage and nurture and budget with our partners Chantier since acquisition.
We are nearing enthusiasm around careers in STEM Davie Canada and are now working completion of the BP Quad 204 subjects to children and young people is on the medium ice-breaker CCGS Des programme, manufacturing and embedded within our organisation.
We also continue to track delivering 73 subsea modules and 2014, Marine and Technology division future naval support and commercial have also completed work on the Chief Executive, Archie Bethel, endorsed opportunities in the liquefied natural Total Ellon Grant project.
Additionally, the Institution of Primary Engineers and gas market.
we have successfully delivered an the Institution of Secondary Engineers integrated walk to work solution for new programme launch at a high-profile In Australia, we have consolidated our Total which allowed 18,000 safe, event held in the House of Lords.
relationship with the Royal Australian personnel transfers to the West Franklin Navy where we are successfully delivering The fair and equal treatment of all and Elgin B platforms.
in-service engineering support to the our employees is an issue we strongly Collins class submarines and the ANZAC believe in.
We have established a class frigates.
We have recently divisional Diversity Working Group to Sustainability established a teaming arrangement with drive the Group-wide Respect cultural The Marine and Technology division Austal Ships to bid for the Pacific Patrol change programme, which regularly employs over 10,500 highly-skilled Boat programme.
In New Zealand, we liaises with business leaders to promote men and women, and has a reputation started a new contract on 1 March 2015 fairness and excellent conduct in the for engineering excellence and a with the New Zealand Defence Force, workplace.
Further to this, we hosted two customer-focused approach.
In line which extends our previous dockyard in-house diversity conferences with key with Group strategy, the health, safety contract for a further five years, with an guests and speakers, along with the first and security of every employee, option to extend for an additional two Women in Science and Engineering event contractor, customer and visitor to years.
The new contract is worth to be held outside of London with HRH our facilities is our utmost priority.
approximately NZ$300 million and The Princess Royal speaking at the event.
We demand the highest standards of provides an opportunity for us to broaden We also strive to minimise the impact industry-compliant, health and safety our responsibilities.
We expect this to our day-to-day operations have on the best practice and seek to minimise also generate further naval support environment by using industry-standard environmental impact wherever possible.
best practice procedures alongside In the last financial year, we have Through our investments in equipment environmental regulations, including focused on a number of safety management operations and technology, ISO 14001 certification.
improvement initiatives, such as we have been successful in securing initial the Safety Improvement Programme, maritime equipment management Outlook the Safety Lens employee engagement contracts under the MoDs Maritime programme and particular emphasis Equipment Transformation programme In the UK our long-term relationship has been made on the Visible Leadership and similar programmes, in support of with the RN and MoD as their trusted Programme at all sites.
Our facility at a range of UK defence assets, totalling naval support partner continues to Rosyth has been honoured with the over 100 million.
These programmes provide us with excellent long-term British Safety Councils 5-Star award for are at an early stage and we are very visibility of revenue.
We believe our the ninth time.
pleased with progress to date: further unrivalled technical expertise and the opportunities of over 300 million are The division continues to develop a ToBA provide us with an excellent in bidding and tracking phases.
security and information assurance platform to work with the RN to maximise culture at all sites, using a strategic the availability of their assets and safely Our independent technology consultancy risk-based approach which aligns reduce cost.
We continue to develop our businesses continue to deliver growth.
security with the Home Safe Every Day integrated engineering expertise into the ContextIS has been successfully integrated business objective.
commercial marine market both in the into the division whilst retaining its UK and overseas.
We believe the outlook reputation to provide independent The division needs to attract and retain for the Marine and Technology division impartial advice.
We continue to develop a highly skilled workforce to support our remains positive as we continue to track our consultancy businesses to support current operations as well as our growth significant future opportunities to growth in the UK and overseas, particularly ambitions so we remain committed to support long-term growth both in the in response to the developing cyber-threat the recruitment and development of UK and internationally.
environment, but also by using our apprentice and graduate employees.
information management and data analytics In 2014, we welcomed another capabilities to enable our clients to deliver 150 apprentices and 87 graduates into higher availability from their assets.
