Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 18 Defence and Security Well positioned to meet future defence needs The division is focused on three strategic actions: win, develop and expand.
Win significant UK and international defence contracts.
Develop through a dedicated international business, targeting emerging outsourcing opportunities.
Expand by building on existing contracts to move into adjacent markets where there are increasing opportunities for outsourcing in complex and critical engineering and training support services.
Strategy in action Expand internationally Acquisition of the Defence Following the success of our model with Support Group BAE Systems in delivering the UK Hawk T1 and T2 contracts, we signed a charter with Contract to deliver services to BAE Systems to jointly pursue opportunities to support the Hawk, in-service, with overseas the Defence College of Technical Training customers.
Several opportunities are already over five years being explored.
The division has also established an Additional work programmes on the International business unit to support close-out of Regional Prime contracts development and growth outside the UK and this is now well positioned to capitalise on Extensions to the Hawk T1 and T2 Mission Critical Services presence in Europe.
engineering and support contracts International markets AirTanker air-to-air refuelling in-service 1.2 billion date milestone met Potential target revenue Canada and Australia International business unit established to support growth plans Link to Group strategy Strategic report 19 DSG a business to build on In March, we completed the acquisition of the Defence Support Group DSG, which maintains, repairs and overhauls a large range of military vehicles, from lightweight Land Rovers to Challenger main battle tanks, ensuring the Army is able to train and ready to deploy.
This service will be delivered through a new output-based, ten year contract with options to extend for a further five years.
Babcock currently provides world-class fleet management and equipment support to the MoD, through a wide range of critical and complex engineering and training contracts.
The addition of DSG enables us to expand our presence across the British Army and drive efficiencies in the management of their vehicle fleets.
Estimated contract value 2 billion Link to Group strategy Delivering technical training With the new five year Defence College of Technical Training contract, Babcock is responsible for the training support, delivery and equipment support at each of the two MoD schools, as well as the provision of other functions including asset management, administrative, logistic and medical support.
Hours of training delivered 96,686 Link to Group strategy h p t u p w o u r o o r G r G f g o f o % e Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 20 Defence and Security 2015 performance highlights KPI Return on revenue % 15.8% 20 18% 28% 15 10 KPI 5 0 12 13 14 15 -5% engineering support, fleet management College of Technical Training DCTT Market overview and provision of training across the with the development of our strong armed services.
We therefore remain competitive positions on pipeline The UK governments defence focused on an estimated addressable opportunities, provide a solid foundation transformation programme, known as market of c 4 billion annual spend.
During Future Force 2020, has achieved many 2015, a number of significant contract Beyond our domestic market, there of its original aims through defence extensions and competitive rebids will is improved visibility of international reform.
These include the resizing of be key areas of focus to ensure that the defence markets.
We have identified the armed forces and delivering a new existing order book is replenished.
a number of emerging opportunities, materiel strategy through competitive particularly in Canada, Australia and In response to the growing opportunities outsourcing programmes.
In the Europe, where Babcock is already in international markets, we have 2015 16 financial year, we will see the established.
These countries display established a dedicated International formation of a new parliament followed varying degrees of maturity in their business unit to deliver growth through by a Comprehensive Spending Review outsourcing of defence support to drive a pipeline of opportunities in Babcock and a Strategic Defence and Security financial and operational efficiencies markets where we can leverage our Review to make decisions on the future and improved availability of assets, and UK capability and experience into first of the UKs forces and determine further we believe these markets offer significant generation outsourcing opportunities.
The initial focus is Canada and Australia, We expect the MoD will continue to where we believe governments exhibit seek to maintain defence outputs on the appropriate conditions and political Future Force 2020 plans without Strategy indicators for Babcock to have significant reducing or compromising its capabilities, opportunity to develop a sustainable Our strategic actions of win, develop whilst delivering future cost savings.
We are also working closely with and expand remain the focus of our The increasing focus on output is aligned Mission Critical Services MCS to develop activities.
Despite the changes in the with our business model and the strength opportunities to drive growth in Europe.
defence infrastructure markets and the of our relationship with customers will subsequent loss of the Next Generation We will continue to evaluate acquisition enable us to provide solutions to this Estates contracts NGEC, successful targets both in the UK and overseas and challenge during a period of ongoing wins in major UK bids, such as Defence we anticipate that these opportunities fiscal pressure.
We expect future Support Group DSG and Defence will also create scope to leverage our opportunities will arise in complex % k o e u o u n b n e e r v e v e d e R r O R 10.6 13.4 13.9 15.8 Strategic report 21 current capabilities into adjacent T2 support contracts, both of which have Building on last years success, when non-defence sectors.
The award of the Hawk we reported that the Air business had T2 follow-on contract is being negotiated secured a contract to support Army on a sole-source basis and we anticipate Air Corps Apache helicopters, we have Financial review contract award later in 2015.
We are also now also secured a similar contract to engaged in the competition for future support Lynx helicopters.
The business Revenue for the Defence and Security support to the Hawk T1.
Whilst support to will build on this capability in military division, including the Groups share the Hawk aircraft in the UK has been the rotary-wing support through of joint venture revenue, reduced, primary focus over the past year, we have collaboration with MCS in this sector.
as anticipated, by 5% to 812.8 million signed an agreement with BAE Systems 2014: 852.6 million.
This is a result On 19 November 2014, we were to pursue opportunities jointly to support of the completion of the East and South announced as the preferred bidder the Hawk for overseas military customers West Regional Prime contracts at the for the acquisition of the DSG, the MoDs and several opportunities are already end of January 2015. civilian workshops, for a consideration of being explored.
These facilities provide Despite a reduction in revenue, total committed to supporting the Tucano maintenance, repair, overhaul, storage operating profit for the division increased aircraft and have confirmed our intention and spares procurement services to land by 9% to 128.7 million 2014: 118.6 to compete for the next support contract equipment, ranging from small arms to million benefiting mainly from milestone to deliver the service from April 2016. main battle tanks, delivered from seven achievements on the Future Strategic Both of our Air joint ventures, Ascent main sites across the UK.
The acquisition Tanker Aircraft FSTA programme and delivering the UK Military Flying Training of DSG, which employs 2,000 staff, final contract adjustments at the end System and AirTanker delivering the completed on 31 March 2015, included of the Regional Prime contracts.
As a FSTA programme, have made significant a ten year contract for service provision result, operating margins for the division progress over the last year.
Ascent has and transformation, expected to be increased to 15.8% 2014: 13.9%.
received customer approval for the worth c 2 billion, with options to extend fixed-wing flying programme and the contracts for up to five years.
Operational review contract award is expected later this The Phoenix programme continues year.
AirTanker, already established in the to deliver savings to the MoD through Our Air business has continued to strategic transport role, met its air-to-air the provision of effective fleet and supply perform well and deliver a strong refuelling in-service date during 2014 chain management services, for the UK operational performance for the Royal Air and is now delivering fully on this white fleet of vehicles.
Since contract Force RAF with all contracts performing important role, including support for award in 2011, the programme has been in line with our financial expectations as the UK and Falkland Quick Reaction credited by the MoD as having saved in well as meeting or exceeding contract Alert posture, to refuel fast jets, excess of 40 million.
Support to military flying training has scrambled to protect UK airspace.
team enjoyed further success in 2014 been delivered through the Hawk T1 and Royal School of Military Engineering Our training business at RSME has continued to operate with high performance, the 2014 15 financial years have seen no contract KPI failures and 50% of the courses have been transformed, leading to significant improvement in output whilst reducing course lengths by 24%.
Furthermore the 260 million new build construction programme has just been successfully completed.
Pass rate at RSME 100% Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 22 Defence and Security continued and 2015, winning additional At the Royal School of Military including the handover of the largest competitions to provide coaches, Engineering RSME, our training business building in the entire programme, the trailers and other vehicles with a total has continued to operate at the highest 270 bed, Falklands block accommodation contract value of 27 million.
level, with no KPI failures in the financial at Nelson barracks, Portsmouth.
year and a 100% pass rate for the training Performance of our ALC joint venture During the first half of 2014, we learnt courses we delivered.
Additionally, with Amey remains strong, with the that the Infrastructure business had been over 50% of the courses have been C-vehicle contract acknowledged as unsuccessful in its bids for the Defence transformed, leading to a significant an effective and flexible service in the Infrastructure Organisations DIO NGEC.
improvement in output whilst reducing provision and support of the MoDs Whilst it is disappointing not to play a the average course length by 24%.
fleet of 2,000 construction vehicles significant role in the future management As part of the original contract, we worldwide.
ALC implemented changes of the MoDs built infrastructure, we were required to deliver the major, within the contract as part of an MoD recognise that the changes to the seven year, build and refurbishment Private Finance Incentive efficiency customer requirements in this market phase of the construction programme review, which included the addition of sector mean it is no longer suited to with a total contract value in excess of RAF construction equipment and the the Babcock business model and the 260 million.
We successfully completed adjustment of fleet numbers to meet delivery of complex and critical support.
this phase in 2015. military requirements better.
The failure to secure new business within Delivery of training to the Royal Navy the NGEC programme confirmed our Within our training operations, we have via the Fleet Outsourced Activities Project evaluation of the sectors development started the implementation of the DCTT, FOAP training programme has entered in recent years, to one of transactional Electro-Mechanical Training contract, its third year.
The contract continues to and low margin activity, in an increasingly secured in July 2014.
The new contract, operate below the target cost, delivering competitive environment.
We will not expected to be worth up to 180 million efficiency savings to the MoD via a range be pursuing any similar activities in this over five years, with two single year of initiatives.
We have continued to seek sector in the UK.
Operations to support extensions realigns Royal Electrical opportunities in international markets.
and manage the British Forces estate Mechanical Engineers and Royal Navy Following the successful delivery of the in Germany have been progressing as RN schools under a single training Hunter Training Project for the Royal planned and the contract continues to organisation and includes the relocation Saudi Naval Forces, our customer, BAE perform in line with our expectations.
of training activity from Bordon and Systems, has recently announced that it Arborfield to Lyneham, Wiltshire.
A priority during the second half of the has signed a follow on contract and we Planning is well advanced for the move year was on the successful demobilisation will deliver further training, valued at 37 to Lyneham to ensure the first training of the two Regional Prime contracts at million over the seven year programme.
activities can start there by November the end of January 2015, ensuring there 2015.
We have also been advised During the year, our Infrastructure was no deterioration in service levels that the MoD intends to contract the business delivered injected works and we achieved an effective handover extension to the Training, Maintenance programmes arising from the Regional of operations and the transfer of around and Support Services contract at Prime contracts.
Through the Single Living 1,300 employees to the DIOs new Bovington on a non-competitive, Accommodation Modernisation contract suppliers.
Following the termination of single source, negotiated process.
we handed back the 20,000th, fully the Regional Prime operations, we have compliant bed space during the period, realigned our remaining infrastructure support activities within the business units best placed to deliver services to Phoenix white fleet our Air, Land and Sea customers.
During the 2014 15 financial year, Babcock has been providing fleet management the division had success winning new services to the MoDs white fleet for 14 years.
contracts and rebidding existing At the start of the current contract in 2011, contracts, whilst recognising a restructuring of the customers requirement disappointment in not being selected and the re-competition for the rental contracts to operate the Logistics and Commodities resulted in 43 million cost savings over the Service Transformation programme or four years of the contract life.
Our smart the NGEC programme.
The division procurement activities have delivered further remains focused on its bidding activities, savings of 24million and in 2014 our with significant attention being placed capability was recognised with a joint MoD on securing contract extensions during Babcock award for excellence in acquisition.
The Phoenix II competition is now in progress and in the security sector our current contract is being rebid as three separate service 67 million streams and we have been involved in all four year saving to customer three competitions.
The outcome of the Strategic report 23 Apprentice training Aircraft maintenance apprentices, Sam and Aby, are two of eight apprentices recruited by the Defence and Security Air business from Hartlepool College to join our aviation apprenticeship programme working on Tutor, Tucano or Hawk aircraft.
They have been identified as outstanding talents and in addition to completing the two year apprenticeship programme are being fast-tracked by Babcock to become Civil Aviation Authority licensed aircraft engineers.
Training our apprentices with internationally recognised academic, vocational and professional qualifications is essential to grow our business.
Our apprentices represent an investment in talented individuals, arming them with the skills and knowledge Babcock needs for today and the future.
58% increase in Defence and Security apprentices, to 71 Phoenix and the Security competitions is Infrastructure and Training businesses.
of individuals within our business.
anticipated during the 2015 16 financial Of particular note this year is the approval We have also conducted listening forums year.
The Defence Fire and Rescue Project from Excellence, Achievement and across the division, so we can better moved into a formal bid process during Learning Limited for a bespoke aircraft understand, consider and make the second half of the year and we engineering pathway for apprentices recommendations on how to develop continue to track opportunities in military in our Air business unit areas.
the diversity and respect agenda in the training in the UK and the potential workplace.
There is a strong focus Our primary safety focus in the past appointment of an Army Training on talent and on ensuring individuals, 12 months has been to initiate and Development Programme partner to help identified with leadership potential, regularly refresh safety programmes the Army transform military training are provided with opportunities to which continue to focus on our ethos and equipment support to both the develop their skills across a range of of all accidents are preventable.
At middle and senior Our Target Zero and Dont Walk By leadership level, managers are programmes continue to reduce both participating in the Groups bespoke our accident numbers and severity rate.
Sustainability development programmes with the Overall total incident numbers have University of Strathclyde.
In addition, To deliver continued success within decreased from 297 in the previous Group training programmes delivered the Defence and Security division we year to 209 this year, with consequent to 620 first line managers have been are reliant on our highly skilled and Accident Frequency Rate reduction very effective in enhancing the skills of qualified work force and we must attract from 1.79 to 1.36 a 24% improvement.
these managers who interface directly and retain the brightest and the best These programmes are also used by our with our customers.
to sustain and grow our business.
supply chain and our clients to promote Our graduate and apprenticeship a safe working environment for all.
schemes provide young people access A further, behaviour focused initiative, Outlook to the engineering sector.
Our graduate We said we did, aimed at challenging programme brings real benefit to both The Defence and Security division has unsafe acts has been fully integrated at the graduate and the operational delivery an excellent track record of delivering a local level into our operational teams as they get hands-on experience operational and financial efficiencies delivery teams.
operating as embedded members of the through its existing contracts.
We are In support of the Groups respect agenda, teams to develop their skills.
In addition, well positioned to meet the current and the division seeks to be an environment our graduates work closely with a number future demands and expectations of our that is receptive to new ideas drawing of universities to support undergraduate main UK military customers.
This is on the diversity of our work force, careers and knowledge sharing events.
reflected in our pipeline of major new through numerous engagement activities outsourcing programmes that are being We continue to embed and expand and dialogue events.
An employee progressed by the MoD.
We are also our apprenticeship programmes, forging engagement survey has informed our looking at long-term opportunities for stronger relations with Hartlepool College action planning this year.
We have the division, establishing a presence and extending opportunities for example introduced new categories, extending in key international markets where, at RSME Minley, where apprentices work our employee award programme in we believe, we can build on our UK alongside the delivery teams in the which we publicly celebrate the success expertise and capabilities.
