Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 38 Segmental performance Platforms & Services UK 1 Platforms & Services UK, with 29,600 employees, comprises the Groups UK-based air, maritime, combat vehicle, munitions and shared services activities.
Military Air & Information includes Combat Vehicles UK provides programmes for the production of upgrades and support to the British Typhoon combat and Hawk trainer Army and international customers.
aircraft, F-35 Lightning II manufacture, Munitions focuses on the design, support and upgrades for Typhoon, development and manufacture of Tornado and Hawk aircraft, and acomprehensive range ofproducts, development of next-generation servicing its main customer, the Unmanned Air Systems and defence UKMinistry of Defence, as well as information systems.
Munitions Maritime programmes include the also develops and manufactures manufacture of two Queen Elizabeth cased-telescoped weapons and Class aircraft carriers, three River Class ammunition through its CTA Offshore Patrol Vessels and seven International joint venture.
The Astute Class submarines for the Royal business is a principal supplierof Navy, the design of the Successor general munitions to the British submarine and Type 26 frigate, and armed forces.
in-service support, including the five-year contract secured in 2014 for the delivery of services at HM Naval BasePortsmouth.
Our strategy in action Continue to drive value from our defence platforms and services HM Naval Base Portsmouth modernisation HM Naval Base Portsmouth is undergoing a 15-year transformation.
As part of the Maritime Support Delivery Framework contract, BAE Systems will deliver service improvements and modernise the base.
The business isworking with the Royal Navy to prepare for thearrival of the UKs two new aircraft carriers and future platforms.
The two 65,000-tonne ships, which are currently under construction, will be based in Portsmouth and will bethe largest vessels in service withthe Royal Navy.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 39 Operational and strategic highlights 1 Sales by domain % The Strategic Defence and Security Review announced Land in November 2015 provided clarity, continuity and 4% Air stability for the UK business 57% Contracts awarded for the expansion of Typhoons capabilities 203m of F-35 Lightning II Lot 9 Low-Rate Initial Production orders received 859m demonstration phase contract awarded for the Type 26 frigate programme Full 1.3bn contract awarded for the fifth Astute Class Maritime submarine 39% Artful, the third Astute Class submarine, accepted by 1 the Royal Navy in November Sales by line of business % Third and final Khareef Class corvette accepted by Combat Munitions Vehicles theRoyal Navy of Oman Military Air UK 3% & Information 188m 139m contract award for 515 cased-telescopic 1% 59% cannons for the Ministry of Defence secured by our 50% joint venture, CTA International Financial performance 2015 2014 1 Sales 7,405m 6,623m KPI 2 Underlying EBITA KPI 721m 772m Maritime Return on sales 9.7% 11.7% 3 Cash inow KPI 220m 173m 37% 1 Order intake KPI 4,944m 5,386m 1 1 Sales analysis: Platforms and services % Order backlog 17.8bn 20.1bn Services 1 Sales of 7.4bn were 12% higher than 2014.
The increase came Platforms 34% from a higher number of Saudi aircraft deliveries, trading of Radar 66 % and Defensive Aids Sub-System equipment on the European TyphoonTranche 3 programme and the increasing activity in the Submarines business.
An impact from lower pension discount rates has been that the service cost charged to the income statement increases and, in 2015, that amounted to 0.5 percentage points of margin compared with 2014.
In addition, the 2015 result includes the in-year impact from the announced Typhoon production slowdown decision.
3 Cash performance was as expected with a cash inow of 220m 2014 173m.
Consumption of customer advances occurred on the Omani, Saudi and European Typhoon contracts.
There have also been rationalisation costs charged against provisions created in prior years.
1 Order backlog reduced to 17.8bn 2014 20.1bn primarily from trading on the Typhoon aircraft and aircraft carrier programmes.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items.
Net cash inow from operating activities after capital expenditure net, financial investment and dividends from equity accounted investments.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 40 Segmental performance Platforms & Services UK Operational performance Orders for 255m were received in the year On the aircraft carrier programme, for continued support to the RAF advanced HMSQueen Elizabeth commenced the Military Air & Information jettraining facility in North Wales.
commissioning of its key systems, which In the year, 18 Typhoon aircraft were willcontinue through to the second half deliveredfrom the UK final assembly facility, Working jointly with Dassault Aviation, of2016.
Construction of HMS Prince of of which 12 were delivered to Saudi Arabia.
progress is being made in maturing and Walescontinued, with the integration of Cumulative aircraft deliveries to the UK, demonstrating critical technology and thebow, forward island and bridge during Germany, Italy and Spain total 227 of the operational aspects for an unmanned theyear.
The final manufacturing block contracted 236 Tranche 2 aircraft and 22 combatair system.
wasdelivered to Rosyth in December.
The Taranis, the stealthy unmanned combat air 2014 issues delaying acceptance of Typhoon HMS Forth, the first of a second batch of vehicle demonstrator designed and built by Tranche 3 aircraft fromthe Groups partners RiverClass Offshore Patrol Vessels for the BAE Systems with UK industry partners and inGermany, Italy and Spain were resolved.
Royal Navy, is planned for delivery in 2017. the Ministry of Defence, has successfully Theconstruction of HMS Medway, the The Oman Typhoon and Hawk aircraft completed further phases of ight trials in secondship, commenced in June andthe programme continues to meet all contractual theyear.
thirdship, HMS Trent, in October.
This milestones and is on track for commencement During 2015, the business concluded 236 programme supports shipbuilding skills of deliveries in 2017. management redundancies following the andprovides the springboard to transform In order to meet existing and anticipated announcement inOctober 2014, with a thebusiness between the carrier programme orders and delivery schedules, BAE Systems further 204 potential redundancies mitigated andthe start of manufacture for the Type 26 isreducing the rate of Typhoon major unit through redeployment within either the frigate programme.
This will help reduce production business or the wider Group.
Following successful sea trials, final acceptance discontinuity and provide a more sustainable In October, BAE Systems agreed to invest of the third and final Khareef Class corvette and competitive position for Typhoon 20.6m in Reaction Engines Limited REL for the Royal Navy of Oman was achieved manufacturing in the years ahead.
The action toacquire 20% of its share capital and also during the second half of the year.
involves a proposed workforce reduction of enter into a working partner relationship.
Under the five-year, 600m Maritime Support RELis a privately-held company based in the Delivery Framework contract, secured in 2014, Typhoons capabilities continue to expand UK developing the technologies needed for the business provides services at HM Naval withthe integration of the Captor E-Scan SABRE Synergetic Air-Breathing Rocket Base Portsmouth and supportto half of the radar and Brimstone 2 missile.
Engine, a new aerospace engine class.
The provision of BAE Systems continues to successfully support Maritime services under the contract progresses well its UK and European customers Typhoon and The consolidation of BAE Systems UK with cost savings remaining on target.
Tornado aircraft in delivering their operational shipbuilding operations into Glasgow BAE Systems manages the support, commitments.
The business supports its UK concluded in 2015. maintenance and upgrade of the Royal Navys customer through availability-based service Following completion of the assessment phase fleet of Type 45 destroyers.
contracts, and contract extensions totalling contract for the Type 26 frigate in March, an 147m were received in the year.
Successful completion of the first in-water trials 859m demonstration phase contract was was achieved on the 270m Spearsh torpedo On the F-35 Lightning II programme, secured, covering detailed design activities and upgrade programme.
The demonstration BAE Systems completed delivery of 43 aft enabling BAE Systems to subcontract for key phase of the contract is planned to complete fuselage assemblies for the Low-Rate Initial equipment with companies throughout the in 2019 prior to full manufacture.
The programme continues to contract on LRIP Lot 9 for 57 aircraft sets employ over 1,000 employees.
The first phase of the joint UK and wasreceived in the year, with 11 aft fuselage FrenchMaritime Mine Counter Measures The governments reafrmed commitment assemblies completed.
The forward price for demonstrator programme, which may form toshipbuilding continuity in Novembers LRIP Lot 10 for 94 aircraft sets has been agreed, the basis of a future Royal Navy unmanned UKStrategic Defence and Security Review with full contract award for both Lots 9 and system to combat the threat of underwater provides clarity and future opportunities for 10 anticipated during 2016.
A proposal for sea mines, progresses.
the Groups shipbuilding facilities and workforce LRIP Lot 11 hasbeen submitted to Lockheed in Scotland.
This includes maintaining a fleet Following handover and customer Martin in advance of negotiations of 19 frigates and destroyers, including eight acceptancein November, Artful, thethird commencing in 2016.
Type 26 frigates and a planned concept study Astute Class attack submarine, isnow being Support continues to be provided to users followed by the design and build of a new operated by the Royal Navy.
Good progress ofHawk trainer aircraft around the world.
In class of lighter, exible, general purpose continues on the remaining four boats.
The 2015, the Indian Navy and Air Force received frigates.
There is also a commitment to build full 1.3bn contract for the fifth boat was five and 15 Hawk aircraft, respectively, built two additional Offshore Patrol Vessels.
secured in November and further limit of under the Batch 2 licence for 57 aircraft by liability funding of 30m forthe seventh Hindustan Aeronautics Limited.
An order for boatwas also received.
afurther 20 Hawk aircraft from the Indian AirForce is currently being negotiated.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 41 Our strategy in action Looking forward Continuously improve efficiency and competitiveness Platforms & Services UK has a During recent years, as part of its strong order backlog of long-term World-class commitment to the largest defence committed programmes and an programme in the world, over 500m has enduring support business.
The been invested at Samlesbury, UK, of which manufacturing over 150m has been contributed bythe Strategic Defence and Security Group inthelatest technology, facilities Review announced in November facilities andpeopletodeliver aircraft setsforthe 2015 provided clarity, continuity F-35LightningII programme.
andstability for the UK business.
The investment includes a titanium machining facility for complex parts, In Military Air & Information, sales extended manufacturing facilities, areunderpinned by Typhoon and state-of-the-art production lines and F-35 Lightning II aircraft production anewofce building.
There are In December, work began on the final opportunities to secure future phaseof the F-35 assembly facility at Typhoon export sales, supported Samlesbury.
The 4,300m expansion is dueto be completed in 2017 and will enable bythe announcement made in themanufacture of up to 160 aircraft sets September relating to the supply of per annum, an increase of approximately More online 28 aircraft for the Kuwait Air Force.
com In Maritime, sales are underpinned bythe design and subsequent build of the Successor submarine and The Successor submarine, the replacement Munitions Type26 frigates, and the build of forthe Vanguard Class fleet, continues to Negotiations on the pricing for the next five theQueen Elizabeth Class aircraft advance functional and spatial design as the years of the 15-year Munitions Acquisition carriers, River Class Offshore Patrol programme approaches its production stage.
Supply Solution partnering agreement with Preparations include amajor programme of the Ministry of Defence, secured in 2008, Vessels and Astute Class submarines.
building works to ensurethe Barrow site continue.
The through-life support of existing willbe ready to beginmanufacturing when A 188m 139m contract for 515 and new platforms, together with the anticipated UKMinistry of Defences cased-telescopic cannons for the Ministry their associated command and investment decisionis approved in 2016 ofDefence was secured in March by seepage 13.
At31 December, BAE Systems combat systems, provides a CTAInternational, a50% joint venture has almost 8,000 employees and contractors sustainable business in technical between BAE Systems and Nexter.
Combat Vehicles UK Combat Vehicles UK continues to The final five Terrier combat engineering vehicles were completed in the year.
pursue obsolescence management and upgrade programmes.
A 7m contract for the assessment phase of the upgrade to the British Army land bridging The Munitions business is underpinned system was secured in December.
by the 15-year Munitions Acquisition Other orders totalling 50m for ongoing Supply Solution partnering agreement support to the previously supplied armoured with the Ministry of Defence secured and bridging vehicles were received in theyear.
With the aim of continuously improving business delivery and efficiency, the Combat Vehicles UK and Munitions businesses, with effect from 1 January 2016, merged to form one business, BAE Systems Land UK.
