Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 11 Our markets Saudi Arabia US BAE Systems is well The US remains the largest single Regional challenges continue to dictate positioned to support its defencemarket in the world, with scal that defence and security remain a high year 2016 defence spending expected priority for Saudi Arabia.
The planned re-organisation of the The Group operates in four principal Whilst BAE Systems expects budget Groupsportfolio of interests in a number markets, identied as having a significant challenges to continue, further clarity of industrial companies in Saudi Arabia and sustained commitment to defence regarding potential market improvement isintended to increase growth prospects and security.
These principal markets, wasgained after Congress reached and reinforce an ongoing commitment theUS, the UK, the Kingdom of Saudi agreement on anew budget deal that tosupport the national objectives of Arabia and Australia, encourage provides for defence and domestic localskills and technology development, investment to develop and sustain programme spending above the Budget increasing employment and developing adomestic defence industrial capability.
Control Act caps through 2017. anindigenous capability.
Through suchinvestment, BAE Systems In addition to progressing US defence Australia has established long-term and trusted market programmes, the US business customer relationships and is an BAE Systems is the largest defence company remains focused on delivering capabilities established part of the defence industrial in Australia spanning the air, maritime, for application in the growing commercial capability ineach of those countries.
aviation market, and continues to The Groups strategy continues to focus pursuenearand long-term US Foreign As part of the Australian Federal Budget on the importance of winning international Military Sales and direct international announcements in May, the Australian business.
BAE Systems has a strong salesopportunities.
government restated its commitment to international market presence with increase defence spending to 2% of GDP UK well-established relationships in key within a decade.
BAE Systems has a key role in supporting Other key international markets the UK armed forces across the air, Accessible global defence markets maritime and land domains, and the Oman and India remain key markets $bn nations security and intelligence building on BAE Systems established capabilities in both government and relationships.
BAE Systems is developing its position 2.
UK 67 The UK governments actions to address inOman, building on a long history of 3.
France 57 programme priorities and its commitment relationships with the Omani armed forces.
Japan 51 to increase defence spending to 2% of In India, BAE Systems continues to build 5.
Saudi Arabia Gross Domestic Product GDP have 50 on its long-standing relationship with provided greater certainty and stability 6.
India 47 Hindustan Aeronautics Limited and is forcore programmes.
Germany 44 working to develop its 40% interest in reinforced by the 2015 Strategic Defence 8.
South Korea theBAeHAL software joint venture.
34 and Security Review announced in 9.
Australia 33 November, which provided further clarity BAE Systems will continue to target 10.
Brazil Principal markets on the UK governments strategic priorities.
opportunities inother international 31 markets, including Asia and the Source: 2014 US defence budget as shown in the MiddleEast.
Department of Defense Fiscal Year 2016 Budget Request and, outside the US, IHS Janes Defence Budgets based on 2014 total defence budgets and constant 2015 US dollars.
P iii Sales by destination BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 12 Chief Executives review continued 2015 performance In land, we continued to make good progress building onthe award in 2014 of the Armored Multi-Purpose US Vehicle AMPV programme and further order intake In the US, President Obama signed the Bipartisan Budget forM109A7 Paladin tracked artillery systems.
These Act of 2015, which lifts defence budget caps for scal twoprogrammes draw on commonality with the years 2016 and 2017 by $33bn 22bn and $23bn 16bn, Bradleyfamilyof vehicles and underpin our strong respectively.
This is expected to enhance the funding franchise in tracked combat vehicles.
The Group was environment for the Groups US businesses through 2017. alsodown-selected asone of two companies awarded The Groups electronics businesses have performed well acontract for the engineering and manufacturing and remain well positioned to address current and evolving development phase ofacompetition for the US Marine priority programme requirements.
As a major supplier of Corps Amphibious Combat Vehicle programme.
electronics equipment on the F-35 Lightning II aircraft, Beyond the US market, FNSS, the Turkish land systems including the electronic warfare system, BAE Systems is business in which BAE Systems holds a 49% interest, positioned to benefit from the commitment to progressive secured further international armoured vehicle orders increases in production output over coming years to meet inthe year.
the requirements of US and international customers.
Following external interest in the Groups US-based Important new business wins in key technology areas manpower and services activities, BAE Systems undertook in2015 included the Eagle Passive Active Warning astrategic review of the business.
Recognising the Survivability System EPAWSS electronic warfare upgrade performance of the business and its good order intake, for US Air Force F-15 aircraft and electronics upgrades to thereview concluded, in November, that greater value US Special Operations Command C-130J aircraft.
could be derived from retaining the businesses.
We have a strong position in the Intelligence, Surveillance Throughout the period, Intelligence & Security remained and Reconnaissance domain, providing customers with focused on providing leading-edge products and services high-technology sensing solutions, including advanced to customers and delivered solid financial performance, geospatial intelligence capabilities.
winning re-compete awards and a number of new, multi-year service contracts.
We continue to perform in commercial electronics throughour broadly-based ight and engine controls UK activities.
Company-funded investment in innovative The Groups UK businesses continued to perform well, commercial aircraft cabin systems took an important step benefiting from good programme execution and continuity forward with the signing of the first IntelliCabin in-ight in UK customer requirements.
UK government commitments entertainment system airline customer.
in July 2015 to protect defence and security spend, in a still tightly constrained UK economic environment, were helpful.
The US Navy is redeploying some ships consistent with itsstated strategy, to include expanding operations in In November, the UK government published its Strategic theAsia-Pacic region.
Asa leading supplier of ship Defence and Security Review SDSR.
The SDSR identied repairservices to the US Navy, BAE Systems is responding defence and security priorities and set out a plan to spend to these changes with a reduction in workforce at its 178bn on defence equipment and support over the next Norfolk, Virginia, facility on the Atlantic coast and by ten years.
investing in additional capacity atits San Diego shipyard.
A number of important SDSR commitments for In2016, the Group expects to deliver the remaining BAE Systems included continued investment in expanding commercial ships currently under construction in Typhoon capabilities and an extension of the aircrafts Jacksonville, Florida, and Mobile, Alabama.
expected service life until at least 2040.
There was also Whilst much of the Groups US-based activity has proven acommitment to continued joint investment with France resilient over recent years through the downturn in US inthe development of a future unmanned combat air defence spending, land programmes and manpower capability.
Also in the air domain, the SDSR identied an services have been disproportionately impacted.
Both accelerated UK procurement of F-35 Lightning II aircraft.
activities performed well in 2015, supporting expectations BAE Systems is a major participant in the F-35 programme, for an improved outlook going forward.
supplying airframe assemblies and electronics equipment.
