Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 31 Directors valuation of the Investments portfolio The Group continued to make substantial investments into the Portfolio valuation December 2015 portfolio with 102 million of cash invested into projects in 2015.
Value by sector This reflected continued success in targeted sectors with nine new No.
projects 2015 2014 Sector 2014 m m projects being included in the Directors valuation for the first time, as well as further investment in existing projects.
The nine new Roads 13 13 412 467 projects include a project which achieved preferred bidder in 2014 Healthcare 4 4 137 225 but wasnt included in the Directors valuation until financial close Schools 7 8 76 102 was achieved in 2015.
Student accommodation 5 3 69 28 OFTOs 3 3 40 82 The Group continued its strategy of realising value through selling Waste & biomass 4 3 40 14 mature investments generating 145 million in aggregate at Other 4 4 28 25 pricing consistent with the Directors valuation.
Cash yield from distributions amounted to 82m.
For the tenth year in succession UK total 40 38 802 943 the portfolio generated cash flow to the Group net of investment.
US military housing 21 21 355 322 Healthcare 2 2 5 4 In overall terms, the Directors valuation fell slightly to 1,244 million Student accommodation 4 3 26 9 at 31 December 2015 with the number of projects in the portfolio Other 4 2 18 2 increasing from 66 to 71.
North America total 31 28 404 337 The Directors valuation has been undertaken using the revised BBIP fund 38 20 methodology introduced in 2014.
This produces a valuation that Total 71 66 1,244 1,300 more closely reflects market value and which consequently changes with movements in the market.
For each project, Portfolio valuation December 2015 cash flows are forecast based on progress to date and market Value by phase expectations of future performance.
projects 2015 2014 then been discounted using different discount rates depending Stage 2014 m m on project risk and maturity, and reflecting secondary market 3 years post construction 23 18 413 405 transaction experience.
As in previous years, the Directors 03 years post construction 23 26 539 723 valuation may differ significantly from the accounting book value Construction 20 19 218 137 of investments shown in the accounts, which are produced in Preferred bidder 5 3 36 15 accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards rather BBIP fund 38 20 than using a discounted cash flow approach.
com AR2015 m Directors valuation m Investment, divestment and distribution Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 32 Directors valuation of the Investments portfolio continued UK portfolio Valuation The portfolio value at a range of discount rates In 2015 five new projects in the health, OFTO, student UK portfolio accommodation and biomass sectors were included in the Directors valuation for the first time, increasing the value by 1,400 28 million.
These included preferred bidder status on a student accommodation project at Sussex University, the Humber Gateway OFTO and a Primary Care PPP project in Ireland, the start of 1,200 construction on an open market student accommodation project in Glasgow and financial close on a waste wood biomass project 1,080 in Welland.
Significant investment was made in the Gwynt y Mr 1,000 963 OFTO, the Welland biomass project, the student accommodation projects in Edinburgh and Glasgow and into the fund managed 866 945 by Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Partners BBIP.
Total investment 800 amounted to 88 million.
840 755 The secondary market remains strong and the Group continued its strategy of realising value from mature investments.
The business 600 sold 80% of its interest in the Thanet OFTO as well as its entire interest in the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, Newcastle BSF schools and Greater Gabbard OFTO projects for an aggregate 145 million.
400 The proceeds received from these sales were consistent with the Directors valuation.
The business continues to preserve interests in projects with strategic clients and those that offer further value 200 2% 1.5% 1% 0.5% DV Case -0.5% -1% -1.5% -2% to the wider Group through the provision of future lifecycle and Discount rate maintenance work.
Strong demand for infrastructure investment December 2015 December 2014 allied to a shortage of supply in the secondary market is expected to underpin pricing for the foreseeable future.
With the largest Includes value of investment in BBIP at 38m under all discount rates.
primary infrastructure portfolio held by any contractor in the UK, the Discount rates applied to the UK portfolio range between 7% and Group remains well placed to benefit from these market dynamics.
14% depending on project risk and maturity.
The implied weighted Operational performance movements resulted in a 100 million average discount rate for the UK portfolio excluding BBIP is reduction in value.
The most significant components of this were 8.3% 2014: 7.8%.
The increase during 2015 reflects the impact lower inflation in the year, as well as forecast, lower forecast of selling mature operational projects with lower discount rates deposit interest rates, higher actual and forecast lifecycle and whilst investing in new projects where construction has yet to be management costs and an increase in the assumed tax burden for completed and which are valued using higher discount rates.
The changes to inflation reflect a lowering change in the discount rate would change the value of the UK of forecast inflation which now steps up through 2016 and 2017 portfolio excluding BBIP by approximately 95 million.
before reverting to a long-term assumption of 3% thereafter.
In 2015, the OECD BEPS project delivered its recommendations The long-term interest rate assumption has been lowered from in relation to the tax deductibility of interest expense, including the 3.5% to 2.75% in response to the continuing policy of near zero potential for a public benefit exemption.
A number of governments interest rates adopted by the Bank of England and the resulting are currently considering their response to these recommendations.
impact on long-term rates forecast by the financial markets.
In line The UK Government has consulted extensively in order to with government announcements the corporation tax rate has been understand the views of the infrastructure industry.
At this stage reduced from 20% currently to 19% in April 2017 and to 18% from any impact on the Directors valuation remains uncertain as is the April 2020. timing of any changes to legislation.
Balfour Beatty will continue The Groups investment in the fund managed by BBIP is included in to actively engage with the UK Government and to monitor the UK portfolio and amounted to 38 million at December 2015. developments in this area.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
com AR2015 Directors valuation m Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 33 North American portfolio Valuation The portfolio value at a range of discount rates In North America, the business acquired investments in three North American portfolio residential housing developments at Coppell and Dallas-Fort Worth both in Texas and at Rogers in Arkansas, achieved financial close 600 on a student accommodation project for the University of Texas at Dallas and commenced a further phase of accommodation 550 at the University of Iowa.
These projects increased the value of the portfolio by 17 million.
Overall investment in existing and 500 new projects in the portfolio totalled 14 million during the year.
468 Operational performance movements increased the valuation by 450 13 million.
This increase arose predominantly from the annual 404 budget settlement for the military housing portfolio, particularly 400 the inflation adjustment for housing rental allowances which 353 391 350 feeds through to the fee income and equity returns from individual projects.
The Indianapolis justice facility which was at preferred 337 300 bidder stage was cancelled by the procuring authority just prior to 294 financial close and has therefore been removed from the valuation.
250 Discount rates applied to the North American portfolio range 200 between 7.5% and 10%.
The implied weighted average discount rate for the North American portfolio is 8.2% 2014: 8.1%.
A 1% 150 change in the discount rate would change the value of the North American portfolio by approximately 58 million.
100 2% 1.5% 1% 0.5% DV Case -0.5% -1% -1.5% -2% Discount rate December 2015 December 2014 Movements in value 20142015 m Equity Distributions Disposal Unwind of New project Operational FX 2015 2014 invested received proceeds discount wins performance movements m UK 963 88 56 145 64 28 100 2 840 North America 337 14 26 29 17 13 20 404 Total 1,300 102 82 145 93 45 87 18 1,244 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
com AR2015 Directors valuation m Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 34 Building a sustainable business Creating value through innovation, research and development Innovation, research and development Innovation, research and development 34 Innovation plays an important role in creating additional value for the Group and ultimately its customers.
Most of Balfour Beattys Health and safety 37 innovation emanates from collaboration with its customers, joint People and leadership 38 ventures and supply chain, and internally across the businesses.
The examples provided below illustrate how the Group has used Values and behaviour 39 creative solutions on its projects to deliver savings and benefits for its customers.
Environmental performance 39 Building Information Modelling BIM and 3D modelling Community engagement 41 Using high-density ground penetrating radar technology combined with BIM to map and model underground services as a 3D Taxation 41 design, Balfour Beatty is able to identify potential clashes early on.
For example, on the Dartford Crossing free-flow project over 400 clashes between the proposed design and existing services were found.
This allowed changes to be made in advance of work starting, saving time and money.
Ground penetrating radar and BIM are also used extensively across the US business.
The Rail business developed a new software package known as RED Railway Electrification Designer in anticipation of the BIM Level 2 changes in 2016 for centrally funded railway projects in the UK.
Railways are more complex than buildings.
Unlike the building market, there is no national BIM library for Overhead Line Electrification OLE projects, so all suppliers have to model and attach asset information to each component, which takes a significant amount of time.
Apart from generating 3D models, RED is able to detect ground profile models and understand how these interact with foundations, enabling correct geospatial placement of OLE models.
RED also dynamically attaches information to each 3D component as it is modelled.
The Group uses 3D mapping data across its highways projects in the UK to: analyse accident hotspots from RTIs or cone and varioguard strikes to keep the workforce safe provide map overlays for engineers to understand road layouts for resurfacing lanes and planning traffic management provide land registry and land owner information.
In Hong Kong, Gammon uses drones to survey sites by taking photos and superimposing these images onto the 3D model to allow stereoscopic photo interpretation and image photogrammetry, significantly reducing costs.
Other examples from its operations in Hong Kong are the use of a curtain wall installation robot and an automatic plastering machine.
For the Rossall coastal defence scheme, a drone was used to survey the placement of rock armour ensuring that the correct grades and placement of rock were in line with the designs.
Prior to using the drone for these surveys, the engineers would have used cherry pickers or walked across the rock armour.
A drone can undertake a complete survey within 20 minutes.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 35 The Group has also helped local communities and emergency services inspect the devastating flood damage caused by the storms in the North West of England by utilising one of its drones.
Collaboration with universities Innovation is informed by research work at several academic partner organisations, including Salford University BIM, Bristol University systems engineering, Liverpool John Moores University condition monitoring, Sheffield University smart buildings, University College London future leaders in infrastructure, 3D repo and radar, Manchester University overhead line structures and composite crossarms, and Loughborough University accounting for whole-life carbon emissions from highways maintenance contracts, Cambridge University e-luminate, merging art, music and light, and Queens University Belfast resource efficiency through BIM.
In the US, the Group has taught students and funded research at Penn State University, Stanford University, the University of Colorado at Boulder, Virginia Tech, and the University of Texas at Austin.
Balfour Beatty provides guest lecturers on BIM to the University of Middlesex, Abertay University and Ulster University for their BIM management courses.
Awards Balfour Beatty was recognised for its expertise at the 2015 British Construction Industry Awards, the annual celebration of building and civil engineering achievements.
Balfour Beatty celebrated success in four categories, including: The BIM Project Application Award for construction of the National Graphene Institute for the University of Manchester, the Product Design Innovation Award for the Crossrail Liverpool Street and Whitechapel Station Tunnels project and a Building Project of the Year Award for its construction of the Aloft hotel in Liverpool.
Connect Plus Services, a joint venture between Balfour Beatty, Atkins and Egis Road Operation also celebrated a win for the Queen Elizabeth II Bridge expansion joint replacement scheme inthe Temporary Works Award category.
Balfour Beatty also won the major category at the Institution of Civil Engineers South West Civil Engineering Awards that celebrates outstanding civil engineering achievement, innovation and ingenuity for the construction of a new sea wall and implementation of slope stabilisation measures to the east of Lyme Regis, providing protection for houses, infrastructure and other assets from landslides.
The Groups US construction division recently won the buildingSMART Hong Kong International BIM award 2015 for the campus improvement programme of the University of San Diego and its expansion of the Shiley-Marcos School of Engineering.
The team was able to resolve 261 clashes digitally and used digital docs to hyperlink drawings to the workflow in the cloud so that all contractors could access these.
The BIM model was linked to the school asset management system to allow future preventive maintenance to becarried out.
The team also won Oracles Sustainability Innovation Award for 2015 for programming JD Edwards software to collect carbon data for its US operations.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 36 Building a sustainable business continued Innovation, research and development continued 3D printing Applications Gammon used 3D printing to develop roof designs at Midfield Other innovations are powered by employee insights which tackle Concourse at Hong Kong International Airport and new visualisation mega trends such as urbanisation, resource scarcity and climate software solutions in Singapore.
Balfour Beatty is undertaking research on two projects has also been working with the Hong Kong Polytechnic University funded by Innovate UK.
One is in collaboration with Queens on a study into the manufacture of partition wall blocks from University Belfast and the University of the West of England to cement slurry waste and fine recycled concrete aggregates.
devise a new BIM tool that designers and contractors can use The research involves carbonation of formed blocks which tosuccessfully predict and reduce waste at the design phase.
sequester or capture CO from industrial applications such 2 asflue gases.
The other research project is with technology start-up 3DRepo and the Association of Interior Specialists to support the Balfour Beatty has produced a scaled 3D printed model for development of a new innovative procurement application a large section of the Wylfa Newydd nuclear power station.
The application reduces the cost of bidding by Each component has been individually printed to allow both the digitising transactions.
customer and the Groups own team to understand how the power station will be constructed.
Elsewhere, other innovations include Gammons development of aGreen Concrete range.
It is the only supplier in Hong Kong to offer Mock-up prints low carbon concrete solutions that are PAS 2050:2011 certified Balfour Beatty in the US, has been using repositionable textile and the first to have achieved labels in the Hong Kong Construction graphics for the majority of items that need to be installed on Industry Councils Carbon Labelling Scheme, with six products drywalls such as in the redevelopment of BC Childrens and BC achieving Grade A Outstanding and four achieving Grade B Womens Redevelopment Project, where over US$121,000 was Excellent.
saved through the use of this system.
Mock-ups of items such as outlets, air diffusers, fire sprinklers, time clocks, data jacks and The Group has developed a new smartphone tablet app called dialysis boxes were printed and then positioned on the drywalls for snapfile with its JV partners Skanska on the M25 to asset tag different types of rooms so that the end users could be consulted over 1,000 motorway assets and capture them on a 3D model.
on how these worked dimensionally within the room.
This low Workers were assigned iPads to collect the asset data.
As work tech solution ensured that end users received a solution that was proceeded, issues structural defects, missing signs, poor optimised to their needs, reducing potential rework, unnecessary paint finishes were photographed and their locations could trim outs and time.
befinetuned using Google Street View, which is incorporated in ONtracks browser-based system.
The software helped close the Innovative finance gap between site and office-based project staff through real time Together with WattzOn, Balfour Beatty launched a new financial reporting, saving valuable time.
An added benefit of the system energy model called Negawatts to allow companies to purchase is that it helps ensure that problems are closed off before traffic energy savings and effectively fund behaviour change programmes management measures are lifted.
Rectifying these later can be for military housing contracts managed by Balfour Beatty.
Negawatts is a hybrid between a power purchase agreement where energy is purchased at a reduced rate over an agreed To improve safety awareness on sites, Gammon has developed period of time and an energy savings performance contract with a new safety training system which uses gaming technology guaranteed savings shared between the end user and the provider.
and virtual reality to create an interactive, and engaging, firstperson experience.
People Innovation champions across the businesses capture, share and promote innovation.
The ability to collaborate has been enhanced by the growth in communities of practice, internal competitions, and the deployment of training in collaborative working practices, and through ongoing Group-wide accreditation to the standard BS11000 Collaborative Business Relationships.
2015 also saw the introduction of My Contribution which is an internal open platform for submitting business improvement ideas.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 37 Working safely, ethically and responsively for a positive legacy Health and safety In 2015, the business won a number of awards recognising The Groups objective for safety is clear: to achieve Zero Harm safety excellence.
In the UK, the Group has been awarded by key across the business.
customers for outstanding achievements in health and safety, such as the Heathrow Airport Health & Safety Awards for driver training, Safe is one of the four Build to Last goals and all operations as well as receiving the British Construction Industry BCI Health & were charged with improving performance.
Group-wide changes Safety Award for the M4 M5 Smart Motorways Project.
In the US, included the new Safety and Sustainability Committee of the Board the Group received the National ABC Diamond Safe Award and has and the appointment of a new UK-wide Health and Safety director.
been recognised through the North Carolina Department of Labour A single health and safety enabling function now supports the NCDOL Safety Awards, among others.
UKbusiness and facilitates Group learning and sharing.
As part of the Zero Harm objective to protect direct employee and The Zero Harm objective remains core with a reinvigorated focus subcontractors health and safety, in 2016 the Group will continue supported by risk-based prioritised action plans and proactive its relentless focus on safety to include a stronger focus on evidence-based initiatives to increase skills and performance.
occupational health and hygiene, striving to eliminate occupational This has included leading in raising awareness and actions to disease and ill health within the business and wider industry.
combat occupational disease and ill health.
This year saw a Group-wide safety stand down focused on The Groups Lost Time the shared commitment to Zero Harm, with over 20,000 direct Incident Rate LTIR employees and subcontractors taking part in the UK alone.
A key to delivering Zero Harm is making safety personal, supporting behavioural safety programmes with an aim to ensure direct employees and subcontractors feel empowered to make safe choices with support from uncompromising leadership.
Observation and near miss reporting, one of the leading indicators, has seen a substantial increase.
These events, in other circumstances, could have led to injury or ill health and have a key part to play in identifying learning opportunities which can then be shared and lead to improved processes.
Sadly, despite this, four workers lost their lives across the Group as 201 5 201 4 201 3 2012 a result of work activities in 2015.
The incidents occurred in the UK, the Republic of Ireland and Hong Kong.
Three of the workers were subcontractors and one was a direct employee.
Accident Frequency Rate AFR Major injury rate Each fatal accident is subject to a thorough investigation and adetailed review by the Group Chief Executive.
In addition, the Safety and Sustainability Committee, focusing attention on health and safety, held an extraordinary meeting to review the findings to date and ensured lessons were promulgated across thebusiness and wider industry.
One of the work-related fatalities involved the inadvertent movement of a heavy goods vehicle during a trailer coupling operation.
As a result of the investigation findings, the Group has worked with manufacturers and the road haulage industry to lead the way, requiring improved audible alarms and physical controls to prevent automatic brake release without direct intervention of the driver on all operations.
201 5 201 4 201 3 201 2 2015 2014 2013 2012 In 2015, the Groups Lost Time Injury Rate LTIR has risen from 0.27 to 0.32 due to an increased number of injuries that have led to lost time in the Groups international joint ventures.
The LTIR improved from 0.31 to 0.24, excluding the Groups international joint ventures.
com AR2015 0.13 0.32 0.15 0.27 0.13 0.23 0.16 0.26 0.04 0.05 0.04 0.06 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 38 Building a sustainable business continued People and leadership The Balfour Beatty Academy will become the delivery vehicle for The quality of its people, their commitment and engagement is arange of management and leadership development programmes.
It provides afocus for the Groups UK activities and aims to ensure it is delivering inaco-ordinated and cost-effective way.
The Groups people strategy is about inspiring its people to excel.
This new strategy forms a key element of the Groups As part of the Build to Last transformation programme the Group transformation programme Build to Last.
Balfour Beatty continued invested significantly in a number of new training initiatives: over to invest in its people in 2015, through the training and development 200 people have attended a High Value Selling programme and of its existing employees and targeted external recruitment 250people attended negotiation skills training, both designed to as necessary.
help improve the quality of work winning activities.
These training and development programmes operate within the The Academy is developing a range of programmes to enhance context of a Group-wide talent review process, which ensures technical and leadership skills in project management, commercial consistent methodology and visibility of talent, so that succession management, planning and design, and other functions.
These will planning, leadership training and development interventions are be fully rolled out during 2016. applied in the most effective way possible utilising the Groups The Group has invested in its project managers as a community scale and scope of activities.
to ensure they hold an APMP qualification.
The programme was In 2015, the first Group-wide employee engagement survey was launched in June 2015 and to date 56 project managers have completed using Best Companies in order to benchmark versus been trained.
The results will be used to drive co-ordinated Balfour Beatty works in partnership with The Princes Trust, which actions in order to improve employee engagement, which will trains unemployed young people through its Get into Construction enhance the Groups business performance.
Over the last five years, 400 young people completed Emerging talent this programme, learning while working on Balfour Beatty sites.
Balfour Beatty is a member of The 5% Club, committed to the About 70% of these people gained employment with the Group aim of ensuring that, within two years, 5% of the UK workforce directly or with its supply chain.
are apprentices, graduates or sponsored students on structured Diversity and inclusion development programmes.
The proportion of the UK workforce in Diversity and inclusion remain central to Balfour Beattys people these categories has increased from 3.1% to 4.6% in 2015. strategy.
The Group values diversity, encouraging and celebrating 2014 2015 individual differences, believing that its inclusive culture helps Apprentices 326 400 the business continue to grow as a strong, dynamic and Graduates 184 304 innovative organisation.
Sponsored students 17 17 Key interventions are in place to enhance diversity and inclusion Total UK workforce 17,000 15,687 in Balfour Beattys core business.
For example, the Group is % of structured trainees 3.1% 4.6% supporting the UK Governments Your Life campaign, which is encouraging the study of STEM subjects amongst female students.
The Groups UK businesses are supporting around 180 people The Group has further demonstrated its commitment to improving studying part-time at local colleges and universities 2014: 230. diversity by becoming a signatory to the WISE Ten Steps.
In 2015, the Group recruited 216 graduates and 156 apprentices across the UK and the US.
Further building on the Opportunity Now accreditation, a Connecting Women network forum continues to provide valuable Balfour Beatty has been leading a consortium on behalf of the support.
However, the proportion of female employees has sector to support government reforms on apprenticeships for the reduced in recent years with the disposals of Balfour Beatty construction industry gaining approval of 14 new Apprenticeships WorkPlace in 2013 and Parsons Brinckerhoff in 2014.
Standards for craft and technical professional job roles.
Female employees across the workforce: In recognition of its work to develop young employees, Balfour 2015 16% Beattys Academy was shortlisted down to the final three organisations for the SEMTA Skills & Innovation Award 2015.
2014 17% 2013 22% Upskilling the UKs infrastructure workforce 2012 23% During 2015, Balfour Beatty worked with the UK Government and received agrant to further develop the leadership and technical An LGBT network was established in 2014 as part of the Stonewall skills of its workforce and to attract people into the industry.
Balfour Beatty was the first infrastructure company to become a member of the OUTstanding The Balfour Beatty Academy trained over 2,386 people in 2015 in LGBT professional network and is proud to be represented in the arange of areas including programmes to upskill the craft workforce 2015 Financial Times Top 100 LGBT Business Leaders list.
with the support of the Skills Funding Agency under the Employer Ownership of Skills fund.
One of the programmes developed was The Group also strives to provide employment, training and the Construction Ambassador Scheme to promote careers within development opportunities for disabled people wherever possible.
It is also committed to supporting employees who become disabled during employment and to helping disabled employees make the best use of their skills and potential, consistent with all other employees.
At 31 December 2015 Male Female Total % Male % Female Board 7 1 8 87 13 1 Senior management 89 20 109 82 18 Directors of subsidiaries 266 32 298 89 11 Group 19,374 3,749 23,123 84 16 1 Members of Group head office and divisional senior leadership teams.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 39 The Group remains committed to investing in industry-leading people Ethics and compliance agenda 2015 2016 throughout a period of considerable change.
It is this commitment To address the drop in the number of reported cases and to ensure and the continued engagement of employees that will provide the that the Group continues to maintain a consistent, well supported foundations for Balfour Beattys recovery and future growth.
and relevant ethics and compliance programme, it undertook a series of activities during 2015, which will continue in 2016.
These include Values and behaviour a relaunch of training modules, Gifts and Hospitality and Conflicts Balfour Beatty has a well-developed ethics and compliance of Interest registers, recruiting additional team members and a programme with a focus on presenting a consistent, well supported fundamental review of the programme and responsibility for it.
and relevant ethics and compliance message throughout the Group to ensure that working environments enable people to make the right Environmental performance choices, and support those who challenge where others have not.
The Groups sustainability strategy, the Blueprint, is customerfocused, embedded in the local community, efficient, innovative The Group continually seeks to embed its programme through and responsible.
As a result, sustainability is at the heart of all of training programmes and workshops, updated technologies and Balfour Beattys operations.
tools to make compliance simple and intuitive, and by investigating issues and complaints.
Optimising environmental performance is key to driving efficiencies and winning work.
Balfour Beatty has been taking steps to reduce Whistleblowing its carbon emissions and mitigate against the business risks of Balfour Beatty encourages its staff and wider community to climate change.
report any concerns about unethical conduct.
In early 2015, a new whistleblowing hotline service was put in place which improved The Group has continued to improve the accuracy of measurement interaction with whistleblowers, enabling the collection of vital techniques, specifically around its Scope 1 and 2 emissions, and information, thus providing better case management technology is striving to improve the accuracy of other sustainability metrics in tosupport investigations.
There has been a drop in the total number of reported cases in 2015 Standards compared with 2014, which reflects the reduction in the number of Sustainability is an integral part of modern infrastructure projects: employees following the sale in 2014 of Parsons Brinckerhoff, the public sector clients require conformance to standards such professional services business.
There has also been a drop in the as BREEAM, LEED, BEAM, ESTIDAMA, Green Mark, and number of cases per 1,000 employees.
CEEQUAL and these are important to planning authorities.
Meeting these standards has resulted in a 1.7 billion turnover ongreen infrastructure projects in 2015.
The Groups certifications Ethics Helpline cases Ethics Helpline cases excluding in this area and its technical knowledge improve the whole life Number HR grievances Number performance of customers built assets.
Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions The Group has seen an increase in carbon emissions intensity in 2015 compared to 2014 from 40.3 tonnes of CO equivalent 2 CO e m revenue to 44.9 tonnes of CO e m revenue.
2 2 Since establishing the baseline in 2010, tonnes of CO e m 2 revenue have dropped by 4.1% from 46.8 tonnes of CO e m 2 revenue to 44.9 tonnes of CO e m revenue.
2 The Groups total CO e figure for Scope 1 and 2 emissions, has 2 dropped by 21,919 tonnes of CO e 5% from 436,734 tonnes of 2 CO e to 415,198 tonnes of CO e over the same period.
2015 2014 2013 2012 2015 2014 2013 2012 2 2 Balfour Beattys 2020 goal is to achieve a 50% reduction per million turnover of its Scope 1 and 2 emissions against a 2010 Cases per 1,000 employees Cases per 1,000 employees baseline.
Whilst the business has only five years to achieve this Balfour Beatty Number global benchmark Number target, it has recently appointed a dedicated energy team to reduce fuel and energy use which will lead to a reduction in Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions.
As part of its strategy, Balfour Beatty is also implementing ISO 50001 across some of its operations.
These targets will mean reduced operating costs for businesses and therefore improved value to customers and shareholders.
Additionally, a number of customers have expressed an intention to prequalify contractors on the basis of their carbon performance in the future.
Scope 2 emissions result from the purchase of electricity, heat, steam and cooling for own use.
The full description of our definitions can be found in our reporting guidance found at www.
com enablon Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
com AR2015 7.1 165 7.6 270 5.3 276 4.8 273 13 142 13 204 12 208 12 221 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 40 Building a sustainable business continued Environmental performance continued A summary of the work they performed is included within their Gammon, the joint venture in Hong Kong, accounts for assurance opinion.
approximately 29% of the Groups Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
Non-financial performance information, GHG quantification in In 2014, it became the first construction company in Hong Kong to particular, is subject to more inherent limitations than financial be awarded the CarbonCare Label that covers all of its operations information.
It is important to read the GHG data in the context of in Hong Kong except joint venture projects.
This is in addition to the full limited assurance statement and the reporting criteria as set the ISO 14064-1 international standard for quantifying and reporting out in the Balfour Beatty reporting guidelines available at: greenhouse gas GHG emissions it holds.
Its Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions are independently verified by SGS.
com showcase Energy use MWh GHG reporting and assurance Fuel 2014 2015 Balfour Beattys GHG emissions are reported in accordance with Diesel 435,640 648,774 the UK Governments GHG reporting requirements covering all six Gas oil red diesel 575,511 288,688 Kyoto gases.
Electricity 179,055 213,395 The Group uses the operational control approach under the GHG Motor gasoline petrol 121,866 112,562 Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard as of Natural gas 20,100 18,173 31 December 2015 to report emissions from its operations around Boiler fuel 22,253 11,409 the world.
However, Balfour Beatty has chosen not to report LPG 339 3,973 against the market-based approach.
Even though Balfour Beatty Propane 7,692 2,790 does procure significant amounts of renewable electricity, the Heat and steam 1,476 2,603 average DEFRA DECC conversion factors have been used for Butane 70 38 carbon reporting purposes in order not to detract from reducing CNG 5 1 energy intensive operations.
Balfour Beatty has also reported on its Total 1,364,007 1,302,406 energy consumption in MWh for the first time to allow readers to make more informed comparisons of its energy use.
CDP As illustrated below, although Balfour Beattys CO e emissions 2 Over the last four years, Balfour Beatty has steadily increased went up by approximately 7,000 tonnes from 2014 to 2015, the itscarbon disclosure score from 78 to 97, increasing its score by number of MWh over the same period actually dropped from 19points.
The performance score has also improved from C to B.
The disclosure score, measured out of 100, assesses the This difference can be explained by the fact that different fuels completeness and quality of the Groups measurement and have different carbon conversion factors with some fuels attracting management of carbon footprint, climate change strategy, risk greater carbon conversion factors than others.
Furthermore, the management processes and outcomes.
The scores purpose is MWh table does not include fugitive emissions.
to provide a summary of the extent to which companies have The table illustrates that despite Balfour Beatty using approximately answered these questions in a structured format.
Balfour Beattys 4.5% less energy than it did in 2014, its fuel mix led it to emitting score of 97 indicates that its team has provided comprehensive more Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
information ina transparent and open manner.
This includes assets that are otherwise not referred to across The performance score, ranked from A-E, assesses the level of the rest of the financial statements as defined in our reporting action, as reported by the Company, on climate change mitigation, guidance.
The Group also developed reporting guidance for the adaptation and transparency.
Its intent is to highlight positive climate calculation of GHG emissions as well as other sustainability metrics.
Balfour Beattys score of B indicates that Balfour Beatty has set carbon reduction targets and is implementing programmes to The Group has determined and reported the emissions it is reduce emissions in both its direct operations and supply chain.
responsible for within this boundary and does not believe there are any material omissions.
The Group uses the UK Governments carbon conversion factors that were updated in 2015 to calculate Carbon disclosure score itsemissions into equivalent tonnes of carbon dioxide CO2e.
100 The Group has removed the Scope 1 and 2 data for Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Austria which were disposed of in 2014 and 2015 respectively and stripped this data from the original 2010 baseline.
KPMG were engaged to undertake an independent limited assurance engagement, reporting to Balfour Beatty plc, using the assurance standards ISAE 3000 and ISAE 3410 over the greenhouse gas data that have been highlighted in this report with the symbol.
Their full statement is available on our website at: www.
com IIA The level of assurance provided for a limited assurance 2015 2014 2013 2012 engagement is substantially lower than a reasonable assurance agreement.
In order to reach their opinion, KPMG performed arange of procedures over the GHG data including: Environmental compliance In 2015, three environmental incidents 2014: 10, 2013: 4, interviewing management responsible for the data 2012: 4 resulted in enforcement action and fines totalling 3,959 examining reporting processes and documentation 2014: 9,917, 2013: 13,260, 2012: 66,800. agreeing a selection of the data to the corresponding source Two of the violations were for allowing mosquitoes to breed documentation at operating company level and one related to vermin.
There were corrective actions for performing analytical procedures over the aggregated data at each violation.
com AR2015 97 94 89 78 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 41 Community engagement The US construction business contributed over US$900,000 to In 2015, Balfour Beatty established Involved Balfour Beattys charitable causes in 2015.
Some of the organisations receiving Community Investment Programme in its UK businesses.
donations are: Involved focuses on three key areas where the Group can add value American Heart Association to its customers and the local community: Boy Scouts of America local employment and skills Habitat for Humanity community engagement through charitable fundraising, Hospitality House volunteering and mentoring Make a Wish supporting local businesses.
Teach for America Wherever the Group operates it seeks to integrate within the United Way neighbourhood, supporting the local community, its businesses and Wounded Warrior Project.
Involved gives Balfour Beatty the opportunity to work Specifically for Make-A-Wish Georgias Walk for Wishes, the within a framework whereby the results of its interventions are Georgia Division achieved one of its largest fundraising efforts to captured and the benefit to society shared with its customers and date raising nearly US$400,000 for the annual Walk for Wishes other interested parties.
event which grants wishes to children in Georgia who have been In many markets the ability to demonstrate the social value of the afflicted with life threatening illnesses.
Groups operations in economic terms is vital.
To benefit local areas, The Texas Division continued with its Balfour Beatty Construction the Group uses local suppliers, employees and materials wherever High School Mentoring Program which started in 2009. possible, and invests in future talent through apprenticeship The programme enhances the educational and professional schemes and work placement opportunities.
development experience of high school students in the Dallas Fort Community investment through charitable fundraising Worth area by raising the awareness of professional opportunities Through the Balfour Beatty Building Better Futures Charitable within the construction industry.
Through one-on-one mentoring Trust, the Group aims to help the most disadvantaged young relationships, Balfour Beatty facilitates sustainable academic people in society.
Three charities are supported by the Groups enrichment, encourages leadership, and provides exposure to the fundraising and volunteering programme: Barnardos, Coram and construction industry.
Since inception, the programme has hosted The Princes Trust.
numerous High School interns, awarded several scholarships for students pursuing careers in construction management and Since 2008, the Group has donated almost 2 million to sponsored college interns.
Offers are extended to interns with programmes aimed at helping young people, as well as providing successful internships upon graduation.
support in kind, such as through employee volunteering.
In 2015, employees raised over 10,000 through the Building Better Futures In 2015, staff from Gammon took part in a total of 43 community fundraising activity programme.
events across Hong Kong, mainland China and Singapore.
The highlight event was the Gammon Walkathon 2015 held in Given the youth unemployment issue affecting communities early December which has raised over HK$1.0m 87,489 over around the UK, and the skills gap opening up in the UK construction the last five years.
In addition, Gammon is involved in planning sector, many of the programmes are focused on improving and executing community-based activities and there has been a employment and employability.
heightened focus on project-driven engagement, often collaborating Working together with The Princes Trust over the last six years, with NGOs to make a positive difference in the communities in the Group has helped transform the lives of 3,734 young people.
Since 2013, the Group has raised 130,000 to support Barnardos work with unemployed young people: helping over 1,000 young Taxation people to gain new skills, qualifications and stable work.
The Groups tax strategy, approved by the Board, is to sustainably minimise tax cost whilst complying with the law.
Since 2010, the Group has also raised over 400,000 for Coram, allowing the charity to support 40,000 vulnerable children.
In doing so, it ensures it acts in accordance with its ethics, values and compliance programme.
It always considers the financial and Balfour Beatty also supports the London Youth Games, facilitating reputational risk arising from its management of tax issues, aiming another record year of participation for young people in London, to maximise long-term shareholder value.
Balfour Beatty staff again played a key role among 4,483 volunteers that our investment also enabled Balfour Beatty has clear tax policies, procedures and controls in to be trained and supported as they helped to put on the Games place which are monitored and reviewed by internal tax specialists and bring them to life.
Since Balfour Beatty started sponsoring the and seeks external specialist tax advice where necessary.
Games, participant numbers have increased fivefold.
The Group has an open, honest and positive working relationship This brings multiple benefits, including engaging our employees with the tax authorities and is committed to prompt disclosure in volunteering, community engagement, helping customer and transparency in all tax matters.
Where disputes arise with relationships and supporting communities in and around London tax authorities with regard to the interpretation and application where Balfour Beatty operates.
For the participants, the Group of tax law, the Group is committed to addressing the matter recognises the value that sport brings to the lives of young people promptly and resolving it with the tax authority in an open and is committed to helping raise their aspirations, motivation and andconstructive manner.
attainment levels in local communities.
The Group makes a major contribution to the tax revenues of governments from its activities in the many countries in which it operated in 2015.
For example, the Groups tax contribution extends significantly beyond corporate tax, as the size of its workforce means it not only collects very large amounts of income tax, but also pays over 100 million in employer social security costs in its major territories in a typical year.
