Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 06 Group strategic framework Our strategy sets out what we aim to achieve as a company.
Our vision is to be the premier international defence, aerospace and security company Our mission is to safeguard and enhance our customers vital interests and deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value Our strategy Maintain and grow our defence businesses Continue to grow our business in adjacent markets Develop and expand our international business Inspire and develop our people to drive success Enhance overall financial performance and competitive positions Strategic objectives Continuously Continue to Accelerate Continue Continue to Leverage our improve drive value from the growth of to win new grow our technology and efficiency and our defence our cyber, international electronic engineering competitiveness platforms and intelligence orders systems capabilities services and security business business Our values are Trusted, Innovative and Bold BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 07 Our vision is to be the premier international defence, Our strategy is guiding us through aerospace and security company.
Government Our mission recognises the important role we play in spending is still under pressure and competition protecting and enhancing our customers vital interests, is high across the world.
We have responded fromdefence and national security to critical infrastructure byfocusing on meeting our commitments and commercial information.
tocustomers and on improving efficiency, Our strategy sets out five key longer-term areas of focus affordability and financial performance.
tohelp us achieve our vision.
Maintaining and growing ourdefence businesses remains a core part of our strategy.
All of these are essential to sustaining and winning We also continue to pursue growth in adjacent markets, newbusiness.
We have also continued to invest in our including cyber security and commercial avionics.
We are business and people and in the technology and skills atrusted partner to the governments of a number of weneed to drivethe business forward.
countries around the world and we continue to expand ourinternational business.
We will continue tosupport anddevelop our people and enhance competitiveness todrive success.
We define our strategic objectives, which set near-term priorities and help employees to align their personal objectives to the Groups strategy.
Each year, the Group has an overall objective to meet itsnancial targets and each Executive Committee memberhasspecic annual objectives insupport of theGroups strategy.
Our values define how we work andrepresent a clear denition of our corporate culture.
Our strategy in action Throughout this report, we use case studies to demonstrate performance against our strategic objectives.
Continuously improve Continue to drive value Accelerate the growth Continue to win new Continue to grow Leverage our technology efficiency and from our defence of our cyber, intelligence international orders ourelectronic and engineering competitiveness platforms and services and security business systemsbusiness capabilities P13 P14 P30 P42 P28 P26 Major investments Global footprint of Commercial Saudi training Innovation in Advancing future innaval facilities the F-35 programme cybersecurity partnership electronic warfare solutions P41 P36 P32 P45 P29 P34 World-class Amphibious Combat Maintaining MBDA export Commercial ight Naval weapon manufacturing Vehicle 1.1 contract spaceradars success control electronics technology facilities award P38 P44 HM Naval Base F-35 missile Portsmouth collaboration modernisation BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 |
