Lean Expert Trusted Safe Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 14 Our p Our pr ri io or ri it ti ie es s Build to Last: A transformation programme to return Balfour Beatty to strength When we deliver buildings and What does it mean?
Our KPIs infrastructure, we expect them to survive the test of time.
For Balfour We want to make sure that our customers get the best value for their money: we need to Beatty to remain at the forefront Deliver value to our customers by 163m be relentless in driving out unnecessary costs and work with our customers to ensure their of our industry we need to Net cash money is spent in the best way possible.
Providing customers with better value for their continuously improve efficiency, improving operational efficiency money drives our competitiveness and provides Balfour Beatty with the capital to invest lead innovation and always back into developing our expertise.
Lean is measured against our financial returns: operating 106 m operate safely.
These are the and eliminating waste right through profit and cash flow performance.
Operating profit loss drivers of value for our customers.
Read more on p16 the supply chain.
Improved efficiency means smarter working, elimination of waste and creating a Lean supply chain to deliver better value for our customers.
This allows us to invest in developing We deliver world-class buildings and infrastructure for our customers by constantly our expertise.
Having the finest Ensure we have the best engineering, 60% driving innovation.
Our strongest differentiator is our engineering and project management Experts allows us to extend what Average employee satisfaction capabilities.
Having the best talent supported by the strongest supply chain creates we are capable of building and drives design and project management avirtuous circle that ensures we win the best and most exciting projects to deliver.
improvements in everything we do: Expert is measured against employee satisfaction and retention.
this means our customers can Trust capabilities.
us to deliver on all that we promise, Read more on p16 including safety.
Customers must have confidence in our ability to deliver and to do what we say we will do.
Be the construction partner of choice 82% A robust risk framework ensures that challenges are mitigated and projects are delivered Average customer in the right way.
Satisfied customers provide us with the opportunities and projects for the for our customers and supply chain satisfaction rating future.
Trusted is measured against customer satisfaction.
Read more on p17 by delivering on our promises.
Health and safety is at the heart of everything we do we must protect our employees, We must ensure the health and 0.24 our supply chain partners, our customers and the public.
Construction is an inherently Lost Time Injury Rate, dangerous business and without the highest standards of safety we dont have a licence to safety of everyone who comes into excluding international JVs operate.
A safe and healthy workplace is also happier, more motivated and more efficient.
Safe is measured against our commitment to Zero Harm.
Read more on p17 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
com AR2015 Lean Expert Trusted Safe Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 15 What does it mean?
Our KPIs We want to make sure that our customers get the best value for their money: we need to Deliver value to our customers by 163m be relentless in driving out unnecessary costs and work with our customers to ensure their Net cash money is spent in the best way possible.
Providing customers with better value for their improving operational efficiency money drives our competitiveness and provides Balfour Beatty with the capital to invest back into developing our expertise.
Lean is measured against our financial returns: operating 106 m and eliminating waste right through profit and cash flow performance.
Operating profit loss Read more on p16 the supply chain.
We deliver world-class buildings and infrastructure for our customers by constantly Ensure we have the best engineering, 60% driving innovation.
Our strongest differentiator is our engineering and project management Average employee satisfaction capabilities.
Having the best talent supported by the strongest supply chain creates design and project management avirtuous circle that ensures we win the best and most exciting projects to deliver.
Expert is measured against employee satisfaction and retention.
Read more on p16 Customers must have confidence in our ability to deliver and to do what we say we will do.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 16 Our priorities continued Build to Last continued Build to Last poor levels of customer support and sub-optimal The Group launched the Build to Last transformation outsourcing agreements.
In the UK construction programme in early 2015 as a framework to drive business, where it was vital to increase transparency continuous improvement for all stakeholders against and migrate away from ageing systems to a single four goals Lean, Expert, Trusted and Safe as platform, the Oracle R12 system was rolled out in measured by cash EBIT, employee engagement, August.
To reduce costs, a review of the architecture customer satisfaction and Zero Harm.
Rapid action was of the IT systems concluded with notice served on taken to remove layers and upgrade leadership and the external infrastructure support contract.
governance through a simplified Group structure.
The Group spends approximately 7 billion with As a result Balfour Beatty is stabilising and making suppliers.
The existing procurement processes significant progress on its four goals: were fragmented with localised arrangements and a disjointed supply base.
Therefore, improvements to procurement processes are a key focus to deliver Lean value for customers and to drive out cost for the Group.
An enhanced procurement capability for the Deliver value to customers by improving operational business is now being put in place, with immediate efficiency and eliminating waste right through the savings being realised from indirect procurement supply chain.
Whilst the latter is a smaller proportion of The Group metric is cash and EBIT in the first phase, the overall spend, it provides the opportunity for delivering 200 million of cash in and 100 million of immediate results.
In 2016 the focus will move on cost out in the first 24 months.
to direct procurement costs, with the opportunity The Groups underlying cash performance improved in to reduce third-party spend across a range of 2015.
Cash flow in 2015 was 357 million better than categories.
Here Balfour Beatty does not necessarily 2014, excluding the proceeds from the sale of Parsons realise the full financial benefit directly, due to gain Brinckerhoff.
This was the result of: share agreements with some clients, but improves the Groups competitive advantage.
Strong discipline around cash and working capital: Progress continues to be made to simplify the Enhanced financial processes including more business, with the sale of the signalling business consistent reporting and driving down cash SSL in May and agreement to sell the German management into projects: rail electrification business, subject to regulatory Group-wide Cash is our Compass employee approvals, reached in December.
The UK Regional training: and construction business is in the process of rationalising Management incentives aligned to delivering its management structure and offices.
Services and US Construction businesses have removed a layer of management.
In 2015 good progress was made against the targeted 100 million of cost out.
Actions were taken to simplify the business, including the reduction of 846 indirect Expert employees, and standardise working practices which delivered 60 million of annualised savings in the year, Ensure that Balfour Beatty has the best comprising: 39 million of savings from centralising engineering, design, project management and back office and support functions: 13 million from IT: delivery capabilities.
and 8 million from indirect procurement.
The Group metric is average employee satisfaction.
Business unit and support function costs have been Both the Board and executive management were reduced in the year.
Balfour Beattys back office strengthened significantly during 2015.
In addition, the structure was a legacy of a decade of forced growth.
management structure was simplified and rationalised, The Group was unnecessarily complicated with lack with layers removed in US Construction and Support of integration, inefficiencies in processes, lack of Services.
There were five additions to the Board, accountability and control and significant additional with a new Chairman, Group Chief Executive and cost.
A federated structure had resulted in supporting Chief Financial Officer joining in the first half of 2015. functions such as HR and IT being run independently In addition, Stephen Billingham and Stuart Doughty within each unit, causing duplication of services.
Stephen has broad During 2015, support functions were formed across experience across multiple industries, including all businesses to standardise working practices.
construction and support services, both from the This will allow significant savings as duplicate supplier and the client side, as well as having a strong systems are removed and a more focused, value background in finance in several complex organisations.
For example, a review Stuart is the former chief executive of engineering of Human Resource policies uncovered multiple company Costain plc, and has 45 years of highly relevant, different policies for each part of the business: a in-depth experience in the construction industry.
process is now underway to remove duplication and cut the number of HR policies from c. 200 to around In addition to the roles of Group Chief Executive 50.
Office costs were also reduced by rationalising and Chief Financial Officer, executive management a number of property locations, including relocating was upgraded during the year, with two-thirds from the Group head office, a saving of 2 million.
of the executive committee comprising new appointments to Balfour Beatty or people new to IT systems have seen significant change during post.
The business held its first Group Leadership the year.
The Group is simultaneously focused on Conference in January 2016, bringing together 300 increasing the effectiveness of its software, whilst leaders from across the business.
also driving out cost from an inefficient IT estate with Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 17 The organisation structure of the UK businesses was Automated audit tests and business rules which simplified with the heads of Major Projects, Gasand create a risk-weighted list of review required projects Water, Power T&D and Rail all now reporting are being piloted in the UK.
The system will be rolled directly to the Group Chief Executive, as does the out across the businesses in 2016, starting with UK new role of managing director for the Regional and Regional construction followed by US Construction.
This will enable management for the first time to invasively monitor and review any project in the system.
At the end of 2015 Balfour Beatty relocated from its central London offices to new devolved offices which are The Group focused on significantly improving customer modern and largely open plan, providing staff with a more engagement in 2015.
The number of customer reviews productive and collaborative working environment.
Customer satisfaction scores were higher in 2015 at The My Contribution initiative is the mechanism to 82% 2014: 77%.
engage all staff directly in Build to Last.
Since its launch in June, over 3,000 ideas have been submitted, which will drive both measurable savings and improvement to Safe key processes.
Ensure the health and safety of everyone who Reward and recognition has been aligned across the comes into contact with Balfour Beattys activities.
In 2015, a significant proportion of all bonuses were linked to cash performance.
A new Group CEO The Group metric is Zero Harm.
share awards scheme has been introduced to align Many of the activities carried out by Balfour Beatty can incentives for selected key staff who do not qualify for be, by their nature, potentially dangerous.
It is therefore share-based bonuses.
essential the health and safety of employees and For the first time, a single Group-wide employee opinion those who come into contact with Balfour Beatty is survey was carried out in November, which will provide aparamount consideration.
a baseline to monitor employee engagement throughout A new Group Safety and Sustainability Board the Build to Last programme.
Committee has been created to ensure that appropriate In 2015, Balfour Beatty hired 156 apprentices and 216 Board governance is maintained over the businesses graduates across the UK and the US.
Balfour Beatty is in their identifying and remedy of potential risks.
a member of The 5% Club, committed to the aim of Safety matters are regularly reviewed by the Executive ensuring that, within two years, 5% of the UK workforce Committee and Business Unit leadership teams.
are apprentices, graduates or sponsored students on A single UK Health and Safety function was created to structured development programmes.
The proportion strengthen leadership and ensure that best practice is of the UK workforce in these categories increased from shared across the business.
The reinvigorated focus on safety has seen an increase in safety observations of 100%.
These observations Trusted can be identifying positive activities and behaviours, as well as potential issues.
These observations are an Be the construction partner of choice for customers indicator of staff engagement.
and supply chain by delivering on promises.
The Lost Time Injury Rate LTIR for the Group, The Group metric is customer satisfaction.
excluding international joint ventures, improved from 0.31 to 0.24.
The recent Group employee opinion During 2015, Balfour Beatty continued to win landmark survey demonstrated that staff have confidence in contracts in all its key markets.
Considerable progress theGroups attitude to safety.
was made to review, adapt and implement improved governance, processes and controls particularly with New sentencing guidelines published by the Ministry respect to the bidding and operation of contracts.
of Justice came into effect in early 2016 which have the potential to lead to significantly higher penalties for The 8-gated business lifecycle is now mandated for Health and Safety breaches.
The impact on the industry all new business with systems and controls in place is yet to be fully understood.
The process reduces the risk of pursuing inappropriate opportunities, underbidding or accepting inappropriate levels of risk.
It also reviews the cash profile of projects.
Prior to the introduction of the process, progress of bids could not be measured.
Today across the UK and US approximately 14% of bids are known to be terminated before Gate 4, the final stage before bid submission.
Building on the investment in Oracle R12 and Hyperion, the Group is using data analytics through the pilot of a new, standardised, project reporting and riskidentification system.
For the first time, this will provide a complete overview of all active projects to both local and senior management eliminating a large amount of manual work previously required and improving the speed and accessibility of the information required by decision makers.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
