Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 26 Segmental performance Electronic Systems 1 Electronic Systems, with 12,400 employees, comprises the US and UK-based electronics activities, including electronic warfare systems, electro-optical sensors, military and commercial digital engine and ight controls, next-generation military communications systems and data links, persistent surveillance capabilities, and hybrid electric drive systems.
Electronic Combat includes the Intelligence, Surveillance & Electronic Protection, Electronic Reconnaissance addresses the market Warfare and Electronic Attack for actionable intelligence through product lines, and provides a innovative technical solutions for depthof capability in integrated airborne persistent surveillance, electromagnetic systems for airborne identication systems, signals applications, mission planning and intelligence, underwater and surface battle management solutions, secure warfare solutions, and space products.
networked communications and Controls & Avionics addresses the navigation systems, radio frequency military and commercial aircraft communication and data links.
electronics markets, including Survivability, Targeting & Sensing y-by-wire ight controls, full authority exploits the electro-optical and digital engine controls, ight deck infrared spectrum to provide systems, cabin management systems leadingthreat warning and infrared and mission computers.
countermeasures systems, precision HybriDrive Solutions delivers electric guidance and seeker solutions, propulsion and power management advanced targeting solutions, head-up performance, with innovative displays and state-of-the-art tactical products and solutions that advance imaging systems.
vehicle mobility, efficiency and capability in the transit, military, marine and rail markets.
Our strategy in action Leverage our technology and engineering capabilities Ad vancing future solutions Electronic Systems research and advanced technology arm developsagile, innovative solutions to solve mission-critical customer challenges.
The majority of the 150 active programmes are funded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA and other US Department of Defense research laboratories.
The focus isto develop innovative concepts and transition them to support programmes of record, such as the Long-Range Anti-Ship Missile programme, which uses BAE Systems advanced long-range sensors as the missiles eyes and ears to enable the attack of targets within a group of enemy ships protected by sophisticated air defence systems.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 27 Operational and strategic highlights 1 Sales by domain % Selected for the Eagle Passive Active Warning Land Survivability System programme with Boeing, Maritime 9% Air potentially worth over $1.0bn 0.7bn over the life 3% 88% ofthe programme, to upgrade up to 400 USAir ForceF-15 aircraft Delivered the first international order for the Advanced Precision Kill Weapon System APKWS Awarded a five-year contract for the US Armys Enhanced Night Vision Goggle III and Family of Weapon Sights Individual programme, with a potential value of $435m 295m Acquired Eclipse Electronic Systems, Inc. a provider 1 ofleading-edge communications intelligence receivers Sales by line of business % and services Controls & Avionics HybriDrive Solutions Selected by Boeing to provide the entire ight control Electronic Combat 28 % electronics suite on the next-generation 777X aircraft 36% programme following the award, in 2015, for the remote electronic units Opened a state-of-the-art aviation technology manufacturing facility in Fort Wayne, Indiana Financial performance 2015 2014 Intelligence, Surveillance 1 Sales 2,638m 2,415m Survivability, KPI & Reconnaissance Targeting & Sensing 2 Underlying EBITA KPI 396m 373m 14% 22% Return on sales 15.0% 15.4% 3 Cash inow KPI 323m 246m 1 Sales analysis: Defence and commercial % 1 Order intake KPI 2,523m 2,341m 1,4 Order backlog 4.2bn 3.9bn Commercial Defence 23% 1 77% Sales compared to 2014 increased marginally to $4.0bn 2.6bn.
Thecommercial areas of the business now amount to 23% having seen sales growth in the year of 7%.
On the defence side, sales were stable with growth on the F-35 Lightning II programme offsetting contracts completing in 2014.
The return on sales achieved of 15.0% benefited from continued strong programme execution and risk retirement.
Last years return onsales of15.4% included a 0.5 percentage point non-recurring gainfrom acontract pricing settlement.
3 2 Cash conversion of underlying EBITA for the year was at 89%, excluding pension deficit funding.
1,4 Order backlog was sustained at $6.1bn 4.2bn benefiting from awards for Enhanced Night Vision Goggles, F-15 electronic warfare upgrades, production of P-8A Poseidon mission computers and F-35Lightning II Low-Rate Initial Production Lots 9 to 11.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items.
Net cash inow from operating activities after capital expenditure net, financial investment anddividends from equity accounted investments.
Comprises funded and unfunded unexecuted customer orders.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 28 Segmental performance Electronic Systems Operational performance Our strategy in action Electronic Combat Continue to grow our electronic Electronic Systems has sustained its leadership systems business position in the US electronic warfare market BAE Systems has an extensive electronic and production is ramping up across a number Innovation in warfare heritage, with more than 60 years of programmes.
Low-Rate Initial Production experience integrating and elding some hardware deliveries on the F-35 Lightning II ofthe most advanced US electronic electronic warfare programme continue with Lot 8 and 9 warfaretechnologies.
deliveries, and Lot 10 deliveries expected to commence in 2016.
The business has received BAE Systems has been selected to develop initial funding for Lot 11, with negotiations and manufacture an all-digital electronic anticipated in 2016. warfare system, the Eagle Passive Active Warning Survivability System, for the US The business is under contracts, from Boeing AirForces F-15 aircraft.
It will replace the and Warner Robins Air Logistics Complex, aircrafts legacy-1980s Tactical Electronic totalling over $1.0bn 0.7bn to install the Warfare Suite, and leverages the technology Digital Electronic Warfare System DEWS on and capabilities of the Digital Electronic 84 new F-15 aircraft, upgrade 70 existing F-15 Warfare System and the F-35 Lightning II aircraft with DEWS and provide spare units programmes.
and modules for an international customer.
Hardware and software deliveries, and system More online baesystems.
com verication testing remain on schedule.
BAE Systems has been selected by Boeingtodevelop and manufacture the next-generation digital electronic warfare Electronic Systems continues to deliver on Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance system for the US Air Forces Eagle Passive Advanced Precision Kill Weapon System The business continues to provide Airborne Active Warning Survivability System APKWS Full-Rate Production Lots 3 and 4, Surveillance capability for the US Air Force programme to upgrade up to 400 F-15 now worth a total of $115m 78m with the andUS Army based on two wide-area, aircraft.
The programme could be worth US Navy.
BAE Systems received customer high-resolution imaging sensor systems the over$1.0bn 0.7bn over its life.
recognition for the completion of the 5,000th Airborne Wide Area Persistent Surveillance production unit during September and the System, which has been operational for more BAE Systems was selected by the US Special first Foreign Military Sales order of 110 than 28,000 hours in theatre, and the Operations Command to develop a new systems for Jordan was completed in October.
Autonomous Real-time Ground Ubiquitous electronic warfare system for its fleet of The USArmy acquired an initial quantity of Surveillance Imaging System.
The initial contract, worth APKWS laser-guided rockets from the more than$20m 14m, is the first phase of The business provides state-of-the-art USNavy for use in ongoing operations.
amulti-phase programme to provide product processing capabilities for the US Navys P-8A development and platform integration work The business continues to perform on the Poseidon programme, which has entered over the next 12 months.
The lifecycle value Terminal High-Altitude Area Defence Full-Rate Full-Rate Production, and delivered 35 mission ofthe contract could exceed $400m 271m.
Production contract, valued at $340m 231m, computer and display systems during the for 307 infrared missile seekers supporting both year.
Four systems were purchased by Due to the sensitive nature of electronic the US government and Foreign Military Sales.
Australia in 2015. combat systems and technology, many of thebusinesss programmes are classied.
As A five-year, indefinite Delivery, indefinite Electronic Systems continues to provide Signals aworld leader in electronic warfare systems, Quantity IDIQ contract to support the Intelligence capability for the US Army and the business continues to experience growth USArmys Enhanced Night Vision Goggle III other US Department of Defense customers.
in this increasingly important area.
and Family of Weapon Sights Individual BAE Systems was awarded $28m 19m for programme was awarded to BAE Systems in additional enhancements to the existing Survivability, Targeting & Sensing March.
The contract has a potential value of two-year contract valued in excess of $95m The US Army continues to eld the approximately $435m 295m.
The programme 64m to provide Tactical Signals Intelligence third-generation upgrade to its Common has commenced initial deliveries to support Payloads and associated equipment for the Missile Warning Systems and has placed user evaluation and reliability testing.
USArmys Gray Eagle unmanned aircraft.
itsrst Foreign Military Sales orders for Deliveries of pods and ground stations have systems to Qatar, the Republic of Korea, The next-generation Striker II helmet-mounted commenced.
display has completed initial ight trials, successfully demonstrating the performance In June, BAE Systems completed the of the integrated digital night vision camera.
acquisitionof Eclipse Electronic Systems, Inc. aTexas-based provider of highly-advanced The business was unsuccessful in bidding Intelligence, Surveillance andReconnaissance forthe US Armys Common Infrared products and services to the US defence and Countermeasures programme.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 29 Controls & Avionics On the F-35 Lightning II programme, Looking forward BAE Systems is a major supplier to Boeing BAESystems completed Low-Rate Initial foright controls, and cabin and ight deck Production LRIP Lot 7 deliveries of 38 In the US, further clarity regarding systems.
In February, the Group was selected production shipsets, plus spares, of thevehicle potential market improvement to provide the remote electronic units on management computer and activeinceptor wasgained after Congress reached Boeings next-generation 777X aircraft system equipment to LockheedMartin.
Both agreement on anew budget deal programme.
With this new award, BAE Systems systems are currently inproduction for LRIP will now provide theentire ight control suite Lot 8 and under contract for LRIP Lot 9. that provides for defence and for 777X aircraft.
Delivery of subsystems for domestic programme spending HybriDrive Solutions the first 737 MAX test aircraft was completed With the recent delivery of its 5,000th above the Budget Control Act caps on schedule.
hybridpropulsion system, the business through 2017.
FADEC Alliance, a joint venture between iscontinuing to meet the needs of an FADEC International the Groups joint venture  global transit bus Whilst the longer-term outlook with Sagem and GE Aviation, completed market with its new anti-idling technology retains some uncertainty, certication of the full authority digital engine andzero-emission drive modes.
Cities including ElectronicSystems remains well controls on the Leap engine for the Airbus London, Paris, Boston and Seattle are now positioned to address changing A320neo aircraft.
using engine-off technology to save fuel, reduce noise and improve local air quality.
The business completed certication of the ight control electronics for the Embraer Its focus remains on maintaining a Other Legacy 500 and Bombardier CSeries aircraft, In July, the Communications & Control line diverse portfolio of defence and and its ight control electronics enabled first ofbusiness was realigned across the three commercial products and capabilities ights of the Gulfstream G500 and Embraer remaining defence businesses.
for US and international customers, KC-390 aircraft.
From 2016, Cyber & Intelligences Geospatial while sustaining its emphasis on Vistara, an Indian airline, became the launch Intelligence Intelligence, Surveillance and costreduction, and research customer for BAE Systems IntelliCabin Reconnaissance business will be reported in wireless in-ight entertainment system.
Therst installation of the system was The business expects to benefit certied in January 2016. fromits franchise positions, A new state-of-the-art manufacturing facility particularly on the F-35 Lightning II in Fort Wayne, Indiana, ofcially opened in September for the production of commercial and F-15 programmes, and its ability aircraft electronics.
to apply innovative technology solutions that meet defence customers changing requirements.
Inthe commercial aviation market, Electronic Systems technology innovations are enabling the business Our strategy in action to renew long-standing customer Continue to grow our electronic systems business positions and win new business.
Electronic Systems is both a supplier of Commercial high-technology equipment for defence electronics capabilities and is growing in adjacent commercial aerospace markets.
ight control BAE Systems is a leading supplier of engine electronics controls, including for GE engines, and, through a joint venture, for the CFM family of engines.
The Group has a strong franchise position, providing ight control electronics for many Boeing and other aircraft platforms.
In 2015, BAE Systems was selected by Boeing to provide the remote electronic units for the 777X aircraft.
In combination with the prior year award to provide the integrated ight control electronics on the 777X, BAE Systems will be providing the complete suite of ight control electronics for the next-generation More online platforms y-by-wire system.
com BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 |
