Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 88 Directors remuneration policy It is intended in practice to operate the Directors remuneration policy the Policy from the 2014 AGM.
For the purposes of the Companies Act 2006, the Policy will only take legal effect on 1 January 2015 subject to shareholder approval at 1 the 2014 AGM.
The Committee considers remuneration policy annually to ensure that it remains aligned with business needs and is appropriately positioned relative to the market.
However, in the absence of exceptional or unexpected circumstances which may necessitate a change to the Policy, there is currently no intention to revise the Policy more frequently than every three years.
We use target performance to estimate the total potential reward and benchmark it against reward packages paid by BAE Systems competitors.
Our Policy is to set base salary with reference to the relevant market-competitive level.
Actual total direct reward reects the performance of the individual and the Company as a whole.
The aim is to deliver an overall remuneration package for executive directors which provides an appropriate balance between short-term and long-term reward and between xed and variable reward as described in the table below.
Whilst our long-term incentive plans provide the Committee with discretion in respect of vesting outcomes that affect the actual level of reward payable to individuals, such discretion would only be used in exceptional circumstances and, if exercised, disclosed at the latest in the report on implementation of the remuneration policy i. e. the Annual remuneration report for the year in question.
Executive directors policy table Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Recognise market value ofrole and individuals skills, experience and performance to ensurethe business can attract andretaintalent.
Operation Salaries are reviewed annually.
Business and individual performance, skills, the scope of the role and the individuals time in the rolearetaken into account when assessing salaries, as is market data for similar roles in the relevant market comparator group.
The comparator group for UK executive directors is comprised of selected companies from the top 70 of the FTSE 100 and is constructed to position BAESystems around the median in terms of market capitalisation.
For the President and Chief Executive officer of BAESystems, Inc. the comparator group is drawn from companies in the US aerospace and defence sectors, together withsimilar organisations in the general industry sector where BAESystems, Inc. is positioned at the median of the comparator groupby reference to revenue size.
Maximum opportunity When considering salary increases for the executive directors in their current roles, the Committee considers the general level ofsalaryincrease across the Group and in the relevant external market.
Actual increases for the executive directors in their current roles will generally not exceed the average percentage increase for employees as a whole, taking account of the level of movement within the relevant UK US comparator group.
As a maximum, in exceptional circumstances such as a material increase in job size or complexity, or arecently appointed executive director where the salary is positioned low against the market, the increase will not exceed 10% in any single year.
Performance metrics used, weighting and time period applicable None.
Annual incentive Purpose and link to strategy Drive and reward annual performance of individuals and teams on both financial and non-financial metrics, including leadership behaviours in order to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value.
Compulsory deferral into shares increases alignment with shareholder interests.
Operation 7580% of the annual incentive is driven off in-year financial performance, and 2025% is based on driving performance and improvement in the area of corporate responsibility and other non-financial objectives supporting the Groups strategy.
One-third of the total annual incentive amount is subject to compulsory deferral for three years in BAE Systems shares without anymatching.
A clawback mechanism exists under which part or all of the deferred bonus can be recovered if performance for which the bonus wasawarded is subsequently restated orshown to be materially inaccurate or misleading or where the executives employment can beterminated for cause.
Cash dividends are payable to the participants on the shares during this three-year deferral period.
Maximum opportunity Chief Executive and the President and Chief Executive officer of BAESystems, Inc. : 225% of salary Group Finance Director: 160% of salary The pay-out for maximum performance is 200% of on-target.
The pay-out for achieving a threshold performance is 40% of the target, with no pay-out for achieving less than this.
Pay-out for performance between targets is calculated on a straight-line basis.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 89 Executive directors policy table continued Annual incentive continued Performance metrics used, weighting and time period applicable Metrics and weightings applicable in2014: Group earnings per share EPS 40% Group cash 25% Order intake 15% Safety 5% Personal objectives 15% Performance is assessed on an annual basis, using a combination ofthe Groups main performance indicators for the year.
The measures include financial and non-financial metrics as well as theachievement of personal objectives.
Measures will be weighted each year according to business priorities.
See notes 4 and 5 on page 92 regarding the selection and weighting of performance metrics.
Notwithstanding performance against the above metrics, all bonus payments are at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, which will be based on an assessment of the individuals personal contribution to business performance over the relevant year and leadership behaviours demonstrated in making that contribution, relative to others.
Long-Term Incentives LTI Operation All awards are granted based on a percentage of salary and share price at the date of grant.
Dividend equivalents in respect of vested shares are paid at the time of vesting and are not taken into account when determining individual limits.
Pre-vesting clawback provisions apply to all awards and are intended to cover situations, for example, where results are restated orotherwise turn out to be materially inaccurate or where the executives employment can be terminated for cause.
The Committee will establish the targets for each measure at the start of each performance period based on Group projections andmarket expectations for the business.
The performance conditions for previous awards are described in the Annual remunerationreport.
Awards and performance conditions can be adjusted totake account of variations of share capital and other transactions or events.
On a change of control or similar transaction, awards generally will vest to the extent performance conditions are then satisfied ifapplicable and then be pro-rated to reect the acceleration of vesting unless the Committee decides otherwise.
Alternatively, awards may be exchanged forequivalent awards over shares in the acquiring company.
The share plan rules may be amended from time-to-time by the Committee in certain circumstances including minor changes for administrative, tax or otherregulatory purposes.
Subject to this Policy, performance conditions may be amended in other circumstances if the Committee considers it appropriate.
Performance metrics used, weighting and time period applicable See notes 4 and 5 on page 92 regarding the selection and weighting of performance metrics.
Operation It is proposed to consolidate the three long-term incentive plans described below into a single umbrella plan with effect from 1 1January 2015, subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM.
Maximum opportunity 1 Subject to shareholder approval of the proposed umbrella plan at the 2014 AGM, over the lifetime of this remuneration policy, theCommittee will have discretion to vary the weighting and mix of different types of awards within the following limits: a Performance Shares: UK executive directors: Between 50% and 75% of overall LTI Expected Value EV US executive directors: Between 25% and 50% of overall LTI EV b Share Options: Between 25% and 50% of overall LTI EV c Restricted Shares: Applicable to US executive directors only.
No more than one-third of overall LTI EV The maximum opportunity in respect of each element is as set out below.
Performance metrics used, weighting and time period applicable See below in relation to Performance Shares and Share Options.
Approved at the AGM on 7 May 2014.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 90 Directors remuneration policy continued Executive directors policy table continued Long-Term Incentives Performance shares Purpose and link to strategy Drive and reward delivery of sustained long-term EPS and Total Shareholder Return TSR performance aligned to the interests of shareholders.
Operation Awards, typically in the form of nil-cost options, vest and become exercisable in three tranches on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of grant, subject to performance conditions.
For US participants, awards are delivered as conditional share awards RSUs which vest automatically on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of grant, subject to performance conditions.
Maximum opportunity Chief Executive: 250% of salary Group Finance Director: 215% of salary President and Chief Executive officer of BAESystems, Inc. : 242% of salary Performance metrics used, weighting and time period applicable Metrics and weightings applicable to 2014 awards: 50% of award based on TSR growth relative to a comparator group of at least 12 companies over the three-year performance period.
Nil vesting if TSR ranked below median in the peer group: 25% exercisable if TSR ranked at the median: 100% exercisable if TSR ranked in the upper quintile: pro-rata vesting for performance between median and upper quintile.
Award subject to a secondary financial measure as set out on page 81.
50% of award based on average annual EPS growth over the three years with nil vesting at average annual EPS growth of 5% and 100% vesting at 11% growth.
Pro-rata vesting for intermediate performance.
50% of awards made in 2012 and 2013 for US participants were based on long-term operating cash performance measured at the level of the US businesses in place of TSR growth.
Long-Term Incentives Share options Purpose and link to strategy Drive and reward delivery of TSR performance and sustained improvement in the Companys share price.
Operation Subject to a TSR performance condition.
Market value options are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of their grant.
Maximum opportunity Chief Executive: 300% of salary Group Finance Director: 300% of salary President and Chief Executive officer of BAESystems, Inc. : 390% of salary Performance metrics used, weighting and time period applicable For share option awards made to theexecutive directors only, exercise is subject to a TSR performance condition as set out above.
Long-Term Incentives Restricted shares Purpose and link to strategy Provide long-term reward through time-vesting awards principally in the Companys US market.
Operation The shares are subject only to the condition that the participant remains employed by the Group on the vesting date three years afterthe award date.
These awards are not subject to a performance condition as it is designed to address retention issues principally in the US.
Maximum opportunity Chief Executive and Group Finance Director: Not eligible President and Chief Executive officer of BAE Systems, Inc. : 100% of salary Performance metrics used, weighting and time period applicable None.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 91 Executive directors policy table continued Benets Purpose and link to strategy Provide employment benets which ensure that the overall package is market competitive when these elements aretaken into account.
Operation Benets include provision of a company car or cash equivalent, life assurance and ill-health benefit cover which are provided directlyor through membership of the Companys pension schemes.
Opportunity for UK executive directors to participate in the Share Incentive Plan, a tax approved all-employee plan.
Additional benets such as relocation assistance may also be provided in certain circumstances if considered reasonable and appropriate by the Committee.
Maximum opportunity Benets are set at a level which the Remuneration Committee considers to be appropriate against comparable roles in companies ofsimilar size in the relevant market.
Relocation assistance comprises reimbursement for direct items of expenditure, such as legal, estate agency, removals and temporary accommodation, based on actual costs incurred which are linked to the size and value of the property, plus a maximum relocation allowance of 2,500.
Benets are as reported and itemised within the single total gure shown as part of the Annual remuneration report on page 74.
Themain benets in the UK include a car allowance 16,000 per annum and private use of a chauffeur-driven car, plus life assurance and ill-health benefit cover provided through membership of the Companys pension schemes.
In the US, the benets include a cash allowance for car and parking $20,900 per annum and private use of a chauffeur-driven car, medical and dental benets, and insured life and disability benets.
The maximum cost of such benets will reect the associated market-competitive cost of provision.
Participation limits for the Share Incentive Plan are those set by the UK tax authorities from time-to-time.
Pension Purpose and link to strategy Provide competitive post-retirement benets or cash allowance equivalent.
Operation For any new externally appointed executive directors in the UK, membership of the Companys executive dened contribution plan isoffered with Company contributions set as a percentage of base salary.
Individuals may elect to receive some or all of their pension contribution as a cash allowance.
Current UK executive directors are members of the BAE Systems Executive Pension Scheme and members of the underlying employee pension plan, which provide a target benefit for executive directors payable at normal retirement age 62 of 1 30th of final pensionable earnings FPE for each year of service up to a maximum of two-thirds of FPE.
Further detail is provided on page 79 as part of the Annual remuneration report.
Any new externally appointed US executive directors would be offered membership of the US dened contribution plan.
Maximum opportunity Company contribution of 19% in addition to employee contribution of 6% of base salary only.
Under the existing dened benefit scheme, a maximum of two-thirds of FPE accrued at 1 30th for each year of service.
The US dened contribution plan provides 100%company matching contributions upto amaximum of 6% of base salary, subject toUS statutory limits.
Operation Where executive directors pension entitlement or accrual is restricted to the Lifetime Allowance and or the Annual Allowance under the relevant pension scheme the Company may offer an unfunded pension promise to offset the impact of these restrictions.
Maximum opportunity The difference between the value of the registered pension scheme benets as restricted to the Lifetime Allowance and Annual Allowance and the full value of those registered pension scheme benets that would be payable if there were no Annual Allowance orLifetime Allowance restrictions.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 92 Directors remuneration policy continued Notes to the executive directors policy table Remuneration policy for other employees 1.
The Companys approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the scope of the role, level of experience, performance and market data for similar roles in other companies.
All leaders may participate in an annual bonus scheme with similar metrics to those used for the executive directors.
Other employees may participate in performance-based incentive plans which vary by organisational level and with relevant metrics for the particular area of the business.
Long-Term Incentive grants may be made to the most senior managers in the business approximately 250 individuals globally.
Thenature of the awards depends on the individuals location, roles and responsibilities, in particular: performance measures and targets for performance share grants are made in line with those applying to executive directors: there are no performance conditions attached to share option grants below executive director level: and Restricted Share grants are currently made to the most senior managers in the US reecting competitive market practice.
The Committee selected the performance conditions because these are central to the Companys overall strategy and are the keymetrics used by the executive directors to oversee the operation of the business.
The non-financial performance targets are determined by the Committee in consultation with the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
The performance measures and targets are determined annually by the Committee, taking account of the Groups strategic objectives, the internal business plan and budgets, aswell as external market expectations and general economic conditions.
TheCommittee is of the view that the performance targets for the annual bonus are commercially sensitive and that it would bedetrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose them before the start of the financial year.
The targets will be  after the end of the relevant financial year.
The Committee has agreed a policy whereby the executive directors are required to establish and maintain a minimum personal shareholding equal toa set percentage of base salary.
An Initial Value must be achieved as quickly as possible using shares vesting or options exercised through the executive share option schemes and other Long-Term Incentive schemes by retaining 50% of the net value i. e. the value after deduction of exercise costs and tax of shares acquired under these schemes.
Once the Initial Value is achieved, a Subsequent Value must be achieved in the same way, except that a minimum of 25% of the net value must be retained on each exercise or acquisition.
Shares owned beneficially by the director and his her spouse count towards the MSR.
The MSR does not apply after the individual has ceased to be a director.
Any case of non-compliance would be dealt with by the Committee.
The following table sets out MSR Initial Value and Subsequent Value: Initial Value Subsequent Value Chief Executive 150% 300% Group Finance Director 100% 200% President and Chief Executive officer of BAE Systems, Inc. 175% 350% Illustration of application of remuneration policy Chief Executive 000 The charts opposite show the value of the package Maximum 20% 33% 47% 6,643 each of the executive directors would receive based on 2014 base salaries, remuneration and 2014 LTI awards On-target 38% 31% 31% 3,513 assuming the following scenarios: minimum xed pay Minimum 100% 1,346 including salary, benets and pension as provided in 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 the single gure table on page 74 : pay receivable Value of package 000 assuming on-target performance is met: and maximum pay assuming variable elements pay out in full.
The scenarios opposite exclude any share price appreciation Group Finance Director 000 and dividends.
Maximum 35% 23% 42% 3,746 UK legislation requires that these charts are given in On-target 57% 19% 24% 2,268 relation totherst year in which the remuneration policy takes legal effect.
Rather than providing further Minimum 100% 1,289 charts for assumed 2015 remuneration and awards, 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 we invite shareholders to assume similar levels for Value of package 000 2015and we will report on actual levels in 2015.
President and Chief Executive officer of BAE Systems, Inc. $000 Maximum 27% 29% 44% 7,321 On-target 47% 26% 27% 4,121 Minimum 100% 1,959 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 Value of package $000 Fixed elements of remuneration Annual bonus PSP and share options BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 |
