Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 34 Segmental performance Platforms & Services US 1 Platforms & Services US, with 11,500 employees andoperations in the US, UK and Sweden, producescombat vehicles, weapons and munitions, and delivers US-based services and sustainment activities, including ship repair and the management of government-owned munitions facilities.
US Combat Vehicles focuses on a US Ship Repair and Modernisation portfolio of tracked combat vehicles, isa major provider of non-nuclear amphibious vehicles, accessories, ship repair, modernisation, overhaul protection systems and tactical and conversions to the US Navy, support services for the US military government and commercial maritime and international customers.
It has operations in seven US shipyards on the Atlantic, Gulf of Weapon Systems and Munition Mexico and Pacic coasts, as well as Operations focuses on naval weapons, in Hawaii.
artillery, advanced weapons, precision munitions, high explosives BAE Systems Hgglunds focuses and propellants for US, UK and onthe tracked vehicle market for international customers.
Services include complex munition FNSS, BAE Systems Turkish joint site management for the USArmys venture, produces and upgrades Holston and Radford facilities.
tracked and wheeled military vehiclesfor domestic and .
Our strategy in action Leverage our technology and engineering capabilities Na val weapon technology BAE Systems today produces a comprehensive range of naval armaments providing capabilities for US and overseas navies.
Inaddition to these current systems, the Group is developing newtechnologies, such as the Hyper Velocity Projectile and the Electromagnetic Railgun in partnership with the US Navy.
The Electromagnetic Railgun is a revolutionary, long-range weapon technology that uses high-power electromagnetic energy instead ofexplosive chemical propellants, reducing the hazards of high explosives on the ship and unexploded ordnance on the battleeld.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 35 Operational and strategic highlights 1 Sales by domain % Award of a five-year contract worth up to Air $332m 225m to perform technical support for 1% theUS Armys Bradley Fighting Vehicle and M113 Land Maritime family of vehicles 51% 48% Low-Rate Initial Production contract options awarded, worth $245m 166m, for US Army M109A7 Paladin self-propelled howitzers Contract worth $104m 71m awarded for the engineering and manufacturing development phase ofthe competition for the Amphibious Combat Vehicle 1.1 programme Secured naval gun system contracts with the US, Canada and Brazil 1 Sales by line of business % FNSS received a new export order for the PARS FNSS wheeled armoured vehicle BAE Systems 3% Hgglunds US Combat Vehicles Continued challenges on commercial shipbuilding 9% programmes 26% Workforce reductions announced in commercial shipbuilding, ship repair and BAE Systems Hgglunds Sale of 75% interest in Land Systems South Africa completed Weapon Systems Financial performance US Ship and Munition Repair and 2 Operations 2015 2014 Modernisation 1 Sales KPI 2,779m 2,689m 24 % 38% 3 Underlying EBITA KPI 177m 117m Return on sales 6.4% 4.4% 1 4 Sales analysis: Platforms and services % Cash inow 100m 147m KPI 1 Order intake 2,737m 2,565m KPI Services 1,5 Platforms Order backlog 3.9bn 4.7bn 78% 22% 1 Sales reduced by 4% to $4.2bn 2.8bn, or by just 1% on a like-for-like basis after adjusting for exchange translation and the South African business disposal.
Higher than expected sales were seen on both ship repair activity and munitions volume.
The business has delivered an improved return on sales of 6.4% 20144.4%.
Whilst further charges had to be taken in the year on thecommercial shipbuilding programmes, these were partly offset byimprovements to the Radford munitions contract.
4 3 Cash conversion of underlying EBITA was impacted by the utilisation of provisions on commercial shipbuilding programmes andof customer advances on the CV90 Norway contract, as well as the investment in the new oating dry dock facilities in San Diego.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
1,5 Order backlog reduced to $5.8bn 3.9bn largely for the trading 2.
Re-presented for the reallocation of the Integrated Electronics & Warfare Systems activities from Platforms & Services US to Cyber & Intelligence.
out of the five-year Multi-Ship, Multi-Option contracts in the ship 3.
Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance repair business and the CV90 Norway programme.
costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items.
Net cash inow from operating activities after capital expenditure net, financial investment and dividends from equity accounted investments.
Comprises funded and unfunded unexecuted customer orders.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 36 Segmental performance Platforms & Services US Operational performance Our strategy in action As the US defence market stabilises, the Continue to drive value from our business retains its focus on sustaining its defence platforms and services franchise programmes and building a strong BAE Systems solution for the Amphibious domestic and international pipeline, whilst Amphibious Combat Vehicle 1.1 programme has been optimising competitiveness by shaping and designed to full the complex mission of scaling operations.
deploying US Marines from ship to shore C ombat Vehicle 1.1 US Combat Vehicles tocomplete their mission objectives.
In May, the US Army awarded BAE Systems contract award BAE Systems and IVECO Defence have acontract worth $110m 75m to convert joinedforces to present an 8x8 platform 36M88A1 recovery vehicles to the M88A2 capable of performing open-ocean ship Heavy Equipment Recovery Combat Utility Lift launch and recovery operations, while Evacuation System HERCULES conguration.
offering a unique mix oftrue open-ocean The M88 plays an important role in amphibious capability, land mobility, maintaining the combat vehicle industrial survivability, payload and growth base, with the first vehicle delivery scheduled  evolving for 2017.
In October, BAE Systems received operational needs.
awards worth $31m 21m from the US Army to produce six M88A2 HERCULES vehicles and In 2015, BAE Systems was awarded associated spare parts for the Australian acontract for the engineering and government, as well as an additional vehicle manufacturing development phase and parts for the US Marine Corps.
oftheprogramme as one of two More online competitive bids down-selected.
com Work has commenced on the US Armys Armored Multi-Purpose Vehicle AMPV programme and a preliminary design review was completed in June.
BAE Systems is During the fourth quarter, BAE Systems BAE Systems continues to work with the producing 29 vehicles under the engineering completed contractor testing of six Bradley governments of India and the US to secure and manufacturing development phase.
The Engineering Change Proposal ECP 2 vehicles.
anaward for M777 155mm lightweight total potential contract value for the initial Efforts are now underway to build an howitzers.
BAE Systems has proposed the programme phases is $1.2bn 0.8bn, additional ten vehicles for US Army testing, establishment of an assembly, integration and including options to produce 289 vehicles with deliveries to begin in 2016.
The Bradley test facility in partnership with an Indian under Low-Rate Initial Production LRIP.
ECP 2 programme helps to restore automotive company, which supports the Indian prime Anticipated full-rate production is expected performance to the Bradleys with a modied ministers Make inIndia initiative.
engine and transmission, and an upgraded In August, the business was awarded a generator and power distribution system.
The business was awarded a $29m 20m contract to deliver up to six modied 25mm follow-on contract for trade studies and In November, the US Marine Corps awarded Mk 38 machine gun systems for the Royal analysis related to the future infantry ghting BAE Systems, along with partner IVECO Canadian Navys Arctic Offshore Patrol Ship vehicle.
Under the contract, BAE Systems will Defence, a contract worth $104m 71m programme.
Also in August, the US Navy develop concepts that span from modernising forthe engineering and manufacturing awarded BAE Systems an $80m 54m the Bradley vehicle to a new design, and will development phase of the Amphibious contract to upgrade six Mk 45 naval guns capitalise on technology created under the Combat Vehicle 1.1 programme.
The award tothe Mod 4 conguration, with an option Ground Combat Vehicle programme.
isone of two contracts for this phase, during for four additional guns for an additional which the BAE Systems team will produce $50m 34m expected to be exercised In July, the US Army awarded BAE Systems a 16prototypes for Marine Corps testing.
five-year contract worth up to $332m 225m Thiscompetition outcome is currently to support ongoing service and improvements In September, the business confirmed its beingprotested.
for the Bradley Fighting Vehicle and the M113 selection by the UK Ministry of Defence as family of vehicles.
In 2015, BAE Systems was awarded two thepreferred bidder to provide the gun international Assault Amphibious Vehicle system, known as the Maritime Indirect Fires The business was notied in August that the AAV contracts: an $82m 56m contract System, for the Type 26 frigate.
Subject to Lockheed Martin Joint Light Tactical Vehicle forthe Brazilian Marine Corps under the contract award, the business will provide the team, of which BAE Systems was a member, USgovernments Foreign Military Sales integrated gunnery system, which includes the was not selected for the LRIP contract.
This programme to upgrade 23 vehicles, with Mk 45 Mod 4 naval gun system, along with an competition outcome is currentlyin litigation.
deliveries expected in 2017: and an award automated ammunition handling system, gun In October, the business was awarded the from another international customer for re control system and qualied ammunition.
final LRIP contract options, worth $245m advance work related to an expected BAE Systems is executing on the re-baselined 166m, for the M109A7 self-propelled production order for AAVs in 2016.
Archer artillery system for the Swedish howitzers Paladin andtheir associated Weapon Systems and Munition Operations government.
The business delivered the first ammunition carriers.
In March, the business In May, BAE Systems was awarded a contract system in September, with deliveries planned delivered the first vehicles to the US Army for five Bofors 40 Mk4 naval guns for the to continue at a rate of two guns per month under the previously awarded $335m 227m Brazilian Navy.
Series production of the guns during 2016.
The US Armys total acquisition has commenced, including local content in objective is for 581 vehicle sets.
Deliveries are scheduled to begin in 2016.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 37 BAE Systems continues its partnership with BAE Systems Hgglunds Looking forward the US Navy on the development of the Hyper Series production has commenced on the Velocity Projectile and an Electromagnetic $865m 587m contract for CV90 Infantry In the US, further clarity regarding Railgun.
The business potential market improvement completed BvS10 vehicle deliveries to Sweden BAE Systems continues to manage operations wasgained after Congress reached in 2015 and will continue to execute retrotting at the Holston and Radford Army ammunition agreement on anew budget deal and provide spare parts and documentation.
plants, receiving a$50m 34m contract for that provides for defence and the continued production of MK 90 propellant In September, the business launched a domestic programme spending grains, as wellas a $30m 20m contract to newvehicle based on the BvS10 called the modernise the Insensitive Munitions ingredient BvS10 BEOWULF, a highly mobile, modular above the Budget Control Act caps facility atHolston.
In September, the business and fully-amphibious vehicle with an through 2017. received $35m 23m in closing an historical impressive payload.
The business remains The business is underpinned by At the September Defence and Security focused on enhancing performance under strong positions on key franchise Equipment International trade show in major facility modernisation contracts.
London, BAE Systems launched its BattleView programmes.
These include, in the US Ship Repair and Modernisation 360 system that employs cutting-edge display land domain, the US Armys AMPV, In the first quarter of 2015, BAE Systems and sensor technology to improve situational Bradley and Paladin programmes, announced a $100m 68m capital awareness for soldiers inside combat vehicles.
In the improvement programme at its San Diego, In 2015, the business completed 130 California, shipyard, principally for the maritime domain, the Group has a redundancies related to the unsuccessful construction of a new dry dock in anticipation strong position on naval gun CV90Armoured Personnel Carrier bid in of increased activity to support the US Navys Denmark.
With two major production programmes and US Navy ship repair.
re-balance to the Pacic coast see page 13. programmes winding down, in the first Some near-term reduction in ship In the second half of 2015, the business quarter of 2016, the business initiated an repair and construction activity is received a number of xed-price orders as additional redundancy notication that anticipated as commercial shipbuilding theUS Navy began to transition its contracting couldimpact up to 150 employees during strategy for ship modernisation and repair.
thesecond half of the year.
contracts are completed and with Forover a decade, the Navy had awarded expected changes to the basing of FNSS Multi-Ship, Multi-Option cost-plus contracts, FNSS, the Turkish land systems joint venture, US Navy ships.
Actions to address which effectively bundled the maintenance has continued production under the $524m reduced workload at the Groups ofa class of ships into one multi-year contract.
356m programme to produce 259 8x8 Starting on the East coast in the first half of USEast and Gulf coast shipyards wheeled armoured vehicles for the Royal 2016, the Navy is expected to award indefinite areunderway alongside measures Malaysian Army.
Delivery, indefinite Quantity repair orders tosupport anticipated subsequent withxed-price terms on a ship-to-ship basis.
FNSS received a new export order for the PARS expansion of ship repair operations During the year, the ship repair business wheeled armoured vehicle.
Under this new received a total of $1.2bn 0.8bn in orders contract, FNSS will deliver the PARS vehicle to inSan Diego, California.
its new customer in multiple congurations.
The business continues to pursue The Jacksonville, Florida, shipyard delivered Production is underway on a contract to arange of domestic andinternational itsthird Platform Support Vessel PSV during upgrade M113 tracked armoured personnel opportunities in combatvehicles, the summer for service in the Gulf of Mexico.
carriers for the Royal Saudi Land Forces.
weapon systems and maritime In early 2016, the business delivered the Four competitive proposals have been fourthand final ship of the PSV class to the support services.
submitted for combat vehicle programmes customer.
Four additional ships are in various inTurkey and the Middle East, with award stages of construction in Jacksonville, Florida, decisions expected in 2016 or 2017. and Mobile, Alabama, and the business expects to deliver these ships in 2016.
The Business disposal commercial shipbuilding business continued In April, the Group completed the sale of its toexperience challenges in the year, taking shareholding in Land Systems South Africa.
a$73m 48m charge against ongoing contracts, principally driven by the Mobile shipbuilding programmes.
The business is responding to lower demand due to declining US Navy ship repair and commercial shipbuilding and repair work by reducing workforce numbers.
Redundancies initiated in2015 could impact approximately 1,100 employees in Norfolk, Virginia, and Jacksonville, Florida, through the first quarter of 2016.
