Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 08 How our business works How we create value for our shareholders in our four We identify opportunities with customers principal markets We deliver advanced defence, aerospace and security solutions to many governments and customers around the world.
Our largest customers are governments, butwe also sell tolarge US prime contractors andcommercial businesses.
UK We work with our customers to understand their requirements Saudi Arabia andto identify new business opportunities.
Australia We take on and solve some ofour customers most complex and challenging engineering and technology projects, including responding to urgent operational requirements for our and, increasingly, in P iii government customers.
international export markets Sales by destination Our value chain Bidding and Designing, developing Support and Renewing and contracting andmanufacturing sustainment disposing We assess opportunities and We design, develop, build, We provide through-life We may assist with disposal riskrigorously before deciding test and deliver products support, including atthe end of a products life, to bid.
maintenance, upgrade orre-contract to provide a andtraining.
Export contracts may include We engineer and agreeing industrial participation, manufacturesome of the 42% of our sales are skillsor technology transfer worlds most technologically services-related contracts.
advanced platforms, Many of our platforms productsand systems.
stay in service for decades.
P iii Sales by activity We report through five principal reportingsegments Electronic Cyber & Platforms & Services Platforms & Services Platforms & Services Systems Intelligence US UK International P26 P30 P34 P38 P42 See more See more See more See more See more Through our capital allocation policy, we aim to deliver sustainable value forourshareholders by making accelerated returns investing in meeting our pension continuing to pursue paying dividends in ofcapital to shareholders value-enhancing obligations organic investment linewith our policy oflong-term when the balance sheet acquisitions opportunities sustainable cover allows and only when the return from doing so is inexcess of the Groups Weighted Average Cost P16 ofCapital Financial review BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 09 Our business is enabled by our outstanding resources Ou r people Ou r technology and engineering Ou r project management Ou r key relationships We: We: We: Our policies and procedures 1 require that we: focus on technology innovation have comprehensive project have 82,500 employees worldwide and engineering excellence management skills and processes work with suppliers who shareour values and embrace have a diverse range of invest in next-generation have a Lifecycle Management our standards talentedpeople research and technology process that promotes the programmes to improve the application of best practice set clear expectations for invest in education and training manufacturing and service of programme execution allsuppliers for our existing workforce products, generating substantial assess supplier performance work with education sectors intellectual property and compliance with local tohelp shape the workforce spent 1,263m 2014 1,343m legislation ofthe future in 2015 on R&D, of which 168m work only with approved 2014 137m was funded by advisers the Group supported by strong governance processes, Operational Framework Risk management Code of Conduct Our Operational Framework sets out We have robust procedures for risk We manage our operations responsibly howbusiness is done across BAE Systems.
management and internal control to andconduct our business in an ethical way Itisbased on principles of good governance, identify, analyse, evaluate and mitigate toearn and maintain our stakeholders trust.
and details the values, policies and processes bothnancial and non-financial risks.
that are mandated, and how the Board delegates authority to the executive team.
We understand and support We work to BAE Systems values We assess carefully our products We are as open as practicable ourcustomers national security Trusted, Innovative and Bold in and services with the objective about the nature of our business.
that neither BAE Systems nor our customers are exposed to significant reputational risk.
and a focus on the wider impacts of our business Safety Diversity Resource efficiency Community investment To improve safety standards, We are committed to creating We proactively manage the We invest in the communities wefocus on raising awareness aninclusive workplace where a impact of our operations on inwhich we operate through ofour employees role in diverse range of talented people theenvironment, with targets localrecruitment, using local identifying, managing and can work together.
forthe efficient use of resources suppliers and supporting reducing safety risks.
P48 P48 P51 P50 Our people Our people Resource efficiency Community investment 1.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
