Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 93 Non-executive directors NEDs policy table Fees Purpose and link to strategy To attract NEDs who have a broad range of experience and skills to provide independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
Operation NEDs fees are set by the Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee.
NEDs receive a basic fee with an additional fee for those who are chairmen of committees and or undertake the role of Senior Independent Director.
NEDs also receive a travel allowance per meeting on each occasion that a scheduled Board meeting necessitates air travel of more thanve hours one way to the meeting location, subject to a maximum of six travel allowances per year.
Fees are typically reviewed annually, taking into account time commitment requirements and responsibility of the individual roles, andafter reviewing practice in other comparable companies.
The Chairmans fees are set by the Remuneration Committee on a three-year basis and not normally subject to review during thatperiod.
Maximum opportunity Actual fee levels are disclosed in the Annual remuneration report for the relevant financial year.
The current Chairmans fee has been set at 650,000 and xed at this level for three years from the date of appointment 1February2014.
The aggregate cost of fees and benets paid to NEDs including the Chairman will not exceed an annual limit of 2.5m.
Performance metrics used, weighting and time period applicable None.
Benets Purpose and link to strategy Reimbursement for reasonable and documented expenses incurred in the performance of duties.
Operation NEDs are not eligible to participate in any pension benets provided bythe Company, nor do they participate in any performancerelated incentives.
The Chairman is provided with a chauffeur-driven car.
This may be used for non-Company business, but the cost of the benefit ofsuchusage shall be paid by the Chairman.
Reimbursement of travel and subsistence costs including payment of the associated tax cost incurred by the director or his her spousewhilst undertaking duties on behalf of the Company that may be assessed as a benefit for tax purposes.
Maximum opportunity See the aggregate limit under Fees above.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 94 Directors remuneration policy continued Prior commitments The Company will honour any commitments made in respect of executive director and non-executive director remuneration before thedate on which either: i the Directors Remuneration Policy becomes effective or ii an individual becomes a director, even where such commitments are not consistent with the policy prevailing at the time any such commitment isfullled.
This includes without 2012 limitation all existing share awards as detailed on page 102 of the 2013 Annual Report under the PSP, SMP, RSP, ExSOP and ExSOP, Linda Hudsons leaving arrangements as detailed on page 98 of the 2013 Annual Report and Peter Lynas second residence allowance asdetailed on page 93 of the 2013 Annual Report.
Approach to recruitment remuneration The recruitment policy provides an appropriate framework within which to attract individuals of the required calibre to lead a company of BAE Systems size, scale and complexity.
The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration package for any appointment toan executive director position, either from within or outside BAE Systems.
Operation The Remuneration Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors, including overall total remuneration, the type of remuneration being offered and the jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited, and will operate in order to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders without paying more than is necessary to secure the individual of the required calibre.
The fees and benets applicable to the appointment of any new non-executive directors will be in accordance with the policy table onpage 93.
Opportunity The Committee seeks to align the remuneration package offered with the policy set out in the executive directors policy table above recognising that participation under the policy above varies by geography.
For UK and other non-US executive director appointments, participation in annual incentive plans will not exceed 225% of annual salary and long-term awards under this policy will not exceed 550% of annual salary.
For US executive director appointments, participation in annual incentive plans will not exceed 225% of annual salary and long-term awards under this policy will not exceed 750% of annual salary.
The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to buy-out existing equity or, in exceptional circumstances, other elements of remuneration forfeited on leaving the previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted e. g. cash orshares and the time over which they would have vested.
Buy-out awards would be capped to be no higher, on recruitment, thanthe fair value of those forfeited.
Full details will be disclosed in the next Annual remuneration report following recruitment which will include details ofthe need to grant a buy-out award.
Fixed elements base salary, retirement and other benets The salary level will be set in accordance with the policy described in the executive directors policy table above.
The executive director shall be eligible to participate in applicable BAE Systems employee benefit plans, including coverage under applicable executive and employee pension and benefit programmes in accordance with the terms and conditions of such plans, asmay be amended by the Company in its sole discretion from time to time.
In the case of promotion of an existing Group employee to an executive directorship on the Board, commitments made before such promotion will continue to be honoured whether or not they are consistent with the remainder of this policy.
Annual Incentive Plan The appointed executive director will be eligible to earn a discretionary annual bonus in accordance with the Annual Incentive framework as described in the executive directors policy table above.
The level of opportunity will be consistent with the policy disclosed in the executive directors policy table in this report and subject tothe maximums referred to therein.
Long-Term Incentive Plans The executive director will be eligible for equity awards in such amounts as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion, subjectto this policy and the rules of the Long-Term Incentive Plans.
The level of opportunity will be consistent with the policy set out in the executive directors policy table above and subject to the maximums referred to therein.
Other For internal and external appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses in accordance with the provisions described under the Benets section of the policy table on page 91.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 95 Service contracts Executive directors Operation In accordance with long-established policy, all executive directors have rolling service agreements which may be terminated in accordance with the terms of these agreements.
Dates of appointment for executive directors Name Date of appointment Notice period Ian King 27 June 2008 12 months either party Peter Lynas 1 April 2011 12 months either party 1 Jerry DeMuro 1 February 2014 90 days either party 1.
Jerry DeMuros contract of employment automatically renews for one-year periods from 31 December each year, unless one party gives at least 90days notice of non-renewal.
Note: See page 75 for details of the service contract for Charles Woodburn, the incoming Chief Operating officer, whose appointment was announced on 15 February 2016.
Notice period The Committees policy is that the service contracts of executive directors will not exceed 12 months.
In exceptional circumstances, inrelation to newly recruiting an executive director operating in a US environment, the notice period may be extended to a maximum of24 months and structured such that it automatically reduces to 12 months at the end of the first complete year of service.
Change of control No executive director has provisions in his service contract that relate to a change of control of the Company.
Chairman The Chairmans appointment is documented in a letter of appointment and he is required to devote no fewer than two days a week tohis duties as Chairman.
His appointment as Chairman will automatically terminate if he ceases to be a director of the Company.
Hisappointment is for a term of three years from 1 February 2014 unless terminated earlier in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association or by the Company or the Chairman giving not less than six months notice.
The Chairmans appointment is to be reviewed by the Nominations Committee prior to the end of the three-year term and the Chairman may be invited to serve for an additional period.
Note: As stated on page 5, the Chairmans term of appointment has been extended until February 2020.
Non-executive directors The non-executive directors do not have service contracts but do have letters of appointment detailing the basis of their appointment.
Appointed to the Board on 1 February 2016.
Retired from the Board on 12 June 2015.
Note: The above table has been amended to reect the position as of 17 February 2016.
The non-executive directors are normally appointed for an initial three-year term that, subject to review, may be extended subsequently for further such terms.
Any third term of three years is subject to rigorous review, taking into account the need progressively to refresh the Board.
They do not have periods of notice and the Company has no obligation to pay compensation when their appointment terminates.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors are subject to annual election or re-election at the Companys AGM.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 96 Directors remuneration policy continued Policy on payment for loss of ofce Operation The policy on payment for loss of ofce provides a clear set of principles that govern the payments that will be made for loss of ofce, and take account of the need to ensure a smooth transition for leadership roles during times of change.
The policy that will apply for aspecic executive directors payment for loss of ofce will be the policy that was in place at the point when the payment for loss of ofce was agreed for the executive director in question.
Notice and pay in lieu of notice Executive directors contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from either party or termination by way of payment in lieu ofnotice, at the Companys discretion.
Neither notice nor a payment in lieu of notice will be given in the event of gross misconduct.
Inthe event of the termination of an executive directors contract, it is the Committees policy to seek to limit any payment made in lieu of notice to a payment of not more than one years base salary.
Any compensation payment made in connection with the departure of an executive director will be subject to approval by the Remuneration Committee, having regard to the terms of the service contract and the specic circumstances surrounding the termination, including whether the scenario aligns to an example under the approved leaver criteria, performance, service and healthor other circumstances that may be relevant.
Jerry DeMuros contract of employment automatically renews for one-year periods from 31 December each year, unless one party gives at least 90 days notice of non-renewal.
If the employment is a terminated by the Company other than for cause as dened inthe contract or b he resigned for a Good Reason asdened in his contract, he is entitled to a termination payment equal to i one years base salary and ii a pro-rated bonus for the relevant financial year.
He will also be entitled to acontinuation of medical benets for 18 months or a cash payment in lieu.
Retirement benets As governed by the rules of the relevant pension plan.
No enhancement for leavers will be made.
Annual Incentive Plan The Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion to make an annual incentive payment as part of the termination package.
Where an executive directors employment is terminated after the end of a performance year but before the payment is made, the executive director will remain eligible for an annual incentive award for that performance year subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
No award will be made in the event of gross misconduct.
Where an executive director leaves by reason of death, ill-health, retirement, a transfer of business or redundancy, the Remuneration Committee may use its discretion to determine that an executive director is entitled to receive a bonus subject toan assessment based on performance over the period and pro-rated for time in respect of the financial year in which the individual ceased employment.
If the Remuneration Committee regards it necessary to use their discretion, it must be shown how this is in the interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The Committees policy is not to award an annual incentive for any portion of the notice period not served.
Long-Term Incentive Plans The treatment of outstanding share awards in the event that an executive director leaves is governed by the relevant share plan rules.
Under the Long-Term Incentive Plans, awards and options generally vest and or become exercisable where an executive director leaves by reason of ill-health, injury, disability, retirement with the agreement of the Company, redundancy or leaving in such circumstances as the Committee determines each an approved leaver.
Awards and options generally continue and vest on the normal vesting date or, in the case of Performance Shares, the first normal vesting date, unless the Committee determines that the awards should vest on cessation.
Any performance conditions will be applied at the time of vesting.
In the event of death, awards generally vest at the time of death subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Awards are then pro-rated as set out below.
On the vesting and or exercise of awards and or options as set out above, the number of shares received will, unless the Committee decides otherwise, be reduced pro-rata to reect the period in which the executive director was in employment as a proportion of the relevant vesting or performance period as applicable.
Where an executive directors employment is terminated for any other reason, his awards and options will lapse.
If the Remuneration Committee regards it necessary to exercise its discretion as permissible under the share plan rules, thendisclosure will include an explanation of how the application of discretion was in the best interests of the Company and itsshareholders.
Where an executive directors employment is terminated or an executive director is under notice of termination for any reason atthe date of award of any Long-Term Incentive awards, no Long-Term Incentive awards will be made.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company The Remuneration Committee does not consult directly with employees as part of the process for reviewing executive pay.
When considering salary increases for the executive directors, the Remuneration Committee considers the general level of salary increase across the Group and inthe external market.
Stakeholder considerations The Remuneration Committee conducts an annual programme of consultation with major shareholders in order to seek their input tothe development of remuneration policy or plans.
