Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 58 Governance summary This section of the report details the arrangements the Board has put inplace to help ensure that it fulls the obligations it has for the good How the Company has governance of the Company.
The detail can be found in the following appliedthe principles of the pages, but I would like to highlight briey two important matters: diversity and our approach to board evaluation.
UKCorporate Governance Im pleased to report that we have exceeded the target set by the Code 2014 the Code Board back in 2011, when it committed to an aspirational target of atleast 25% of its membership being women by 2015 the gure The Company was compliant with the iscurrently 30%.
The Company and I have always been supportive provisions of the Code throughout 2015 ofthe Women on Boards initiative led by Lord Davies, which has been andthe Board has applied its principles in successful in promoting greater diversity across UK listed company itsgovernance structure and operations.
Diversity, in all its aspects, is an important element in the composition of any board and we will ensure that it continues to be an important part of our succession planning activity.
In pursuit of achieving the highest standards of governance, during thecourse of the year, the Board completed a formal and structured internal review of process and practice to determine areas for improvement.
The review concluded that sound progress had been made in deepening the Boards understanding of the business and strengthening engagement in assessing both performance and strategic direction.
Areas for improvement included the need to develop a better understanding of competitors, a more granular awareness of our offset policy and greater visibility of high-potential members of the management team.
The dynamic and effectiveness ofthe Board were assessed to be good, and the contribution and enthusiasm of Board members was judged to be strong.
This year, the annual board evaluation is being undertaken by an external facilitator.
The following report details how the Board has applied the principles The Code inthe UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 and complied with its provisions.
However, I and all Board members are very much aware of the need to ensure that our governance structure, and all that we do asa company, is underpinned by the right business culture.
As I have emphasised elsewhere in these reports, from the Board downwards, itis not just what we do, but how we do it.
Sir Roger Carr Chairman BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 |
