Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 13 Our strategy in action Continuously improve efficiency and competitiveness BAE Systems has agreed with the UK In the US, BAE Systems is investing Major investments government an investment of more approximately $100m 68m to than 300m at its Barrow-in-Furness expand and complement its site to transform the UKs submarine capabilities at its San Diego, California, innaval facilities manufacturing facilities to accommodate shipyard to support the US Navys build of the successor to the current changing requirements resulting from Vanguard Class nuclear deterrent its workload rebalancing from the boats.
It will involve the construction Atlantic to the Pacic coasts.
of new state-of-the-art facilities The Groups investment will enhance andthe refurbishment of existing its ship repair, maintenance and infrastructure, including an extension modernisation services through the to the Devonshire Dock Hall in which purchase of a new 55,000-ton lifting the Astute Class submarines pictured capacity dry dock and a range of are currently assembled.
The construction of the first new building, a 23m logistics facility, More online started in August and a 90m baesystems.
com contractwas placed at the end of 2015to build a new central yard complex where sections of new submarines will be outtted.
In the maritime domain, the SDSR included a continued The UK government continues to provide strong support commitment to seven Astute Class submarines and the for Typhoon and other export campaigns.
Although there replacement of the four Vanguard Class submarines.
can be no certainty as to the timing of orders, discussions TheUK government reafrmed its commitment to with current and prospective operators of the Typhoon shipbuilding continuity providing clarity and future aircraft continue to support our expectations for additional opportunities for the Groups shipbuilding facilities and Typhoon contract awards.
Aeet of at least 19 frigates and Consistent with the Groups focused investment in destroyers is expected to be maintained, including eight research and technology, in November, BAE Systems Type 26 frigates.
The governments SDSR commitments announced an agreement to acquire a 20% interest in also include aconcept study followed by the design and Reaction Engines Limited REL.
REL is working on a build of a new class of lighter, exible, general purpose radicalnew aerospace engine concept, SABRE, which frigates, in addition to two new Offshore Patrol Vessels.
combines rocket and jet engine functions, made possible In September, an agreement between Kuwait and Italy by exciting new heat exchanger technology.
We expect was announced relating to the supply of 28 Typhoon our involvement to expedite transition of the concept to aircraft to the Kuwait Air Force.
We continue to support aworking demonstration engine.
the campaign, led by Finmeccanica, to achieve a formal contract.
In November, BAE Systems announced a reduction in its build rate for Typhoon assemblies to ensure production continuity at competitive costs over the medium term.
Wealso announced a proposal to reduce the workforce ofthe Military Air & Information business.
