Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 60 Board of directors Our business is led by our board of directors Chairman theBoard whose biographical details can befoundbelow.
Board composition Board diversity Sir Roger Carr Executive Female Chairman 3 3 Appointed to the Board: 2013 Nationality: UK Skills and experience Having joined the Board on 1 October 2013 as Chairman designate, Sir Roger was appointed Chairman on 1 February 2014.
He was chairman of theboard of Centrica plc from 2004 until 31 December 2013.
Previous senior appointments include chairman of Cadbury plc, President of the Confederation of British Industry and Deputy Chairman of the Court Non-executive Male ofthe Bank of England.
Throughout his career, he has 7 7 served on a number of external committees, including the Higgs Committee on Corporate Governance, Business for New Europe andthe Prime Ministers Business Advisory Group.
Other appointments P62 More online Vice Chairman of the BBC Trust, a senior adviser Board members attendance at scheduled meetings baesystems.
com toKohlberg Kravis Roberts, a fellow of the Royal Society for the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce, an honorary fellow of the Institute ofChartered Secretaries and Administrators, and a visitingfellow to the Sad Business School, Oxford.
Other past appointments Chairman of Thames Waterplc and Mitchells &Butlers plc.
Committee membership Chairman of the Nominations Committee and the Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee.
Executive directors Ian King Jerry DeMuro Peter Lynas Chief Executive President and Chief Executive officer Group Finance Director ofBAESystems, Inc.
Appointed to the Board: 2007 Nationality: UK Appointed to the Board: 2011 Nationality: UK Appointed to the Board: 2014 Nationality: US Skills and experience Skills and experience Appointed as Chief Executive in 2008 having been Peter Lynas, a qualied accountant, was appointed Skills and experience originally appointed to the Board as Chief Operating tothe Board as Group Finance Director in 2011.
He Appointed to the Board on 1 February 2014 as President officer, UK and Rest of the World.
He was previously previously served for a number of years as Director, and Chief Executive officer of BAE Systems, Inc. Group Managing Director of the Companys Customer Financial Control, Reporting & Treasury.
He joined JerryDeMuro is an experienced US executive who Solutions & Support business and, prior to that, Group GEC-Marconi in 1985 having previously worked for hasworked in the national security, technology and Strategy and Planning Director.
Prior to the BAe MES other companies in the UK and Europe.
After aerospace industry for over 30 years.
Most recently, merger, he was Chief Executive of Alenia Marconi progressing through a number of positions, he was heserved as executive vice president and corporate Systems, having previously served as Finance Director appointed Finance Director of GECs Marconi Electronic vice president of General Dynamics Information ofMarconi Electronic Systems.
Systems business, which was subsequently acquired Systems and Technology Group.
Earlier in his career, byBritish Aerospace in 1999 to become BAE Systems.
hespent almost a decade as an acquisition ofcial Other past appointments atthe US Department of Defense.
Non-executive director and senior independent director Other appointments of Rotork plc.
Non-executive director of SSE plc and chairman of Other appointments itsaudit committee.
Non-executive director of Aero Communications, Inc. Committee membership Non-Executive Directors FeesCommittee.
Committee membership Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 61 Non-executive directors Elizabeth Corley CBE Harriet Green OBE Chris Grigg Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed to the Board: 2016 Nationality: UK Appointed to the Board: 2010 Nationality: UK Appointed to the Board: 2013 Nationality: UK Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Elizabeth Corley was appointed to the Board on Harriet Green is Vice President and General Manager, Chris Grigg is Chief Executive of The British Land 1February 2016.
She has served as Chief Executive Internet of Things, Commerce and Education atIBM.
Company PLC and hasmore than 30 years experience officer ofAllianz Global Investors since 2012 and will She previously served as Chief Executive officer and in the financial and real estate industries ina range of be stepping back from this role to take on a position executive director of Thomas Cook Group plc and, leadership roles.
Prior to joining BritishLand as its Chief with AllianzGI as vice chair on a part-time non-executive prior to that, was Chief Executive officer and executive Executive in 2009, he was an executive with Barclays basis with effect from March 2016.
Prior to joining director of Premier Farnell plc.
She is a member of the Bank and previously spent over 20years at Goldman Allianz in 2005, she spent 11 years working at Merrill British Chambers of Commerces International Advisory Sachs where he rose to theposition of partner.
Lynch Investment Managers formerly Mercury Asset Council and has served as a member of the Prime Committee membership Management.
She was previously a partner with Ministers Business Advisory Group.
Corporate Responsibility Committee and Nominations Coopers & Lybrand.
Other appointments Non-executive director of Emerson Electric Co. and Non-executive director of Pearson plc, the UK Financial senior vice president of Arrow Electronics, Inc.
Reporting Council and the supervisory board of Euler Committee membership Hermes, a member of the European Securities and Corporate Responsibility Committee and Nominations Markets Authoritys stakeholder group, and an Committee.
advisory council member of TheCityUK.
Committee membership Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Paula Rosput Reynolds Nick Rose Ian Tyler Non-executive director Non-executive director and Non-executive director SeniorIndependent Director Appointed to the Board: 2011 Nationality: US Appointed to the Board: 2013 Nationality: UK Appointed to the Board: 2010 Nationality: UK Skills and experience Skills and experience Paula Rosput Reynolds is Chief Executive officer and Ian Tyler served as Chief Executive of Balfour Beatty plc Skills and experience President of the business advisory group, PreferWest for a period of eight years, stepping down from that Nick Rose held the position of Chief Financial officer LLC.
She had previously spent over 20 years in the position in 2013.
A Chartered Accountant, he joined ofDiageo plc for over ten years until October 2010 energy sector, culminating in her appointment as Balfour Beatty as Finance Director in 1996 having spent where, in addition to his finance responsibilities, he President and Chief Executive officer of AGL Resources his earlier career in a variety of finance roles.
wasalso responsible for supply, procurement, strategy in 2002.
She subsequently served as President and and IT on a global basis.
His financial experience has Other appointments Chief Executive officer of Safeco Corporation, an encompassed a number of roles at Diageo, including Chairman of Cairn Energy PLC and Bovis Homes insurance company located in Seattle.
She was then group treasurer and group controller, having spent GroupPLC, and non-executive director of Mediclinic appointed as Vice Chairman and Chief Restructuring hisearlier career with Ford Finance.
officer of American International Group, Inc. AIG Other appointments from October 2008 to September 2009.
Other past appointments Chairman of Williams Grand Prix Holdings PLC, Non-executive director of Cable & Wireless Other appointments non-executive director and senior independent Communications Plc and VT Group plc.
Non-executive director of BP p. l. c. and TransCanada directorof BT Group plc, and adviser to CCMP Corporation.
Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, Other past appointments Other past appointments and member of the Audit Committee and Nominations Non-executive director of Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. Chairman of Edwards Group Limited, and non-executive Committee.
Anadarko Petroleum Corporation, Delta Air Lines, Inc. director of Mot Hennessy SNC and Scottish Power plc.
and Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. Committee membership Committee membership Chairman of the Audit Committee, and member of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and member Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee.
of the Audit Committee and Nominations Committee.
