Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 42 Segmental performance Platforms & Services International Platforms & Services International, with 13,600 1 employees, comprises the Groups businesses inSaudi Arabia, Australia and Oman, together with its 37.5% interest in the pan-European MBDAjoint venture.
In Saudi Arabia, the business provides In Oman, the business is developing operational capability support to the its position building on a long history countrys air and navalforces through of relationships with the Omani UK Saudi  armed forces through the provision, contracts.
Contracts include multi-year support and upgrade of defence agreements, suchas the Saudi British platforms and cyber security services.
Defence Co-operation Programme Business generated in Oman is and SalamTyphoon programme.
executed through the Groups relevant reporting segments.
In Australia, the business delivers production, upgrade and support MBDA is a leading global prime programmes for customers in the contractor of missiles and missile defence and commercial sectors systems across the air, maritime across the air, maritime and land andlanddomains.
Services contracts include the provision of sustainment, trainingsolutions and upgrades.
Our strategy in action Continue to win new international orders S audi training partnership The Royal Saudi Air Force continues to invest in training and associated equipment.
The Group provides technician, officer and aircrew training both in Saudi Arabia and the UK, and is delivering new training equipment to the latest standard.
As at 31 December, atotal of 46 of the 55 Pilatus PC-21 aircraft had been delivered to replace the ageing Pilatus PC-9 aircraft.
Production of the 22 Hawk Advanced Jet Trainer aircraft, ordered in 2012, is currently in the advanced stages with deliveries commencing in 2016.
An order foran additional 22 Hawk Advanced Jet Trainer aircraft, associated ground equipment and training aids was secured during the year, andis the latest example in the Groups long-term partnership to meet the Kingdom of Saudi Arabias future aircrew training needs.
The Hawk trainer aircraft gives trainee fast jet pilots access to the verylatest in advanced emulation for radar, weapons and defensive aids training to enable a smooth transition to front-line aircraft, including Typhoon.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 43 Operational and strategic highlights 1 Sales by domain % 12 Typhoon aircraft delivered to Saudi Arabia in Land theyear 9% Maritime Continued support to the operational capabilities of Air 15% the Royal Saudi Air Force and Royal Saudi Naval Forces 76% Contract awarded in Saudi Arabia for a further 22 Hawk aircraft Re-organisation of portfolio of interests in industrial companies in Saudi Arabia progressed Customer acceptance of the second of two Landing Helicopter Dock ships in Australia Headcount reductions and an impairment of assets atthe Williamstown shipyard 1 Sales by line of business % Announced a consolidation of Australian operating MBDA divisions toreduce management costs and remain Saudi Arabia 18% competitive 66% The UK and French governments signed a treaty relating to complex weapons technology MBDA secured weapons package orders with Egypt and Qatar worth 1.1bn 0.8bn as part of agreed export contracts for Rafale aircraft Australia Financial performance 16% 2015 2014 1 1 Sales analysis: Platforms and services % Sales 3,742m 3,572m KPI 2 Underlying EBITA KPI 335m 366m Services Return on sales 9.0% 10.2% Platforms 65% 3 Cash inow KPI 164m 881m 35% 1 Order intake KPI 3,046m 3,398m 1 Order backlog 10.2bn 11.6bn 1 Sales of 3.7bn were 5% up over 2014, or 9% on a constant currency basis, due to higher levels of support to the Salam Typhoon aircraft now in service and higher volumes of weapon systems.
2 Underlying EBITA of 335m 2014 366m is after charges totalling 53m in respect of the impairment and rationalisation in the Australianbusiness.
3 There was an operating cash inow of 164m 2014 881m whichincludes the second payment under the Salam Variation ofPrice agreement.
However, some 200m of receivables were collected in December 2014, ahead of the contracted 2015 dates.
Inaddition, customer advances were utilised against the Saudi aircrafttraining programme.
1 Order backlog continues to reduce as the 2013 awards of the five-year support contracts in Saudi Arabia trade out.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items.
Net cash inow from operating activities after capital expenditure net, financial investment and dividends from equity accounted investments.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 44 Segmental performance Platforms & Services International Operational performance Our strategy in action Saudi Arabia Leverage our technology On the Salam Typhoon programme, and engineering capabilities 12aircraftwere delivered in the year and, BAE Systems Australia is supporting Norways asat31December, 57 aircraft had been F-35 missile Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace AS to delivered tothe Royal Saudi Air Force.
develop guidance technology for the Joint Workon enhancing Typhoons air-to-ground Strike Missile being designed for the F-35A collaboration capabilityis progressing to schedule.
The Typhoon support contracts are operating The Passive RF Sensor, developed by well with all Key Performance Indicators BAE Systems Advanced Technologies team meeting contractual levels.
in Adelaide, with the support of the Through the Saudi British Defence Co-operation Australian government, will increase the Programme, the business continues to support survivability of the missile and the aircraft the operational capabilities of the Royal Saudi byincreasing the range at which targets Air Force RSAF and Royal Saudi Naval Forces.
The production of sensors The modernisation of the RSAFs training is expected to provide long-term work for aircraft fleet has been extended with an the business.
agreement for the supply of a further 22 Hawk aircraft, associated ground equipment and More online training aids.
The original contract continues Image courtesy of Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace AS baesystems.
com on schedule, with all 22 Hawk aircraft in advanced stages of production and the first aircraft having own in September.
Deliveries The In-Kingdom Industrial Participation rsthalf of2016.
Rationalisation and are due to commence in 2016.
As at 31 programme continues to progress, with the restructuring charges relating to these December, a total of 46 of the 55 Pilatus PC-21 AlSalam Aircraft Company being accredited workforce reductions totalling A$37m 18m aircraft had been delivered.
Training and as a repair agent for Typhoon windscreens have been taken.
Inaddition, a non-cash support under five-year contracts continues.
Advanced Electronics impairment charge ofA$48m 24m has Company, in which BAE Systems has a been taken against the carrying value of the The upgrade of Tornado aircraft and associated 50%shareholding, has secured further Williamstown facility.
accreditations as a repair agent for Typhoon The fourth of the seven Anzac Class frigates Under the Royal Saudi Naval Forces Minehunter avionics equipment and produced critical tobemodernised under the current Anti-Ship mid-life update programme, acceptance of the avionics for use on the Hawk trainer aircraft.
Missile Defence programme was accepted in second ship is now expected in 2016 following These capability transfer successes September as planned.
The fifth and sixth the delayed completion of sea trials during the demonstrate BAE Systems long-standing ships are undergoing their rets at the year.
Thethird ship is due to be initiated into commitment to the development and growth Henderson shipyard and are scheduled for the upgrade programme in 2016.
However, of the Saudi Arabian aerospace industry, acceptance during 2016. delivery timescales will be impacted by which plays a significant and increasing role previous programme delays.
inthe delivery of its contracts in the country.
BAE Systems has been selected as the Asia-Pacic regional prime contractor to The planned re-organisation of the Groups Australia undertake airframe maintenance, repair and portfolio of interests in a number of industrial The second and final Landing Helicopter Dock overhaul for the F-35 Lightning II programme.
companies in Saudi Arabia continues.
Riyadh warship, HMAS Adelaide, was accepted by This represents a significant growth opportunity Wings Aviation Academy LLC has contracted theAustralian customer in October and was and is expected to underpin the Groups to acquire a 49% shareholding in a Group commissioned into the fleet in December.
aerospace sustainment activities in Australia subsidiary, Overhaul and Maintenance In-service support to both Landing Helicopter over the next decade and beyond.
The re-organisation supports Dock ships is provided by BAE Systems under BAE Systems strategy to expand the customer afour-year contract.
Negotiations have been completed with the base of its In-Kingdom Industrial Participation Commonwealth on a revised delivery schedule Construction of ship blocks for the Air programme, promoting training, development for the delayed JP 2008 Phase 3F programme WarfareDestroyer AWD programme at and employment opportunities in line with for enhanced satellite communications services theWilliamstown shipyard continues, with theSaudi National Objective.
As part of the to the Australian Defence Force.
production complete and acceptance re-organisation, the business plans to transfer achievedon 18 of the 21 contracted blocks In September, the business submitted its amaterial proportion of its Saudi-based at31 December.
proposal for the multi-billion Australian dollar workforce to one of the local Saudi industrial Land 400 Phase 2 Combat Reconnaissance companies.
Work is ongoing to secure the There isno contracted shipbuilding Vehicle programme to the Commonwealth.
necessary regulatory and stakeholder programme forthe Williamstown shipyard The successful tenderers are participating in approvals to allow this to commence.
following completion of the Landing funded risk mitigation trials during 2016.
Helicopter Dock programme in 2015 and delivery of the remaining AWD blocks in On 12 November, further headcount reductions early2016.
As a result, BAE Systems were announced as part of a restructuring to announced, on 12 November, workforce improve efficiency and management costs reductions of up to 340 shipbuilding roles, that reduced the number of operating divisions ofwhich 200 had been completed as at from three to two.
31December, with theremainder in the BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 45 Oman MBDA Looking forward The two major contracts in Oman, the Typhoon Following completion of the Meteor and Hawk aircraft programme and the development programme at the end of 2014, In the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Khareef Class corvette programme, are being deliveries of production-standard missiles theGroup expects to sustain its undertaken by Platforms & Services UK.
ordered by the six partner nation customers long-term presence through and first export customer continue to plan.
The Typhoon and Hawk programme continues delivering current programmes to meet all contracted milestones.
MBDA has secured a contract, worth andindustrialisation, and developing 89mtoBAE Systems, for the UK Advanced The third of three Khareef Class corvettes new business in support of the ShortRange Air-to-Air Missile ASRAAM achieved final acceptance during the year.
The planned BAE Systems has provided a significant re-organisation of the Groups The German government has announced proportion of Omans in-service military itsintention to buy the Medium Extended portfolio of interests in a number of equipment and the Group works closely AirDefence System MEADS missile defence industrial companies in Saudi Arabia withthe Omani armed forces in supporting system being developed by MBDA in this equipment.
is intended to increase growth partnership with Lockheed Martin.
Contract prospects and reinforce an ongoing The business continues to full its industrial signature is expected in 2016, subject to participation obligations in Oman through German political approval.
This decision commitment to support the national delivery of an agreed training and knowledge provides an opportunity for MEADS to objectives of local skills and transfer programme.
An expansion of this compete for significant export opportunities technology development, increasing programme has been contracted and, when worldwide.
employment and developing an delivered, will satisfy all of the Groups In November, a treaty was signed between outstanding industrial participation obligations.
theUK and French governments under which both countries committed to principles of In Australia, the 2015 Federal inter-dependency and joint sovereignty in the Budgetstatement confirmed the eld of key complex weapons technology.
governments commitment to MBDA has been awarded weapons package increasing annual defence expenditure orders, worth 1.1bn 0.8bn to BAE Systems, to 2% of Gross DomesticProduct aspart of agreed export contracts for Rafaleaircraft in Egypt and Qatar.
within a decade of the budget.
TheGroup continues to reinforce A significant number of ground-based air defence export campaigns continue to be itscommitment to Australia and is pursued in central Europe and the Gulf region.
exploring further opportunities to provide leading defence capabilities across all domains.
Our strategy in action In Oman, the business continues Continue to win new toprovide support to its products international orders inservice to position for future BAE Systems holds a37.5% interest in requirements.
The Typhoon and MBDA export MBDA.
Formed in 2001, MBDA istoday oneof the worlds largest guided Hawk aircraft programme is on weaponsproducers.
success trackfor commencement of The business aligns pan-European deliveriesin 2017. government requirements and harnesses MBDA continues to build on the some of the highest technology to achieve effective partnerships it has established programmes of sufficient scale to compete successfully across multiple international with its domestic customers and has markets.
MBDA produces a wide range secured export opportunities that ofdefence systems for air, naval and land underpin future growth.
Many of these systems have applications across multiple competing defence platforms.
MBDA has been awarded significant weapons package orders as part of agreed export contracts for Rafale aircraft in Egypt and Qatar.
com BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 |
