Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Safety, Health and Environment Committee report Statement from the Chairman of the Safety, Health and Environment Committee The SHE Committee was established on 1 July 2014 to enhance the oversight and stewardship Richard Akers of SHE operational performance.
Accordingly, it Safety, Health has been a busy first year focused on reviewing and Environment and enhancing the Groups SHE systems Committee Chairman and processes.
a Key achievements in FY15 a Areas for Focus in FY16 Agreed and implemented in full its terms Review longer term impact of the implementation of reference: ofthe Safety First proactive plan: Agreed and oversaw delivery of a 29 step proactive Ensuring maintenance of a 5 Star system of safety plan to promote Safety First including external audit and review the outcome of a follow up audit benchmarking, a Five Steps to Safety programme bythe British Safety Council: and mandatory annual SHE visits by all Board Monitor and enhance initiatives and processes put members to set the tone at the top: in place to assist with addressing the Groups IIR Maximum 5 Star status awarded by the British and Reportable Injury Incident rates: and Safety Council following an audit of our safety Review SHE performance targets and objectives set management systems: for the business to ensure they remain appropriate.
Development of a consolidated training programme for all site based employees, supported by the use of electronic forms and e-learning modules: and Stabilising the IIR at 381 for FY15 FY14: 379.
Barratt Developments PLC 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Safety, Health and Environment Committee report continued This is the first report for the Safety, Health and Environment Membership and attendance at SHE Committee meetings SHE Committee, having been established on 1 July 2014.
The Directors who are members of the SHE Committee and their There has been SHE Operations Committee in place for over attendance at the three scheduled meetings during the year five years, although, last year the Board decided that given the are shown in Table 6.
Tom Keevil, Group General Counsel and continuing increase in unit production, the turnover in subCompany Secretary, is also a member.
contractors and a consequent increase experienced in our Injury Only members of the SHE Committee have the right to attend Incident Rate IIR, that it should enhance the oversight and meetings, however individuals such as the Group SHE Director stewardship of SHE operational performance.
Accordingly, the may be invited to attend all or part of any meeting where it is SHE Committee came into effect.
Its primary role is to: deemed appropriate.
oversee the Groups compliance with the SHE management system: Table 6 review any significant SHE risks or exposures and assess ways Member Role Number of meetings attended to mitigate against these: Richard Akers Chairman 3 3 Steven Boyes Member 3 3 establish and maintain policies in respect of all areas relating to safety, health and environment such as safety of employees, Note: customers, contractors and the general public: and 3 Number of meetings attended whilst a Director.
3 Number of meetings whilst a Director.
assess the outcome of annual SHE internal and external audits and agree necessary actions with the Group SHE Director.
The SHE Operations Committee reports directly to the SHE Committee with the Group Safety, Health and The SHE Committee has agreed and implemented terms  presenting direct reports to these of reference which fully set out its duties and how the SHE Committees andto the Board.
The Group SHE Operations Committee will operate.
Committee continues to operate and is responsible for The key achievements of the SHE Committee are set out on implementing and oversight of the overall SHEimprovement the previous page together with the areas that it will focus on strategy for the Group.
SHE Committee terms of reference a www.
co. uk investors corporategovernance governance-policies Richard Akers Chairman of the SHE Committee 8 September 2015
