About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information 01 03 04 33 34 68 69 99 100 112 61 Report of the Directors Bellway p. l. c. is the holding company of the Bellway Group of companies and is a UK publicly listed company whose shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The main trading company is Bellway Homes Limited and this and all other subsidiaries and joint ventures of the Group are listed at note 27 to the accounts.
Results and dividends The profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent company amounts to 283.1 million 2014 191.4 million.
The directors have proposed a final ordinary dividend for the year ended 31 July 2015 of 52.0p per share.
This has not been included within creditors as it was not approved by shareholders before the end of the financial year.
Dividends paid during the year comprise a final dividend of 36.0p per share in respect of the year ended 31 July 2014, together with an interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 July 2015 of 25.0p per share.
The directors recommend payment of the final dividend on Wednesday 13 January 2016 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on Friday 4 December 2015.
Directors All the directors of the Company, who are shown on pages 34 and 35, served throughout the year.
Directors contracts Details of the terms of appointment of all the directors are given in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on page 52.
Directors interests The directors interests in the share capital of the Company and in share ownership plan arrangements are given in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on pages 57 to 59.
Takeovers Directive The information for shareholders required pursuant to the relevant companies legislation which implements the Takeovers Directive, is disclosed in this report and in the Shareholder Information section on pages 102 and 103.
Listing rules There are no disclosures required by LR9.8.
4 which apply to the Company.
Notifiable shareholders interests As at 31 July 2015 and as at the date of this report, the Company had been notified under DTR 5 of the following interests, amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: As at 31 July 2015 As at 12 October 2015 Number of shares % total Number of shares % total with voting rights voting rights with voting rights voting rights Standard Life Investment Limited 11,066,318 9.03 12,323,067 10.06 Fidelity International Ltd FMR Corp 9,300,000 7.59 9,300,000 7.59 MFS Investment Management 5,996,308 4.89 5,996,308 4.89 JP Morgan Chase & Co 5,715,902 4.67 5,715,902 4.67 AXA Framlington Investment Management 5,603,638 4.89 5,603,638 4.89 Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited 3,890,282 3.18 3,890,282 3.18 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance v50.
indd 61 30 10 2015 09:39 62 Governance Report of the Directors continued Accountability and audit The Statement on Going Concern and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts are shown on pages 63 and 65 respectively.
The Audit Committee, whose role is detailed on pages 40 to 43, has meetings at least twice a year with the Companys auditor, KPMG LLP.
Capital management The Group is financed through the proceeds of issued ordinary shares, re-invested profits and bank borrowings less cash in hand.
The following table analyses the Groups capital structure: 2015 2014 million million Equity 1,575.9 1,366.1 Net bank debt 38.5 Capital employed 1,614.4 1,366.1 The Group has a strong balance sheet and with bank facilities of 400 million, Bellway is well positioned to deliver further growth if market conditions will allow.
The Groups banking facilities provide flexibility and expire during the course of the following financial years: million By 31 July 2016 80 By 31 July 2017 70 By 31 July 2018 50 By 31 July 2019 25 By 31 July 2020 175 Total 400 The Group is in advanced negotiations to renew that element of the facilities which expire by 31 July 2016.
Financial risk management Treasury policy and liquidity risk The Groups treasury policy has, as its principal objective, the maintenance of flexible bank facilities in order to meet anticipated borrowing requirements.
An internal cash forecasting system enables the Group to plan and assess its future treasury needs.
Relationships with banks and overall cash management are co-ordinated centrally.
The Group is operating well within its financial covenants and available bank facilities.
Short-term cash surpluses are placed on deposit at competitive rates with high quality counterparties.
Other than disclosed above, there are no financial instruments or derivative contracts.
Credit risk The Groups credit risk is largely mitigated as the vast majority of the Groups sales are made on completion of a legal contract, at which point monies are received in exchange for transfer of legal title.
Interest rate risk The Groups attitude to interest rate risk and forecast debt is influenced by the existing and forecast conditions prevailing at the time that each new interest-bearing instrument is entered into.
This will determine, amongst other things, the term and whether a fixed or floating interest rate is obtained.
Suppliers The Group agrees terms and conditions under which business transactions with suppliers are conducted.
The policy is that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with these terms and conditions, provided that the supplier is also complying with the terms and conditions.
The Groups current policy concerning the payment of the majority of its material suppliers and sub-contractors is for payment to be made at the end of the month following the month of the invoice.
For other supplies, particularly land, the terms are many and varied.
Furthermore the Group is a signatory to the Prompt Payment Code.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance v50.
indd 62 30 10 2015 09:39 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information 01 03 04 33 34 68 69 99 100 112 63 Whistleblowing arrangements Throughout the year, the Group has operated a whistleblowing arrangement whereby all employees of the Group are able, via either the Group Company Secretary or, alternatively, an independent external third party, to report, confidentially, any malpractice or matters of concern they have regarding the actions of management and employees.
This facility is also available for employees to report any breaches of the Companys Anti-Bribery Policy.
The Audit Committee and the Board regularly review the effectiveness of this arrangement.
Going concern After conducting a full review, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to fund its operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts as discussed further on page 74.
Employees Bellway is an equal opportunities employer.
It is the Groups policy to develop and apply, throughout the Group, procedures and practices which are designed to ensure that equal opportunities are provided to all employees of Bellway, or those who seek employment with the Group, irrespective of their age, colour, disability, ethnic origin, gender, marital status, nationality, parental status, race, religion, belief or sexual orientation.
All employees, whether part-time, full-time or temporary, are treated fairly and equally.
Selection for employment, promotion, training or other matters affecting their employment is on the basis of aptitude and ability.
All employees are supported and encouraged to develop their full potential and the talents and resources of the workforce are fully utilised to maximise the efficiency of the organisation.
It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration to the employment needs of disabled persons and persons who become disabled whilst employed by the Group and to comply with any current legislation with regard to disabled persons.
Training at each division is planned and monitored through an annual training plan.
The importance of good communications with employees is recognised by the directors.
Each division maintains good employee relations using a variety of means appropriate to its own particular needs, with guidance when necessary from Head Office.
All new employees, when eligible, are automatically entered into the Groups pension arrangements.
In addition, the Group operates a savings related share option scheme.
The Group also provides life assurance cover to all staff and offers a private medical scheme, childcare vouchers and personal accident insurance arrangements.
Environmental issues The Board recognises the importance of environmental issues and when carrying out its business endeavours to make a positive contribution to the quality of life, both for the present and the future.
An Environmental Policy, approved by the Board, has been adopted by all trading entities within the Group, which is available on the Groups website, along with the Groups other corporate responsibility policies.
Environmental issues are addressed in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic Report on page 30 and on the Groups website at www.
Carbon reporting The Groups carbon reporting is set out in the Strategic Report on page 30.
indd 63 30 10 2015 09:39 64 Governance Report of the Directors continued Health and safety at work The Group promotes all aspects of health and safety throughout its operations in the interests of employees, sub-contractors, visitors to its sites and premises and the general public.
Health and safety issues are considered at each Board meeting and are addressed in the Strategic Report and on the Groups website at www.
Information on those third parties with which the Company has contracts or arrangements essential to its business The Company is party to a number of banking agreements with major clearing banks.
The withdrawal of such facilities could have a material effect on the financing of the business.
There are no other arrangements which the Group considers to be critical to the performance of the business.
Purchase of the Companys own shares The Company was given authority at the AGM on 12 December 2014 to purchase its own ordinary shares.
As at the date of this report, no market purchases of ordinary shares have been made by the Company.
This authority will expire at the end of the forthcoming AGM when shareholders will be asked to renew this authority in relation to its ordinary shares for a further year.
Directors and officers liability insurance and indemnification of directors The Company carries appropriate insurance cover in respect of possible legal action being taken against its directors and senior employees.
The Articles provide the directors with further protection against liability to third parties, subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act 2006.
Such qualifying third party indemnity provision remains in force as at the date of this report.
Disclosure of all relevant information to the auditor The directors who held office at the date of this report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and that each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Auditor In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the appointment of KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
AGM special business Four resolutions will be proposed as special business at the AGM to be held on Friday 11 December 2015.
Explanatory notes on these resolutions are set out in Shareholder Information on pages 101 and 102.
Directors responsibility The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Further details are provided on page 65.
By order of the Board Kevin Wrightson Group Company Secretary 12 October 2015 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance v50.
indd 64 30 10 2015 09:39 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information 01 03 04 33 34 68 69 99 100 112 65 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Annual Report and Accounts The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the directors in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Keith Adey Finance Director 12 October 2015 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance v50.
