Strategic Report Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Every day our people put our values into action with pride, performing services for customers safely, responsibly and with integrity.
Corporate Social Responsibility CSR and sustainability are embedded into our Vision, Mission and Values and are fundamental to everything we do at BBA Aviation, including our objective Corporate Social Responsibility 61 of creating sustainable long-term value for all our stakeholders.
Our Vision, Mission and Values are important to everyone who works for the Group and they are relevant to our customers, Our Approach to CSR 62 our suppliers and to everyone that has a relationship with us.
Reporting on CSR 63 Overall responsibility for CSR sits with the Board.
Day-to-day management is delegated, via the Executive Management Committee, to the CSR Committee, which sets direction on CSR Performance 63 and sustainability issues.
The Committee is made up of senior members of the BBA Aviation team with relevant business roles and the ability to share knowledge and best practice across Safety 63 the Group.
The Committee meets 1011 times each year and the Committee Chairman regularly reports progress to the Executive Management Committee and to the Board.
People 63 We aim to involve all our employees personally in our CSR efforts and support them by Service 64 investing in new technologies, equipment and training and development programmes where we believe we can make a difference.
Responsibility 64 Download our In 2015, we completed a review of BBA Aviations CSR and sustainability strategy and Values Report benchmarked performance with the help of an external consultant.
com Integrity 65 investors reports alsoagreed a list of Special Issues for 2015 16 as follows: continuous improvement in environmental performance: investigate and follow trends in alternative fuels: community involvement: local participation and charitable giving: employee recognition: and diversity initiatives.
The Committee will also continue to measure the Groups environmental impact, focus onsocial issues and monitor developments in the CSR field.
On the BBA Aviation website you can read more about our approach to CSR and download copies of our 2015 Values Report and past years reports, showing some of the varied projectsthat BBA Aviations businesses have been undertaking, together with copies of ourrelevant policies.
60 60 61 Strategic Report Strategic Report Reporting on CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Our Approach to CSR Our Values, along with our Vision and Mission, align and link all of our businesses together asone team.
Wherever you go in BBA Aviation you will see them displayed and our teams actively promote and The following is an extract from BBA Aviations demonstrate them on a daily basis.
They form the basis upon which wediscuss and report on CSR.
Approach to CSR policy document which isreviewed by the Board.
Performance We focus on the delivery of long-term and sustainable value, continuous improvement and reliability.
The full document, which deals with additional areas such as BusinessEthics, Transparency Performance is relevant to everything we do at BBA Aviation.
It applies to operational and financial results and also to how Download our and Human Rights, can be found in the CSR section of the BBA Aviation website.
Values Report we approach our relationships with our stakeholders and to all that contributes to the successful progress of our businesses.
com We monitor CSR performance by reporting on a number of important sustainability and safety KPIs which, together with investors reports Health and Safety internal expectations, motivate our teams to do their very best.
All members of the BBA Aviation team are encouraged to We are committed to achieving a working environment which is safe, secure and contribute what they can to the success of the whole Group.
We will aim to pursue, achieve and promote best practices on Health and Safety specific to the aviation industry.
Safety We are dedicated to safety and security, the elimination of hazards and protecting Employees people, property and our environment.
We value the diversity of our employees and promote an inclusive environment Protecting the safety and health of our teams and all those affected by our business is a recognising the importance of equality of opportunity.
Our goal is zero preventable incidents and our Health and Safety We support employees through training and development, encouraging them to expand strategy seeks to deliver an environment and culture in which this is achievable.
We expect their capabilities and realise their potential.
employees to take responsibility for themselves, co-workers and the areas they are working in with the support of their local Health and Safety teams.
Our focus continues to be on BBA Aviation ZIPP Environment acknowledging and learning from near misses and the root causes of incidents which, During 2015, the Safety We will manage, and strive to reduce, our environmental impact through the more Committee relaunched ZIPP, together with a shift towards behavioural-based safety, is raising awareness and helping to efficient use of the resources our businesses consume.
BBA Aviations global health more deeply engage team members in safety issues.
We will support innovative developments in technologies that support our business and safety brand and a newreporting process objectives and can offer environmental, community and social benefits.
Safety was one of the key topics at BBA Aviations Senior Leadership Conference in April 2015 and todistinguish between the introduction of our new Safety Management System took place in the second half of 2015. preventable and nonCommunity Our Group-wide Recordable Incident Rate RIR has slightly decreased to 3.97 for the year ended preventable incidents.
The We will identify opportunities to benefit local communities where we operate through latter being an issue raised in 31 December 2015 and 160 out of 269 BBA Aviation reporting locations achieved an RIR of the 2014 Employee Survey.
community involvement and charitable giving.
FTSE4Good and Carbon Disclosure Project Effective 2 Way Since 2006, as BBA Aviation plc, we have been a member of the FTSE4Good index and Communication BBA Aviations Effective 2 Way participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project.
People We are committed to investing in and empowering our people through training Details on BBA Communication training Aviations Health andeducation and to providing them with opportunities for rewarding careers.
programme has continued to andSafety KPIs Health and Safety Committee and Parent Company Charitable Giving Committee canbefound on expand across the Group, with Our people are the foundation of our success.
Their service skills and operational and page 17 BBA Aviation also operates a Health and Safety Committee and Parent Company Charitable over 1,300 employees having engineering expertise are the core of our business.
Ensuring we attract, develop and retain now completed the course.
Giving Committee to oversee our activities in those areas.
The Health and Safety Committee the best people is vital to meeting and exceeding our goals.
The programme was includes representatives from across the Group.
Its role is to enhance our safety policies and developed following our 2011 procedures and to promote safety best practices and behaviours.
Our Parent Company Our businesses provide each of our employees with equal opportunities to thrive, as well Employee Survey and aims Charitable Giving Committee reviews and approves applications for funds to BBA Aviations toimprove the two way asspecific and relevant job-related training to expand their capabilities both within their communication and listening charitable giving programme, which is now in its sixth year.
As a result of the 2014 BBA Aviation Employee Survey, we have made skills of BBA Aviation managers.
efforts to increase employee recognition in both formal and informal ways.
We continue to encourage the use of our Above and Beyond cards, which recognise individual achievement at all levels of the Group and have an annual Vision, Mission and Values Award programme.
