Barratt Developments PLC 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Other statutory disclosures In addition, details of the Companys approach to dealing with Directors Report environmental issues in its operations and the impact of and The Directors Report for the financial year ended 30 June 2015 management of risks associated with environmental, social and comprises pages 46 to 102 inclusive, together with the sections governance matters are contained in the Strategic Report on incorporated by reference.
Any matters on which the Directors pages 40 to 45 and in the Sustainability Report.
They can also be are required to report on annually, but which do not appear in any found in the sustainability section of the Companys website at other section of this report are detailed below.
Activities of the Group The Groups financial assets, financial liabilities and derivative financial instruments are detailed in notes 24, 25 and 26 to the The Company is the holding company of the Group.
Details of the Groups liquidity, market principal activities comprise acquiring and developing land, price, credit and cash flow risks are set out in note 27 to the planning, designing and constructing residential property Financial Statements.
developments and selling the homes it builds throughout Britain.
These core activities are supported by the Groups commercial Annual General Meeting development, urban regeneration, procurement, design and The 2015 AGM will be held at The Royal College of Physicians, strategic land capabilities.
11 St Andrews Place, Regents Park, London NW1 4LE on Wednesday 11 November 2015 at 2.30 p. m. The Notice convening Results and dividends the 2015 AGM is set out in a separate letter to shareholders.
The profit from continuing activities for the year ended 30 June 2015 was 449.4m 2014: 305.4m.
Directors and their interests An interim dividend of 4.8 pence per share was paid on 20 May Details of the Directors who held office during the financial year 2015 to those shareholders on the register as at close of business ending 30 June 2015 and as at the date of this report can be found on 23 April 2015 2014: 3.2 pence per share.
The Directors on pages 46 and 47. recommend the payment of a final dividend of 10.3 pence per The beneficial interests of the Directors and connected persons share 2014: 7.1 pence per share in respect of the financial year in the ordinary share capital of the Company together with the ended 30 June 2015. interests of the Executive Directors in share options and awards The Directors also recommend the payment of a special cash of shares as at 30 June 2015 and as at the date of this report are payment of 10.0 pence per share under the Companys Capital disclosed in the Remuneration report on pages 88 and 89.
Return Plan see page 9 for further details.
At no time during or at the end of the year did any Director have Both the final dividend and the special cash payment will, subject a material interest in a contract of significance in relation to the to shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM, be paid on 20 November business of the Group.
2015 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 30 October 2015.
If approved, the total dividend including Appointment and replacement of Directors the special cash payment for FY15 is 25.1 pence per share In accordance with the Articles there shall be no less than two 2014: 10.3 pence per share.
and no more than 15 Directors appointed to the Board at any one time.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary Strategic Report resolution or by the Board.
The Board may from time to time The Groups Strategic Report is set out on pages 2 to 45 of this appoint one or more Directors to hold employment or executive Annual Report and Accounts and contains details of the Groups office for such period subject to the Act and on such terms greenhouse gas emissions page 37 : our approach to diversity as they may determine and may revoke or terminate any such and details of diversity within the Group page 33 : our employee appointment.
Directors are not subject to a maximum age limit.
engagement programme page 33 : an indication of likely future developments in the Group including in the field of research and development pages 28 and 29 and the Groups principal risks and uncertainties pages 40 to 45.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 In addition to the power under the Act for shareholders to remove Related party transactions any Director by ordinary resolution upon the giving of special The Board and certain members of Senior Management are notice, under the Articles the Company may by special resolution related parties within the definition of IAS 24 Revised Related remove any Director before the expiration of their term of office.
Party Disclosures IAS 24 and the Board are related parties The office of Director shall be vacated if: i they resign or offer within the definition of Chapter 11 of the UK Listing Rules to resign and the Board resolves to accept such offer: ii their Chapter 11.
There is no difference between transactions resignation is requested by all of the other Directors and all of the with key personnel of the Company and transactions with key other Directors are not less than three in number: iii they are or personnel of the Group.
have been suffering from mental or physical ill health: iv they During the year, the Company entered into the following are absent without permission of the Board from meetings of the transaction which, for the purposes of IAS 24, is considered to be Board for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that a related party transaction: their office is vacated: v they become bankrupt or compound with their creditors generally: vi they are prohibited by law from being In August 2014, Mark Clare, then Group Chief Executive, reserved a Director: vii they cease to be a Director by virtue of the Act: or an apartment including a car parking space from Fulham Wharf viii they are removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
LLP, a joint venture partnership between BDW Trading Limited BDW the Companys main trading subsidiary and London and Details relating to the retirement, election and re-election of Quadrant Housing Trust L&Q, at a purchase price of 1,692,350.
Directors at each AGM can be found in the Nomination Committee This purchase was conducted at a fair and reasonable market report on pages 64 and 65. price based on four independent market valuations and similar comparable transactions at that time.
An amount of 2,500 Powers of the Directors was paid on reservation and a deposit of 166,735 was paid on Subject to the Articles, the Act and any directions given by special 13 October 2014.
The remaining balance will become payable resolution, the business of the Company is ultimately managed on legal completion, which is scheduled for December 2015, in by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company, accordance with the Groups normal terms of trading.
whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or otherwise.
In particular, the Board may exercise all Fulham Wharf LLP is not controlled by and is not a subsidiary the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage undertaking of the Company.
or charge any of its undertakings, property, assets and uncalled On notification by Mark Clare of the above transaction, the Board capital and to issue debentures and other securities and to give sought advice from its legal advisers and corporate brokers security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company to any in respect of the application of Chapter 11 and section 190 of third party.
the Act Substantial Property Transactions section 190 to the transactions.
The advice received concluded that Chapter Qualifying third party indemnity provisions 11 and section 190 did not extend to LLPs and therefore the As at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts, there are provisions of Chapter 11 and section 190 did not apply to either of qualifying third party indemnity provisions governed by the Act these transactions.
Consequently, no shareholder approval was in place under which the Company has agreed to indemnify required for the transaction.
the Directors, former Directors and the Company Secretary of No other related party transactions that require disclosure, have the Company, together with those who have held or hold these been entered into during the year under review.
positions as officers of other Group companies or of associate or affiliated companies and members of the Executive Committee, Disclosure of information to auditor to the extent permitted by law and the Articles, against all So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit liability arising in respect of any act or omission in the course information that is, information needed by the Companys auditor of performing their duties.
In addition, the Company maintains in connection with preparing its report of which the Companys directors and officers liability insurance for each Director of the auditor is not aware.
Group and its associated companies.
Each of the Directors has taken all reasonable steps that they No Director of the Company or of any associated company shall ought to have taken in accordance with their duty as a Director be accountable to the Company or the members for any benefit to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information provided pursuant to the Articles and receipt of any such benefit and to ensure that the Companys auditor is aware of that shall not disqualify any person from being or becoming a Director information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted of the Company.
in accordance with the provisions of section 418 2 of the Act.
Barratt Developments PLC 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Other statutory disclosures continued Political donations and expenditure Voting No political donations or expenditure were made or incurred Subject to any special terms as to voting upon any shares which during the year 2014: nil.
may be issued or may at the relevant time be held, every member present in person or by proxy at a general meeting or class Offices meeting has one vote upon a show of hands or, upon a poll vote, one vote for every share of which such member is a holder.
In the The Group had 27 offices excluding those offices undertaking an case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior who tenders administrative function only located throughout Britain at the end a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the of the financial year.
The Group also has a representative office in exclusion of votes of the other joint holders and seniority shall be Beijing, China.
A full list of the Groups offices and their locations determined by the order in which the names stand in the register can be obtained from the Group General Counsel and Company in respect of the joint holding.
Secretary at the registered office of the Company or from the Companys website www.
In accordance with the Act, each member is entitled to appoint one or more proxies, and in the case of corporations, more than Capital structure one corporate representative to exercise all or any of their rights The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or into ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
All issued shares are class meeting.
The timescales for appointing proxies are set out in registered form and are fully paid.
Details of the Companys in the Notice of the 2015 AGM.
issued share capital and of the movements in the share No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or capital during the year can be found in note 29 to the Financial class meeting in respect of any shares held by them if any call or Statements on page 149. other sum then payable by them in respect of that share remains unpaid or if they have been served with a restriction notice as Subject to the Articles, the Act and other shareholders rights, shares are at the disposal of the Board.
At each AGM the Board defined in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be seeks authorisation from its shareholders to allot shares.
At the AGM held on 12 November 2014, the Directors were given provided under the Act.
authority to allot shares up to a nominal value of 32,838,204 Transfer of shares representing one-third of the nominal value of the Companys issued share capital as at 29 September 2014, such authority to Shares in the Company may be in uncertificated or certificated remain valid until the end of the 2015 AGM or, if earlier, until the form.
Title to uncertificated shares may be transferred by close of business on 11 February 2016.
A resolution to renew this means of a relevant system and certificated shares may be authority will be proposed at the 2015 AGM.
transferred by an instrument of transfer as approved by the Board.
The transferor of a share is deemed to remain the holder Rights and obligations attaching to shares until the transferees name is entered into the Companys register Subject to any rights attached to existing shares, shares may of members.
beissued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares except as by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution follows.
The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board giving any reason, decline to register any transfer of any share may decide.
which is not a fully paid share.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set out Subject to the Act, the Articles specify that rights attached to anyexisting class of shares may be varied either with the written in the uncertificated securities rules as defined in the Articles and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of consent of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class excluding any shares joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
of that class held as treasury shares, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the The Board may decline to register a transfer of a certificated holders of those shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders share unless the instrument of transfer: i is duly stamped or ofany shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu share certificate and such other evidence of the right to transfer with them.
as the Board may reasonably require: ii is in respect of only one class of share: iii if joint transferees, is in favour of not more than Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 four such transferees: or iv where the transfer is requested by The EBT has agreed to waive all or any future right to dividend a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in the Articles if such payments on shares held within the EBT and these shares do a person has been served with a restriction notice after failure not count in the calculation of the weighted average number of to provide the Company with information concerning interests in shares used to calculate EPS until such time as they are vested those shares required to be provided under the Act, unless the to the relevant employee.
transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms length The Trustees of the EBT may vote or abstain from voting on sale as defined in the Articles.
shares held in the EBT in any way they think fit and in doing so may take into account both financial and non-financial interests Shareholder authority for purchase of own shares of the beneficiaries of the EBT or their dependants.
At the Companys AGM held on 12 November 2014, shareholders gave authority to the Company to buy back up to an aggregate of Employee share schemes 98,514,610 ordinary shares representing 10% of the Companys Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 30 to the issued share capital.
This authority is valid until the end of the Financial Statements.
2015 AGM or, if earlier, until the close of business on 11 February 2016.
Under the authority there is a minimum and maximum price Employment policy and involvement to be paid for such shares.
Any shares which are bought back i Employment and diversity may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, will be cancelled The Group is committed to seeking to develop the talents of its immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing employees so that they can maximise their career potential and the Companys issued share capital.
providing rewarding careers in an atmosphere that engenders No purchases had been made under this authority as at the date equal opportunities for all.
Selection for employment and of this Annual Report and Accounts.
A resolution renewing the promotion is based on merit, following an objective assessment authority will be proposed at the 2015 AGM.
of ability and experience of candidates, after giving full and fair consideration to all applications including individuals with Dividends and distributions disabilities.
The Group is also committed to ensuring that its Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company may by ordinary workplaces are free from discrimination.
The Group strives to resolution from time to time declare dividends for payment to the ensure that its policies and practices provide equal opportunities holders of the ordinary shares of 10 pence each, of an amount in respect of issues such as training, career development and which does not exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
promotion for all existing or potential staff irrespective of gender, The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate race, ethnic origin, colour, religion, physical disability, marital dividend, whenever the financial position of the Company, if in status, sexual orientation or age.
Every effort is made to retain the opinion of the Board, circumstances justify their payment.
and support employees who become disabled whilst working If the Board acts in good faith, it is not liable to holders of shares within the Group.
with preferred or pari passu rights for losses arising from the ii Employee engagement payment of interim or fixed dividends on other shares.
The Board The Board recognises that appropriate employee engagement may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from is a key factor in the long term success of the Group.
It utilises a comprehensive employee engagement programme with the aim a person with a 0.25% interest if such person has been served with a restriction notice after failure to provide the Company with of creating a strong, shared culture.
All employees are invited to take part in an online engagement survey each year.
The results information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Act.
of this survey are fed back to each operating division who use the results to formulate plans for maintaining or improving Shareholder arrangements to waive dividends engagement in the following year.
The Barratt Developments Employee Benefit Trust the EBT iii Employee communications holds ordinary shares in the Company for the purpose of A key part of effective employee engagement is communication.
satisfying options and awards that have been granted under the The Company seeks to ensure that all significant events, various employee share schemes operated by the Company.
economic factors and financial updates and the impact of Details of the shares so held are set out in note 29 to the these on the performance of the Group are communicated Financial Statements.
This is mainly channelled through the Groups intranet and the use of email alerts, core briefings and regular newsletters.
Additionally, the Chief Executive regularly briefs Barratt Developments PLC 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Other statutory disclosures continued senior and middle management via conference calls and bulletins Approach to tax and tax governance which gives them the opportunity to ask questions and enter into For all taxes, it is the Groups aim to ensure it accurately dialogue.
Individually and collectively, the Board and the Executive calculates and pays the tax that is due at the correct time.
Committee members visit operating divisions and sites frequently Whilst the Group does seek to minimise its tax liabilities through in order to assess operational performance, engage with the use of legitimate routine tax planning, it does not participate employees on a one-to-one basis and gain first-hand experience in aggressive tax planning schemes.
The Group also seeks to of employees aspirations and concerns.
be transparent in its dealings with HM Revenue & Customs and iv Future talent has regular dialogue with its representatives to discuss both developments in the business and the ongoing tax position.
The Group runs a number of programmes for new entrants through our Future Talent Strategy.
The Group currently has The Group Finance Director retains overall responsibility for 71 graduates across our two-year and one-year schemes, 54 of oversight of the tax affairs of the Group.
He is the named Senior which commenced their training in September 2014.
In addition, Accounting Officer and receives regular updates on the tax 60 delegates have commenced our bespoke Foundation Degree position.
In addition, taxation is discussed by the Audit Committee in Residential Development and Construction in partnership with at least annually.
We are currently training 334 Trade, Technical and Commercial apprentices and 20 undergraduate Significant agreements students on a paid 12-month industrial placement programme.
The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling v Employee training and development the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: The Group has a suite of leadership and management development programmes aimed at all levels within the The revolving credit facility agreement dated 14 May 2013 as organisation.
The programmes are designed and delivered amended on 17 December 2014 made between, amongst internally and are tailored to the needs of the business.
others, the Company, Lloyds Bank Plc as the facility agent and the banks and financial institutions named therein as The Group also offers the Barratt Academy, a staged programme lenders the Revolving Credit Facility Agreement contains a to enable employee development from apprentice to site prepayment provision at the election of each lender on change manager as well as within the areas of technical, commercial of control.
The Company must notify the facility agent promptly and sales.
Succession planning is in place across the Group upon becoming aware of the change of control.
After the and the leadership programmes assist with the development of occurrence of a change of control, the facility agent shall individuals as part of this process.
ifa lender so requests within 20 days of being notified of the vi Employee Sharesave Scheme change of control by notice to the Company, on the date falling In April 2015, the Company invited all eligible employees of the 30 days after the change of control, cancel the commitment Group to participate in the seventh grant under the Savings of such lender under the Revolving Credit Facility Agreement Related Share Option Scheme the 2015 Sharesave which was and declare all amounts outstanding in respect of such lender approved by shareholders at the Companys Annual General under the Revolving Credit Facility Agreement immediately Meeting AGM held in November 2008.
The invitations for due and payable.
The Revolving Credit Facility Agreement also the 2015 Sharesave allowed eligible employees to contribute contains a provision such that, following a change of control, a a maximum of 500 per month in one or a combination of lender is not obliged to fund any further drawdown of the facility Sharesave schemes as per the previous year.
This gave those other than rollover loans.
For these purposes, a change of individuals who had participated in previous grants under the control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in Sharesave the opportunity to increase their savings and gave concert as defined in the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers other employees new and existing the chance to participate gains control as defined in the Corporation Tax Act 2010 of in the 2015 Sharesave and become more involved in the the Company.
As at 30 June 2015, approximately Each of the note purchase agreements entered into in respect of 45% of employees participate in one or more of the active the Groups privately placed notes being the US$80m of notes Sharesave schemes.
issued pursuant to the following note purchase agreements: i a note purchase agreement in respect of the issue of US$15m Articles of Association notes dated 10 May 2011 as amended and restated on 14 May The Companys Articles of Association the Articles contain 2013 and as amended on 17 December 2014 : and ii a note regulations which deal with matters such as the appointment purchase agreement in respect of the issue of US$65m notes and removal of Directors, Directors interests and proceedings also dated 10 May 2011 as amended and restated on 14 May at general and Board meetings.
Any amendments to the Articles 2013 and as amended on 17 December 2014 contains a change may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies of control prepayment provision.
Each such control provision Act 2006 by way of a special resolution at a general meeting.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 101 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 provides that promptly after the Company becomes aware that a Going concern change of control has occurred, the Company shall notify all the In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the holders of the notes of the same and give the noteholders the Financial Statements, the Directors are required to consider option to require the Company to prepay at par all outstanding whether the Group can continue in operational existence for the amounts principal and interest under the notes.
accepts such offer of prepayment, such prepayment shall take The Groups business activities, together with factors which the place on a business day that is not more than 90 days after the Directors consider are likely to affect its future development, Company notified the noteholders of the change of control.
financial performance and financial position are set out in the For these purposes a change of control means the acquisition Strategic Report on pages 2 to 45.
The material financial and by a person or a group of persons acting in concert as defined operational risks and uncertainties that may have an impact upon in the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers such that they gain the Groups performance and their mitigation are outlined on beneficial ownership of more than 50% of the issued share pages 40 to 45 and financial risks including liquidity risk, market capital of the Company carrying voting rights.
risk, credit risk and capital risk are outlined in note 27 to the The 100m term facility agreement between, amongst others, Financial Statements.
the Company and Prudential M&G UK Companies Financing The financial performance of the Group is dependent upon the Fund LP dated 10 May 2011 as amended and restated on 14 May wider economic environment in which the Group operates.
2013 and as amended on 17 December 2014 also contains a As explained in the Managing Risk section on pages 40 to 45, prepayment provision on a change of control at the election of factors that particularly affect the performance of the Group each lender: such prepayment provision is the same as that include changes in the macroeconomic environment including described for the Revolving Credit Facility Agreement save for buyer confidence, availability of mortgage finance for the Groups the fact that the term loan is fully drawn and so the restrictions customers and interest rates.
on drawing described for the Revolving Credit Facility Agreement do not apply.
The Group has total committed bank facilities and private placement notes of 848.3m.
The final maturity of these Each of the debt facility agreements based on a proforma facilities range from August 2017 to July 2021, with 150.0m agreement agreed in October 2012 between the Company as of the revolving credit facility maturing in December 2017 and guarantor, BDW as borrower and developer and the Homes 550.0m of the revolving credit facility maturing in December and Communities Agency HCA as lender, whereby the 2019.
The committed facilities and private placement notes HCA has made up to 33m in aggregate of project financing provide appropriate headroom above our current forecast available to fund up to 20 development sites, contains a debt requirements.
provision requiring BDW to obtain the consent of the HCA on a change in control of the Company, BDW or any of their In addition to these committed borrowing facilities, the Group has holding companies if relevant.
The HCA is entitled to withhold secured 27.9m of financing from the Governments Get Britain its consent to such a change in control if the new controller Building and Growing Places Fund schemes.
These funds does not have sufficient reputation, financial standing or are repayable between December 2015 and March 2018. organisational standing and capacity.
A failure to: i obtain the Further committed loan facilities of 11.5m are available under HCAs consent to a change in control: and ii provide the HCA agreements with local government which are due to be repaid with notice of the change in control within a specified time between July 2015 and March 2020. period, is an event of default under each of these agreements.
Accordingly, after making enquiries and having considered On such an event of default the HCA may, by notice in writing to forecasts and appropriate sensitivities, the Directors have BDW, terminate each debt facility agreement and require BDW formed a judgement, at the time of approving the Financial to prepay the project financing.
For these purposes a change in Statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group control means the acquisition by a person or a group of persons has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for acting together such that they gain beneficial ownership of the foreseeable future, being at least 12 months from the date more than 50% of the issued share capital or voting rights of the of these Financial Statements.
For this reason, they continue relevant company, have the right to appoint the majority of the to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of these Directors of the relevant company or otherwise control the votes Financial Statements.
at board meetings of the relevant company.
The note purchase agreements also impose upon the holders customary restrictions on resale or transfer of the notes, such as On behalf of the Board the transfer being subject to a fide minimis amount.
Tom Keevil Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 8 September 2015
