About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information 01 03 04 33 34 68 69 99 100 112 27 Risk Statement THE GROUP HAS IDENTIFIED, EVALUATED AND PUT IN PLACE MEASURES TO MITIGATE THEPRINCIPAL RISKS FACED BY THE BUSINESS, WHICH ARE SHOWN IN THE TABLE BELOW.
Area and description of risk and Relevance of risk to strategy Mitigation of risk Change how it has changed during the year LAND The possibility that the Group is unable Failure to buy land at the right The Group prepares thorough pre-purchase due diligence and to source suitable land at satisfactory margins would have a detrimental margins and ROCE.
effect on future profitability pre-purchase viabilities on all of its proposed land purchases and keeps and ROCE.
The land market remained competitive these under regular review to ensure during the year.
The Group has Insufficient land would affect the capital is invested appropriately.
strengthened its divisional land teams, Groups volume growth targets.
both through new appointments and Authorisation of land purchases is Having too much capital by adding a further division, made in accordance with robust concentrated in land can dilute encouraging them to develop strong Group procedures.
ROCE, especially with larger sites local contact bases.
which can take many years We are careful about our exposure to to develop.
large sites where there is a risk of having too much capital tied up.
Smaller sites tend to generate a better ROCE and there is a lower risk of loss of value if the housing market declines.
PLANNING Possible delays and the complexity of If the Group has too much capital tied Centralised and divisional planning the planning process.
up in land where obtaining an specialists provide advice and support implementable DPP is timeto the divisions to assist with securing The number of planning permissions consuming and problematic, this can planning permissions.
hamper and slow the Groups growth The medium-term pipeline and prospects and have an adverse effect strategic land banks are carefully on profitability and ROCE.
managed to maintain the appropriate balance in terms of quantity and location.
CONSTRUCTION Shortages of appropriately skilled Failure to have appropriately skilled Identifying training needs and personnel, including sub-contractors, personnel and sub-contractors allocating appropriate resources and shortages of building materials at available in the right place, together to training.
with sufficient materials when Ensuring systems are in place for needed, at competitive prices, could This risk is at a similar level as last year engaging, monitoring and controlling cause delays in the construction work carried out by sub-contractors.
as the labour market has remained process and affect the Groups competitive, particularly in and around Ensuring competitive remuneration growth aspirations.
the south east of the country.
There is policies are in place.
still some upward pressure on material Ensuring Group purchasing costs, albeit they are beginning to arrangements are in place to secure abate and the vast majority of materials materials at competitive prices.
are subject to Group Improving forward planning of the procurement arrangements.
purchasing function to ensure increased lead times do not affect availability of materials.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report v42.
indd 27 29 10 2015 17:32 28 Strategic Report Risk Statement continued Area and description of risk and Relevance of risk to strategy Mitigation of risk Change how it has changed during the year HEALTH AND SAFETY There are significant risks to Notwithstanding the moral obligation The Board considers health and healthandsafety inherent in and the requirement to act in a safety issues at each Board meeting.
responsible manner, injuries to Regular visits to sites by senior employees, sub-contractors and site This risk has not changed during management independent of our visitors could delay construction and the year.
divisions and external consultants to result in reputational damage, monitor health and safety standards criminal prosecution and civil and performance against the litigation which could negatively Groupshealth and safety policies affect the Groups reputation.
ENVIRONMENT Housebuilding can have a negative The impacts of our operations on the The Group has a range of procedures effect on the environment.
environment must be managed in a in place to address issues around responsible and sustainable manner, ecology, biodiversity, resource use, This risk has not changed during ensuring that they do not have a waste management and sustainable the year.
detrimental effect on the Groups sourcing, with the objective that a reputation and ability to sell homes.
development should create an attractive and sustainable new environment.
co. uk  for further information.
SALES There are a number of risks that could Building too many homes in one area In consultation with Head Office and affect the Groups ability to generate or of the wrong type could affect the the regional chairmen, local divisional sales as follows: Groups ability to meet its growth management determine product aspirations.
To generate sales the range and pricing strategy a reduction in the size of the Group may have to increase the use commensurate with regional market place: of incentives, which affects margin market conditions.
the ability of prospective purchasers and average selling price.
Use of sales incentives, where to access credit facilities: Operating in areas of low demand appropriate, to encourage the selling mortgage availability: could impair the Groups ability to process, such as part-exchange.
interest rate changes: generate sales in a rising market.
Use of government-backed schemes changes in government housing The number of legal completions to encourage home ownership, policy: and may be constrained by the high where appropriate.
demand for labour and material failure to maximise sales in a Ensuring that construction rates are resources as a result of the improved strong market.
managed to ensure stock availability housing market.
This risk has not changed during the year as the government announced Customer care performance is closely the extension of the Help to Buy monitored at divisional and Group scheme in England until 2020. level and appropriate remedial action taken if performance begins to deteriorate.
The Group is a national housebuilder and so the risk associated with over-concentration in one geographic or product area is diluted.
indd 28 29 10 2015 17:32 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information 01 03 04 33 34 68 69 99 100 112 29 Area and description of risk and Relevance of risk to strategy Mitigation of risk Change how it has changed during the year PERSONNEL Inability to attract and retain Failure to attract and retain The Group offers competitive salary appropriate personnel.
employees will severely affect and benefits packages and keeps theGroups ability to perform these under regular review.
This risk has not changed during successfully in a highly theyear as the labour market has Divisional training plans are in place.
Succession planning is in place for key posts.
Over 93% of site workers including sub-contractors are fully accredited under the Construction Skills Certification Scheme CSCS.
Graduate and apprentice training programmes are in place across the Group.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Failure to have suitable information Poor performance of the Groups IT Group-wide systems are in operation systems in place, together with system systems could affect operational which are centrally controlled with an loss mitigation structures and efficiency, the control environment outsourced support function in place.
The Group is continuing to invest in its This risk has not changed during IT systems across a broad spectrum the year.
TREASURY MANAGEMENT Failure to effectively manage the Failure to manage the treasury Central negotiation and control of treasury function at an function at an acceptable cost could banking facilities to ensure liquidity acceptable cost.
lead to a loss of opportunities to and debt levels are appropriate.
This could lead to There has been no change to this Facilities derived from various sources.
a reduction in the value of the riskduring the year.
Careful management and regular business, its profitability and monitoring of cash forecasts.
LEGAL AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE Breaches of law and regulatory codes Central secretariat and legal functions Failure to comply with current and entering into inappropriately advise and support divisions on legislation, regulatory requirements worded contracts could lead to fines, compliance and ensure policies and and entering into inappropriately possible imprisonment and significant procedures are kept up to date to worded contracts.
reputational loss or to being minimise risk of non-compliance.
disadvantaged by onerous This risk has not changed during contractual obligations.
diminish customer and investor confidence leading to losses and a reduction in the value of the business.
In addition, the Board ensures that adequate insurance cover is maintained to underpin and support the many areas in which the Group is exposed to risk of loss.
The risk has not changed during the year.
