Directors Report Directors Report The table below sets out how each component of the payment may be calculated.
Going Concern and Viability Statement Directors Remuneration Report Going Concern and Viability Statements Element of payment Basis of calculation Going Concern addressed the operational inefficiencies related to the footprint Annual base salary Calculated on a contractual basis.
The Groups business activities together with the factors likely to rationalisation programme but with a competitive market and affect its future development, performance and position are set out pricing environment further opportunities to simplify the Pension and other Calculated on a contractual basis and where the pay in lieu of notice clause is invoked, an amount up to one in the Strategic Report and Directors Report on pages 1108.
The business will be taken to improve efficiency.
financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position In addition, our overall performance will be supported The Committee also makes modest payments relating to outplacements.
In addition, note 16 of the by further incremental contributions from the substantial Annual incentive No bonus is paid in the case of dismissal for gross misconduct.
Consolidated Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, investments made across the Group in recent years.
Ordinarily, individuals are entitled to a bonus only when reasons for leaving include, but not limited to, retirement, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk Over the longer term, the underlying strengths of our death, ill health, redundancy, or sale of an employing entity.
However the Remuneration Committee may exercise management objectives: details of its financial instruments and market-leading businesses, the continuing improvement its discretion to pay a bonus depending on the exact circumstances of the termination.
hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
intheiroperational performance and the structural growth The Groups committed bank facilities comprise a $650million andconsolidation in our major markets supports the The bonus is not included in the calculation of any payment in lieu of notice.
multicurrency revolving credit facility dated 10 April 2014 due to Boardsconfidence in our ability to generate superior The bonus is calculated in accordance with the rules of the plan.
expire in April 2019 and an Acquisition Financing Agreement AFA through-cycle returns.
Long-term On a contractual basis and in accordance with the scheme rules.
put in place during the year to fund the acquisition of Landmark incentives Unvested shares lapse under the LTIP and the ELTIP on termination unless it is for a permitted reason ill The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Aviation in conjunction with the rights issue.
The AFA comprises Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for health, redundancy, etc.
or the Remuneration Committee makes use of the discretion under the rules of the three term debt facilities, i Facility A for $150 million due to the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern plan to allow the shares to vest.
Any vesting is subject to the substitution of performance targets and, unless matureinAugust 2016 BBA Aviation can extend by 12 months at basis of accounting inpreparing the annual financial statements.
the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, through pro-rating to reflect the date of termination, BBA Aviations option, ii Facility B for $400 million due to expire relative to the performance periods of the outstanding shares.
inFebruary 2019 and iii Facility C for $450 million due to expire in Viability Statement Deferred shares under the annual bonus plan and awards under the deferred stock plan may or may not be September 2020.
The AFA facilities were fullydrawn on 5 February In accordance with provision c. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance forfeitable depending on the timing of the termination in the deferral periods.
Unvested shares may be 2016 upon the completion of the Landmark Aviation acquisition.
Code, the Directors have assessed the financial and operational In addition, BBA Aviation plc has US private placement USPP awarded on termination for a permitted reason e. g. ill health, redundancy, etc.
or at the discretion of the position and prospects of the BBA Aviation Group, including the obligations of $500 million senior notes with various maturity dates Remuneration Co mmittee and will usually be subject to appropriate pro-rating.
Any matching award under financial and operational position and prospects for Landmark between 2018 and 2026.
In total the Group has debt obligations and Aviation following its acquisition on 5th February 2016.
The Directors the deferred bonus plan will vest subject to performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines facilities of $2,150 million and as at 31December 2015 the Group has assessment considered the three year period to December 2018. otherwise, be pro-rated for the period served as a director during the performance period at the discretion of available $1,650 million of undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
Thisassessment was based on the three year financial forecast for the the Remuneration Committee.
These debt obligations and facilities are subject to cross default.
BBA Aviation Group combined with thethree year financial forecast The contracts of the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director preclude any right to other Further details relating tothese debt arrangements are provided in for Landmark Aviation.
The BBA Aviation Group three year financial compensation for any loss of any share-based pay beyond the rules of the schemes.
notes 15 and 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The bank forecast was prepared on abusiness by business basis alongside the Compensation Upon termination, any buy out awards would normally lapse.
However, the Remuneration Committee does facilities and the USPP notes are subject to two main financial BBA Aviation Group annual budget process.
The Landmark Aviation for forfeited retain the discretion to decide otherwise, provided the termination is not as a result of poor performance.
covenants: maximum net debt to underlying EBITDA of 3.5 times and three year forecast whilst not prepared by the BBA Aviation Group minimum net interest cover of 3.0 times underlying EBITDA.
remuneration has been subjected to due diligence by BBA Aviations management Following an acquisition, the Group can invoke an acquisition spike consistent with the requirements for a class 1 circular.
Given that Other benefits, Will depend on what has been agreed on appointment, but the Remuneration Committee would not expect across itsdebt facilities whereby the net debt to EBITDA covenant will themarkets in which Landmark Aviation operate are substantially e. g. relocation any or all of these elements of pay to form part of any termination arrangement but has discretion to make increase to 4.0 times for the next two testing periods before reverting thesame as those of the BBA Aviation Group and the underlying allowances, payments in respect of them.
This acquisition spike can only be utilised assumptions within such forecasts are broadly aligned tothose international once during the life of the bank facilities and twice during the life of ofBBA Aviation, the Directors consider it appropriate to combine mobility benefits the USPP notes.
The Directors expect the Group to comply with these therespective forecasts in forming the three year forecast for the and expenses covenants for the foreseeable future.
enlarged BBA Aviation Group including Landmark Aviation.
The Groups forecasts and projections taking account The Directors consider the three year period to December 2018 All employee equity Directors will be treated in the same manner as any other member of staff in respect of those plans.
ofreasonably possible changes in trading performance show to be the appropriate viability assessment period as it encompasses participation plans that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its the period over which the BBA Aviation Group will complete the full current facilities in the foreseeable future.
The principal risks and integration of the transformational acquisition of Landmark Aviation Change of control uncertainties affecting the forecasts and projections, to which the during which it expects to deliver significant synergies and In the event of a change of control, the Remuneration Committee will determine the extent to which any unvested shares under all plans Group is exposed, relate to the number of hours of flying activity, deleverage towards pre Landmark Aviation acquisition levels.
will vest taking into account all relevant factors including the performance criteria and the time elapsed since the date of grant.
Directors principally in Business and General Aviation, but also to a lesser extent In making their assessments the Directors have considered the will be entitled to receive their conditional shares from the deferred bonus or Deferred Stock Plan where the risk of forfeiture has lifted.
in commercial and military aviation.
Flying hours largely dictate the potential financial and operational impacts of plausible scenarios that drivers of revenue, namely fuel volumes in Signature, aircraft could impact the three year financial forecasts for BBA Aviation and movements in ASIG, engine overhaul cycles in ERO and demand for Landmark Aviation.
The plausible scenarios considered are broadly components in Legacy Support.
Further details of these risks and aligned to the principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 1822. uncertainties are provided on pages 1822.
Having completed an initial risk review with senior management of The Directors have carried out a critical review of the Groups Landmark Aviation during February 2016 the Directors believe the 2016 budget and medium-term plans and the budget and mediumprincipal risks and uncertainties as set out on pages 1822 to be term plans of Landmark Aviation, with due regard for the risks and equally applicable to Landmark Aviation.
Intheir assessment of the uncertainties to which the Group and Landmark Aviation are exposed impact of plausible scenarios on BBAAviation and Landmark Aviation and the impact that these could have on trading performance.
The the Directors have also considered the likely effectiveness of available key assumptions used in constructing the budget were that: mitigating actions.
In Flight Support including Landmark Aviation, we anticipate Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable continued strong momentum in Signature Flight Support, expectation that the Company and the enlarged BBA Aviation Group supported by a more sustained recovery in B&GA flying hours, including Landmark Aviation will be able to continue in operation aswell as fixed cost reduction and further operational and meet its liabilities as they fall due for the three year period to improvements in ASIG.
In Aftermarket Services, Legacy Supports outlook remains solid Landmark Aviation will be fully integrated in to the BBA Aviation 104 105 with a strong order backlog.
Engine Repair & Overhaul has now Group budgeting, forecasting and risk review processes from 2016.
Directors Report Directors Report Substantial shareholdings similar terms in favour of members of the Executive Management Management report Additional Disclosures Additional Disclosures Additional Disclosures Committee and other members of senior management.
Where The management report required by the provisions of the The Company has been notified, as at 2 March 2016, of the following material interests in the voting rights of the Company such deeds are for the benefit of directors, they are qualifying Disclosure and Transparency Rules is included within the Group results and dividends third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 309B of Strategic Report and has been prepared in consultation with under the provisions of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: The results for the year ended 31 December 2015 are shown the Companies Act 1985 or section 234 of the Companies Act management.
% inthe Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income on 2006, as applicable.
At the date of this report, these indemnities William H. Gates III 14.19 page 115. are therefore in force for the benefit of all the current directors of Suppliers payment policy Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 7.44 The directors recommend the payment of a final ordinary the Company and other members of senior management.
The Company and Groups policy is to settle terms of payment share dividend for 2015 of 8.68 net per share on 20 May 2016 to On 1 November 2007, a subsidiary of the Company, BBA with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, to APG Asset Management NV 5.17 shareholders on the register at the close of business on 8 April Aviation Finance, entered into qualifying third party indemnity ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment 12 West Capital Management LP 5.01 2016, which together with the interim dividend paid on 30 provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and abide by the terms of the payment.
Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 4.99 October 2015 makes a total of 13.53 net per ordinary share for in favour of its directors, under which each director is Royal London Asset Management Limited 4.04 the year 2014: 16.20.
Shareholders will receive their dividends indemnified against liabilities incurred by that director in respect Share capital insterling unless they have previously elected to receive their of acts or omissions arising in the course of their office or Details of the Companys share capital and changes to the share dividends in US dollars.
Shareholders who wish to receive otherwise by virtue of their office and such provisions remain in capital are shown in note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Charitable and political donations dividends in US dollars must make the appropriate election to force as at the date of this report.
That note also contains a summary of the rights Group donations to charities worldwide were $675,000 2014: the Companys registrars no later than 5.30 pm on 25 April 2016. attaching to each class of shares and details of the number of $379,000.
No donations were made to any political party in A new election is not required if shareholders have previously Employee information ordinary shares held in employee benefit trusts.
made a valid election to receive dividends in US dollars.
Further The Company provides employees with various opportunities to under the Companys share plans are satisfied either by shares information concerning the dividend currency election can be obtain information on matters of concern to them and to held in the employee benefit trusts or by the issue of new shares Auditor found on the Companys website at www.
improve their awareness of the financial and economic factors when awards vest.
The Remuneration Committee monitors the As required by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each See more online that affect the performance of the Company.
These include All number of awards made under the various share plans and their ofthe directors, at the date of the approval of this report, www.
com Acquisitions and disposals Hands Briefing, staff forums and meetings with trade unions that potential impact on the relevant dilution limits recommended by confirms that: investors Acquisitions and disposals in the year are described in note 23 take place throughout the year.
There is a 5% limit in respect of a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit tothe Consolidated Financial Statements.
All companies within the Group strive to operate fairly at all discretionary plans and a 10% limit in respect of all plans.
Based information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and times and this includes not permitting discrimination against any on the Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2015, b the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have Events after the balance sheet date employee or applicant for employment on the basis of race, the Company has used 1.6% towards the 5% limit and 2% taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant The transaction to acquire Landmark was completed on religion or belief, colour, gender, disability, national origin, age, towards the 10% limit.
audit information and to establish that the Companys military service, veteran status, sexual orientation or marital 5February 2016 and is described in more detail in note 26 to the The Company was given authority to purchase up to auditor is aware of that information.
This includes giving full and fair consideration to suitable 14.99% of its existing ordinary share capital at the 2015 AGM.
There are no other disclosable applications for employment from disabled persons and making events after the balance sheet date.
That authority will expire at the conclusion of the AGM in Words and phrases used in this confirmation should be interpreted appropriate accommodations so that if existing employees 2016 unless renewed.
Accordingly, a special resolution to renew in accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. become disabled they can continue to be employed, wherever the authority will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Market value of land and buildings practicable, in the same job or, if this is not practicable, making The existing authority for directors to allot ordinary shares The directors are of the opinion that the market values of the A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company every effort to find suitable alternative employment and to will expire at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
Accordingly, an Groups properties are not substantially different from the values will be proposed at the AGM.
ordinary resolution to renew this authority will be proposed at included in the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements.
Greenhouse gas emissions the forthcoming AGM.
In addition, it will be proposed to give the The greenhouse gas emissions are disclosed on page 65.
Agreements directors further authority to allot ordinary shares in connection Board of Directors Under section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders.
This is in line The current directors of the Company at the date of this report Financial Risk Management discloses that in the event of a change of control in the Company: with guidance issued by the Investment Association.
If the appear on pages 68 and 69.
Peter Edwards and Peter Ventress Financial Risk Management is discussed on pages 30 and 31. i The Companys commitments under the $1,650million directors were to use such further authority in the year following were appointed to the Board on 1 January 2016.
All other The Directors Report was approved by the Board on 2 March Acquisition Financing Agreement dated 23 September 2015 and the 2016 AGM, all directors wishing to remain in office would directors held office throughout the financial year under review.
2016 and signed on its behalf by: as amended and restated on 16 November 2015, its $650 million stand for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
revolving credit facility dated 10 April 2014, its $300 million Details of these resolutions are included with the Notice Directors interests in shares private note placement dated 18 May 2011 as amended and its ofAGM.
Directors interests in shares and share options are contained in Iain Simm $200 million private note placement dated 17December 2014 the Directors Remuneration Report.
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary could become repayable: ii the Engine Lease Agreement dated Resolutions at the Annual General Meeting 29 June 2009 as amended under which $83million of aircraft The Companys AGM will be held on 6 May 2016.
Accompanying Directors indemnities engines have been leased to the Engine Repair & Overhaul ERO this report is the Notice of AGM which sets out the resolutions to The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of business could be terminated: iii the consent of Netjets would be considered and approved at the meeting together with some each of its directors, under which the Company agrees to be required for the transfer of the benefits under its contract with explanatory notes.
The resolutions cover such routine matters as indemnify each director against liabilities incurred by that Signature Flight Support: and iv the operating licence with the renewal of authority to allot shares referred to earlier, to director in respect of acts or omissions arising in the course of London Luton Airport Operations may beterminable.
disapply pre-emption rights and to purchase own shares.
their office or otherwise by virtue of their office.
In addition, the Company has entered into indemnity deed polls in substantially 106 107 Directors Report Consolidated Financial Statements The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Directors Responsibilities Statement Independent Auditors Report to the members of BBA Aviation plc Directors responsibilities statement Independent Auditors Report of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may the disclosures on pages 2122 that describe those risks The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Opinion on financial statements of BBA Aviation plc and the financial statements in accordance with applicable differfrom legislation in other jurisdictions.
In our opinion: andexplain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement on page 105 about whether they lawand regulations.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Company law requires the directors to prepare financial Responsibility statement stateof the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis We confirm that, to the best of our knowledge: of accounting in preparing them and their identification of statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors at31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year are required to prepare the Group financial statements in the financial statements, prepared in accordance with then ended: any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue therelevant financial reporting framework, give a true and to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the Group financial statements have been properly prepared IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and Article 4 of fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit in accordance with International Financial Reporting date of approval of the financial statements: or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the directors explanation on page 105 as to how they have theInternational Accounting Standards IAS Regulation and have Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in theconsolidation taken as a whole: theParent Company financial statements have been assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they the strategic report includes a fair review of the have done so and why they consider that period to be accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom UKAccounting Standards and applicable law, including FRS 101 development and performance of the business and the Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have position of the Company and the undertakings included areasonable expectation that the group will be able to Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Under company law the Reduced Disclosure Framework: and directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied inthe consolidation taken as a whole, together with a the financial statements have been prepared in accordance continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they over the period of their assessment, including any related that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
face: and asregards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, or assumptions.
In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, IASRegulation.
thedirectors are required to: are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern select suitable accounting policies and then apply them The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income consistently: Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material make judgments and accounting estimates that are uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated reasonable and prudent: This responsibility statement was approved by the board of CashFlow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have directors on 2 March 2016 and is signed on its behalf by: asto the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
inEquity, the related notes 1 to 26 and the Group Accounting been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed Policies.
The financial statements also comprise the Parent and explained in the financial statements: and By Order of the Board Independence Company Balance Sheet, Parent Company Statement of Changes prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis in Equity, related notes 1 to 14 and the Parent Company We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are Accounting Policies.
The financial reporting framework that has continue in business.
Simon Pryce Mike Powell been applied in the preparation of the Group financial independent of the group and we have fulfilled our other ethical Group Chief Executive Group Financial Director responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also statements is applicable to law and IFRS as adopted by the In preparing the Group financial statements, International 2 March 2016 2 March 2016 European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: services referred to in those standards.
been applied in the preparation ofthe Parent Company financial properly select and apply accounting policies: statements is applicable law andUnited Kingdom Accounting present information, including accounting policies, Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting inamanner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below andunderstandable information: arethose that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, provide additional disclosures when compliance with Going concern theallocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts thespecific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable of the engagement team.
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors users to understand the impact of particular transactions, statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern The description of risks should be read in conjunction other events and conditions on the entitys financial position withthe significant issues considered by the Audit and Risk basis of accounting and the directors statement on the and financial performance: and longer-term viability of the group contained within the Directors Committee discussed on pages 7576.
The risks included are make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue consistent with those in the prior period, with the exception of report on page 105. asa going concern.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in the prior year risk around restructuring activities which has been broadened to the presentation of earnings in the current year.
relation to: The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting the directors confirmation on page 105 that they have records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Group, including those that would threaten its business the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of theCompany and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
108 109 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Risk Nature of risk Audit response Risk Nature of risk Audit response Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report Carrying value As detailed within the critical accounting Our audit procedures included testing of the inventory Taxation The Group operates across a number of tax Our audit work considered the appropriateness of of inventory judgements and key sources of estimation provisions held in the Aftermarket Services businesses by jurisdictions and undertakes a high level of managements judgement in relation to the level of corporate Financial statements uncertainty on page 124, management understanding and challenging the key assumptions used cross-border transactions, which results in income tax provisions through: 109 Independent Auditors Report judgement is required to establish that todetermine the appropriate carrying value of inventories.
challenging the adequacy and appropriateness of key 114 Consolidated Income Statement the carrying value of inventory across Specifically, we assessed whether: assumptions and judgements underpinning the corporate theAftermarket Services businesses of managements controls relating to the estimation of As detailed within the critical accounting income tax provision including uncertain tax positions : 115 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income $209.6 million 2014: $189.0 million is theinventory provisions are appropriately designed judgements and key sources of estimation reviewing third-party evidence, including the status of 116 Consolidated Balance Sheet appropriate, in particular in relation to andimplemented: uncertainty on page 124, management discussions and communications with the relevant tax 117 Consolidated Cash Flow determining the appropriate level of the estimates of remaining lives and usage profiles of the judgement is required particularly authorities: and Statement inventory provisioning against surplus engine and aircraft platforms are consistent with industry regarding the accounting for uncertain tax using our taxation audit specialists within material 118 Consolidated Statement of andobsolete items.
projections and the view of operational experts within positions and the recognition of deferred locations where local tax knowledge was required.
Changes in Equity thebusiness: and tax assets.
119 Accounting Policies of theGroup The judgement reflects the nature of the where the expected future usage of inventory is based In addition, we challenged the appropriateness of 125 Notes to the Consolidated Groups Aftermarket Services operations onpast experience, this has been reasonably estimated.
Further details of the income tax charge managements assumptions and estimates in relation to Financial Statements which means that inventory must be forthe year and deferred tax balances are generating future taxable profits to support the recognition of 160 Company Balance Sheet held to support aircraft which have an Furthermore, we recalculated the expected provision based included in notes 4 and 19 respectively net deferred tax assets and consistency with other judgements 161 Company Statement of Changes in Equity operating cycle of up to 40 years, resulting on the above key assumptions to assess the mathematical inthe Groups financial statements.
made on the basis of future expected cash flows.
162 Accounting Policies of in inventory which can be held for accuracy of the calculation.
Presentation of Management present earnings in a We have challenged the assumptions made to identify those theCompany extended periods of time before utilisation.
earnings columnar format, separating out those items classified as exceptional.
164 Notes to the Company Financial Statements items considered as exceptional from Further details of inventory balances are 170 Principal Subsidiary and underlying earnings.
Total exceptional and To ensure consistency with the Groups policy on exceptional shown in note 11 of the Groups financial Associated Undertakings other items contributed to a charge of items and for clarity in the presentation of the Groups financial statements.
173 Five Year Summary $61.2 million 2014: credit of $17.7 million.
performance, our audit work has included: 174 Shareholder Information Revenue Revenue recognised in the Engine Repair We considered whether managements controls relating to the obtaining supporting documentation, such as invoices, recognition and Overhaul businesses of $619.2 million key percentage of completion estimates are properly designed As detailed within note 2 to the Groups legal correspondence and severance contracts, for the 2014: $583.4 million, as stated within the and implemented.
financial statements, management has measurement of such costs included within accounting policies to the Groups financial defined exceptional items as items which exceptionalitems: are material or non-recurring in nature and statements, requires significant We assessed the estimates applied within the percentage of understanding and challenging managements rationale management judgement associated completion calculation by verifying the engine overhaul costs also include costs relating to acquisitions for including such costs within exceptional items: and disposals and amortisation of withamounts recorded at year-end on incurred for work undertaken at the year end and challenging understanding and challenging managements rationale apercentage of completion basis for the estimated costs to completion.
In assessing the estimated acquiredintangibles.
for those items included in underlying profit which may engine overhauls.
costs to completion, we considered the historical accuracy of be considered non-recurring in nature: and managements forecasts for the cost of engine overhauls and Management judgement is required in for both exceptional items and non-recurring items relation to the identification, measurement Due to the complex nature of the made enquiries of technical staff responsible for the engine included in underlying profit, challenging management arrangements in place, there is also overhaul process.
and disclosure of exceptional items to on the sufficiency of disclosures included in the notes to ensure clarity in the presentation of the significant judgement associated with the financial statements.
therevenue recognised on, and the In relation to the sale and leaseback arrangements, we Groups financial performance.
operating lease classification of, the sale challenged the lease classification by reviewing the terms Goodwill Goodwill of $889.6 million 2014: Our audit procedures included challenging the key ofcertain engines which are subject ofthe leases and interacting with a third-party valuation impairment $897.9million is reviewed annually for assumptions used in managements impairment model, toleaseback arrangements.
expertto confirm that both the balance of risks and rewards impairment using a value in use basis.
including the forecast future cash flows, growth rates applied in between the lessor and the lessee were in accordance with the medium and long term and the risk-adjusted discount rates.
The Groups assessment of the carrying value of goodwill requires significant In performing our audit procedures, we used internal valuation Additionally, by referring to third-party valuation reports we management judgement, as described specialists to assess the discount rate applied by benchmarking confirmed that the new lease transactions had been entered innote 8 to the Groups financial against independent data.
into at fair value and so it is appropriate to recognise the profit statements and within the critical arising on the sale.
accounting judgements and key sources We reviewed the historical financial performance of the ofestimation uncertainty on page 124: business units compared with the original forecasts to evaluate specifically in relation to the forecast cash the accuracy of managements budgeting process.
flows, future growth rates and the Furthermore, we benchmarked projected growth rates to discountrates applied.
external macroeconomic and market outlook, taking the results of both these into account.
We also evaluated managements assessment of the sensitivity of the Groups impairment model to reasonably possible changes and considered the associated disclosures provided by the Group in relation to its impairment review.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
110 111 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Our application of materiality The Group audit team continued to follow a programme Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Scope of the audit of the financial statements Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the ofplanned visits that has been designed so that a senior Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts financial statements that makes it probable that the economic member of the group audit team visits each of the locations weare required to report to you if, in our opinion, information anddisclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Financial statements decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be where the group audit scope was focused.
In years when we do inthe annual report is: reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 109 Independent Auditors Report changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the not visit a significant component we will include the component materially inconsistent with the information in the audited frommaterial misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
114 Consolidated Income scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
audit partner in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, financial statements: or This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies Statement We determined materiality for the Group to be $8.5 million and review documentation of the findings from their work.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys 115 Consolidated Statement of 2014: $8.6 million.
This equates to approximately 5% 2014: 5% For each of the businesses included within the programme inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired circumstances and have been consistently applied and Comprehensive Income of underlying profit before tax and less than 0.3% 2014: 0.3% ofplanned visits, the Group audit team discusses audit findings inthe course of performing our audit: or adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant 116 Consolidated Balance Sheet oftotal assets.
Underlying profit before tax, which excludes with the relevant component audit team throughout the audit otherwise misleading.
accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall 117 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement exceptional items, is utilised for the materiality determination engagement and reviews relevant audit working papers.
presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all In particular, we are required to consider whether we have 118 Consolidated Statement of because we consider underlying profit before tax to be a key For the remaining locations which are not visited, a full the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report Changes in Equity identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired driver of the business and one that eliminates potential volatility scope audit was completed as a result of a statutory audit to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 119 Accounting Policies of theGroup during the audit and the directors statement that they consider which may be caused by such exceptional items.
This unit was not visited as it was not assessed statements and to identify any information that is apparently the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and 125 Notes to the Consolidated We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we tobefinancially significant to the Group.
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the Financial Statements whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters would report to them all audit differences in excess of $170,000 knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
160 Company Balance Sheet Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee which 2014: $170,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 161 Company Statement of In our opinion: we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Changes in Equity the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
report to the Audit and Risk Committee on disclosure matters 162 Accounting Policies of has been properly prepared in accordance with the theCompany that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of Edward Hanson Senior Statutory Auditor Companies Act 2006: and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 164 Notes to the Company thefinancial statements.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Financial Statements the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Report for the financial year for which the financial statements Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation 170 Principal Subsidiary and An overview of the scope of our audit London Associated Undertakings are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ofthefinancial statements and for being satisfied that they give Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of United Kingdom 173 Five Year Summary atrue and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, Matters on which we are required to report by exception 174 Shareholder Information anopinion on the financial statements in accordance with and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group 2 March 2016 Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and level.
Based on that assessment: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality we focused our Group audit scope on 11 operating locations youif, in our opinion: Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools 2014: 11 locations, with no changes noted on the operating we have not received all the information and explanations aimto ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, locations audited in the current year: we require for our audit: or understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems six of these locations 2014: six were subsidiaries subject adequate accounting records have not been kept by the include our dedicated professional standards review team toafull scope audit for the year ended 31 December 2015 Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have andindependent partner reviews.
inaccordance with statutory reporting requirements in notbeen received from branches not visited by us: or This report is made solely to the companys members, as theUKand Europe: the Parent Company financial statements are not in abody, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies two 2014: two were subject to specific audit procedures, agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might focused on the significant audit risk areas: state to the Companys members those matters we are required the remaining three 2014: three operating locations were We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
the Groups significant US businesses for which full scope Directors remuneration To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or audits were completed: and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and these 11 locations represent the principal operating locations if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this of the Group and account for 97% 2014: 97% of the Groups have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration report, or for the opinions we have formed.
revenue and 84% 2014: 85% of the Groups total assets.
Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from Audits of these locations are performed at materiality levels these matters.
determined by reference to a proportion of Group materiality appropriate to the relative scale of the business concerned.
Corporate Governance Statement Materiality for each location was set no higher than 65% of group Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of materiality 2014: 68%.
the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys At the Parent entity level we also tested the consolidation compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
112 113 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Income Statement Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Income Statement Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Financial statements Restated 2015 2014 2015 2014 For the year ended 31 December $m $m 109 Independent Auditors Report Exceptional Exceptional Profit for the period 83.1 162.5 114 Consolidated Income and other and other Statement 1 1 Underlying items Total Underlying items Total 115 Consolidated Statement of For the year ended 31 December Notes $m $m $m $m $m $m Other comprehensive income Comprehensive Income Revenue 1 2,129.8 2,129.8 2,289.8 2,289.8 116 Consolidated Balance Sheet Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Cost of sales 1,733.5 1,733.5 1,863.7 1,863.7 117 Consolidated Cash Flow Actuarial gains losses on defined benefit pension schemes 7.6 37.7 Statement Gross profit 396.3 396.3 426.1 426.1 Change in pension asset under IFRIC 14 24.6 118 Consolidated Statement of Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 1.7 4.0 Changes in Equity Distribution costs 35.0 35.0 36.8 36.8 119 Accounting Policies of theGroup 5.9 9.1 Administrative expenses 178.3 11.7 190.0 192.1 11.1 203.2 125 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Other operating income 9.4 9.4 2.1 2.1 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 160 Company Balance Sheet Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 10 9.6 9.6 2.4 2.4 Exchange difference on translation of foreign operations 20.8 29.2 161 Company Statement of Other operating expenses 44.4 44.4 0.5 22.2 22.7 Changes in Equity Losses on net investment hedges 35.4 57.3 Restructuring costs 15.1 15.1 13.8 13.8 162 Accounting Policies of Transfer of the revaluation reserve to retained earnings on the disposal of property 5.9 theCompany Operating profit loss 1, 2 202.0 71.2 130.8 201.2 47.1 154.1 Fair value movements in foreign exchange cash flow hedges 0.5 9.8 164 Notes to the Company Gain on disposal of businesses 27.1 27.1 Financial Statements Transfer from to profit or loss from other comprehensive income on foreign exchange cash flow hedges 1.1 4.5 Investment income 3 3.1 0.4 3.5 3.8 3.8 170 Principal Subsidiary and Fair value movement in interest rate cash flow hedges 2.6 4.8 Associated Undertakings Finance costs 3 35.1 3.9 39.0 32.6 32.6 Transfer to profit or loss from other comprehensive income on interest rate cash flow hedges 3.7 3.5 173 Five Year Summary Profit loss before tax 170.0 74.7 95.3 172.4 20.0 152.4 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss 0.1 3.3 174 Shareholder Information 19.9 31.4 Tax 4 25.7 13.5 12.2 27.6 37.7 10.1 Profit loss for the year 144.3 61.2 83.1 144.8 17.7 162.5 Other comprehensive loss for the year 14.0 40.5 Attributable to: Total comprehensive income for the year 69.1 122.0 Equity holders of BBA Aviation plc 144.4 61.2 83.2 145.1 17.7 162.8 Non-controlling interest 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.3 Attributable to: 144.3 61.2 83.1 144.8 17.7 162.5 Equity holders of BBA Aviation plc 68.7 122.3 Non-controlling interests 0.4 0.3 1 Adjusted Unadjusted 1 Earnings per share Adjusted Unadjusted Restated Restated 69.1 122.0 Basic 6 20.1 11.6 21.9 24.6 Diluted 6 20.0 11.5 21.8 24.4 2 Adjusted historical earnings per share Basic 6 30.9 30.7 1 Underlying profit is before exceptional and other items.
Exceptional and other items are defined in note 2.
2 Adjusted historic earnings per share is an additional measure with the weighted average number of shares adjusted for the impact of the rights issue, for further explanation see note 6.
