Strategic Report Strategic Report The bi-annual risk assessment process looks forward three years to create BBA Aviations Principal Risks Our Risks Our Risks We have identified ten principal risks and uncertainties facing BBA Aviation which are considered by the Board riskprofile.
These key Group level risks are input into the scenario modelling for the viability to be material to the development, performance, position or future prospects of the Group.
These risks, mitigations statement, which is explained further on page 105. and changes during the year are summarised in the table below.
They are not set out in priority order.
Progress in 2015 In 2015 we appointed a Chief Risk Officer to drive improvement in our risk management Objective Risks Mitigation action Control Change during year process and integrate it more effectively with our strategic planning and operational Structural changes in the global Active monitoring of lead economic indicators.
Increased exposure to management processes.
We have updated our Risk Management Framework and more economic environment or cycle Strong financial controls to monitor financial early cycle business as a closely aligned our Risk Management and Internal Audit functions.
The risk assessment Growth fluctuations: performance and provide a basis for corrective result of the Landmark process drives the internal audit scope, and the Chief Risk Officer and Head of Internal drive down B&GA and actionwhen required.
Auditattend Audit and Risk Committee meetings to provide regular updates.
commercial flying, and military Low fixed costs allow cost base to be flexed to expenditure.
We have changed the Internal Audit approach from one based on substantive testing to a cause market weakness in the riskand controls based approach.
All audit findings are reported in terms of risk and impact, ERO sector.
which is aligned with BBA Aviations Risk Model.
Global terrorist events either Airport and internal access security processes, vetting Global threat of terrorism inflight, at or near major airports ofpotential staff members in recruitment process.
We strengthened our project management capability on major projects including in our materially impacting global air Low fixed costs allow cost base to be flexed to enable preparation for completion of the Landmark Aviation acquisition.
We prepared for this by travel.
corrective action to be taken.
employing a specialist integration management consultancy to guide us through the integration planning process to ensure that we deliver an effective integration ofLandmark Legislative changes causing Active participation in all relevant industry bodies.
Aviation into the BBA Aviation Group and deliver the targeted synergies fromthe deal.
material increase to cost of Ongoing monitoring of all US and EMEA political B&GAflight relative to alternatives activity which may impact B&GA activity.
such as commercial flying, road Low fixed costs allow cost base to be flexed to We have further developed our approach to third party vetting to ensure that we are orrail travel.
informed as to the identity and affairs of our business partners before entering into business relationships with them.
We are investing in a leading-edge third party risk management Ability to deliver major projects Extensive due diligence conducted.
Investment in project platform to move the due diligence process from manual processing to an online data effectively including the Project Management Office established to ensure management capability Performance collection platform, automating research and analysis.
This reduces administrative tasks, integration of Landmark Aviation.
controlled execution of planning and integration NEW todeliver key strategic enabling us to focus on third party risk mitigation and working more closely with our activities.
Retention agreements for key members of staff.
Ability to attract and retain Succession planning process embedded with review The acquisition of Landmark Aviation completed on 5 February 2016.
We have undertaken high-quality and capable people atExecutive Management Committee and Board a risk management workshop with representative Landmark Aviation senior managers at senior and mid management levelannually.
tounderstand the risk profile of the Landmark Aviation business and assess its impact levels.
Remuneration structure designed to reward superior onBBAAviations business.
Proactive employee development and key talent retention processes.
Potential liabilities from defects in Standard operating procedures with routine root services and products.
Intentional or inadvertent Clear values statement and ethical policies.
non-compliance with company Semi-annual compliance certification by all senior values and legislation, both within management.
BBA Aviation and with trading Rigorous third party vetting processes.
Robust internal control environment and regular reviewby internal and external audit.
20 21 Strategic Report Strategic Report Our Risks 2015 Overview 2015 Overview Objective Risks Mitigation action Control Change during year Environmental exposures.
Strong procedural controls and physical containment when working with fuel or other hazardous chemicals.
Performance Active management of known environmental matters tominimise costs to resolve.
Our Markets in 2015 24 Non-compliance with banking Strong treasury management controls concerning Increase in bank debt covenants caused by: liquidity management.
facilities to enable Group Financial Summary 26 increase in debt funding as a Rigorous third party vetting processes, which includes Landmark Aviation result of the Landmark Aviation the compliance with sanctions regulations.
tighter regulatory environment around sanctions compliance, Flight Support 32 which is a key condition of our banking covenants.
Signature Flight Support 34 Changes in tax regulation in both Timely compliance with all international tax The Base Erosion and Profit ASIG 42 the USA and EMEA could impact requirements.
Sharing BEPS project Value Creative oureffective tax rate and our cash Continuous monitoring of changes to tax legislation, led by the OECD is likely Investment tax liabilities.
taking advice where appropriate from reputable toaccelerate the pace of Aftermarket Services 46 professional advisers.
legislative change in the countries in which the Engine Repair & Overhaul 48 Group operates.
