Barratt Developments PLC 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Priorities in action a Our strategy Our priority is building great homes and providing an outstanding customer experience.
We seek to anticipate our customers evolving needs by continuously improving the Building Excellence by putting homes and places we build.
customers first Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 We carefully consider customer preferences in the development of our product ranges.
Our layouts are designed with free-flowing living areas and natural light.
a KPI a Key highlights Mortgage market continues to improve 5 Only national housebuilder to be awarded HBF 5 Star status for six 1 HBF 5 Star Homebuilder consecutive years Continue to invest in customer service Acting upon research into customer needs 1 K ey performance indicator used to assess performance for annual incentive scheme.
Barratt Developments PLC 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Priorities in action continued All of our team are responsible for delivering customer satisfaction.
Jemma Booker During the year the mortgage market has and Robert Bennie The challenge purchased their remained positive.
Our customers have Britain needs more homes to first home at access to mortgage finance that allows address its housing shortage, with The Hedgerows, them to buy with a 5% deposit in England growing demand in the market and Thurcroft.
through the Help to Buy Equity Loan continued undersupply of new homes.
scheme and there is also an increase in Home buyers are supported by an the range of higher loan to value products improving mortgage market in terms of which do not use the Help to Buy scheme both availability and rates, as well as the available.
We continue to work with a Governments Help to Buy Equity Loan broad set of lenders through our approved scheme in England.
brokers to ensure that our customers have The industry is seeking to increase access to independent advice and a wide volumes, maintain customer satisfaction range of mortgage products.
and build quality and at the same time We delivered 2,853 2014: 2,255 address the constraint created by a affordable homes built for registered shortage of skilled people.
providers, equating to 18% 2014: 16% of our total completions in the year.
We have Affordability of homes and a team which engages with housing accessibility to home ownership association partners at local, regional We build a wide range of product, and national levels.
from homes for first time buyers to larger family homes.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 We continue to drive customer Customer satisfaction service, investing in technology from We place customers at the heart of developments to our customer service everything we do, with their satisfaction systems and our onsite systems to aid our being a key performance indicator at all quality control inspections.
Each home we levels of management.
All of our team build is repeatedly inspected at key stages are responsible for delivering customer and, as a minimum, is approved by the site satisfaction and we have developed a manager, contracts manager and sales Customer Service Academy comprising staff before handover to our customers.
both classroom and online training to Management throughout the business ensure that our employees understand Jack and Rose Ducker are responsible for customer service and how to deliver right first time, every and their children monitor customer satisfaction survey moved to a larger home time.
During the year, 513 employees performance on a weekly basis.
at Paddock View in have participated in this programme.
Leicestershire using We have also launched a new Code Help to Buy.
Increasing customer insight of Conduct for our subcontractors to To ensure that we continuously reflect our support customer satisfaction.
customers needs we have undertaken We are pleased that we have increased customer research in a number of areas our completions delivery, including during the year including demographics JVs, by 11% during the year whilst and home design.
In response to our retaining our HBF 5 Star status for the research we have launched a downsizer sixth successive year, the only national range to meet the needs of older property housebuilder to do so.
We regularly owners approaching retirement.
We are review the results from the NHBC considering current and future trends customer survey with the insights gained in home design to influence our design being used to aid our decision making.
strategy and have also conducted a competition for architects with The Architects Journal to design future features for our homes.
We place customers at the heart of everything we do.
Above: The Bartram family purchased their new home at Orchid Fields in Kempton.
Left: Gary Chan recently bought an apartment at Greenland Place, London using Help to Buy.
