Barratt Developments PLC 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Priorities in action continued a Our strategy We deliver the highest quality homes by focusing on excellence across all aspects of construction.
We are embracing the best new methods of on and off-site construction to increase Building Excellence by build efficiency.
leading construction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Nine Elms Point is an award winning development of 645flats, located next to thefuture Zone 1 Nine Elms underground station in London.
a KPI a Key highlights Focused on a right first time Total completions including Total completions including approach to drive operating joint ventures units joint ventures units efficiency Long term relationships with 16,447 suppliers and subcontractors 14,838 11 % 13,663 Considering and implementing 12,857 new construction methods 11,171 on 2014 where appropriate 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Barratt Developments PLC 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Priorities in action continued Our site managers continue to lead the industry, winning 81 NHBC Pride in the Job Awards.
Kirk Raine, a site manager in our Mercia division, has won The challenge Partnering with our supply chain NHBC Pride in the Job Awards The housing shortage has increased We have a centralised procurement in each of the last five years demand for the building of new homes, team which has built long term and a National NHBC Health & which has resulted in pressures upon relationships with our suppliers.
Safety Award in 2014. the availability of materials and skilled This ensures the consistency of labour and subcontractors.
specification and technical performance of the materials used in our homes.
Delivering high quality homes Long term relationships have enabled us to ensure the continuous availability We put customer satisfaction at the of materials as demand increased.
heart of our construction processes with We also use many local subcontractors a focus upon getting it right first time, in the construction of our homes, who which also drives operating efficiencies our divisions partner with at a local level in the build process.
Our site managers to ensure the availability of the skilled continue to lead the industry, winning 81 trades that we require.
NHBC Pride in the Job Awards.
This is th the 11 consecutive year that we have We engage in continuous communication won more of these awards than any with our suppliers and hold regular other housebuilder.
performance and business reviews, training days and an annual supplier NHBC Pride in the Job Award conference.
We are a signatory of the Prompt Payment Code.
winners We purchase substantial amounts of timber and have implemented a sustainable procurement and timber 81 sourcing policy.
Since December 2013, for 2015 all timber and timber products that we use are FSC PEFC certified and originate from well managed forestry sources.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Health and safety the amount Innovating to improve efficiency of work carried out at height is We constantly review the latest significantly reduced: available technologies to assist us in meeting evolving regulations, Efficiency the process reduces waste increases in predicted demand and generated on site, helps to reduce material availability.
on site traffic movements and is less impacted by inclement weather: The majority of our homes are built with traditional brick and block construction, Speed taking a roof from wall plate although we are increasing the use of to watertight will generally take timber frame on some of our sites and a day compared to a week using expect to build c. 1,300 homes using this traditional means: method during FY16.
Quality factory controlled quality To increase efficiency we are also assurance: and looking to embrace new construction Extra floor space additional space methods and have assessed over 100 is created.
Closed panel roof off-site suppliers.
An example of an systems installed We have engaged with our suppliers to innovation in the build process that we at our sites at find, understand and consider innovative have implemented during the year is the Beechwood in the products and services from across the use of closed panel roofs to replace attic North East, above, supply chain.
and Kibworth trusses or traditional trusses on some Green in the North sites.
These have a number of benefits: We are also researching smart Midlands, below.
technologies and their use in future homes to improve the ability of customers to save energy and are currently undertaking divisional pilots of smart thermostats, which give customers the ability to remotely control their heating systems.
In order to increase efficiency we are looking to embrace new construction methods.
