06 Strategic Report Group Strategy Bellways strategy is to build shareholder THE PRIMARY value through sustainable and The planning disciplined volume growth, utilising the EXTERNAL Groups operational and balance sheet system capacity, combined with a strong focus FACTORS THAT on return on capital employed ROCE.
This generates growth in the Groups CAN AFFECT The Groups ability to deliver new net asset value NAV per ordinary homes is dependent on the efficiency share which, when combined with a THE GROUPS of the planning system to provide progressive dividend policy, results in the necessary planning consents value creation for shareholders.
PERFORMANCE in a timely and effective manner to The Groups operational capacity is meet the requirements of the Groups currently centred around a nationwide AGAINST ITS volume targets.
The National Planning Policy One of these divisions, the South West STRATEGY ARE Framework system NPPF division which is based in Bristol, was introduced in March 2012, working opened in February 2015.
A further AS FOLLOWS: in parallel with the Localism Act division was opened in Kings Hill, Kent 2011, has had a positive effect in August 2015.
The opening of these ontheplanning environment.
two new divisions, combined with the recently opened divisions in Manchester and the Thames Valley will assist in the implementation of the Groups strategy of volume growth.
In addition there is operational and balance sheet capacity to further expand the Groups divisional base in areas of high demand whilst maintaining strict investment criteria and cost control, but not encroaching upon the existing divisional structure.
The Groups balance sheet capacity largely comprises a modest net debt position of 38.5 million at 31 July 2015 combined with undrawn bank facilities of 320 million.
As a result of these factors the Group has a capability to invest in land that either meets or exceeds our investment criteria, which include gross margin and ROCE.
Right: Abbotswood, Romsey, Hampshire Proposed total dividend per ordinary share 77.0p 48.1% 2014 52.0p Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report v42.
indd 6 29 10 2015 17:31 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information 01 03 04 33 34 68 69 99 100 112 07 The availability The affordability The availability of of mortgages of mortgages land at attractive margins Mortgage availability is an important Mortgage affordability is a crucial Acquiring land in areas of high component in a successful housing ingredient for a successful and demand, in attractive locations, in market.
Following the introduction of sustainable housing market.
accordance with the Groups financial the governments Help to Buy scheme Access toaffordable finance assists and non-financial acquisition criteria, in April 2013, the availability of higher potential purchasers in securing a isone of the key factors to the success loan to value mortgage finance has newor first home.
The Bank of England of Bellway.
increased significantly, thereby assisting base rate remains unchanged at 0.5% The market for land in the UK, in an increase in the sale of new homes, and due to the increasing volume of particularly in the main conurbations, particularly for first-time buyers.
mortgage products, this has resulted remains competitive but we continue in a gradual reduction in interest rates The government announcement that to secure land that meets or exceeds in the last 12 months for all products, the equity loan element of the Help our acquisition criteria.
with varying levels of deposit required.
to Buy scheme in England will be Average mortgage repayments, as a supported up to 2020 provides certainty percentage of income, have gradually for the housing market and will greatly fallen from a peak in 2007, following assist purchasers of new homes and the down-turn in the housing market first-time buyers, in particular.
Due to the confidence in the current market place aided by the continued success of Help to Buy, lenders are offering a wider range of more competitive products to buyers.
Whilst some of the larger lenders show long-standing continued support for the new homes market, other lenders are generating a variety of products which enables them to compete for a share in the market.
This increased willingness of lenders to provide funding has resulted in a more sustainable mortgage market.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report v42.
