Strategic Report Strategic Report Our Markets Our Strategy Our Markets Our Strategy Our Vision, Mission and Values define the way we BBA Aviations portfolio of market-leading operate and our approach to long-term sustainable businesses support a broad spectrum of aviation value creation.
Each of the divisions has clear customers in the Business & General Aviation, strategies to compete effectively in its markets and Commercial and Military markets.
See more on to deliver superior through-cycle growth.
Our Markets in 2015 Business and General Aviation 67% of Group revenue pages 2425 B&GA covers thousands of aircraft large and small, serving a wide variety of roles.
Worldwide there are more than 19,000 jets, 14,000 turboprops and 21,000 turbine civil helicopters in Group strategy operation classified as B&GA aircraft.
Our Flight Support division primarily services business Active management of a balanced portfolio of market-leading aviation support aircraft in this segment and our Aftermarket Services division supports a range of jets, and aftermarket services businesses with good barriers to entry.
turboprops and helicopters engaged in a variety of business, utility and public service roles.
Performance B&GA flight hours and movements are key drivers for both of our divisions, particularly in B&GA aircraft Producing above average through-cycle growth in markets with attractive worldwide North America, which is the largest B&GA market and where over 80% of our revenues are characteristics.
Increased activity means more arrivals and departures and an increased uptake of fuel throughout our Signature network and a greater number of engine repair and overhaul 54,000 Disciplined capital management with absolute cash generation and strong events driven by increased engine usage.
Measures that give a broader indication of the cash conversion.
longer-term health of the market and future flying hours include new business aircraft jet Cash Generation and turboprop development and deliveries, the proportion of the fleet held for resale and Value creative business investment and consolidation in fragmented markets the price of and demand for second-hand inventory.
to deliver attractive through-cycle returns.
Value Creative Investment B&GA is a market with attractive growth characteristics that are both cyclical and structural innature.
B&GA travel is driven by corporate confidence and wealth creation with a throughcycle correlation to US GDP.
Following the North American markets decline during the Division strategies 20072009 downturn the US market remains approximately 15% off its peak activity levels.
With no structural change in the market and B&GA travel remaining a key productivity and Flight Support Aftermarket Services efficiency tool, particularly in North America where there are significant distances between Operational process improvement.
large populations and a lack of efficient intermodal alternatives, inherent structural growth Cross-business co-operation to Cross-business co-operation to coupled with recovery remain an exciting prospect for the Group.
Performance extend customer base offering and extend customer base offering and or drive operational improvement.
Commercial Aviation 27% of Group revenue B&GA market still Investing in our people.
ASIG, our commercial aviation service business provides fuelling, ground handling and 15% off prior peak technical services to commercial operators and airports around the world.
Our Aftermarket Market growth recovery.
Services division also participates in this market by providing engine repair and overhaul Enhanced customer service offer.
15% Growth services to regional jet operators who fly the same small thrust engines used in B&GA.
also offer component and accessory repair services to the legacy commercial fleet and fuel measurement devices used on a number of newer aircraft models.
Increase efficiency reduce Increase efficiency reduce duplication.
The primary growth driver for this market is the frequency of commercial aircraft Cash Generation Financial discipline.
movementswhich, in turn, drives demand for our on-airport services and aftermarket support.
The long-term average growth forecasts for commercial aircraft movements are Consolidate our fragmented Expand licences authorisations 2.7% per annum in the USA and 1.8% per annum throughout Europe for the next 20 years.
Value Creative Investment Global network expansion in Optimise geographical footprint.
Military Aviation 6% of Group revenue Our services to the military aviation market are primarily the support of legacy military fixed-wing and rotorcraft platforms.
Much like our B&GA and commercial markets, demand isprincipally driven by flight activity.
