Strategic Report Strategic Report Environmental KPIs Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility People continued Responsibility continued The Groups environmental Greenhouse gas emissions environmental reporting data At BBA Aviation we believe diversity enhances the performance and culture of our businesses and we apply this philosophy KPIs are normalised for 2014 when seeking to find the best people to fill roles in our organisation.
Recognising that gender is only one particular form 2015 restated comparison purposes to ofdiversity to which we are committed, we are pleased that across BBA Aviations various executive management teams, Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 61,912 67,698 tCO e dollars of revenue.
We use 2 theservices of an external women make up between 11% and 22% of the population and we look forward to seeing this develop.
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 51,600 54,615 tCO e 2 consultant to review the Total 113,512 122,313 tCO e 2 The table below shows the percentage of women employed in various roles as at 31December 2015: process for collecting and consolidating this data.
Population Population size % of women We have used the World GHG intensity measurement Board 9 11.1% Business Council for Emissions reported per $m of revenue 53.30 53.42 tCO e Executive Management Committee 9 22.2% See more online 2 Sustainable Development www.
com Senior Management Group 102 20.6% Note: Review of the 2014 GHG emissions during analysis of the 2015 data identified a significant decrease in the GHG emissions reported World Resources Institute investors for2014 of -6%.
This is due to more accurate data being available after the 2014 Annual Report was published.
BBA Aviation has therefore Greenhouse Gas Protocol Directors of subsidiaries included in consolidation see note below 56 8.9% restated the 2014 GHG emissions and used the restated emissions for comparison against 2015.
Corporate Accounting and All employees of the Group 12,973 23.6% Reporting Standard revised BBA Aviation has voluntarily reported on environmental metrics for a number of years.
The edition, and emission Note: This disclosure includes dormant companies and multiple directorships and we do not believe it is an accurate indicator of diversity.
table below shows the disclosures, in a format that is consistent with previous disclosures.
factorsfrom the UK 2013 Governments GHG Conversion Units 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Factors for Company Electricity consumption 50,676 54,884 48,155 51,829 55,188 Reporting.
KiloWattHr $m revenue Service We strive continually to anticipate customer needs, exceeding their expectations.
GHG emissions 53.30 53.42 49.54 57.25 61.45 Our customers expect high quality and reliability from every business in BBA Aviation.
This includes a focus on sustainability Tonnes $m revenue issues.
We aim to surpass expectations and have designed our businesses to anticipate customer requirements so that we Water consumption 203 169 161 182 196 1,000 litres $m revenue cancontinue to lead in this area.
Revenue 2,129.8 2,289.8 2,218.6 2,178.9 2,136.7 We encourage our employees to continuously improve our offering through programmes such as Signatures Service with $m aLeading Edge and our Aftermarket Services TICKET leadership programme.
Our businesses have been recognised for Note: See note in table above.
theirapproach by customers and industry organisations.
Both our recorded total GHG emissions and GHG intensity emissions per $m revenue havedecreased relative to 2014.
The decrease in GHG emissions is largely the result of decreased diesel fuel and electricity use in 2015.
Further reductions result from the closure of sites in2015.
Responsibility We are committed to managing our impact on, and contributing positively to, society and the environment.
We recognise the benefits that accrue from behaving responsibly, both in the way that we Integrity We earn the trust and respect of our stakeholders with honesty, fairness, openness and by honouring our interact with our local communities and in our approach towards the environment, in terms commitments.
of enhancing our relationships and our long-term ability to operate and mitigate risk.
Acting with integrity is critical to maintaining good and continuing relationships from those we have with customers Community involvement andother external stakeholders to the way we interact with each other.
Operating in accordance with legislation and Charitable giving BBA Aviations companies and locations are encouraged to focus their fundraising and bestpractice is vital for our current and future success.
In 2015, $10,000 was donated volunteering efforts on activities and organisations in the fields of aviation, education and through BBA Aviations parent Ethical and legal compliance is a key expectation at BBA Aviation and any breach of our high standards of conduct is taken engineering and benefiting the communities in which they operate.
Local efforts are company charitable giving extremely seriously.
We continually look for ways to strengthen our compliance and control programmes to ensure we programme to FlyQuest, which complemented and enhanced by the BBA Aviation parent company charitable giving uphold these standards, which are fundamental to the way we operate.
provides aviation education programme which was launched in 2010.
Donations to date total more than $1 million.
and career preparation for BBA Aviation has a range of formal policies relating to such areas as Ethics, Gifts and Entertainment and Equal Opportunities.
FlyQuest Environment These policies are reviewed regularly and the Managing Director of each Group company is responsible for ensuring that provides an introduction to the BBA Aviations environmental reporting system requires each site to record its use of basics of aviation, together employees are provided with information relating to the policies and compliance with them.
resources, allowing them to track progress and focus on measures that will drive continuous with advice on career options Our Vision, Mission and Values govern the way we do business and are consistent with our human rights obligations.
Anumber in the areas of piloting, aircraft improvement in performance.
Our projects aim to reduce our use of water and electricity and of our policies, including the Disclosure of Unethical Conduct Policy, the Bribery and Corruption Policy and the Ethics maintenance, and air traffic limit our emissions.
We also target activities that reduce types of waste and expect our teams control and setting goals for Implementation Policy, while not specifically mentioning human rights, recognise the importance of how we conduct our to recycle where possible.
business and its impact on a wide range of stakeholders.
The requirement for a specific policy will continue to be monitored.
The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 require We respect the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organizations core quoted companies to report globally on greenhouse gas emissions GHG reporting.
We value diversity of background and experience and believe in an inclusive culture for all of our employees.
reported on all the required emission sources.
All of these sources fall within our Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board on 2 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by: Simon Pryce Mike Powell Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 64 65 Directors Report Directors Report Directors Corporate Directors Report Directors Corporate Governance Statement Governance Statement I am pleased to introduce the Directors Corporate Governance Statement for 2015.
The Board is responsible for ensuring the continuing long-term success of BBA Aviation and the delivery of long-term, sustainable value creation for all of BBA Aviations stakeholders.
Governance is an important contributor to the success of the Group and we take pride not only in what we do but also inthe way we conduct our business and deliver our strategic Sir Nigel Rudd Directors Corporate Governance Statement 67 objectives.
The Board is committed to ensuring that appropriate standards of governance Chairman aremaintained throughout the Group.
Board of Directors and Executive Management 68 This report sets out the way we comply with good corporate governance principles.
Itdescribes how the Board and its Committees work, and also our approach to risk Directors Remuneration Report 79 management and internal control.
Going Concern and Viability Statement 105 In November 2015, we announced that Nick Land would not seek re-election at the 2016 AGM.
Susan Kilsby will replace Nick as the Senior Independent Director and Wayne Edmunds will replace Additional Disclosures 106 him as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee from that time.
We also announced the appointment of two new non-executive directors, Peter Edwards and Peter Ventress who took Directors Responsibilities Statement 108 uptheir appointments on 1 January 2016 reflecting our ongoing commitment to succession.
The Board considers that its own continuing effectiveness is vital to the Group delivering its strategic objectives.
My role as Chairman has been to provide leadership to ensure that it is possible to make high-quality decisions.
Iamresponsible for leading the Board and ensuring ongoing improvement in the Boards effectiveness.
I am supported by all the directors but particularly by Nick Land, as the Senior Independent Director and he meets independently with the other directors and is available, if required, to meet with shareholders.
As a Board, andas individual directors, we strive to continuously improve the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees in support of the Groups objective of delivering exceptional long-term sustainable value for all our stakeholders.
As you will see from the Report below, the Board spent a significant proportion of its time considering the Landmark Aviation acquisition and we held two additional Board meetings toconsider this transformational step in the Companys development.
In 2015, Clare Chalmers of Independent Audit conducted an external Board evaluation.
Theoutput of the evaluation is discussed on page 72 of this report.
The Companys remuneration policy seeks to align the interests of executive directors and shareholders and is structured to promote the long-term success of the Company.
We keep all our policies and procedures under regular review, bearing in mind the everevolving business and governance environment that we operate in, as well as drawing on therange of experience offered by Board members.
The Corporate Governance Statement that follows provides more details about our governance policies and procedures, about the structure of our Board Committees and theareas our meetings focus on.
Board members appreciate their interactions with shareholders and listen carefully to any comments.
I welcome your comments on this Corporate Governance Statement and on the2015 Annual Report more generally.
Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman 66 66 67 2 March 2016 Directors Report Directors Report Board of Directors and Board of Directors and Board of Directors and Executive Management Executive Management Executive Management Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors was promoted to President of Ashmore Group plc.
He chairs the Key to Committee members Executive Business Aircraft.
Peter was Chief Board of Trustees of the Vodafone Audit and Risk Committee Directors Simon Pryce 54 Sir Nigel Rudd 69 Executive Officer of Jet Aviation, Foundation and is an adviser to Nomination Committee Group Chief Executive Chairman aglobal business aircraft service Dentons and Silicon Valley Bank Remuneration Committee Appointed to the Board as Group Appointed to the Board in provider, between 2007 and 2011. and sits on the Financial Chief Executive in June 2007.
Sir Nigel Rudd Since leaving Jet Aviation, Peter Reporting Council.
Simon also chairs the BBA Aviation became Chairman in May 2014. has been active with his aviation Executive Management SirNigel is chairman of Heathrow advisory practice, along with Peter Ratcliffe 67 Committee.
In addition to his BBA Airport Holdings Limited, Meggitt various roles in European based Non-Executive Director Simon Pryce, Mike Powell, Aviation plc position, Simon is on PLC and Sappi Limited.
In ventures in the commercial and Appointed to the Board in January Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director the board of the General Aviation February 2011, he was appointed business aviation sectors.
Peter brings to the Board Manufacturers Association Chairman of the Business Growth adirector of Dunn-Edwards hisexperience of working in an GAMA, the US general aviation Fund and became a senior adviser Corporation, a LosAngeles based industry focused on customer Chairman and trade body, and is chairman of its to Barclays plc in January 2013. manufacturer and retailer of service, as he was the chief Non-Executive International Affairs Committee.
SirNigel has a wealth of architectural and industrial paint executive officer of P&O Princess Directors Simon is a Fellow of the Royal experience at the top of UK products.
Cruises PLC until April 2003 and Aeronautical Society, a member industry, including previous chief executive officer of the of the Council of the University of chairmanships of Invensys plc, Susan Kilsby 57 P&OPrincess Cruises division of Reading, a chartered accountant Alliance Boots plc, Pendragon plc Non-Executive Director Carnival Corporation and Carnival and a member of the Chartered and Pilkington plc: and as founder Appointed to the Board in April plc from 2003 to 2007.
He also Susan Kilsby Institute for Securities and of Williams plc he oversaw its 2012 and became Chairman of the brings his significant experience Sir Nigel Rudd, Peter Edwards Wayne Edmunds Investment.
He was previously demerger in 2000, creating Chubb Remuneration Committee in May both as an executive and a Chairman with JP Morgan and Lazards in plc and Kidde plc.
Susan brings to the Board non-executive director of UK London and New York and GKN Deputy Lieutenant of Derbyshire her global investment banking andUS public listed companies.
plc in a range of international and a Freeman of the City of experience, having begun He was previously an executive finance and management roles.
hercareer at the First Boston director of The Peninsular and Corporation and later worked Oriental Steam Navigation Mike Powell 48 Wayne Edmunds 60 atBankers Trust and BZW, before Company.
He is a chartered Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director the latter was acquired by Credit accountant and a dual US UK Appointed to the Board as Group Appointed to the Board in August Suisse.
She was chairman of the citizen.
He is currently a Finance Director in July 2014.
Wayne is a non-executive EMEA Mergers and Acquisitions non-executive director of Mead Mikejoined from AZ Electronic director of Ashtead Group plc, team at Credit Suisse until 2009 Johnson Nutrition Company and Nick Land Peter Ratcliffe Materials, a FTSE 250 company MSCI, Inc and Dialight PLC.
He was and she was also a non-executive Casa Pacifica Center for Children Peter Ventress with international reach, where chief executive of Invensys plc director of LOccitane and and Families.
heheld the role of chief financial until January 2014.
Prior to this extensive commercial experience, appointments include being Peter Ventress 55 Mikewas group finance director particularly in the US markets.
chairman of Shire plc and a Non-Executive Director Executive Read more online of Nippon Sheet Glass Co. Limited, Previously, Wayne was chief non-executive director of Fortune Appointed to the Board in January www.
com Management board having previously spent 15 years financial officer of Invensys plc, Brands Home & Security, Inc. 2016.
Peter is Deputy Chairman at Pilkington plc in a variety of having joined the business in Herexperience advising clients and Senior Independent Director senior finance roles.
2008 as CFO of Invensys Process across a range of industries of Galliford Try plc and a Systems.
He joined Invensys plc includes significant deals in the non-executive director of Premier from Reuters America, Inc. having aviation and aerospace sectors.
Farnell plc and Softcat plc.
From held other senior financial roles in 2009 he spent six years as Chief Kevin Erickson Gareth Hall Mark Johnstone Peg Billson the technology sector, including 17 Nick Land 68 Executive Officer of Berendsen years at Lucent Technologies, Inc. Non-Executive Director plc.
Prior to this he held several Appointed to the Board in August senior executive roles, including Peter Edwards 60 2006.
Nick was formerly chairman International President, at Staples Non-Executive Director of Ernst & Young LLP and a Inc. and Chief Executive Officer, Appointed to the Board in January member of the Global Executive atCorporate Express NV a Dutch 2016.
Peter has spent his career Board of Ernst & Young, positions quoted company prior to its primarily in the aerospace sector which he held from 1995 to 2006. acquisition by Staples Inc. Peter across a wide spectrum of roles.
In addition to his experience as a has held a number of other senior He began his career with Air chartered accountant, Nick brings management positions across Research Aviation, followed by to the Board his extensive skills different businesses in a variety nine years at Gulfstream in a asan adviser to international ofindustries and has lived and Erik Keller Tony Lefebvre Iain Simm Maria Sastre variety of senior sales and businesses.
His current worked in France, Canada and marketing roles.
In 1995, he appointments include being theNetherlands.
joinedBombardier Aerospace anon-executive director of Corporation, where in 2001 he Vodafone Group Plc and the 68 69 Directors Report Directors Report 1.
Compliance In addition to the issues in the table, the Board considers a report 4.
The Board and independence Directors Corporate Simon Pryce as Group Chief Executive is primarily Directors Corporate The Board is committed to ensuring appropriate standards from the CEO and the Finance Director at each meeting.
The At the date of this report, the Board comprises the Chairman, Governance Statement Governance Statement responsible for: ofcorporate governance are maintained at BBA Aviation plc.
Board also considers mergers and acquisitions activity, Health sixindependent non-executive directors and two executive the development and after discussion and agreement The Company applies the principles of corporate and Safety matters and a report on litigation at each meeting.
directors, who contribute a wide range of complementary with the Board implementation of Board strategy governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code Additional meetings were convened in July and skillsand experience.
andpolicy: published in September 2014 the Code, which sets the September 2015 and considered matters relating to the The Board has concluded that Wayne Edmunds, the running of the Groups business: standards of good practice in relation to Board leadership and acquisition of Landmark Aviation.
PeterEdwards, Susan Kilsby, Nick Land, Peter Ratcliffe and ensuring that the business strategy and activities effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved PeterVentress are independent in character and judgement.
areeffectively communicated and promoted within shareholders.
The Board monitors the evolution of corporate to it for decision, including approval of matters such as: TheCompany has formal procedures in place to ensure that the andoutside the business: and governance best practice, reviews and updates its procedures strategy and objectives: Boards powers to authorise conflicts are operated effectively building positive relationships with the Companys asrequired and adopts, where relevant, recommendations Group policies: and such procedures have been followed throughout 2015. stakeholders.
annual budgets: The Board has decided that all Board members wishing to The directors can confirm compliance throughout 2015 dividends: continue serving on the Board will retire and stand for re-election 6.
Board appointments with all relevant provisions set out in the Code.
acquisitions and disposals of businesses over a certain size : at the 2016 AGM.
The Board believes that each of such directors The Board acknowledges its responsibility for planned and expenditure over a certain limit: should be re-elected by shareholders, because each continues progressive refreshing of the Board.
The Boards role financial results: and tobe effective and demonstrates commitment to their role.
transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the appointment and removal of directors and Company As set out in the covering letter, Nick Land will not seek the Board, the prime responsibility for which is delegated to the long-term success of the Company.
Its role includes providing Secretary.
re-election at the 2016 AGM having served over nine years as Nomination Committee.
Further details about this Committee effective leadership and agreeing the Groups strategic aims.
Susan Kilsby will become the Senior are set out in section 9b below.
Itassesses business opportunities and seeks to ensure that This schedule of matters is reviewed by the Board each year.
Independent Director and Wayne Edmunds will chair the Audit The Nomination Committee had one scheduled meeting appropriate controls are in place to examine and manage risk.
Matters outside the scope of this formal schedule are decided and Risk Committee following the 2016 AGM.
and three additional meetings in 2015 relating in part to the It is responsible for reviewing managements performance bymanagement in accordance with delegated authorities During the year, the Chairman met the other nonrecruitment of the two new non-executive directors, Peter and oversees senior level succession planning within the Group.
approved by the Board and by the Audit and Risk Committee.
executive directors without the attendance of the executive Edwards and Peter Ventress.
During the year, the Committee The Board is also responsible for setting the Companys values directors on a number of occasions.
Following the Board continued to discuss matters relating to talent and succession and standards, ensuring the Companys obligations to its 3.
2015 Board and Board Committee meeting attendance effectiveness review, Nick Land collated the feedback on the See more online planning for leadership development across the Group.
The following table shows the attendance of Board and Board Chairman, discussed this with the other non-executive directors investors considered as one aspect of the succession planning discussions, and, taking the views of the executive directors, conducted a There were seven scheduled Board meetings in 2015.
Committee members at scheduled meetings.
It does not show together with developing and strengthening the pipeline of Details of attendance at scheduled Board and Board Committee attendance by non-Committee members at meetings to which review of the performance.
There were several occasions during talent within the Group and increasing the interaction between meetings are shown in the table in section 3.
Board meetings the year when discussions between various directors took place they were invited.
Board members and senior members of executive management focus on strategy and financial and business performance.
Audit and talented future executives, for example.
Additional meetings are called as required to deal with specific Executive directors must obtain the prior consent of and Risk Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee The topic of diversity covers a variety of different elements, matters.
The Board agenda is set by the Chairman in consultation theBoard before accepting a non-executive directorship in any including professional and industry experience and an with the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, other company.
Executive directors may retain the fees from any Attendance at all Number of understanding of different geographical regions, ethnic Scheduled Board and other Board members and the Group Secretary.
No executive directors held non-executive scheduled meetings 7 5 4 1 Board Committee backgrounds and genders.
The Board does not believe that A number of the key matters considered by the Board directorships during 2015, although Simon Pryce is a member of Sir Nigel Rudd 7 7 4 4 1 1 meetings genderquotas or any other quotas effectively promote the during 2015 are shown in the table below: theCouncil of the University of Reading and is on the Board of Simon Pryce 7 7 development of appropriate and broad diversity.
The Board does theGeneral Aviation Manufacturers Association GAMA.
Mike Powell 7 7 believe that an appreciation of the value that a diverse range of Meeting Main issues considered Nick Land 7 7 5 5 4 4 1 1 backgrounds brings is an important part of succession planning 5.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive February Annual Results and Report content, AGM at all levels of the Group.
The Board does continue to have an Susan Kilsby 7 7 5 5 4 4 1 1 Throughout 2015, there has continued to be a clear division andDividend aspiration to increase female representation on the Board and, Peter Ratcliffe 7 7 5 5 4 4 1 1 ofresponsibilities between the Chairman and the Group May Board Evaluation when engaging external search consultants to identify future ChiefExecutive.
Sir Nigel Rudd, as the Chairman, is primarily Wayne Edmunds 7 7 5 5 4 4 1 1 Strategic business review: ASIG candidates for Board roles, such consultants would be requested responsible for leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
Landmark Aviation Acquisition 100% to take full account of all aspects of diversity in preparing their Simon Pryce, as the Group Chief Executive, is primarily In 2015, there were two additional Board meetings, three June Strategic Business Review: DAI including visit candidate lists.
responsible for the development and after discussion and additional Remuneration Committee meetings and three Employee Survey Action Plans There is a written framework for the induction of new agreement with the Board implementation of Board strategy additional Nomination Committee meetings.
All Board and Landmark Aviation Acquisition directors which includes site visits, meetings with senior and policy and the running of the Groups business.
The written Committee members attended the additional meetings.
management and advisers, and the provision of corporate August Half year results and interim dividend statement of the division of responsibilities between the two TheChairman and each of the non-executive directors have documentation.
The focus of any induction programme is Progress against Board Objectives positions was last reviewed by the Board in December 2015. provided assurances to the Board that they remain fully tailored to the background of the new director concerned.
Landmark Aviation Acquisition committed to their respective roles and can dedicate the The induction of a new executive director would be mostly October Update on Board Evaluation necessary amount of time to attend to the Companys affairs.
Sir Nigel Rudd as Chairman is primarily responsible for: focused on the obligations and requirements of being the November Strategic Business Review: Ontic including visit If any director was unable to attend a meeting, they would leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness: director of a listed company.
An induction for a non-executive Landmark Aviation Integration Plans discuss, in advance, with the relevant chairman their views on the setting the Board agenda and ensuring the directors director who already holds other listed company directorships IT Strategy business of that meeting so that their position can be represented.
receive information in an accurate, clear and timely manner: would be more focused on introducing the director to the December 2016 Budget and Goals promoting effective decision-making: businesses within BBA Aviation.
The induction programmes Board Objectives progress and targets ensuring the performance of the Board, its Committees forPeter Edwards and Peter Ventress started shortly after Landmark Aviation Acquisition regulatory update and individual directors are evaluated on an annual basis: appointment.
New non-executive directors are also available Ethics policies and tomeet major shareholders on request.
ensuring that appropriate Board training and Appointments of non-executive directors are made by development occur.
theBoard for an initial term of three years.
This term is subject tothe usual regulatory provisions and continued satisfactory 70 71 Directors Report Directors Report All directors have access to the advice and services of the Group performance of duties following the Boards annual performance a. Remuneration Committee Composition Other directors attend Nomination Committee meetings by Directors Corporate Directors Corporate evaluation.
Reappointment for a further term is not automatic but Secretary, and the Board has established a procedure whereby The composition of the Remuneration Committee during 2015 invitation.
The Nomination Committee meets as required.
During Governance Statement Governance Statement directors wishing to do so in furtherance of their duties may may be made by mutual agreement.
All directors of the Company isset out in the table below.
During the year four members were 2015, the Committee had one scheduled meeting and three will retire and stand for election re-election at the 2016AGM.
takeindependent professional advice at the Companys expense.
independent non-executive directors with the Chairman being additional meetings.
This was supplemented by informal The Company arranges appropriate insurance cover in the fifth member.
The fees of the non-executive directors are determined respect of meetings, individual briefings and meetings between bythe Board as a whole on the recommendation of the Group legal actions against its directors.
The Company has also entered Committee members.
During year 01 01 15 Resigned Appointed 31 12 15 02 03 16 Chief Executive.
No director is involved in deciding his or her into indemnities with its directors, as described on page 106. ownremuneration or fees.
Letters of appointment for the Wayne Edmunds Role non-executive directors are available for inspection by 8.
Board effectiveness review Peter Edwards The primary responsibilities of the Nomination Committee shareholders at each AGM and during normal business hours The Board appointed Clare Chalmers of Independent Audit Susan Kilsby areto: atthe Companys registered office.
toconduct a Board effectiveness review in the second half of Committee make appropriate recommendations to the Board for the theyear.
The effectiveness review included interviews with all Chairman appointment or replacement of additional directors: 7.
Information and professional development the directors, the Company Secretary and General Counsel, Nick Land devise and consider succession planning arrangements The Chairman takes responsibility for ensuring the directors anumber of attendees at Board meetings and the external audit for directors and senior executives: and Peter Ratcliffe receive accurate, timely and clear information, with Board and partner, together with a desktop review of Board materials and regularly review the structure, size and composition of Sir Nigel Rudd Committee papers being circulated sufficiently in advance of corporate governance documentation.
theBoard and make recommendations to the Board Peter Ventress meetings.
The Board and its Committees are kept informed of Clare Chalmers prepared a report summarising the findings withregard to any changes.
Corporate Governance and relevant regulatory developments of the evaluation and this report was discussed by the Board as asthey arise and receive topical business briefings.
During 2015, the Remuneration Committee had four scheduled Work of the Committee also keeps itself informed about the Companys activities Overall, the conclusion from the Board evaluation and meetings and three additional meetings.
These meetings were The Nomination Committee evaluates the existing balance of through a structured programme of presentations from each appraisal process was positive, with each individual director minuted by the Group Secretary.
Executive directors and the experience, skills, knowledge, independence and diversity of ofthe businesses within the Group and from a number of contributing actively to the effective performance of the Board Group HR Director attend Remuneration Committee meetings backgrounds on the Board when considering Board succession Groupfunctional leaders.
and the Committees of which he or she is a member.
The Committee recognises that promoting an inclusive In 2015, senior executives also gave presentations to the identified a number of strengths and areas of focus, for further environment and diverse participation on the Board requires Board on projects in development and there were presentations continuous improvement.
The strengths were: Role thatthe external search consultants appointed to identify future from a number of the Companys corporate advisers.
Board composition, which is further strengthened by the The Remuneration Committee has two principal functions: candidates for a Board role, be requested to approach their The Audit and Risk Committee is routinely briefed on appointment of Peter Ventress and Peter Edwards: making recommendations to the Board on the framework search with these goals in mind.
Other factors that also need to accounting and technical matters by senior management and Strong collegiate relationships with open and robust and Board policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, be taken into account are the current and future requirements of bythe external auditor.
In 2015, briefings included considering challenge: executive directors and other designated senior the Company and, in the case of a non-executive appointment, the progress of the exposure draft on revenue recognition and of Comprehensive and focused review of strategy: and executives: and the time commitment expected.
proposed revisions to the exposure draft on accounting for leases.
Effective support to the Board from the Company Secretariat.
determining on behalf of the Board, the specific The appointment process is initiated by identifying suitable The Remuneration Committee receives updates on remuneration package for each of the executive directors, external search consultants for the vacancy and preparing details See more online remuneration trends and market practices as part of its The areas for focus and continuous improvement are: www.
com including pension rights and any compensation payments.
of the role and capabilities required for the appointment.
Such regularlyscheduled business and in 2015 Succession Planning - including increasing the Boards investors consultants will be a signatory to the voluntary code of conduct  LLP PwC provided input and advice exposure to senior management below Executive for executive search firms on gender diversity.
The process differs Work of the Committee on these areas.
Management Committee level: in its detail depending on whether the appointment is for an Further details of the Remuneration Committees work appear in In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman Board Papers reduction in volume and improved use of executive or non-executive position, but the essentials remain the Directors Remuneration Report.
maintains regular contact during the year with the other executive summaries to aid readability of the papers: and the same.
The appointment process for Peter Edwards and directors to discuss specific issues.
Opportunities also exist Timing of meetings monitor the timing of Board and Board PeterVentress is described below.
Nomination Committee Composition throughout the year for informal contact between Board Committee meetings to make sure that there remains The Zygos Partnership Zygos was appointed to assist with The composition of the Nomination Committee is set out in the members and with members of the senior management team.
sufficient time to address all the relevant issues with the the selection processes that resulted in the appointment of Peter table below.
During 2015, the Nomination Committee comprised Site visits are an important part of the Boards programme, enlarged Group.
Edwards and Peter Ventress on 1 January 2016.
Zygos only of the Chairman and four independent non-executive directors.
enabling Board members to meet employees in individual current relationship with BBA Aviation plc is in respect of search operations.
In 2015, the Board held two of its scheduled seven During year The Board is committed to making improvements in these areas 01 01 15 Resigned Appointed 31 12 15 02 03 16 and selection recruitment.
The June meeting was held in Dallas which highlighted in the Board evaluation.
Zygos presented to the Board a list of potential candidates Wayne Edmunds allowed the Board to visit the Dallas Airmotive engine repair and The performance of the Chairman was also reviewed and a shortlist was created through consultation amongst overhaul facilities.
The November meeting was held in California Peter Edwards through the Board Evaluation process.
The Board as a whole was and the Board visited the Ontic business based in Chatsworth.
The Board has reviewed the objectives it set itself for 2015, Susan Kilsby updated regularly on the status of the appointment process.
These visits enabled the Board to meet both formally and which included succession planning, senior leadership Nick Land Theselected candidates met with the Committee members informally with a number of employees.
development and enhancing the Boards exposure to regulatory Peter Ratcliffe asappropriate and the Committee made sure that each A register of the training that individual directors have issues.
The Board considers it has made good progress against its Sir Nigel Rudd Boardmember was given the opportunity to meet any short undertaken is maintained by the Company and this register objectives although, as noted above, recognises that succession Committee listed candidates.
isperiodically reviewed by the Chairman with the director planning remains an area of focus.
Chairman The Nomination Committee then met to finalise a concerned, as part of the Chairmans regular review of their recommendation to the Board regarding the appointment.
Peter Ventress training and development needs.
If particular training needs are 9.
Board Committees Thefinal decision rested with the Board.
identified, then plans are put in place and the Company provides The Board operates a Remuneration Committee, a Nomination Further details about Board appointments and the work appropriate resources for developing and updating the directors Committee and an Audit and Risk Committee.
Written terms of ofthe Nomination Committee are set out in section 6 above.
The Board believes that the identification reference for each Committee are reviewed each year and are of individual training and development needs is primarily the available on the Groups website www.
com or on responsibility of each individual director, bearing in mind the request from the Group Secretary.
range of experiences and skills that are developed by their differing portfolios.
72 73 Directors Report Directors Report associated with acquisitions and the amortisation of acquired c. Audit and Risk Committee Chief Risk Officer as well as the external auditor and Head of Group competitiveness of fees.
The appointment of the Senior Statutory Directors Corporate Directors Corporate Internal Audit, also generally attend the Audit and Risk Committee Auditor is also rotated every five years.
Governance Statement Governance Statement The Committee, through detailed discussion with both meetings by invitation.
In 2015, the Audit and Risk Committee held The Audit and Risk Committee discharges its Nick Land three confidential sessions with the Head of Group Internal Audit, responsibilities through the review of written reports circulated theGroup Finance Director and external auditors, was satisfied Chairman of the that the policy had been applied consistently and these items the Chief Risk Officer and with the external auditor, but otherwise in advance of meetings and by discussing these reports and Audit and Risk without management present.
In addition, the Chairman of the anyother matters with the relevant auditors and management.
had been properly defined in the financial statements, such that Committee the user of the accounts can understand the impact on our Committee met with the auditor, the Chief Risk Officer and Internal Topics covered by the Committee during 2015 and to See more online Audit on a number of occasions during the year and through to datein 2016 included: reported performance.
The Committee Chairman may call a meeting at review of any significant financial reporting issues and the request of any director or the Companys external auditor.
judgements in respect of the half-year results and year-end b.
Accrual for current taxation liabilities The Audit and Risk Committee, as can be seen from the As part of the process of concluding the Groups financial report and accounts described in more detail in section description of its role, discharges a number of key responsibilities 10below including the disclosures relating to tax: statements, management is required to calculate tax liabilities.
Role on behalf of the Board and the Company.
These include Asdetailed in Critical accounting judgements and key sources review of any significant matters raised by the internal auditors: The Audit and Risk Committee may consider any matter that monitoring BBA Aviations financial reporting processes, consideration of the audit fee and the balance between ofestimation uncertainty in the Accounting Policies of the might have a financial impact on the Group.
However, its overseeing the work of the Internal Audit team and reporting Group, starting on page 119, this process involves estimates of audit and non-audit fees: primary roles are to: onthe independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
annual review of the terms of reference of the Committee, the current tax exposures.
While the Group aims to ensure that monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys Whilst risk strategy and risk appetite are matters for the these accruals are accurate, the process for agreeing tax liabilities ofthe schedule of the Committees agenda items for the internal control and risk assessment: whole Board, the oversight of the processes that underpin risk forthcoming year, of the non-audit services policy and of with the tax authorities can take several years.
Judgement is monitor the effectiveness of the Companys Internal assessment and internal control are matters that the Board therefore required in determining the provision for tax.
BBA Aviations matrix of authority levels: Audit function: delegates to this Committee.
For the production of the 2015 review of the effectiveness of Internal Audit and discussion The Committee addressed these issues through a range review and assess the Companys external audit function, Report and Accounts, the Audit and Risk Committee was asked ofreporting from senior management during the year and a of further developments in Group Internal Audits overall including the annual audit plan and results of the external by the Board to advise whether the Report and Accounts, taken strategy: process of challenging the appropriateness of managements audit and the independence of the external auditor: as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide views.
This included assessing the degree to which judgements auditor independence and audit effectiveness described monitor the integrity and audit of the Companys financial the information necessary for shareholders to assess the inmore detail in section 11 below : and were supported by external professional advice as well as statements and any formal announcements relating to Companys performance, business model and strategy.
systems of internal control described in more detail in the Companys financial performance, including a review The Audit and Risk Committee also reviewed the viability section 11 below.
of the significant financial reporting judgements statement and the supporting process on behalf of the Board.
c. Provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory contained within them: The report of the Audit and Risk Committee is set out The Committees terms of reference were updated during the The Group holds significant inventory across its operations, review the contents of the Annual Report and Accounts below, particularly in sections 10 and 11. with$221.3 million of net inventory at 31 December 2015.
This year to reflect the changes in the UK Corporate Governance and advise the Board on whether, taken as a whole, they Code 2014 that applied to the Company for the first time in 2015. inventory is held at cost net of a provision for slow moving or are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the Nick Land The Committees terms of reference also reflected the changes obsolete inventory.
As detailed in Critical accounting judgements information necessary for shareholders to assess the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee inthe Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market and key sources of estimation uncertainty in the Accounting Companys performance, business model and strategy: Investigation Order 2014 and the Company was compliant with Policies of the Group, starting on page 119, key to the estimation review the going concern statement and the viability Composition that order throughout the year.
of this provision is an assessment of the remaining lives of the statement on behalf of the Board: and The composition of the Audit and Risk Committee during 2015 engine platforms, the estimated frequency of overhauls and the establish and oversee the Companys arrangements isset out in the table below.
All members of the Audit and Risk 10.
Significant financial reporting issues considered by the expected future usage of inventory based upon past experience foremployee disclosure and fraud prevention within Committee are independent non-executive directors.
Nick Land, Audit and Risk Committee and the level of write-offs in previous years.
the Committees Chairman, has recent and relevant financial To aid its review, the Committee considers reports from the During 2013, management undertook a review of the experience and a professional accountancy qualification Group Finance Director and Group Financial Controller and also consistency in the estimations of the excess and obsolete Work of the Committee asconsidered desirable by the Financial Reporting Councils reports from the outcome of the half-year review and annual inventory of engine and aircraft components across the The Audit and Risk Committee reviews twice-yearly reports on Guidance on Audit Committees issued in September 2012. audit.
The Committee supports Deloitte LLP in displaying the Aftermarket Services division.
An amendment was made to the the Groups key business risks and the Committee members Inaddition, the other Committee members all have experience necessary professional scepticism its role requires.
The primary policy which is designed to achieve a greater level of consistency allof whom are also members of the Remuneration Committee of corporate financial matters and Peter Ratcliffe has a areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to across the division as well as more precisely defining the basis are aware of the importance of keeping the appropriateness of professional accountancy qualification.
Wayne Edmunds the 2015 financial statements and how these were addressed forprovisioning.
This policy has been consistently applied by hashelda number of senior international finance roles.
The Committee also assesses were consistent with prior periods and included: management during 2014 and 2015 and forms an important compliance with the Directors Responsibility Statements.
During year recording of exceptional items within operating profit: partof the audit of Deloitte LLP.
The Committee has confirmed 01 01 15 Resigned Appointed 31 12 15 02 03 16 There is a twice-yearly formal report to the Committee on accrual for current taxation liabilities: through its enquiries of management and Deloitte that the business ethics and compliance, which includes such matters as Wayne Edmunds provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory: policy remains appropriate and has been consistently applied.
the review of the Groups Disclosure of Unethical Conduct Policy, Peter Edwards recognition of revenue in respect of engine sale and under which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about leaseback transactions: and d. Recognition of revenue in respect of engine sale and Nick Land possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
leaseback transactions Committee Inaddition, at each meeting, the Committee reviews reports on During the year, the ERO business sold and subsequently leased Chairman any items arising under that policy.
These issues were discussed with management and the back a number of engines in the normal course of its business: Susan Kilsby The Committee is responsible for making recommendations externalauditor in the October meeting when signing off on these leases have been treated as operating leases.
Peter Ratcliffe to the Board on matters within its remit, including the theauditors plan for the year-end, and no new areas were In determining this treatment, management has Peter Ventress remuneration and appointment of the external auditor.
considered the terms of the leases and has sought third party the appointment of the external auditor is considered each year, valuation to assess the balance of transfer of risks and rewards it is the policy of the Committee to review the appointment in During 2015, the Audit and Risk Committee had five scheduled a.
Recording of exceptional and other items within operating with the lessor.
The Committee addressed this matter through meetings, generally coinciding with key dates in the financial greater detail at least every five years with the last review taking profit receiving reports from management, as well as detailed reports place in 2014, taking into account a number of factors, including reporting and audit cycle.
These meetings are minuted by the The Groups policy is to include certain items within operating from Deloitte LLP.
Group Secretary or his designate.
The Chairman, Group Chief audit effectiveness at both operating Company and Group-level: profit within a middle column within the Income Statement.
quality, continuity and depth of resources: and expertise and Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, These items relate to restructuring activities, transaction costs 74 75 Directors Report Directors Report implementation.
Services which the external auditor may 1.
Risks are identified through a detailed written self-assessment e. Impairment 5.
An annual budgeting exercise is carried out to set targets for Directors Corporate Directors Corporate On an annual basis, management test for impairment of goodwill bepermitted to carry out include assurance services such as process carried out by Division and by function.
The process each of the Groups reporting units.
Governance Statement Governance Statement reporting accountant work and tax compliance services.
The analyses risk into eight types covering strategic, operational, as is set out in note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Based on managements budgets and plans, there is headroom Companys policy is not to use the external auditor for acquisition financial, people, compliance, governance, hazard and an 6.
Detailed management accounts are submitted monthly to and due diligence work.
However, where the Group considers it other category, including unpredictable, although with across all cash generating units CGUs but the headroom is management which measure actual performance against significantly reduced for Dallas Airmotive and ASIG CGUs.
appropriate or where conflicts arise, suppliers other than the hindsight, often inevitable events.
They are recorded on Risk budget and forecasts.
The monthly forecasts of sales, Registers together with the mitigations in place.
profitsand operating cash are updated on a quarterly basis.
Therefore, it is the Committees conclusion that a reasonably preferred supplier may be asked to tender.
This would only include foreseeable change in the key assumptions underpinning the the external auditor in unusual and exceptional circumstances.
Amonthly report is provided to the Board, based on On a bi-annual basis, Risk Registers are refreshed, and the key thesemanagement accounts, highlighting key issues and impairment tests could result in a significant impairment being Non-audit fees paid or due to the external auditor are recorded in the financial statements.
regularly reviewed by the Committee and those paid in 2015 risks at Division and Group level are plotted on Risk Maps, summarising the detailed financial information provided by which are discussed with senior business management, the operating units.
The integrity of management accounts In arriving at this conclusion the Committee reviewed areset out in note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
analysis provided by management and the report of Deloitte LLP, If fees for non-audit projects within the scope of permitted Divisional management and BBA Aviations Executive with the underlying financial records is subject to review as part of the Internal Audit process.
and particularly considered the sensitivities in respect of the tax services are expected to exceed 250,000 in a particular year, Management Committee in order to validate the risk profile.
Dallas Airmotive International and ASIGs CGUs.
The Committee then the Audit and Risk Committee Chairman is required to The validated Risk Maps are then discussed with the Audit 7.
Capital expenditure is controlled by means of budgets, was also satisfied that the disclosure in respect of these two pre-approve each project.
In any event, specific project approval and Risk Committee, together with key mitigation activities, CGUs was appropriate and sufficient.
is required by the Committee Chairman for any such project and further mitigation, if any, is agreed.
authorisation levels requiring the approval of major projects by the Board, and post-investment appraisals.
The lessons where estimated fees exceed 100,000.
Audit and accountability for non-tax projects where fees are estimated to exceed 25,000.
Group Internal Audit reviews the Risk Maps and Risk learned from the post-investment appraisals are also shared with members of senior management.
Auditor independence and audit effectiveness These limits are also reviewed annually.
Registersand builds its annual audit plan from the risk profile.
Central to the Audit and Risk Committees work is the review Deloitte LLP has confirmed that all non-audit services A transparent mapping is produced to link the Key Risks to 8.
Defined procedures are laid down for investments, currency andmonitoring of the external auditors independence and theyperformed during the year were permitted by APB Ethical the Internal Audit profile, setting out the rational for the focus objectivity, and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Standards and do not impair their independence or objectivity.
This is agreed annually with the hedging, granting of guarantees and use of treasury products.
The Committee carried out a formal effectiveness On the basis of their own review of the services performed, the Audit and Risk Committee.
assessment in respect of work carried out during the year by requirement of pre-approval and the auditors confirmation, 9.
A matrix defines the levels of authority for the Groups senior theexternal auditor, including: theCommittee is satisfied that the non-audit services currently Based on this information the Board reviews the risks and, if executives and their direct reports in relation to acquisitions, the continuity and objectivity of the audit partners and provided by Deloitte LLP do not impair their independence satisfied, confirms it is satisfied that the risks are appropriately capital expenditure, commercial and employee contracts auditteam: andobjectivity.
If this is not the case the Board requests that and treasury matters.
This is authorised by the Audit and Risk the effectiveness of audit planning and execution: management take further action.
Committee on behalf of the Board and is reviewed on an the role of management in ensuring an effective audit: b.
Systems of internal control annual basis.
Compliance is reviewed as part of the Internal communication with and support of the Audit and Risk Overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control 2.
An organisational structure is in place at both head office Audit process.
Committee: and and for reviewing its effectiveness rests with the Board.
anddivisional level which clearly defines responsibilities for the formal reporting of the auditor.
Management is accountable to the directors for monitoring this operational, accounting, taxation, treasury, legal, company 10.
All significant acquisitions and disposals of companies or system and for providing assurance to the directors that it has secretarial and insurance functions.
businesses are approved by the Board.
The assessment was completed with input in the form of a done so.
The system of internal control is essentially an ongoing survey of the key financial management team, including the process embedded in the Groups businesses for identifying, 3.
An Internal Audit function undertakes a programme of 11.
A Group policies manual sets out policies and procedures divisional Chief Financial Officers CFOs, the Group Financial evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the risk-based reviews of controls and business processes.
concerning: business ethics, bribery and corruption, gifts and Controller and the Tax Director, together with the Chairman Group, including social, environmental and ethical risks.
The Therole of Internal Audit is defined in a Group Internal Audit entertainment, equal opportunities and anti-harassment, ofthe Audit and Risk Committee.
Group considers that it has adequate information to identify Charter and this includes its terms of reference, the standards competition law, legal policy, data privacy, corporate social Other members of the Audit and Risk Committee also andassess significant risks and opportunities affecting its long which it adheres to, the scope and coverage of its work and responsibility CSR, market disclosure and communications input their views and it was concluded that the external audit and short-term value.
The Audit and Risk Committee and share dealing.
A review of compliance with such for2015 had provided appropriate focus and challenge on the This ongoing process has been in place for the year ended receives a report from Internal Audit at each meeting which policiesby Group companies is carried out twice a year and primary areas of audit risk.
Overall, the quality of the audit was 31 December 2015 and up to 2 March 2016 and the directors can includes opinions on the adequacy and effectiveness of senior executives are also required to confirm compliance assessed as good.
The Audit and Risk Committee also carried therefore confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness in controls by site, together with a summary of key issues, work with certain policies twice a year.
Group policies are out a self-assessment and believes that it has satisfied accordance with the internal control requirements of the Code schedules and details of any action required.
In accordance complemented by divisional and Company-led initiatives therequirements of the Code and the Guidance on Audit throughout that period.
with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Audit and and are supplemented by the Groups Disclosure of Unethical Committees published by the Financial Reporting Council in The Groups internal system of control is reviewed annually RiskCommittee monitors and reviews the effectiveness Conduct Policy, which includes a 24-hour hotline available September 2012.
The Committee has confirmed that during the by the directors and accords with the guidance issued by the ofInternal Audit using outside specialists as well as to all employees.
This is supported by a formal investigation year it had formal and transparent arrangements for considering Financial Reporting Council in October 2005: Internal Control: self-assessment techniques.
protocol and regular reporting to the Audit and Risk corporate reporting, risk management and internal control Revised Guidance for Directors on the Code known as the Turnbull Committee as part of the twice-yearly report on Business principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with guidance.
The system is designed to manage rather than A co-sourcing arrangement exists with PwC, headed by a Ethics and Compliance.
The Ethics Implementation Policy the Companys auditor.
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It can specialist PwC Internal Audit Partner who manages both BBA seeks to codify the overarching principles and processes One of the safeguards to ensure auditor objectivity and provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material Aviation and PwC staff in the delivery of the Internal Audit thatunderlie the various elements set out in more detail in independence is the Groups policy on the provision of misstatement or loss, to the extent that is appropriate, taking service.
This arrangement provides access to a broad range the Code of Business Ethics and the policies on bribery and non-audit services by its external auditor.
The policy is reviewed account of costs and benefits.
of skills and experience to support its effective delivery.
corruption and gifts and entertainment.
Compliance with all each year and, since December 2012, the policy prohibits the The principal risks and uncertainties which the Group faces these policies and with the Groups procedures concerning Groups external auditors from carrying out remuneration are summarised on pages 18 to 22, together with a description of 4.
A Group Finance Manual details accounting policies and the appointment and remuneration of foreign agents is consultancy and tax planning work for the Group.
The external their potential impact and mitigations in place.
The main features subject to review as considered necessary as part of the financial controls applicable to all reporting units.
The Group auditor is also prohibited from carrying out a number of other of the Groups internal control and risk management systems are accounting policies are aligned with International Financial ongoing BBA Aviation risk-based Internal Audit programme.
services for the Group such as book-keeping, Internal Audit, listed below.
The effectiveness of these policies is assessed alongside the Reporting Standards and compliance with these policies is valuations, actuarial services and financial systems design and reviewed as part of the Internal Audit process.
risk review process described in item 1 above.
A Group Safety Management System outlines policies, The Companys AGM is used as an opportunity to communicate Directors Remuneration Report Directors Corporate Directors Remuneration Report standards and procedures in conjunction with the business with private investors.
It is intended that the notice of the AGM Governance Statement line procedure manuals of the operating companies which and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working are applicable throughout the Group.
Annual self-assessment days before the meeting.
Sir Nigel Rudd as Chairman of the 2.
Key issues considered by the Remuneration Committee Susan Kilsby and or audits are carried out at Company level against the Board and the Nomination Committee, Nick Land as Chairman of in2015 Chairman of the Group standards and business line procedures.
Group level the Audit and Risk Committee and Senior Independent Director, The Remuneration Committee has considered a number of Remuneration HSE audits are performed to validate Company level and Susan Kilsby as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee important issues during 2015.
The key issues and the context Committee compliance.
An executive summary Health, Safety and will each be available to answer questions, as appropriate, at the inwhich they have been addressed are set out below: Environmental HSE report is tabled at each meeting of the AGM in 2016.
Shareholders are given the opportunity of voting Executive Management Committee.
The Board also receives separately on each proposal.
The Company counts all proxy Flight Support and relocation a summary HSE report in addition to updates on HSE votes cast in respect of the AGM and makes available the proxy When Michael Scheeringa resigned, the Board asked Simon activities.
These reports cover all Group companies and voting figures for, against and vote withheld on each Annual Statement Pryce to take on the role of President of Flight Support in addition areprepared by the internal Group HSE function.
The voting results of the AGM, together with the to his role as Group Chief Executive.
In order to fulfil these duties 1.
Introduction performance metrics are reviewed and verified annually by details of proxy votes cast prior to the meeting, are made I am pleased to introduce our Directors Remuneration Report for Simon Pryce was asked to spend significantly more of his time in an independent third party organisation.
Senior managers available on request and on the Companys website.
The Remuneration Committee agreed, in accordance 2015 which has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee performance and related financial incentives are tied in part of the AGM are announced to the market via a Regulatory on behalf of the Board.
with the Group Remuneration Policy, to provide accommodation to their success against selected annual HSE improvement NewsService.
for Simon Pryce whilst he is in the USA and an allowance to objectives.
Further details about HSE matters are set out in The Directors Corporate Governance Statement was AGM Voting support his incidental living expenses.
These additional benefits the Values Report 2015 on the BBA Aviation website.
BBA approved by the Board on 2 March 2016 and signed on its are included in the single figure table and explained on page 88.
I was delighted with the level of support from shareholders at the Aviations Group Internal Audit team includes a number behalfby: AGM in May for the new Directors Remuneration Policy 96.77% ofquestions on CSR matters in the annual Control Risk Landmark Aviation voted for.
It was, however, disappointing that the Directors See more online Assessment questionnaire which is completed by each Report on Remuneration for 2014 received support from only The transformational acquisition of Landmark Aviation and www.
com of the operating businesses.
Sir Nigel Rudd associated fundraising had a number of consequences that investors 60.37% of shareholders.
Following this result at the AGM I wrote Chairman to the ten largest shareholders who had voted against the theRemuneration Committee considered post signing of the 12.
Shareholder relations 2 March 2016 transaction: Remuneration Report for 2014 and offered a personal meeting so The Board as a whole is routinely kept up to date on the views that I could gain a better understanding of the reasons for their ofBBA Aviations major shareholders.
The executive directors a Impact of the Rights Issue vote against the resolution and, where appropriate, explain our undertake an annual programme of meetings with banks, decisions.
The meetings and comments from shareholders were The Remuneration Committee considered the impact of the institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts to RightsIssue on existing and outstanding equity based DBP, DSP, very helpful to me and I briefed the Remuneration Committee maintain a continuing dialogue with the Companys providers on shareholders views, which related principally to the level Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, ELTIP and Save as you earn SAYE offinance.
The Board receives formal written reports from its awards.
Itdetermined that it was appropriate to make standard ofdisclosure to support the discretion exercised by the brokers as well as reports from the executive directors regarding Remuneration Committee rather than concerns around the adjustments to the number of awards in respect of the nil paid the views of shareholders following its preliminary and half-year element of the Rights Issue as set out in the respective rules of decision or indeed remuneration itself.
The Remuneration results announcements and at other times as appropriate.
Committee has taken this on board and intends to make sure the plans.
Full details of the adjustment are set out on page 94.
All non-executive directors, including the Senior that our reporting provides detailed explanations of the Independent Director, are available to meet with major decisions taken or any discretion exercised by the Remuneration b Base Salary shareholders.
The Chairman wrote to major shareholders ahead The transformational nature of the acquisition of Landmark Committee in the future.
Further details on the AGM voting in of the 2015 AGM offering them the opportunity to raise any 2015 are on page 92.
Aviation required the Committee to consider the increased scope issues or questions.
The Chairman and the Chairman of the and responsibility of the executive directors and other senior Remuneration Committee also maintain contact, as required, New Directors Remuneration Policy executives in integrating the acquisition and managing the withmajor shareholders about directors remuneration matters.
With shareholders approval for the new Directors Remuneration In 2015, there was a comprehensive engagement programme Policy at the 2015 AGM, we extended the withholding and with the top 1012 shareholders.
The Board considers that its Following a detailed review of the changes to the scope and recovery provisions often known as Malus and Clawback non-executive directors, including its current and successor to all elements of variable remuneration for directors and all complexity of the executive directors roles as a result of the Senior Independent Director, have a good level of understanding acquisition, individual performance and market comparisons employees who receive awards under the discretionary share of the issues and concerns of major shareholders, as required plans.
The target shareholding for executive directors increased against organisations of similar size and complexity and wider bythe Code.
employee salary increases: the Remuneration Committee from 100% to 200% of salary.
approved increases of 9.4% to Simon Pryces salary and 9.3% forMike Powell.
The reasons behind these increases are set out The new Directors Remuneration Policy introduced the Extended Long-Term Incentive Plan ELTIP award with on page 90.  conditions and we granted awards to 12 members of staff, including the two executive directors, c Share based incentives granted in 2013, 2014 and 2015 The transaction, due to its scale, the rationale behind it and the following the AGM.
equity issue to finance it has resulted in the Committee deciding to undertake a review of its impact on the in-flight share based The new policy also introduced the Deferred Stock Plan DSP toreplace the Deferred Bonus Plan DBP.
The first awards under awards.
As part of this review, I am discussing our proposals with shareholders.
We have already determined that no adjustment the Deferred Stock Plan will be made in March 2016.
These awards are disclosed in the 2015 single figure table and under should be made to the 2013 award due to the short amount of the performance period left to be completed at the point the normal circumstances will not be released until 2019. acquisition occurred.
