66 Corporate governance statement continued Major shareholder dinner with our If shareholders have any concerns, which Relations with shareholders Chairman and Senior Independent the normal channels of communication Director to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Shareholder engagement Held on 26 November 2015, this dinner Financial Officer or the Chairman have Led by the Chairman, the board is was an opportunity for shareholders failed to resolve or for which contact committed to proactive and constructive to meet the Chairman and Senior is inappropriate, then the Senior engagement with shareholders Independent Director without the Independent Director is available to and recognises the important and executive directors being present.
valuable role that shareholders play in The event was attended by five major To that end, both the Chairman and safeguarding the groups governance.
shareholders and the topics discussed the Senior Independent Director make The board receives regular updates included the integration of James themselves available, when requested, on the views of our shareholders Drummond as our new CEO, the setting for meetings with shareholders on issues through briengs and reports from our of performance targets, and the general relating to the groups governance and interaction with shareholders during the economic and political outlook.
During the year, the Chairman year and from our brokers.
The feedback received by the Chairman of the board and the committee Shareholder engagement activities was very positive, with invitees chairmen received correspondence from during 2015 included: expressing their appreciation of the shareholders, institutional investors and dinner which provided an excellent proxy voting agencies which was then CEO introduction opportunity for open dialogue and reviewed by the board and committees In July, we hosted a drinks reception for at their respective next meeting.
the sincere hope that this event will be our major shareholders representing repeated.
We are pleased to confirm that a total of 20% of voting rights to meet our next shareholder dinner will be held Annual General Meeting our new CEO.
James Drummond will on 1 November 2016.
The Annual General Meeting takes place be available to meet with our private in London.
The 2016 meeting will be held shareholders at our 2016 AGM.
Analyst and investor meetings and on 28 April at the Royal Aeronautical Society, 4 Hamilton Place, London, presentations Remuneration policy consultation Analyst and investor meetings and W1J 7BQ, and details of the meeting The consultation on proposed and the resolutions to be proposed are presentations are held following the amendments to our remuneration release of our annual, half-year and set out in the Notice of AGM which is policy was led by the remuneration available to download on our website interim results announcements, and committee chairman, and the details are also streamed via a live webcast www.
com from 14 March of the amendments are set out in the 2016.
The Annual General Meeting for those unable to attend in person.
committee chairmans statement on The presentations continue to be gives shareholders, in particular our pages 7879.
All shareholders holding private shareholders, an opportunity to available on our website after broadcast.
1.5% or more of our total voting rights, hear about the general development and together representing close to 60% of the business and to ask questions Other shareholder meetings of total voting rights, were consulted, Throughout the year, 128 separate to the Chairman and, through him, the and we were delighted to receive chairmen of the various committees as meetings and conference calls were held responses from 50% of those consulted.
with existing and potential shareholders.
We also contacted three of the major These meetings were attended by either proxy voting agencies and were the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief grateful to receive feedback from two Financial Officer or sometimes both.
The results of the consultation The meetings focused primarily on were discussed by the remuneration the groups trading operations and the committee in October 2015, and the implementation of the groups strategy.
policy was updated to reect the views Where significant views were expressed, of the respondents.
either during or following the meeting via our brokers, these were recorded and circulated to all directors.
The number of meetings held is driven by investor demand, which was higher in 2015 than in 2014 when 87 separate meetings were held.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 67 Nomination Dear shareholder committeereport I am pleased to present to you the report of the work of the nomination committee during 2015.
2015 has been a busy year for the committee.
Having been advised of Peter Ventress intention to step down as Chief Executive Officer, we instigated and oversaw the process to identify his successor.
We were delighted to welcome James Drummond to the board on 1 August.
James has undergone a comprehensive induction programme which the nomination committee helped todesign, and this has underpinned the seamless transfer of responsibility from Iain Ferguson Peter to James.
Chairman of the nomination committee More information on James recruitment Page 68 2015 Key achievements A full description of James induction a The successful recruitment of Page 55 James Drummond as Chief Details of James remuneration Executive Officer Page 91 a Monitored the comprehensive We have continued to focus on succession planning and talent development handover and induction programmes, as reported last year.
We have again been active in monitoring the programme designed for James succession planning processes in place across the group for the top 100 senior to ensure that it was effective and positions and also the continuing success of the Women in Berendsen network.
carefully tailored to requirements We believe that these initiatives will provide the foundation for a strong pipeline of a Ensured further development talent in the years to come.
of the management succession I am pleased with the ongoing success of the Berendsen talent development and development plans for programmes.
A particular highlight during the year was the internal appointment the Executive Board and of three new members to the Executive Board.
The programmes proved senior executives invaluable during this appointment process in providing internal candidates for our a Considered the extension of new positions: Managing Director of Hospitality, Director of Shared Services and Andrew Woods and David Director of Berendsen Excellence.
Biographical information of our new Executive Lowdens appointments for a Board members can be found on page 58.
We intend to retain succession further three-year term planning and talent development as regular focus areas and we will continue to monitor and develop our programmes in 2016.
Areas of focus in 2016 Following the completion of the strategy review, the committee intends to a Conduct a thorough board conduct a detailed review of the composition of the board and Executive Board.
composition review following the The review will consider the knowledge and skill demands of the revised strategy completion of the strategy review and also diversity considerations.
a Review the findings of the Finally, the committee has reviewed the appointments of Andrew Wood and groups second employee David Lowden as their current term of office was due to expire.
The committee is engagement survey pleased to report that it is satisfied with the ongoing performance of both Andrew and David and has recommended that their appointments should be extended for a Continue to focus on succession another three years.
planning and talent development Iain Ferguson Chairman of the nomination committee 25 February 2016 If you would like to discuss any aspect of the committees activities with me, please feel free to email me at chairman@berendsen.
eu Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 68 Corporate governance statement continued At the request of the committee Membership and meetings chairman, other individuals and external advisers may be invited to attend all Membership and attendance in 2015 or part of any meeting, as and when Committee members Independent Committee meetings Attendance appropriate.
The Chief Executive Jan Feb Mar May Dec Officers role on the committee is to Iain Ferguson No 100% provide a better understanding of the strategic issues facing the company and Maarit Aarni-Sirvi Yes 100% the current skills and experience of the Lucy Dimes Yes 100% Executive Board.
James Drummond No 100% Induction and experience David Lowden Yes 100% Upon appointment to the committee, Andrew Wood Yes 100% non-executive directors are provided Peter Ventress No 100% with details about the current composition of the board, the companys % based on the meetings entitled to attend.
succession planning procedures and James Drummond joined the committee on 1 August 2015. how the boards and committees annual Peter Ventress attended all meetings until his resignation from the board on 31 July 2015. performance reviews are conducted.
Induction to the committee includes detailed briengs with the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in order to understand the issues being discussed atboard and Executive Board level.
The committee chairman conducted a review to identify appropriate Appointment of consultants and proposed the Zygos Partnership Zygos, an Select search James Drummond experienced and reputable executive search rm which specialises in consultants board level appointments.
The committee approved Zygos appointment.
Following Peter Ventress decision to retire, the committee led the selection andappointment process for a new The committee reviewed the skills, experience and diversity Chief Executive Officer, which is Board of the board to identify any particular gaps that should be covered summarised inthe following chart: composition by the new appointee.
review Based on its review of board composition, and discussions with Zygos, a specication was produced.
The specication was considered by the Specication committee and recommended to the board for approval.
A long list of candidates was provided by Zygos and interviews were conducted by the Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other Interviews members of the committee.
Following this stage, a short list of three preferred candidates was identied.
The committee conducted final stage interviews with the three shortlisted candidates.
James Drummond was identied as the preferred candidate.
Final interviews A thorough due diligence and referencing process was conducted.
Following satisfactory conclusion of this process, the committee Due diligence Zygos is a signatory to the voluntary code recommended James appointment to the board.
recommendation of conduct on gender diversity for external search consultants.
During 2015, Zygos provided no other services to the company.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 69 Diversity Independence and re-election Succession planning Berendsen has established a number totheboard We have continued to develop and of diversity programmes and The composition of our board is monitor extensive succession plans both initiatives across the group including reviewed annually by the nomination at board and senior management level the Women in Berendsen network committee to ensure that there is an throughout the group.
The committees and the company-wide diversity effective balance of skills, experience input and oversight into the succession policy.
The committee is pleased with and knowledge.
planning process can be summarised the level of awareness across the as follows: The committee conducted a specic business and strongly supports and review of the independence of Andrew a In May 2015, Chris Thrush, Group receives updates on all of the diversity Wood and David Lowden in the year Director, Human Resources presented initiatives.
Both Lucy Dimes and Maarit as their three-year appointments to the committee details of the Aarni-Sirvi attended the Women in were due to expire on 28 February succession planning and development Berendsen workshop and dinner in 2016.
Neither Andrew nor David programmes throughout the January 2015, which aims to mentor and were present during the committees group for senior management.
provide guidance and support to the discussion which took into account the Potential successors, including a mix development of female executive talent following considerations: of internal and external candidates within our group.
have been identied for the top 100 a Performance Our gender diversity policy ensures that, senior management positions and where possible, each time a member a Length of tenure on the board the committee again reviewed the of senior management or a director is proles of all of these positions during a Board composition recruited at Berendsen at least one of the year: the shortlisted candidates is female.
a Independence a The board and committee met with Although gender diversity is a key area a Other external commitments specifically targeted individuals of focus throughout the group, the identied as potential executive talent board considers all diversity issues in Having conducted its review, the during their site visits in the year: and the broadest sense including, but not committee was satisfied that it was limited to, nationality and ethnicity.
a The committee regularly monitored appropriate to recommended to the As a multinational business, it is crucial the schedule on the length of tenure board that Andrews and Davids that the board considers all diversity of the Chairman and non-executive appointments should be extended for a practices that could affect its efficiency directors, and reviewed potential further three years subject to re-election and leadership, while ensuring that departure dates assuming the relevant by shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
the strongest candidates on merit are directors are not permitted to serve considered for vacant positions.
In accordance with the Code, all more than three three-year terms.
directors wishing to continue will retire The committee was disappointed and offer themselves for re-election The committee continues to be satisfied that it was unable to shortlist a female by shareholders at the 2016 Annual that adequate succession planning is candidate for the final stage of the General Meeting.
Further biographical in place for the Executive Board and appointment of the new Chief Executive information on each of our directors can senior executives.
Succession planning Officer, although a number of female be found on pages 56 and 57, which will remain a key ongoing focus of the candidates were interviewed at an shows the breadth of strategic and committee in 2016 and beyond.
earlier stage in the process.
This decision financial management insight brought to was based on the overall quality of our board table.
the candidates considered, with the three very best on merit all happening to be male in this instance.
The board continues to comprise 29% female directors, in excess of its stated minimum target of 25% female directors.
We have noted the recommendation in Lord Davies final report on women on boards that a target of 33% female board representation be achieved by FTSE 350 companies in the next five years, and will review our policy in light of this during 2016.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 70 Corporate governance statement continued Audit committee report Dear shareholder I am pleased to present our audit committee report for 2015.
Throughout the year, we have continued our focus on the integrity of financial reporting and internal controls.
We were again asked to advise the board whether the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable in accordance with UK Corporate Governance Code provision C. 3.4.
Having conducted a comprehensive review described on page 77 of this report, the committee was satisfied that the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts are fair, Andrew Wood balanced and capable of being understood by shareholders and that they include Chairman of the audit committee all the necessary information to allow our shareholders to assess Berendsens performance, business model and strategy.
We have advised the board of the 2015 Key achievements outcome of our assessment.
a Reviewed the significant financial As we noted in our 2014 report, we have monitored the implementation of judgements made during the procedures to address the revised requirements of the 2014 UK Corporate year and in the preparation of the Governance Code around internal control and risk management.
The principal Annual Report and Accounts risks facing the company, which are subject to robust assessment by the board, a At the request of the board, are set out on pages 26 to 31, and the ongoing monitoring, and effectiveness conducted a review of the 2015 review of the groups risk management and internal control systems are described Annual Report to confirm that it on page 74.
We have also assisted the board in designing the process by which was fair, balanced and capable of the directors have assessed the long-term viability of the company as required being understood by shareholders under the new Code provision C. 2.2. this process is described in full on page 75.
Our viability statement is set out on page 27 and includes the explanation of how a Assisted with the design of the the assessment has been made and why the period covered by the statement is process by which the board considered appropriate.
assessed the ongoing viability of the company in support of Our review of the significant financial judgements made during the year the viability statement required and any key financial reporting issues is described on page 72 of this report.
under the 2014 UK Corporate During 2015, we routinely considered potential for fraud in revenue recognition Governance Code and management override of controls.
In addition, we considered three key reporting judgements: a Approved improved risk management processes to ensure a Goodwill impairment: these are more responsive to any a A potential exposure to an environmental liability in Sweden and Holland: and potential changes in activities or the business environment a Quality of earnings.
a Ensured a comprehensive Internal We have also received regular updates on the work of the internal auditors Audit Programme and oversaw the during the year.
We were involved in the process for appointing Luke Walker recruitment and induction of a new as our new Head of Internal Audit, and are pleased to see that he has settled Head of Internal Audit well into the role.
The primary focus of the comprehensive internal audit programme for 2015 was to provide assurance on key internal control activities a Assisted with the induction of the and the control and governance framework.
Our procedure for ensuring that new external audit partner all of the recommendations made by internal audit are implemented in a timely a Conducted a review of the external manner continues to operate effectively, and the committee is satisfied with the auditors work throughout the year relationship between the internal audit function and executive management.
and made a final recommendation The committee was actively involved in ensuring a smooth handover to to the board to reappoint Matthew Mullins, our new external PwC audit partner from 2015.
This handover  LLP for was considered as part of our comprehensive review of the external auditors the year ending 31 December 2016 independence and effectiveness described on page 72, following which the committee has made a recommendation to the board that the external auditor is reappointed for the year ending 31 December 2016.
If you would like to discuss any aspect of the committees Andrew Wood Chairman of the audit committee activities with me, please 25 February 2016 feel free to email me at auditchairman@berendsen.
eu Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015
