Strategic report Governance Financial statements 71 Accountability Committee attendance in 2015 Committee Membership and meetings Committee members Independent meetings Attendance In addition to its members, other Feb Jul Dec individuals and external advisers may Andrew Wood Yes 100% attend each committee meeting at the Maarit Aarni-Sirvi Yes 100% request of the committee chairman.
At least once a year, the committee Lucy Dimes Yes 100% meets with the external auditor and the David Lowden Yes 100% Head of Internal Audit without executive management present.
The committee % based on the meetings entitled to attend.
chairman also regularly meets with the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor, again without any other Audit committee activity in 2015 members of management being present.
Andrew Wood is a Chartered 20% 25% Management Accountant and has Internal control and risk External audit over 15 years experience as a Group managementsystems Finance Director at two FTSE 250 listed a Reviewed external auditor reports on yearend and half-year financial statements companies.
Andrew is also chairman of a Undertook regular reviews of the schedule of key controls documenting how the the audit committee at Air Partner plc, a Met PwC audit partner without most significant risks facing the group Lavendon Group plc and Stobart Group management present are managed Limited, and is therefore considered a Discussed external auditor strategy, scope a Reviewed a risk management update on the by the board to have sufficient recent and fees for 2015 progress made throughout 2015 and how and relevant financial experience to the group is managing cyber risk a Reviewed reports from PwC on the 2015 discharge his duties as chairman of year-end audit and agreed 2015 external a Reviewed the group delegated authorities the committee.
audit fees a Regularly monitored the risk management a Assessed qualications, expertise, resources The company provides an induction and internal control systems and independence of PwC programme for new committee a Approved the Risk Management Plan members and on at least an annual basis a Assessed effectiveness of external for 2016 audit process also provides ongoing training to enable the committee members to carry out their duties.
30% 20% Integrity of financial statements Internal audit function Areas of focus in 2016 andannouncements a Oversaw induction of new Head of a Review the significant judgements Internal Audit a Reviewed the key accounting judgements applied in the preparation of the and significant issues of the 2014 and 2015 Annual Report and Accounts a Received reports from Head of Internal year-end accounts Audit at each meeting a Ensure that the key risks identied by a Reviewed preliminary results announcement a Met Head of Internal Audit without the board are effectively managed management present a Carried out a fair, balanced and during the implementation of the understandable review of the 2015 a Agreed 2016 internal audit plan new strategy Annual Report a Conduct a review of our policy on a Approved process for the assessment of the 5% Companys longer-term viability non-audit services during the first sixmonths of 2016 a Reviewed going concern and Other viability statements a Conduct a review of internal controls a Reviewed the committees performance a Reviewed key accounting judgements and and risk management following the over the year significant issues associated with the 2015 completion of the strategy review a Received a biannual update on the group half-year results whistleblowing system a Review the independence and a Reviewed half-year results announcement a Reviewed and recommended new effectiveness of the external auditor a Approved the process for the assessment of audit committee terms of reference for the companys longer-term viability a Ensure that there is a comprehensive board approval internal audit programme Find out more Pages 72 and 75 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 72 Corporate governance statement continued External audit significant financial judgements in 2015 Our terms of reference were amended The key reporting judgements considered by the committee and discussed with during the year to reect the increased the external auditor during the year are provided below: responsibilities for audit committees Issues Judgements introduced by The Statutory Audit Goodwill impairment The committee reviewed the level of headroom Services for Large Companies Market The committee assessed the carrying value provided by the business cash ows and Investigation Mandatory Use of of goodwill based on the future cash ow discount rate utilised and challenged the basis Competitive Tender Processes and projections of the business.
It concluded in the case of the German and Austrian CGU an Audit Committee Responsibilities impairment charge of 6.4m was required to Order 2014 the CMA Order.
Under its fully write-off the associated goodwill.
For all increased responsibilities, the committee other CGUs it concluded that significant has not only managed the relationship headroom exists and that the application of reasonable sensitivities to the cash ows would with the external auditor currently, not impact the carrying value of goodwill.
 LLP PwC on Contingent liabilities The committee reviewed the level of behalf of the board, but was also solely The committee considered the likelihood environmental provision and considered them responsible for negotiating the scope of of environmental liabilities crystallising and sufficient in light of certain third party reports the external audit and for agreeing the whether a provision should be recognised.
The claim on the auditors fee.
In addition, the committee reviewed the warranties, which were given in a clear and strength of the claim on the warranties received unequivocal manner, was confirmed following Effectiveness of the external for environmental damage when it acquired a review by the companys lawyers.
auditprocess laundry sites in Sweden and Holland.
Following the publication of the Quality of earnings The committee was presented with an analysis Annual Report, the committee reviews The committee reviewed the impact of any of a limited number of immaterial and unusual matters that might influence or distort the or non-trading items and concluded that the and considers theeffectiveness of presentation of the accounts and ensured that effect of these were not material to a fair and the external audit process.
The 2015 these are appropriately disclosed.
balanced understanding of the accounts.
review in respect of the audit of our The committee concluded that costs related 2014 Annual Report is summarised in to the implementation of the strategy update and the goodwill impairment charge should be the chart below and the committees separately disclosed as an exceptional item.
assessment was informed by senior Potential for fraud in revenue recognition The committee considered its risk processes management providing feedback on andmanagement overrideof controls and controls and confirmed that these risks are the external audit process and any The committee considered the presumed appropriately managed.
comments provided by the Chief risks of fraud in revenue recognition and Financial Officer, the Head of Internal management override of controls as dened byauditing standards and the threat to risk.
Audit and the Company Secretary.
In addition to the above, we discussed the judgements over the key balance sheet areas such as Independence xed assets, inventory and tax.
An important aspect of managing the external auditor relationship, and of the annual effectiveness review, is ensuring External auditor effectiveness review there are adequate safeguards to protect auditor objectivity and independence.
In conducting its annual assessment, the committee has considered: The committee considered whether the external Qualication auditor had appropriate resources and expertise Resources a Feedback from the Chief Financial & expertise to conduct the audit.
Officer who monitors the independence of the external auditor: a Audit fee benchmarking against other The committee received comments from the comparable companies, both within CFO and management on the objectivity of the auditor.
and outside of the groups sector, Independence Non-audit Non-audit services provided by PwC were to ensure ongoing objectivity in the & objectivity services reviewed and, as described on page 73, audit process: are not considered to have affected the auditors independence.
a The level and nature of non-audit fees accruing to the external auditor: The committee considers the effectiveness and a The external auditors formal letter of organisation of the planning process for the audit Planning and post-audit evaluation.
independence: and Quality & organisation The committee also reviewed the quality a The length of tenure of the of reporting from the external auditor and external auditor and of the audit their recommendations.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 73 Following the effectiveness assessment, does not believe it is in the best The focus of the policy is to ensure we are pleased to report that the interest of shareholders to conduct a that the independence of the external committee is satisfied that PwC competitive tender process during 2016. auditor is not compromised, and where continues to be independent and The committee believes it would be possible, other accounting rms are capable of conducting the external most appropriate to do so during the used.
During 2015, the external auditor audit objectively and professionally.
financial year ending 2019 which is at the conducted 300,000 of non-audit Feedback arising from the evaluation end of the current audit partners fiveservices which were principally related process has been provided by the year engagement and, this approach is to tax compliance and tax advisory committee chairman to the audit partner, in line with the transitional provisions of services.
The committee concluded that and a formal recommendation has been both the CMA Order, and the new EU it was in the interest of the company to made to the board, for approval by audit reform legislation, which will come purchase these non-audit services from shareholders, that the external auditor into force in June 2016.
This position the external auditor, rather than another is reappointed and the committee be will, however, be kept under review.
supplier, as it was best placed to provide authorised to agree their remuneration We intend to keep shareholders fully these services due to its knowledge of for the 2016 audit.
updated on our timetable for audit the business.
tender rotation and will provide further Audit tender The committee intends to conduct a updates when necessary.
We noted in our 2014 Annual Report review of the groups policy on non-audit and Accounts that PwC has effectively There are no contractual restrictions services during 2016, to ensure that the been the companys incumbent in relation to the companys choice of group complies with the new restrictions external auditor since 1980, and that, external auditor.
on certain non-audit services as well under the transitional provisions of the as the proposed cap on non-audit Non-audit services CMA Order, we are not required to services which will be introduced from The groups pre-approval policy for the conduct a mandatory competitive audit 17 June 2016 by the EU Statutory Audit provision of non-audit services by the tender process until 2020 taking into Regulation.
Under the proposed rules, external auditor is described below.
consideration the exibility offered by the new restrictions on services will need During 2015, other accounting rms the transitional provisions.
to be implemented by the group by were used for larger non-audit services, 1 January 2017.
At a time of significant change for the including taxation and consultancy group, including the recent internal advice.
Details of services provided changes to the groups structure by the auditor and its associates are and executive management and the included in note 3 on page 136. ongoing strategy review, the committee Policy on non-audit services Permitted non-audit services specifically prohibited non-audit services a The objective of maintaining a policy a Advice and assurance on on non-audit services is to ensure financial reporting, interpretation a Appraisal or valuation services, that the provision of such services and implementation of fairness opinions or contribution-indoes not impair the external auditors accounting standards, tax and kind reports independence or objectivity governance regulations a Broker or dealer, investment adviser a The external auditor cannot be a Advice and assurance in respect or investment banking services engaged to perform any assignment of direct and indirect tax matters a Bookkeeping services related where the output is then subject to including tax compliance, certain to accounting records or its review as external auditor areas of tax planning advice, tax financial statements consultancy services and employee a All services provided by the external tax services a Design and implementation of auditor other than the audit itself financial information systems are regarded as non-audit services a Project assurance and advice no matter how directly related to or a Internal audit outsourcing services consequential upon the audit they a Legal and other services unrelated may be tothe audit a The approval of the committee or a Management functions including chairman of the committee should human resources an emergency situation occur and urgent advice be needed is required in advance of any new engagement with the external auditor to provide non-audit services in excess of 50,000 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 74 Corporate governance statement continued Internal audit Control policy procedure Monitoring Our group internal audit function, Minimum control framework for Core financial reviews conducted by internal led by the Head of Internal Audit, financial reporting audit and presented to the audit committee is appropriately resourced with the see below skills and experience relevant to IT minimum control framework developed by IT general control reviews conducted the operations of the group, and is ITsteering committee by internal audit and presented to the supported by specialist resources where audit committee required.
The Head of Internal Audit is accountable to the committee, has Incident reporting system identifying all issues Issues reported to the audit committee and in respect of health and safety, anti-bribery the board, both of which also receive biannual access to the committee members at and corruption and all other corporate reports on: any time, and meets independently with  incidents the committee chairman regularly during a Health and safety incidents and statistics: and the year.
Additional meetings between the committee chairman and the new a Corporate  incidents and CO2 emission statistics.
Head of Internal Audit were held in 2015 to assist the successful handover to the Group Risk Manager compliance review Results from the annual anti-bribery and new Head of Internal Audit.
conrming that all business are in compliance corruption risk assessments, completed with group corporate responsibility and risk by our businesses, are reported to the A key focus of internal audit activity in policies and procedures including but not audit committee.
2015 has been on providing assurance on limited to : The review is conducted biannually in March key internal control activities, along with a Business continuity planning: and September and where non-compliance is providing assurance around the control detected, actions are agreed and followed up a Health and safety policy: and governance framework.
a Ethics and anti-bribery and corruption: The committee receives a report on Outcomes of both reviews, and the followup on outstanding actions, are reported to internal audit activity at each meeting, a Incident reporting: the board.
and monitors the status of internal audit a Environment and community: and recommendations and managements a Whistleblowing.
The committee also reviews annually the To support ongoing monitoring activity, the board and audit committee requested, adequacy, qualications and experience received and reviewed reports from senior management, advisers, group internal of the groups internal audit resources audit and our external auditor.
At board level, discussions are held routinely on the and the nature and scope of internal effectiveness of our internal control mechanism and risk management.
An area audit activity in the context of the of particular focus at board meetings during 2015 was the management of risk in groups risk management system as set relation to the business model proposed by the strategic review, and our future out on pages 2425. performance, solvency and liquidity.
The committee and board are satisfied that there are established procedures to identify and manage risks during the Internal control and development and execution of the revised strategy.
Further details of the principal risk management risks and uncertainties facing the group and risk management processes can be Board assessment of the effectiveness found on pages 24 to 31 of the Risk report.
of internal control systems The board considers that the information that it receives is sufficient to enable it As Berendsen continues to grow and to review the effectiveness of the groups internal controls in accordance with the develop, it is a key responsibility of FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and the board to ensure that we maintain Business Reporting.
effective internal control procedures and adequately manage the risks facing Using the ongoing processes outlined on page 25, we continuously identify areas the group.
The board is dedicated to where internal controls can be improved and devise action plans as appropriate.
ensuring that there is a strong and Progress towards completion of actions is regularly monitored by management and regularly monitored control environment, the board.
The board considers that none of the areas for improvement identied that aims to minimise financial risk and constitute a significant failing or weakness.
provide assurance that the groups strategic objectives will be achieved within the risk tolerance levels set by the board.
The board, with the assistance of the audit committee, regularly monitors and reviews the policies and procedures making up the groups internal control and risk management system through the following: Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 75 Financial reporting a Subject to half-yearly and year-end Viability statement The groups minimum control framework conrmation of compliance as part The audit committee approved the for financial reporting includes clear of the interim and half-year and process and advised management of policies and procedures for ensuring that year-end reporting: the information that would be required the groups financial reporting processes for the board to sufficiently review the a Reviewed as part of the Group and the preparation of its consolidated companys viability for the next three Balance Sheet Reviews: and accounts comply with all relevant years.
Detailed below is an overview of regulatory reporting requirements.
a Monitored via inclusion in Internal the process, approved by the committee, These are comprehensively detailed in Audit Core Financial Reviews.
for the assessment of the companys the Group Finance Manual, which is used viability.
The full viability statement can Detailed accounts for each reporting by the businesses in the preparation be found in the Risk report on page 27. entity are prepared monthly, comprising of their results.
Financial control an income statement, cash ow requirements are also set out in the statement and balance sheet in a Group Finance Manual Minimum manner very similar to the year-end Control Framework which are: and half-yearly reporting processes.
These are subject to management review and analysis in the financial review cycle.
Viability statement process In order to consider the companys Risk identication Scenario modelling analysis viability, risk identication and We considered the following: For those risks considered sufficiently assessments were completed.
severe so that viability and business as a The principal risks to viability that This process was performed with usual would be at risk, we performed could impair solvency liquidity : assistance from our Group Risk the following: a We excluded for the purpose of Manager.
The following factors a Tested the impact of risks against viability assessment modelling risks were considered: financial modelling over the period of that were not sufficiently severe a Our current financial and assessment three years : over the period of the assessment operational position and the current i. e. the risk would be severe but a Considered sensitivity analysis economic outlook: only likely to occur after our threeheadroom: year timeframe : a The groups cash ows and other key a Considered reverse stress-testing financial ratios over the period: a We identied other risks on our i. e. how bad does a scenario have risk register that, while not a A robust assessment of the principal tobe so that the business would not necessarily severe in themselves, risks currently facing the group be viable : and could become severe in combination and the potential impact of them a Conducted a stress-testing exercise with other risks: and actually occurring: on our long range plans LRP.
a We considered risk combinations a How the groups principal risks could The scenarios tested are based on i. e. are risks casually linked in order threaten our business model, future aspects of principal risks 3, 4 and 8 that they are grouped together for performance, solvency or liquidity in and included: modelling purposes.
severe scenarios: a A significant shortfall of sales growth a Risks other than those identied as Risk assessment in budget and LRP three years : principal risks: and For each risk, we considered: a A significant devaluation of major a Our risk appetite: the degree of risk a The strength of our internal currencies against Sterling: and processes to handle a scenario the board is willing to take: where one or more of the principal a A significant rise in interest rates.
a Our risk tolerance: are we within our risks occur.
tolerance level for a particular risk The risk of the UK leaving the EU or scenario: was also taken into account in the Wider context of the group viability analysis.
a Our risk proximity: how far away in As part of the review, the board also time it is likely to occur: considered the wider context of the The viability statement can be found in group, including our business model, the Risk report on page 27. a Risk velocity: how fast could the strategy and risk appetite, and how this impact be felt: and impacts on viability.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 76 Corporate governance statement continued IT and supply chain risk management Incident reporting The audit committee receives a biannual During 2015, the committee monitored In 2015, the committee monitored report February and July from the the work undertaken by the risk the work undertaken by the risk Company Secretary which includes management function to manage management function to improve details of any new incidents as well as IT-related risks.
An IT risk assessment for the incident reporting procedures.
providing updates on the integrity of the the group was completed and actions The procedure was updated in order to whistleblowing procedures and the state were identied to further strengthen the provide a more instant aspect to the of any ongoing investigations and the IT internal control environment across reporting process as well as to ensure conclusions reached.
The committee will be that all possible significant failings or relating to potential fraud are escalated regularly updated on the progress made weaknesses were identied and that to the audit chairman immediately.
on action implementation throughout appropriate corrective actions are put in An annual checking process was 2016.
The committee also monitored place.
The new procedures also ensure conducted in July 2015 by the Company the measures taken in 2015 to further that any lessons learnt are shared across Secretary to ensure that all employees reduce risks to corporate responsibility businesses to further improve systems are aware of the whistleblowing system.
The measures and processes across the entire group.
included the review and update of Whistleblowing the Code of Conduct for suppliers During 2015, the groups whistleblowing as well as strengthening the supplier procedure was operated in 27 languages whistleblowing policy and system and 16 countries with systems in place it is now available in an additional to ensure that any concerns were 22 languages : both measures have addressed condentially, promptly and been communicated to suppliers and thoroughly.
Concerns were raised by have been published on Berendsens employees on eight separate issues corporate website.
2014: three separate issues, which were predominantly HR-related, low level in nature and did not reveal any significant internal control failure.
Strengthening IT governance In 2015, we further strengthened our IT governance with special focus on IT security and resilience of IT infrastructure critical for business and service continuity.
As part of this, we conducted third-party penetration tests in selected countries at the end of 2015 to determine the strength of our IT systems.
We also hired our first group specialist IT Internal Auditor in November 2015 who will be working alongside management teams to help identify improvements to IT processes and IT operations, as well as evaluating our resilience to cyber attacks.
During 2016, we intend to complete a thorough risk assessment of information security and have a continued focus on IT strategy.
Our audit committee will receive regular updates on these assessments throughout the year.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 77 The committee received detailed briengs on changes to reporting Review of the Reporting requirements including the new requirement for a viability statement 2015 Annual Report requirements and key areas to be considered when performing the review.
Dec. 2014 and Feb. 2015 At the request of the board, the committee was asked to consider whether the 2015 Annual Report is Agreed an accounts production timetable allowingsufficient time for fair, balanced and capable of being Agreed acomprehensive review of early drafts to enable input and involvement understood by shareholders.
In order timetable fromthe committee.
to arrive at a position where the December 2015 committee was satisfied with the overall fairness, balance and clarity of the Annual Report, Considered the external auditors review of the AnnualReport and External auditor Accounts and held discussions with management to provide feedback.
a comprehensive review process review was followed.
January 2016 The committee conducted a thorough review of the final draft Annual Audit committee Report to ensure that it is fair, balanced and understandable.
review 19 February 2016 The audit committees comments are incorporated and agreed Finalised before the Annual Report is nalised.
report 26 February 2016 During the course of the committees review, the following questions were considered for debate: Fairness and balance Understandable After careful review, the committee was satisfied that, taken as a whole, a Is the Annual Report open and a Does the Annual Report contain the Annual Report was fair, balanced honest?
Does it report on weaknesses, simple explanations of business and capable of being understood difficulties and challenges as well models, strategies and accounting by shareholders, and advised the as successes?
policies, using precise and board accordingly.
a Is there consistency between different This corporate governance statement, sections of the Annual Report, a Is the Annual Report easy to read: for including the reports of the nomination including between the narrative and example, is the narrative broken up and audit committees, was approved by the financial statements?
by quotes, tables, case studies and the board on 25 February 2016. other graphics?
a Does the Annual Report explain our By the order of the board, key performance indicators KPIs and a Does the Annual Report have a David Lawler their linkage to strategy?
consistent tone across all sections and Company Secretary provide clear signposting to where 25 February 2016 additional information can be found?
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015
