78 Report on directors remuneration Strategically aligned remuneration continues todeliver Our simplied and strategically aligned remuneration structure means that our executives remain completely focused on delivering shareholder value.
David Lowden Chairman of the remuneration committee Throughout this process we have This report is structured Annual statement engaged with our major shareholders asfollows: and are pleased to report that Dear shareholder 78 Annual statement our proposals were well received.
As chairman of the remuneration I am confident that we now have An overview from our remuneration committee and on behalf of the board, committee chairman, outlining key a remuneration framework that is I am pleased to present our directors developments and decisions made appropriately aligned both to our remuneration report for 2015 comprising during 2015. business and to the interests and current this statement, a remuneration 81 Policy report expectations of our shareholders.
policy report and the annual report A description of the policies, As such, we are asking shareholders to on remuneration.
principles and structures that guide approve the new remuneration policy at the remuneration committees In 2015 we undertook a comprehensive our 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM decision-making process in the area of review of our remuneration policy.
including a renewal of the companys executive remuneration.
If approved This was conducted on the back of the by shareholders at the 2016 AGM, it will Performance Share Plan PSP and replace the current policy report.
business strategy review to ensure that Sharesave Plan.
our policy was effectively aligned to the 88 Annual report on remuneration companys evolving business needs.
An explanation of how we have 2016 onwards changes to the As highlighted last year, the committee implemented our remuneration policy remuneration policy during 2015. also wanted to ensure that the policy was capable of satisfying increased 101 Schedules to the annual report Remuneration linked to strategy investor preference for greater simplicity As our Chief Executive Officer outlined Supplementary information to the above and transparency.
on pages 01 to 06, the main conclusions of the business strategy review were The key themes and changes to our that we needed to be more customer policy are discussed in greater detail If you would like to and market focused, that we should overleaf but are summarised below: discuss any aspect of our continue to challenge ourselves to be remuneration strategy, a Remuneration linked to strategy: operationally better organised and that please feel free to email me at Especially, greater emphasis on we should remain disciplined about using remcochairman@berendsen.
eu linking annual bonus payouts to capital effectively.
In a remuneration improved earnings: context, this translates into rewarding performance which targets: a Simplied remuneration arrangements and reduction in a Revenue growth ahead of GDP: quantum: In particular, the removal of a EPS growth ahead of revenue: the Co-Investment Plan CIP resulting in a reduced long-term incentive a Strong underlying cash ow and cash maximum total pay opportunity: and conversion: and a Shareholder alignment: To further a Superior post-tax ROIC, well ahead of align the interests of management the companys cost of capital.
with shareholders, we are doubling the executive directors share ownership requirements from 100% of salary to 200% of salary and introducing malus and clawback for variable remuneration.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 79 Accordingly, the committee believes that we are seeking shareholder approval to Management changes three-year adjusted EPS growth and renew this plan at the AGM along with Peter Ventress resigned from his ROIC remain key strategic measures of the companys Sharesave Plan which is position as Chief Executive Officer the companys long-term performance also due to expire.
with effect from 31 July 2015 and will and therefore remain appropriate retire from Berendsen on 28 April 2016.
The committee is proposing that the measures for the PSP.
The committee discussed and approved maximum annual award that may be his retirement arrangements, details of By removing the personal multiplier in granted under the PSP should increase which can be found in full on page 91. the annual bonus plan, any payout will to 200% of base salary in normal In accordance with contractual terms, no be based exclusively on financial results.
circumstances and to 240% of base compensation was paid for loss of office.
To ensure these results are coupled with salary in exceptional circumstances.
satisfactory progress in respect of the Whilst this represents an increased Following a comprehensive recruitment groups non-financial strategic priorities, award level under the PSP, the removal process, James Drummond joined us the committee will have discretion to of the CIP award results in an overall on 1 July 2015 and assumed the role reduce any annual bonus payment decrease in the normal maximum total of Chief Executive Officer on 1 August to reect performance against these pay opportunity for the executive 2015.
After careful consideration of all additional priorities.
relevant market factors and the skills and experience that James brings to the role, Simplied remuneration arrangements The committee is also proposing to an annual base salary of 525,000 was and reduction in quantum remove the annual bonus personal determined, being positioned slightly less Reecting recent trends in the market performance multiplier.
Whilst the than Peters, for the year commencing and in response to specic feedback maximum bonus opportunity will remain 1 January 2015.
Incentive arrangements from shareholders, the committee at 130%, the calculation of any bonus will for James are in line with our current proposes to remove the CIP from the now be completely linked to corporate policy and outlined on page 91. remuneration policy and to continue with measures including an EPS underpin a single long-term incentive plan the thereby ensuring continued focus on Performance outcomes for 2015 PSP.
As the PSP will expire in April 2016, financial performance.
The requirement anddecisions made for 2016 to defer 25% of any bonus into shares As the Chief Financial Officer notes will remain.
in his financial review on page 36, the company has continued its track Shareholder alignment record of strong performance in 2015.
In light of evolving investor views, the The group delivered 102.5m of free committee has determined that in future, cash ow cash conversion of 99% of the executive directors will be required adjusted profit after tax and its ROIC to build and retain a shareholding of at was 10.3% being our preferred measure least two times base salary, an increase for assessing how efficient the company of 100% of base salary on the previous has been at using shareholder money shareholding requirements.
Adverse currency In line with current market practice and translation of over 7% on revenue meant to further strengthen the alignment with that operating profits decreased by 3% shareholders, the committee proposes to and adjusted EPS decreased by 3% from introduce malus and clawback provisions 62.1 pence to 60.4 pence.
for the new PSP and the companys Annual Bonus Plan and Deferred Bonus Plan.
Further details about malus and clawback are given on page 83.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 80 Report on directors remuneration continued We have maintained our cash discipline Pay review to ensure positive cash ow which As part of the remuneration review, the continues to enable us to invest in committee considered the salaries and the future and to grow our dividend fees paid to the executive directors, nonwhenever prudent to do so.
The interim executive directors and the chairman dividend paid to shareholders on of the board to be effective 1 January 9 October 2015 was 5% higher than the 2016.
Having considered individual and previous year and the proposed 2015 financial performance, general economic final dividend of 31.5 pence per share will conditions and average increases across be 5% higher than in 2014. the group it was decided that the base salary for the Chief Executive Officer and Incentive outcomes Chief Financial Officer would increase Against this backdrop, the key decisions by 2.5% broadly in line with the average made in respect of performance in 2015 salary increase applied throughout by the remuneration committee are the group.
as follows: Looking forward a Based upon financial performance, I believe that the companys annual bonus outcomes for the remuneration policy fully supports executive directors resulted in payouts our corporate objectives and the of 86.5% of salary, representing remuneration received by the executive performance between target directors reects the consistently and stretch.
Having considered strong performance of the company achievement against individual nonand management.
I hope that you will financial targets, overall bonuses equal also approve of the measures we have to between 108.1% and 112.5% of salary taken to reduce complexity and improve were paid: and transparency in our remuneration a Under the companys long-term policies and practices.
incentive plans PSP and CIP, awards Ongoing and transparent dialogue that were granted in 2013 will vest with our shareholders on the issue at 47.5%.
While target performance of executive remuneration is very was achieved based on ROIC, important to us and all feedback helps currency translation meant that inform the committees thinking on the EPS threshold target was only remuneration matters.
active interest in your views and hope to receive your support at the AGM Annual bonus where I will be available to respond to Adjusted EPS KPI any questions shareholders may have Between target on this report or in relation to any of the andstretch: Free cash ow KPI 86.5% of salary committees activities.
Revenue KPI In the meantime, if you would like to Long-term incentives PSP and CIP discuss any aspect of our remuneration Between threshold Adjusted EPS KPI strategy, please feel free to email me at and target: ROIC KPI 47.5% vesting remcochairman@berendsen.
David Lowden Further information about the levels Chairman of the remuneration committee of executive remuneration earned in 25 February 2016 2015, including performance against the relevant targets, are given on pages 90 and 95 to 97.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015
