p i h s r e d a e L O p e r a t i o n 14 Our business model Creating value through deep customer understanding.
Our markets Knowledge and understanding Customer requirements Customer-focused d knowledge informs our business decisions Operational New business Capital Innovation Employees Suppliers excellence developments allocation Where and why How we recruit, How we we invest train and retain choose Where and how Who and where Where and our people our preferred we become we target how quickly Technical suppliers more efficient we spend capability and partners in meeting our money Environmental customer credentials requirements and allows us to apply LEAN principles across the business to eliminate waste, ensure continuous improvement and unlock opportunity.
Superior operating model Our competitive advantage Enhanced New business confidence Creating Better access reputation and wins togrow shareholder value to capital supplier reduced more quickly and attracting for growth of choice customer superior churn investment Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 a l e x i b i l i t y s n o i t a l u g e R Strategic report Governance Financial statements 15 Key facilitators Our employees United by a clear mission, vision and set of values, our employees are integral to our customer understanding and to our service delivery.
Our new market-focused structure Hospitality Healthcare Workwear Facility Superior operating model Facilitators Our new strategic focus 4 1 Our new strategy is about gearing up for further growth by focusing on four key strategic areas fundamental for our longterm success: customer market focus, operational excellence, 3 2 organisation capabilities and effective use of capital.
Our new way of working Berendsen Excellence provides a systematic approach to extending excellence across every part of the group and is supported by the Berendsen Excellence Team.
More details in the Chief Executive Officers introduction Page 01 Key beneciaries Our customers and their Our shareholders customers Through our progressive dividend policy, by using cash to pay down Through providing our customers with debt and reinvesting in the business a customer-driven service which gives toimprove returns.
their respective customers peace of mind and helps to keep core industries Our environment and institutions moving.
By consolidating laundry services Our employees on behalf of our clients, we are able to wash and circulate textiles more Through salaries, bonuses, sharesave Superior operating model efficiently and therefore reduce the schemes and our commitment impact on the environment.
to training and career development.
Bene ciaries Our communities Societies and countries We create employment and also invest in which we operate in social initiatives in the areas where Through collection and payment we operate.
Our suppliers Through long-term partnerships and reasonable terms and conditions.
More details in the Corporate responsibility section Page 4451 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015
