Strategic report Governance Financial statements 63 Berendsen three-year approach Effectiveness The 2014 15 externally facilitated evaluation process represented year 1 of our Performance evaluation three-year approach to board evaluation.
The 2015 evaluation process year 2 was an internal board evaluation led by the Chairman, and is summarised below: A comprehensive evaluation of the performance of the board, its committees and each of its directors is carried out annually, a process led by the Chairman and supported by the Company Secretary.
The outcome of the performance evaluations are discussed in detail at board meetings and any key recommendations are considered board priorities for the following year.
Year 3 Year 1 The annual evaluation process is an Internal board External board evaluation evaluation important mechanism for ensuring best led by the Senior practice is at the forefront of all board Independent Director and committee actions.
Our 2014 performance evaluation was externally facilitated by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review and Year 2 described in detail in our 2014 Annual Internal board Report.
The results of the evaluation evaluation led were presented and reviewed in April by the Chairman 2015 with key recommendations and progress to date detailed in the table onpage 64.
The review of the Chairmans performance is led by David Lowden, Our Chairman met with each director and held discussions focused on: our Senior Independent Director, who Individual a How the board defines its role and approaches its work has condential discussions with the meetings non-executive directors whilst taking into a Balance of skills, diversity and experience on the board account the views of executive directors.
a Integration and induction of our new CEO The executive directors are evaluated a Knowledge about the group by reference to their executive duties through a separate process whereby a Culture and dynamics of the board the Chairman and the non-executive a Committee composition and effectiveness directors assess the Chief Executive a A report summarising the key outcomes was circulated to the board Officer, and the Chief Executive Officer assesses the Chief Financial Officer and a Outcomes were initially discussed by the non-executive directors Reporting other members of the Executive Board.
at their meeting on 17 December 2015 a The board discussed the outcomes and agreed priorities In accordance with our three-year at the February 2016 meeting cycle, the board anticipates that the 2016 board evaluation will be conducted a Key actions were agreed internally and led by our Senior a Board and committees continue to operate effectively Independent Director, with the next 2015 a Our new CEO has integrated well and the positive culture of the externally facilitated evaluation in 2017. outcomes board continues a All directors continue to contribute effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles a Support and monitor the CEO and senior management team in 2016 seamlessly executing our strategy and the implementation of our new organisation structure actions a Support the further development of talent and succession planning a Participate in the review of the groups advisers a Continue to develop and maintain best practice standards in corporate governance Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 64 Corporate governance statement continued Information ow at board meetings Chairman agrees The board uses an electronic board the agenda paper system which provides quick, with input from easy and secure access to board papers the CEO and Company Secretary and materials including a Resource Centre which contains comprehensive reference materials.
Brieng packs are also circulated via this system, at times Agenda and board An updated action when board meetings are not scheduled.
papers are circulated list informs part to directors at least The brieng packs ensure that the nonof the agenda seven days ahead of executive directors are kept informed of for the next the board meeting scheduled meeting the latest issues affecting the group.
The directors indicated in their responses to the 2015 performance evaluation that the quality of information supplied to Follow-up procedure them remains of a high standard.
Board meeting overseen by the at least eight Company Secretary The information ow in advance of, and per year ensures actions are following, board meetings is described in completed as agreed the adjacent chart.
by the board The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer ensure that the board is kept fully aware on a timely basis of business issues and prospects throughout the group.
During 2015, they periodically attended individual business line board meetings, meeting the management teams of each operation, and bringing the key issues raised to the attention of the board.
Outcomes of our 2014 performance evaluation Capital Markets Day Recommendation Progress Open communication with our investment community is a key priority.
We organised A comprehensive induction programme was Ensure a comprehensive and tailored a Capital Markets event on 19 November completed by James Drummond from induction programme for the new 2015, following the appointment of James 1 July 2015, with full details on page 55.
James Chief Executive Officer to include Drummond as CEO, and this gave 45 of hosted an investor reception in July and met our shareholders, investors and advisers meetings with major shareholders.
with shareholders representing 20% of our the opportunity to hear at first-hand our share capital.
James also met with our major medium-term strategy development.
shareholders at our Capital Markets Day in James and Kevin Quinn CFO presented November.
James will attend the 2016 AGM our operational and financial ambitions where he will be available to meet with our with break-out sessions facilitated by private investors.
senior managers from each business line: Following the completion of the strategic Review the skills and experience of Workwear, Facility, Hospitality and Healthcare.
review, the board and James Drummond Management team representatives from across the Executive Board following the reviewed the composition of the Executive Europe shared information about market outcome of the strategic review.
Board, which resulted in the creation of four growth opportunities, new products and new positions to support the new customerservices and strategic priorities.
Full biographical details of the current and newly appointed members of the Executive Board can be found on page 58.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 65 Induction Training and development Conicts of interest We seek to ensure that our induction The Chairman is responsible for ensuring The board operates procedures to programmes are designed to be that all non-executive directors receive identify and manage situations where as comprehensive as possible with ongoing training and development a director has a conict of interest, and a focus on the practical delivery of which is both informative and relevant each director has confirmed that no information rather than just the supply to their role on the Berendsen board conicts of interest arose during 2015. of reading material.
Our induction and its committees.
Our non-executive An element of the procedure, designed programmes whether for executive or directors engage fully in this ongoing to safeguard the independence of our non-executive director appointments development, which is discussed at the non-executive directors, restricts a require significant time commitment non-executive directors meeting each director from voting on any matter in from the newly appointed director, year, and was delivered in 2015 in a which they have a material personal other members of the board and other number of ways including: interest unless the board unanimously key individuals across the business.
a All of our UK-based non-executive decides otherwise.
Where necessary, This commitment is seen by all directors are active members of the directors are required to absent parties as a worthwhile investment of Deloitte Academy and received a themselves from a meeting of the board resources to ensure new appointees are programme of briengs and update while such matters are being discussed, engaged with the business at all levels, sessions in the year on relevant topics although as noted above no such and was vital in ensuring the smooth including accounting and auditing situations arose in 2015. handover of executive responsibility to standards, corporate governance and James Drummond.
The board also has agreed procedures the wider economy: by which directors can, for the purposes Information about James Drummonds a Specic tailored training for our of discharging their duties, obtain induction process audit committee delivered by independent professional advice at the Page 55  LLP, companys expense.
No director had with key themes focused around reason to use this facility during 2015. developments in financial and narrative reporting, and accounting and auditing standards: and a Regular updates on regulatory and legislative developments which are provided to the whole board by the Company Secretary.
The Capital Markets Day was an example of Berendsen at its most transparent, with senior management givingus a detailed insight into market dynamics and strategic developments.
Event attendee Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015
