Strategic report Governance Financial statements 81 Policy report This Policy report describes the policies, principles and structures that guide the remuneration committees decision-making process in the area of executive remuneration at Berendsen.
If approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM, it will replace the current Policy report as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and will apply for a period of three years from the date of the 2016 AGM unless a revised Policy report is put to shareholders before then.
Any existing remuneration commitments or contractual arrangements such as historical share awards, agreed prior to the approval and implementation of this Policy report, i. e. before 28 April 2016, will be honoured in accordance with their original terms.
Remuneration for executive directors will continue to comprise the following elements: Fixed pay Variable pay Long-term Total Base salary Benets Pension Annual bonus incentive remuneration Performance based Summary of proposed changes This Policy Report proposes a number of changes to the Policy report it is replacing, namely: a It recognises that the companys existing PSP, that is expiring in April 2016, will be replaced with a new PSP: a It simplies the companys long-term incentive strategy by dropping the companys Co-Investment Plan: a It reduces remuneration at target and the maximum total remuneration opportunity: a It removes the annual bonus multiplier and provides greater alignment to strategy with the remuneration committee having discretion to reduce any annual bonus for insufficient progress against the non-financial strategic objectives: a It increases the shareholding requirements: and a It introduces malus and clawback provisions.
Our strategic aim Our remuneration strategy is to reward executives in line with underlying company performance and the achievement of its strategic goals and priorities.
The aim is to encourage appropriate leadership behaviours whilst promoting challenging performance-based outcomes that are capable of incentivising genuine value creation for our shareholders.
Our principles The companys remuneration principles ensure that the structure and levels of executive remuneration remain appropriate for Berendsen.
This is achieved by having a remuneration policy that: a Provides an appropriate mix of rewards, incentives and benets balanced between: xed and variable pay: and short and long-term performance.
a Is weighted towards long-term performance and sustained shareholder value creation: and a Recognises and rewards stretching performance and appropriate risk reward behaviours.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 82 Report on directors remuneration continued Summary of remuneration elements for executive directors Fixed pay Base salary Benets Pension Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy To provide a core reward for the role which is set at To be market competitive for the purpose of To provide a market competitive level of a level appropriate to attract and retain high calibre attracting and retaining high calibre individuals.
individuals needed to execute and deliver on the Operation Operation groups strategic objectives.
Benets may be provided as determined by Pension contributions not exceeding a Operation the remuneration committee.
Typically, this percentage of the individuals base salary Base salaries are normally reviewed annually with includes a company car or cash allowance, life can be made to an appropriate retirement effect from 1 January.
Salary levels and increases assurance death in service, permanent health funding vehicle typically, the individuals take account of a variety of factors such as: insurance and medical insurance.
personal pension scheme or the contributions the scope and responsibility of the role: can be taken as a pension allowance cash Executive directors are also eligible to the experience, qualications and skills of the supplement.
participate in all-employee share plans individual director: operated by the company on the same basis as Maximum general economic and market conditions: other employees.
The maximum pension contribution cash salary levels for comparable roles at relevant supplement in respect of a financial year is Where applicable, relocation costs may be comparators: and 20% of base salary.
provided in line with the companys relocation general increases across the group.
policy, which may include removal costs, Performance framework Maximum accommodation assistance, a cost of living None.
There is no prescribed maximum increase.
allowance, school fees and tax equalisation.
In normal circumstances, increases will be broadly Maximum in line with those awarded to group employees There is no formal maximum limit as the cost taking into account performance and geography.
of benefit provision can uctuate depending In exceptional circumstances, such as a significant on changes in provider cost and individual increase in the complexity size of the group or the circumstances.
scope of an individuals position and or role has Participation in all-employee share plans is changed or where base salary has been set at a subject to statutory limits.
level below the desired market level contingent on individual performance, the remuneration Performance framework committee can exceed the normal level of increase None.
including exceeding it, over a phased period.
Performance framework The performance of both the group and the individual are key considerations when determining salary increases.
Variable pay Annual bonus Purpose and link to strategy In future years, the committee retains the Performance framework discretion to change the deferred amount and To incentivise and recognise the achievement of Current measures for financial performance specic annual financial and business objectives in or vary the deferral period provided that the are KPI adjusted earnings per share EPS, change does not make the deferred amount support of the companys short to medium-term KPI free cash ow and KPI revenue but strategy.
any less or the deferral period any shorter, than outcomes will only be determined provided as outlined in this Policy report.
that the earnings per share threshold has first The key changes proposed by the remuneration been achieved.
committee with regard to annual bonus are set out The committee may apply judgement and on pages 78 to 79. shall have discretion to make appropriate The committee retains discretion to annually adjustments to an individuals annual bonus, adjust the performance measures targets Operation for example, to reduce any potential annual weightings in future years to reect the Executive directors may be eligible to receive bonus if the committee believes that an  and strategic aims a discretionary annual cash bonus which is not individual has not made satisfactory progress and objectives of the business.
in contributing to the groups non-financial minimum of 50% of the total will always be At the start of each financial year, performance strategic objectives.
based on key financial measures.
measures and weightings are determined and Malus and or clawback provisions apply to Further details of the performance measures annual financial targets are set by the committee.
both the cash and the deferred element as target weightings are set out in the Annual Bonus outcomes are determined bythe committee described on page 83. report on remuneration on page 95. based on performance against thosetargets.
Maximum A quarter of any bonus that may be paid shall be The maximum annual bonus potential for compulsorily deferred into shares that vest after executive directors is 130% of base salary.
The three years subject to continued employment.
threshold, target and maximum bonus levels Deferred bonus shares are eligible for dividend are as follows: equivalents over the period from the date the Threshold as a Target as a Stretch as a deferred award is granted, to the date of its %ofbonus %ofbonus %ofbonus satisfaction.
20% 60% 100% Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 83 Variable pay Long-term incentives Purpose and link to strategy Maximum To create, incentivise and recognise long-term shareholder value through The maximum award limit in each financial year will be 200% of base the satisfaction of challenging and stretching performance measures salary.
In exceptional circumstances, the committee may make awards targets linked to the companys strategic objectives.
The key changes proposed by the remuneration committee with regard Performance framework tolong-term incentives are set out on page 78 and 79.
There are two equally weighted performance measures: Adjusted earnings per share EPS : and KPI Operation Weighted average post-tax return on invested capital ROIC.
KPI Long-term incentives will only comprise a Performance Share Plan PSP award.
For threshold performance, 25% of the award will vest.
For maximum performance, 100% will vest.
Vesting will operate on a straight-line basis.
Awards are normally granted annually with vesting on the third anniversary of the grant date dependent on the achievement of stretching The committee retains discretion to include additional or alternative performance measures targets over a period of three financial years.
financial performance measures targets and or adjust the weightings in future years to reect the prevailing operational and strategic aims and The performance measures targets will be determined at the start of objectives of the business.
each performance period in line with the companys strategic objectives.
Further details of long-term incentive awards are contained in the Malus and or clawback provisions apply as described below.
Annual report on remuneration on pages 97 to 98.
Awards will be eligible for dividend equivalents over the period from the date the award is granted, to the date of its satisfaction.
Policy on share ownership The remuneration committee has a policy of encouraging executive directors and senior management to acquire and retain a significant number of shares in the company with the objective of further aligning their long-term interests with those of other shareholders.
The minimum share ownership requirement for the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer is 200% of base salary.
Shares that count towards these guidelines include shares owned outright by the executive director and their immediate family and deferred bonus shares and long-term incentive awards after tax that have vested.
There is no absolute requirement for non-executive directors to hold shares.
Directors shareholdings are included in the Schedules to the annual report on page 101.
Malus and clawback Awards made under the annual bonus scheme including deferred bonuses and the PSP will be subject to malus and clawback.
The remuneration committee has broad discretion to decide how if at all malus and clawback should be applied, including cancelling, reducing or imposing further conditions in relation to the payment of an annual bonus or the vesting of a deferred bonus or PSP award if it determines that: a There has been a material misstatement of the companys financial results: or a An individuals actions amounted to gross misconduct resulting in the group suffering a financial loss or reputational damage.
Furthermore, in such circumstances, the committee can decide at any time prior to the first anniversary of the payment of any cash bonus or the vesting of a deferred bonus or PSP award that an amount of value in cash or shares should be recovered clawed back from the individual and whether that amount will take into account any income tax and national insurance contributions paid by the relevant individual.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 84 Report on directors remuneration continued Illustrating the application of the remuneration policy James Drummond 000 Kevin Quinn 000 2,451 44% 1,653 44% 1,364 28% 20% 927 30% 20% 676 28% 30% 468 100% 50% 28% 100% 50% 28% Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Fixed Elements Annual Variable Element Long-Term Variable Element Fixed Elements Annual Variable Element Long-Term Variable Element The potential reward opportunities illustrated above were calculated using base salaries effective from 1 January 2016.
For the annual bonus, the amounts illustrated are those potentially receivable in respect of performance for 2016.
It should be noted that any awards granted under the PSP do not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant.
The projected values of PSP awards exclude the impact of share price growth and dividend accrual.
Illustrations are intended to provide further information to shareholders regarding the pay for performance relationship.
However, actual pay delivered will be influenced by changes in share price and the vesting period of awards.
The assumptions set out below have been made in compiling the above charts: Assumptions Minimum Target Maximum Fixed pay Base salary and pension provision Base salary and pension provision Base salary and pension provision effective 1 January 2016. benefit effective 1 January 2016. benefit effective 1 January 2016. benefit levels are assumed to be the same levels are assumed to be the same levels are assumed to be the same asthe last financial year.
Annual bonus No annual bonus payable.
On target annual bonus of 60% Maximum annual bonus 100% ofbonus potential.
PSP Threshold not achieved zero Share award of 200% of base salary.
Share award of 200% of base salary.
Pension contributions are 20% of base salary for James Drummond and Kevin Quinn.
The Berendsen Sharesave Plan is excluded from the scenarios as the values are negligible.
Performance measures and target setting The performance measures that apply to annual bonuses adjusted EPS, free cash ow generation and revenue were chosen because of the companys ongoing strategic objectives to deliver organic revenue growth ahead of GDP, strong underlying cash ow and cash conversion, and EPS growth ahead of revenue.
The performance measures that apply to the PSP absolute EPS and ROIC were chosen because the remuneration committee considers them to be the most accurate measures of long-term company performance, balancing growth and investor returns.
The reason for selecting each performance measure is as follows: Remuneration performance measures and how these relate to our strategic objectives Incentive plan Performance measure Reason for selection Captures long-term growth and improving financial Annual bonus PSP Adjusted EPS KPI returns by leveraging operational efficiency Encourages operational cash discipline and Annual bonus Free cash ow KPI improving capital efficiency Annual bonus Revenue KPI Delivers sustainable organic growth PSP ROIC KPI Improves capital discipline and efficiency See pages 05 and 32 for a summary of our main KPIs and strategic objectives.
In setting performance targets, the committee takes account of annual budgets set by the board, internal and external forecasts as well as the prevailing economic environment.
Performance targets are meant to be stretching but achievable.
The committee will keep these performance measures and targets under periodic review and it retains the discretion to alter them or their respective weightings to ensure continued alignment with the companys prevailing strategy.
As part of any review, the committee would consider the effect of that strategy on existing performance measures and targets.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 85 Policy on appointment recruitment The companys approach to remuneration for newly appointed directors both internal and external is consistent with that for existing directors.
It shall similarly apply if it is necessary for the Chairman of the board or any non-executive director to assume an executive function on a temporary basis.
However, where the company is considering an internal promotion to the board, the remuneration committee may, at its discretion, decide that any remuneration commitment agreed or entered into prior to the promotion, will continue to be honoured even though that commitment may not be consistent with the prevailing policy.
Whilst new executive directors will participate in the companys incentive plans, the committee may, subject to the rules of the applicable plan, amend certain features if it determines that the circumstances surrounding the recruitment merit such changes.
The committee will explain to shareholders the reasons for any such changes and an appropriate announcement of the appointment and the appointees remuneration will be made to the London Stock Exchange and posted on the companys website.
It is not the companys policy to offer buy-out payments but where the committee considers it reasonable to do so in order to recruit a particular individual, it may offer compensation, on a like-for-like basis, for any amounts of variable remuneration being forfeited.
In doing so, the committee will consider all relevant factors including: expected values, time horizons, delivery mechanism, the terms of the forfeited remuneration, any performance conditions attached to the compensation and the likelihood of the conditions being met.
In order to facilitate such compensation, the committee may rely on any exemptions, procedures or provisions contained in the Listing Rules that permit awards to be granted in exceptional circumstances.
To ensure alignment from the outset with shareholders, malus and clawback provisions may also apply where appropriate and the committee may require new directors to acquire company shares up to a pre-agreed level.
Shareholders will be informed of any buy-out payments at the time of appointment.
The company may offer to pay reasonable relocation expenses for the new executive director in line with the policies described in this report.
In recruiting a new non-executive director, the committee will use the policy as set out below.
In recruiting a new Chairman of the board, the fee offered would be inclusive of serving on any committee.
Summary of remuneration elements for non-executive directors and the Chairman Purpose and link to strategy To attract and retain non-executive directors with the appropriate and requisite degree of experience, independence, knowledge and skills and to attract and retain a Chairman capable of providing effective leadership of the board.
Operation Fee levels are reviewed and determined annually by the board other than fee levels for the Chairman which are reviewed and determined by the remuneration committee under a policy that seeks to recognise the time commitment, responsibilities, the technical skills required to make a valuable contribution to the board, and by reference to comparators.
Additional fees may be paid in respect of service as chairman of a committee or for additional duties such as serving as the Senior Independent Director.
Participation is not permitted in any incentive or pension arrangement operated by the company and, other than fees, no additional or other remuneration is paid.
Travel and subsistence for non-executive directors based outside of the UK for companyrelated business will be reimbursed by the company.
Maximum Any fee increases are applied in line with the outcome of the annual review.
The maximum aggregate annual fee for all nonexecutive directors, including the Chairman, as provided for in the companys Articles of Association, is 750,000.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 86 Report on directors remuneration continued Service contracts and loss of office The following table summarises the key terms of the current executive directors service contracts.
It also represents the committees policy in this area.
Service contracts for the executive directors and letters of appointment for the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the companys registered office.
Service contracts for executive directors Provision Terms Notice period 12 months notice terminable by either the company or the director.
Remuneration and other benets As described in the Summary of remuneration elements table on page 82.
Expenses Reimbursement of reasonably incurred costs in accordance with a directors duties.
Restrictive covenants Non-compete and non-solicitation provisions.
Termination payments As summarised in the Loss of office table below.
No additional compensation would be paid as a result of a change of control in the company.
Letters of appointment for the Chairman and non-executive directors Notice period Chairman: six months notice terminable by either the company or the director.
Other non-executives: one-month notice terminable by either the company or the director.
Remuneration and other benets As described on page 85.
Termination payments Non-executive directors are not entitled to any compensation for loss of office other than their notice period.
The table below summarises the key provisions from the relevant remuneration documents such as service contracts and plan rules as they relate to possible payments made for loss of office.
Loss of office Element Default position Remuneration committee discretion Salary and pension In specified scenarios as set out in the directors service contract e. g. None incapacitation, insolvency, prohibition by law from being a director, serious misconduct or breach of obligations no payments are due.
Otherwise up to 12 months salary and pension contributions subject to the duty of mitigation.
Other benets Non-cash benets will continue to be provided during the notice period.
The committee has discretion to approve contributions towards outplacement The committee may take account of, and pay in respect of, accrued but services and the legal fees for any unused holiday allowance.
departing director to the extent it considers appropriate.
Annual and deferred bonus There is no absolute entitlement to payment of an annual bonus and any To determine the extent to which good unvested deferred bonuses would normally lapse on cessation.
leaver status should apply in relation to bonuses including the applicability of time If classed as a good leaver death, ill health, redundancy, retirement etc.
pro rating and unvested deferred bonus the executive could be awarded a bonus or deferred bonus awards awards.
PSP awards If the executive director is a good leaver e. g. ill health, redundancy, To determine the extent to which good retirement etc.
awards vest subject to performance at the normal vesting leaver status applies.
date measured at the end of the performance period subject to time pro To permit vesting at the point of cessation, rating.
If an award takes the form of an option, a six-month exercise period rather than at the normal vesting date.
will apply subject to the overall term of the option.
In the case of death, To determine the extent to which the awards vest in full.
performance conditions are satisfied and In all other leaver situations, awards will lapse.
theapplicability of time pro rating.
One-off awards linked to No default position.
To determine the termination provisions recruitment prior to the award being made.
If such an award were made, full details would be disclosed following the award being granted.
Fees and benets for the No compensation payable in the event of early termination apart from the None.
Chairman and non-executive notice period.
directors The committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith: in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a directors office or employment.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 87 External appointments It is a board policy to allow executive directors to accept directorships at other quoted companies and retain any fees linked to the appointment.
Any such directorships must be formally approved by the Chairman of the board.
None of the executive directors currently holds an external directorship.
Corporate events In the event of a takeover or other major corporate event but excluding an internal reorganisation of the company, all outstanding PSP awards would vest subject to the achievement of any performance conditions and any pro rata reduction to reect the unexpired part of the vesting period.
The remuneration committee has discretion to disapply time pro rating if it considers it appropriate to do so.
Awards granted under any all-employee share plan operated by the company would vest in accordance with the prescribed legislation.
Payment of any bonuses will not be accelerated unless the committee determines otherwise, taking into account avariety of factors including the extent to which any performance conditions have been satisfied.
Deferred bonus awards mayvestin full.
Employee remuneration and engagement When reviewing and setting executive remuneration, the remuneration committee takes into account the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the group.
specifically, the level of any group pay review is a key determinant when setting the level of any salary increase for the executive directors and will be disclosed in the Annual report on remuneration each year.
The companys approach to reward and remuneration is broadly consistent across the group although, by necessity, executive remuneration is more heavily weighted towards those variable elements of remuneration which are conditional upon the executive directors achieving performance targets linked to the successful delivery of strategy.
All employees are set objectives at the beginning of each year which are linked to the execution of our strategic priorities.
Annual bonuses payable to managers across the group depend on the satisfactory completion of these objectives as well as performance against local business unit targets which can be a mixture of financial or personal measures.
Other employees may also participate in a performance-based annual bonus plan.
Approximately 110 senior managers are eligible to participate in the Berendsen Long-Term Incentive Plan which is similarly linked to the achievement of strategic priorities.
Stretching performance targets that are business unit specic are set and managers receive regular performance updates to ensure they are informed about their progress toward the achievement of those targets, which are typically measured over two or three years.
All permanent UK employees are invited to participate in the Berendsen Sharesave Plan.
The company does not specifically consult with employees over the appropriateness and effectiveness of director remuneration, although it does comply with local regulations and practices regarding employee consultation more broadly.
The Group Director, Human Resources ensures that the committee is made aware of any relevant employee feedback regarding the companys remuneration policy.
Further information about our engagement with employees across the group is provided in the Our people section on page 47.
Consideration of shareholder views The remuneration committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders and arranges meetings with the companys largest investors to discuss and receive feedback on its remuneration strategy and wider governance matters.
The chairman of the committee and the company secretary are available to meet with institutional shareholders to discuss any of the policy related disclosures or outcomes contained in this directors remuneration report.
Administrative changes to the Policy Report The Policy report is intended to take effect from 28 April 2016, being the date of the companys AGM.
In addition to the various operational discretions that the remuneration committee has as outlined in this Policy report and including those discretions set out in the companys incentive plans, the committee reserves the right to make non-significant changes to this Policy report, for example, for administrative, exchange control, regulatory or tax reasons, without obtaining shareholder approval for those changes.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015
