Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors report 105 The directors present their Annual Report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
This Annual Report contains forwardIn accordance with the UK Branches outside theUK looking statements.
These forwardCorporate Governance Code, the The group has branches in Finland.
looking statements are not guarantees company is continuing to follow the of future performance.
Rather they are recommendation that all directors seek Results and dividends based on current views and assumptions their election or re-election, as relevant, The financial statements set out the and involve known and unknown at the AGM this year.
results of the group for the year ended risks, uncertainties and other factors Copies of executive directors service 31 December 2015 and are shown on that may cause actual results to contracts are available to shareholders page 118.
The directors recommend a differ from any future results or for inspection at the companys final dividend of 21.5 pence per ordinary developments expressed in, or implied registered office and at the AGM.
share which, together with the interim from, the forward-looking statements.
Details of the directors remuneration dividend of 10.0 pence per ordinary Each forward-looking statement and service contracts and their interests share paid in October 2015, makes a speaks only as of the date of that in the shares of the company are total dividend for the year of 31.5 pence particular statement.
included in the Directors remuneration 2014: 30 pence per ordinary share.
The Directors report of the group report which is set out on pages 78 Subject to approval by shareholders for the year ended 31 December to 104. of the recommended final dividend, 2015 is set out on pages 105 to 108 the dividend award to shareholders for inclusive.
Additional information which Directors indemnity 2015 will total 53.8 million.
If approved, is incorporated by reference into this the company will pay the final dividend Article 133 of the companys Articles of Directors report, including information on 6 May 2016 to shareholders on the Association the Articles provides, required in accordance with the register at 8 April 2016. among other things that, insofar as Companies Act 2006 and the Listing permitted by law, every director of the Rule 9.8.
4R of the UK Financial Conduct Changes in composition company or any associated company Authoritys Listing Rules, can be located may be indemnified by the company ofthegroup as follows: against any liability.
During the year, the group acquired a number of textile maintenance Deed polls, which include the grant of Disclosure Location businesses.
The total consideration indemnities constituting qualifying third Future business Throughout the including net financial liabilities assumed party indemnity provisions as dened developments Strategic report and deferred consideration payable for by Section 234 of the Companies pages 01 to 51 these acquisitions was 8.9 million.
Act 2006, were updated during the year and were in force for each of the Employee Our people Details of the fair value of net assets Chairman, executive and non-executive acquired and consideration paid are set involvement page 47 directors of the company and its out in note 25 to the financial statements.
Financial risk Note 17 to management the financial In addition, the company has arranged Directors objectives and statements appropriate insurance cover in respect The current directors of the company, policies including pages 151 to 159 of legal action against its directors including their biographical details, are hedgingpolicy and officers.
Each served and use of throughout the year ended 31 December financial Share capital 2015 except James Drummond who was instruments appointed to the board on 1 August 2015 As at 25 February 2016, the companys and Peter Ventress who resigned from issued share capital consisted of Details of longNote 21 to the board on 31 July 2015.
51,773,561 divided into 172,578,539 term incentive the financial ordinary shares of 30 pence each schemes statements noshares are held in treasury.
pages 163 to 169 During the 12 months to 31 December Directors Page 109 2015, 12,695 ordinary shares of 30pence responsibilities each in the company were issued in statement satisfaction of the exercise of employee Both the Directors report and the share options under the terms of the Strategic report have been drawn up Berendsen Sharesave Plan 2006 for a and presented in accordance with, and total consideration of 57,650. in reliance upon, applicable English The share price on 31 December company law.
The liabilities of the 2015 was 1,079 pence.
Details of the directors in connection with that report movements in the year are set out in shall be subject to the limitations and note 20 to the financial statements.
restrictions provided by such law.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 106 Directors report continued The directors were also granted Rights and obligations Voting authority at the 2015 AGM to allot attaching to shares Every member and every duly appointed shares up to approximately two-thirds proxy present at a general meeting Subject to the Articles, the Companies of the companys issued ordinary share or class meeting has, upon a show of Act 2006 and other shareholders rights: capital in accordance with guidelines hands, one vote and every member i shares in the company may be issued issued by the ABI on 31 December present in person or by proxy has, upon with such rights and restrictions as the 2012.
The additional one-third authority, a poll, one vote for every share held by shareholders may by ordinary resolution abovethe one-third authority which can him or her.
In the case of joint holders decide or, if there is no such resolution be used for general purposes, may only of a share, the vote of the senior who or so far as it does not make specic be used for rights issues.
tenders a vote, whether in person or by provision, as the board may decide: and proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion At25 February 2016, the company had ii unissued shares in the company are of the vote s of the other joint holder s an unexpired authority to allot up to at the disposal of the board.
and, for this purpose, seniority shall be 115,045,226 shares with a nominal value determined by the order in which the of 34,513,568.
The authority granted Variation of rights names stand in the register in respect at the 2015 AGM will apply until the Subject to the Companies Act 2006, ofthe jointholding.
conclusion of the 2016 AGM, at which rights attached to any class of shares shareholders will be asked to grant the may be varied with the written consent directors renewed authority to allot Restrictions on voting of the holders of not less than threeshares up to approximately two-thirds No member shall be entitled to vote at fourths in nominal value of the issued of the companys issued ordinary share any general meeting or class meeting shares of that class calculated excluding capital.
The renewed authority will apply in respect of any share held by him or any shares held as treasury shares, or until the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
her if any call or other sum then payable with the sanction of a special resolution The directors have no present intention by him or her in respect of that share passed at a separate general meeting of to exercise this authority, and no issue remains unpaid or if a member has the holders of those shares.
will be made which would effectively been served with a restriction notice alter the control of the company without asdened in the Articles after failure Securities carrying the prior approval of shareholders in toprovide the company with information specialrights general meeting.
concerning interests in those shares No person holds securities in the required to be provided under the A special resolution will be proposed at company carrying special rights with Companies Act 2006. the 2016 AGM to authorise the directors regard to control of the company.
to allot ordinary shares or sell any The company is not aware of any ordinary shares which the company agreements between holders of Restrictions on transfer of elects to hold in treasury, representing securities that may result in restrictions securities in the company up to 5% of the companys issued on voting rights.
There are no restrictions on the transfer ordinary share capital, for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis.
The directors of securities in the company, except: Authority to allot new shares, confirm that, in any rolling three-year a that certain restrictions may from disapply pre-emption rights period, the company will not issue time to time be imposed by laws and purchase own shares non-pre-emptively for cash equity and regulations for example, insider securities that represent more than 7.5% At the AGM held on 30 April 2015, trading laws : and shareholders authorised the company to of the companys issued ordinary share capital, in accordance with the Prea pursuant to the Listing Rules of purchase in the market up to 10% of its the Financial Conduct Authority, issued share capital 17,256,784 ordinary Emption Group Statement of Principles.
The directors have decided not to seek whereby certain employees of the shares and, as at 31 December 2015, company require theapproval of the the full extent of this authority remained the authority to issue non-pre-emptively for cash equity securities representing an company to deal inthe companys inforceand unused.
is renewable annually, and a special additional 5% of the companys issued share capital for use only in connection resolution will be proposed at the 2016 The company is not aware of any AGM to renew it.
The directors will only with an acquisition or a specified capital agreements between holders of investment, in accordance with the Prepurchase the companys shares in the securities that may result in restrictions market if they believe it is in the best Emption Group Statement of Principles, on the transfer of securities.
The directors interests of shareholders generally.
will keep this under review during 2016.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 107 Substantial shareholdings The table below shows the holdings in the companys issued share capital which had been notied to the company pursuant tothe Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The information below was correct at the date of notication: however, the date received may not have been within the current financial year.
It should be noted that these holdings are likely to have changed since the company was notied.
However, notication of any change is not required until the next notiable threshold is crossed.
of Direct shares Direct shares indirect m % indirect m % Prudential plc Direct 16.41 9.51 Direct 14.39 8.33 Fidelity Management & Research Company FMR Direct 8.65 5.01 Direct 8.65 5.01 BlackRock, Inc Direct 8.64 5.00 Being the latest practicable date prior to publication of the Annual Report.
Notications were also received from Silchester International Investors Limited and Sanderson Asset Management Limited during the year to disclose that they no longer held a notiable interest.
board has agreed, in accordance with which, iftriggered, could limit future Rights under the employee the UK Corporate Governance Code, utilisations, require the repayment share scheme and in line with previous years, that all of existing utilisations or lead to a As at 31 December 2015, Appleby of the directors wishing to continue will renegotiation of terms.
Trust Jersey Limited, as trustee of the offer themselves for re-election by the Berendsen Employee benefit Trust, held shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
Employees 1,715,142 shares in trust for the benefit of The board recognises the importance of the executive directors and employees of The shareholders may, by special attracting, developing and retaining the resolution, remove any director before the group.
A dividend waiver is in place right people, as well as maintaining a safe in respect of Applebys shareholding the expiration of that directors period working environment for our existing of office.
and Appleby currently abstains from employees.
Please refer to page 47 for voting the shares but it may, upon the further details about group policies recommendation of the company and Powers of the directors and procedures on how employees having taken into account all relevant Subject to the Articles, the Companies skills, communication and engagement matters including the interests of Act 2006 and any directions given by are strengthened: and to pages 48 beneciaries, accept or reject any offer the shareholders by special resolution, to 50 for health and safety policies relating to the shares in any way it sees the business of the company will be and procedures.
t, without incurring any liability and managed by the board who may without being required to give reasons exercise all the powers of the company, In accordance with best practice, we for its decision.
whether relating to the management have employment policies in place ofthe business of the company or not.
which provide equal opportunities for Amendment of Articles Inparticular, the board may exercise all all employees, irrespective of sex, race, ofAssociation the powers of the company to borrow colour, disability, sexual orientation, money, to mortgage or charge any religious beliefs or marital status.
Unless expressly specified to the of its undertakings, property, assets We give full and fair consideration to contrary in the Articles, the Articles may presentand future and uncalled capital, applications for employment from be amended by a special resolution of to issue debentures and other securities applicants with disabilities where they the companys shareholders.
and to give security for any debt, liability have the appropriate skills and potential.
or obligation of the company or of any Appropriate arrangements are made for Appointment and third party.
the continued employment and training, replacementof directors career development and promotion of Directors may be appointed by the persons with disabilities employed by the significant agreements shareholders by ordinary resolution group.
If there were to be any instance of There are a number of agreements or by the board.
A director appointed an employee becoming disabled during that take effect, alter or terminate upon by the board holds office only until their employment with us, every effort a change of control of the company, the following AGM of the company would be made to make sure that their such as commercial contracts, bank and is then eligible for election by the employment with us continues and that, loan agreements, property lease members.
The board or any committee where needed, appropriate retraining arrangements and employees share authorised by the board may from time is arranged.
None of these are deemed to be to time appoint one or more directors to significant in terms of their potential hold any employment or executive office Greenhouse gas emissions impact on the business of the group for such period and on such terms as as a whole, except for the following: Disclosures concerning the groups they may determine and may also revoke US Private Placement Note Purchase greenhouse gas emissions are contained or terminate any such appointment.
Agreements US$200 million dated within the Corporate responsibility At every AGM of the company, any of 25 May 2006, US$259 million and report, which forms part of the Strategic the directors who have been appointed 25 million dated 24 November 2009, report, on page 51. by the board since the last AGM shall 80 million and DKK655 million dated seek their re-election by the members.
15 December 2014 and the 510 million Notwithstanding provisions in the Multicurrency Revolving Credit Facility companys Articles in respect of the dated 19 March 2015.
These agreements retirement by rotation of directors, the contain change of control provisions Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 108 Directors report continued The group has considerable financial Political donations resources together with long-term There were no political donations during contracts with a number of customers 2015 2014: nil.
and suppliers across different geographic areas and industries.
Auditors and disclosure of As aconsequence, the directors believe information to auditors that the group is well placed to manage The companys auditors, its business risks successfully.
 LLP, have Having assessed the principal risks, and indicated their willingness to continue other matters discussed in connection in office and a resolution that they may with the viability statement, the directors be reappointed will be proposed at consider it appropriate to adopt the the AGM.
going concern basis of accounting in As far as each director is aware, there preparing the financial statements.
isno relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware.
Annual General Meeting Each director has taken all the steps that The notice of the AGM to be held at they ought to have taken as a director 11.00am on Thursday 28 April 2016 is in order to make themselves aware of being sent separately to shareholders any relevant audit information and to with this report.
The venue for the establish that the companys auditors meeting is the Royal Aeronautical areaware of that information.
Going concern David Lawler The groups business activities, together Company Secretary 25 February 2016 with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 51.
The financial position of the group, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Directors review on pages 36 to 43.
In addition, note 17 to the financial statements includes the groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives and policies: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to price, credit, liquidity and cash ow risk.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015
