58 The Executive Board Delivering the boards strategy The Executive Board is collectively responsible for ensuring the successful implementation of our strategy and for embedding our governance culture.
6 9 Peter Havus Claude Sada The Executive Board Managing Director, Workwear Director, Berendsen Excellence In November 2015, our strategy update to Peter joined the group in 1985 and was Claude joined the group in 2013 and was the market highlighted our desire to enhance appointed Managing Director for the Continent appointed as Director of Business Excellence business development and capability.
He has held a number of senior on 1 January 2016.
Claude has held a range Our Executive Board will be expanded during posts, including Managing Director Sweden, of senior procurement and supply chain 2016, in response to the evolution of our Managing Director Denmark and Chief Operating transformational roles across Europe.
We have already appointed Officer, mainland Europe, having started his is a trained Lean practitioner and a Six Sigma three new members: Claude Sada, Niels Peter career in the textile rental industry in Sweden Black Belt.
He holds a degree in International Hansen and Martin Amtoft-Christensen.
Peter holds a degree in Economics.
Trade and a Masters in Business Management, During 2015, our Executive Board formally met On 1 January 2012, he was appointed Managing Procurement & Supply Chain Management.
To ensure full participation, some of Chris Thrush these meetings were held by video conference.
7 Steve Finch Group Director, Human Resources The members of our Executive Board also Managing Director, UK Flat Linen communicate regularly outside of the formal Chris was appointed Group Director, Human scheduled meetings.
Steve joined the group in 1996 through the Resources in May 2011.
He previously held acquisition of Spring Grove Services.
He was HR Director roles with Corporate Express 1 James Drummond appointed Managing Director of the Sunlight N. V. DePuy, Gestetner and the University of Chief Executive Officer Service Group in 2001.
Prior to joining Spring Lancaster in the UK.
He has lived and worked Read biography Grove in 1995, Steve spent 25 years in the extensively outside the UK in Europe, the Page 56 telecommunications industry.
Steve holds an USA and Asia.
He holds an MBA and is a MBA from Bath University.
On 1 January 2012, he Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel was appointed Managing Director, UK Flat Linen.
Chris will be retiring from 2 Kevin Quinn Steve will retire from Berendsen in December Berendsen in June 2016.
We are currently in the Chief Financial Officer 2016.
During 2016, we will be searching for process of searching for Chris successor who Read biography Steves successor who will be appointed as will be recruited in advance of Chris retirement.
11 TBC 8 Martin Amtoft-Christensen Director for Business Development 3 David Lawler Director of Shared Services During 2016, we will appoint a Director for Company Secretary Martin joined the group in 2010 as Finance Business Development who will also become Read biography Director of the Nordic Region.
From 2012 to a member of our Executive Board.
Page 57 2015, Martin was Finance Director for the Facility business line and interim Managing Director 4 Christian Ellegaard of the Norwegian business.
Martin holds a Managing Director, Facility MSc in Economics from Aarhus University.
From 1 March 2016, he will be appointed Director Christian joined the group in 1993 and was of Shared Services.
appointed Managing Director of the Nordic Region in 2007, having held a number of senior posts, including Managing Director in Denmark.
Christian holds a BSc in Economics and Business Administration from the Copenhagen Business School and an MBA from Monterey Institute of International Studies.
On 1 January 1 2 2 3 4 2012, he was appointed Managing Director, Facility.
5 Niels Peter Hansen Managing Director, Hospitality Niels Peter joined the group in 1997 and was appointed as Managing Director, Hospitality on 1 January 2016.
Before his appointment, 5 6 7 8 from 2009 to 2015, Niels Peter was Managing Director for German Healthcare and German Workwear.
Prior to joining Berendsen, Niels Peter had a career in the Royal Danish Airforce followed by management consultancy at PwC and senior management roles in logistics.
He holds a degree from the Royal Danish Airforce Officers Academy and from the 9 10 Danish Defence Academy.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015
