Wet tonnes are reported for WAIO deposits and Samarco JV, including moisture contents: BKM Brockman 3%, CID Channel Iron Deposits 8%, MM Marra Mamba 4%, NIM Nimingarra 3.5%, Samarco JV 6.5%.
2 A single cut-off value was applied per deposit: however, cut-offs range from 5055%Fe across the WAIO resource inventory.
The cut-off grade applied for Samarco JV was 22%Fe.
3 WAIO Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves are reported on a Pilbara basis by ore type to align with our production of the Newman Blend lump product which comprises of BKM, BKM Bene Brockman Beneficiation and MM ore types, in addition to other lump and fines products.
This also reflects our single logistics chain and associated management system.
4 WAIO BHP Billiton interest is reported as Pilbara Ore Reserves tonnes weighted average across all Joint Ventures.
BHP Billiton ownership varies between 85% and 100%.
5 WAIO Mineral Resources increased due to additional drilling, revised resource models for twenty-two updated resources twelve BKM, six CID and four MM deposits and nineteen maiden resources thirteen BKM, one CID and five MM deposits.
This resource increase was published on 25 August 2015 in the BHP Billiton Results for the Year Ended 30 June 2015, along with Appendix 2 JORC Table 1, and is available to view at w w w. bhpbilliton.
6 Approximate drill hole spacings used to classify the reserves were: Deposit Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves WAIO 50m x 50m 150m x 50m Samarco JV Maximum 150m x 100m Maximum 300m x 200m 7 WAIO recovery was 100%, except for BKM Bene, where recovery was 74% tonnage basis due to the beneficiation plant processing ore from Whaleback.
Samarco JV recovery was 82% metal basis.
8 The Ore Reserves grades listed refer to in situ mass percentage on a dry weight basis.
WAIO tonnages represent wet tonnes based on the following moisture contents: BKM 3%, BKM Bene 3%, CID 8%, MM 4%, NIM 3.5%.
For Samarco JV, the Ore Reserves tonnages also represent wet tonnes based on a moisture content of 6.5% for ROM.
Iron ore is marketed for WAIO as Lump direct blast furnace feed and Fines sinter plant feed and Samarco JV as Fines sinter plant feed, direct reduction and blast furnace pellets.
9 Cut-off grades: WAIO 5058%Fe for all material types: Samarco JV Fe 22%, Pc 0.097% phosphorous in concentrate and PPCc 7.7% LOI in concentrate.
10 Ore delivered to process plant.
11 WAIO Ore Reserves are all located on State Agreement mining leases that guarantee the right to mine.
Across WAIO, State Government approvals including environmental and heritage clearances are required before commencing mining operations in a particular area.
Included in the Ore Reserves are select areas where one or more approvals remain outstanding, but where, based on the technical investigations carried out as part of the mine planning process and company knowledge and experience of the approvals process, it is expected that such approvals will be obtained as part of the normal course of business and within the time frame required by the current mine schedule.
12 WAIO Reporting of NIM ore type was discontinued due to suspension of mining activities at the Yarrie mine in the Northern Pilbara in February 2014.
13 WAIO The increase in Ore Reserves was due to revised economic assumptions used in the mine planning process.
The decrease in Reserve Life was due to an increase in nominated production rate from 233Mt in FY2014 to 264Mt in FY2015.
14 Samarco JV Delays in environmental approvals due to changes in Brazilian legislation for the protection of caves within the declared reserves footprint resulted in the downgrading of 400Mt Proved Reserves to Probable Reserves.
Although it is too early to assess the final impact of these regulations on Samarcos operations, industry precedent suggests that such approvals could be anticipated.
