STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Managing Directors Statement Berkeley continues to be defined by its focus on quality.
ROB PERRINS MANAGING DIRECTOR, 454.6m 5 272m Adjusted profit before Estimated gross margin tax for the year in land holdings Berkeley has delivered adjusted pre-tax We have made great strides with our land UK: Berkeleys net promoter score, which earnings of 454.6 million, an increase of holdings, acquiring five new sites, securing measures customer loyalty, is the highest 19.6% on last year from the sale of 3,355 28 planning consents and moving eight new in the property sector: and Berkeley is the new homes at an average selling price sites into production.
This has given us the only public company in Britain to address of 575,000, and an additional profit of certainty to integrate our pipeline sites into and measure peoples wellbeing in the 85.1 million from the sale of a portfolio the land bank, which now comprises some places that we build.
of ground rent assets, giving total pre-tax 37,000 plots with 5.3 billion of estimated Berkeley continues to invest directly in earnings of 539.7 million.
future gross margin, an increase in the year the people and communities connected of 0.8 billion.
Work continues to bring With 3 billion of cash due on forward to our sites.
We recognise that public forward the first 10 sites identified for our sales over the next three years and stable companies need to play a more proactive, St William joint venture with National Grid.
market conditions, Berkeley anticipates more productive role in society since the Since the year end its first site achieved that adjusted earnings for the current year recession.
The Berkeley Foundation has so planning for 800 units in Battersea.
will be at similar levels to 2014 15, and is far committed 6 million in four key areas, targeting the delivery of pre-tax profits in Berkeley continues to be defined by of which 1.6 million has so far been raised the region of 2.0 billion over the three its focus on quality.
This, alongside by our staff.
Projects like Street Elite are year period comprising 2015 16, 2016 17 the Companys sustained commercial helping young adults involved with gangs and 2017 18.
This profit will be generated performance, is what differentiates the or crime on London estates find a job or from our key regeneration sites including brand.
It begins with the quality of design get into college: thirteen are now directly Riverlight, Chelsea Creek, Goodmans Fields, that we commission, through the quality employed with Berkeley itself.
Battersea Reach, Abell & Cleland, Vista, One of build and service to the quality of the Berkeley has the land, forward sales, balance Tower Bridge, The Corniche, London Dock, places we create.
This strategy underpins sheet and people to achieve its targets.
We Kidbrooke Village, Beaufort Park, Royal the offer we make to landowners, local are well positioned to pay the 433 pence of Arsenal Riverside and Woodberry Park.
scheduled dividends equally over the period By nature, the scale of these schemes We also have robust evidence to to September 2018 and build a successful makes profit delivery in specific periods demonstrate performance in each of these and sustainable business for the long term sensitive to timing and we will always areas.
Our development at Roman House that maximises returns in a cyclical market.
prioritise quality ahead of individual won the top Considerate Constructors Site period financial targets.
Rob Perrins award from a pool of 9,015 sites across the Managing Director 07
