berkeley AnnuAl report 2015 governAnce Directors Report The Directors submit their report together Movements in the Companys share capital shown in the Directors Remuneration with the audited consolidated and are shown in note 20 to the consolidated Report on page 70.
At 30 April 2015 each company financial statements for the year financial statements.
of the Executive Directors were deemed ended 30 April 2015. to have a non-beneficial interest in 100,156 Information on the Groups share option 2014: 106,799 ordinary shares held by the Principal activities and review of the schemes is set out in note 6 to the Trustees of The Berkeley Group Employee business consolidated financial statements.
The trustee of the Berkeley The Company is the UK holding company of the Long-Term Incentive Schemes Group Holdings Employee Benefit Trust of a Group engaged in residential-led and Long-Term Incentive Plans for key EBT has agreed not to vote on any property development focusing on urban executives are set out within the Directors shares held in the EBT at any general regeneration and mixed-use developments.
Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 83. meeting.
The Company is incorporated and Articles of association domiciled in England and Wales and is There were no contracts of significance The Articles of Association set out the quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
during, or at the end of, the financial year in basic management and administrative which a Director of the Company is, or was, The information that fulfils the structure of the Company.
They regulate materially interested, other than those set requirements of the Strategic report the internal affairs of the Company and out in note 6 to the consolidated financial can be found on pages 6 to 54 of the cover such matters as the issue and statements, the contracts of employment Annual Report which provide more transfer of shares, Board and shareholder of the Executive Directors, which are detailed commentaries on the business meetings, powers and duties of Directors terminable within one year, and the performance during the year together with and borrowing powers.
In accordance with appointment terms of the Non-executive the outlook for the future.
In particular, the Articles of Association, Directors can Directors, which are renewable annually information in respect of the principal be appointed or removed by shareholders and terminable on one months notice.
financial and operating risks of the business in a general meeting.
is set out on pages 23 to 31 of the Strategic Directors indemnities The Articles may only be amended by Report.
The Companys practice has always been special resolution at a general meeting of to indemnify its Directors in accordance Trading results and dividends shareholders.
Copies are available by writing with the Companys Articles of Association The Groups consolidated profit after to the Company Secretary and are also and to the maximum extent permitted taxation for the financial year was 423.5 open to inspection at Companies House.
Qualifying third party indemnities, million 2014: 292.9 million.
The Groups Directors under which the Company has agreed joint ventures contributed a profit after The Directors of the Company and their to indemnify the Directors, were in force taxation of 28.3 million 2014: 12.1 million.
profiles are detailed on pages 58 and 59. during the financial year and at the date An interim dividend of 90 pence per All of these Directors served throughout of approval of the financial statements, in share was paid to shareholders on 26 the year under review with the exception of accordance with the Companys Articles September 2014 and a further interim Richard Stearn who was appointed to the of Association and to the maximum extent dividend of 90 pence per share was paid to Board on 13 April 2015.
David Howell stood permitted by law, in respect of all costs, shareholders on 23 January 2015.
A further down from the Board on 1 September charges, expenses, losses and liabilities, interim dividend of 90 pence per share 2014 and Nick Simpkin left the Board on which they may incur in or about the is proposed, payable on 17 September 8September 2014. execution of their duties to the Company, 2015 to shareholders on the register on or any entity which is an associated The Articles of Association of the Company 14August 2015. company as defined in Section 256 of require Directors to submit themselves for the Companies Act 2006, or as a result Post balance sheet event re-election every three years.
In addition of duties performed by the Directors The Group has exchanged contracts for all Directors are subject to election at the on behalf of the Company or any such the sale of a portfolio of ground rent assets first opportunity after their appointment associated company.
The sale is expected to give to the Board.
However, in accordance with rise to a non-recurring profit on disposal of the UK Corporate Governance Code all Substantial shareholders approximately 50 million after transaction the Directors will offer themselves for reThe Company has been notified of the costs following legal completion in the year election at the forthcoming Annual General following interests, pursuant to Rule 5 of ending 30 April 2016.
the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules, as at 29 June 2015: Share capital The Directors interests in the share capital The Company had 136,657,183 ordinary of the Company and its subsidiaries are shares in issue at 30 April 2015 2014: Number of ordinary % of issued Nature of 135,357,183.
No shares are held in treasury.
shares held share capital holdings Authority will be sought from shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting First Eagle Investment 13,092,232 9.97 Direct to renew the authority given at the 2014 Management LLC Annual General Meeting for a further year, BlackRock Inc. 9,343,421 6.84 Indirect permitting the Company to purchase its Anthony William Pidgley 6,368,153 4.66 Direct own shares in the market up to a limit of 10% of its issued share capital.
Standard Life Investments 6,443,253 4.76 Indirect Indirect 84 02 BERKAR15 DirRemReport 66-87NEW.
indd 84 14 07 2015 10:45 Strategic report governance FinancialS berkeley AnnuAl report 2015 governAnce Donations for setting the strategic objectives Annual Report 2014.
Further details on the The Group made no political donations and continues to monitor strategic methodology adopted can be found at 2014: nil during the year.
development and progress against berkeleygroup.
co. uk sustainability reportscommitments and Key Performance and-case-studies, and other environmental Employment policy Indicators.
The Sustainability Working key performance indicators KPIs can The Groups policy of operating through Group is responsible for delivering these be found at berkeleygroup.
co. uk aboutautonomous subsidiaries has ensured close objectives and reviewing progress against berkeley-group our-vision performance.
consultation with employees on matters targets.
likely to affect their interests.
The Group is Health and safety firmly committed to the continuation and Greenhouse gas emissions The Group considers the effective strengthening of communication lines with 2015 2014 management of health and safety to all its employees.
Restated be an integral part of managing its business.
Accordingly, the Group Main An Equal Opportunities Policy was Scope 1 tCO e 2,283 1,853 2 Board continues to monitor the strategic introduced in 2001.
Following periodic Scope 2 tCO e 11,248 8,907 development and audit the implementation 2 reviews the most recent in September by all divisions of their Occupational Health 2010 the policy is now an Equality Scope 3 tCO e 14,534 11,481 2 & Safety Management Systems to ensure and Diversity Policy with the aim of Total tCO e 28,066 22,242 that, both at Group and divisional level, 2 ensuring that all employees, potential they remain compliant with recognised employees and other individuals receive Emissions intensity 2.56 2.53 established standards.
equal treatment including access to tCO e person 2 employment, training and opportunity We remain committed to enhancing the The Group has reported on greenhouse for promotion regardless of their age, Groups high standards through continuous gas emissions for which it is responsible, as disability, gender reassignment, marriage improvement.
The Board is responsible required under the Companies Act 2006 and civil partnership, pregnancy and for setting the strategic objectives of the Strategic Report and Directors Reports maternity, race, religion or belief including Group, and the Health & Safety Working Regulations 2013.
The emissions disclosed lack of belief, sex and sexual orientation.
Group, comprising divisional executives are aligned to the Groups financial It is the policy of the Group to support the and managers, is responsible for delivering reporting year, are considered material employment of people with disabilities these objectives and reviewing progress to its business and have the following wherever practicable and to ensure, against targets set for our established key parameters: as far as possible, the training, career performance indicators, reporting this development and promotion opportunities Scope 1 direct emissions relating to office, quarterly to the Group Main Board.
are available to all employees.
This policy sales and development site activities: and Takeover directive agreements includes employees who become disabled work-related travel in company owned Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the whilst employed by the Group.
vehicles: Company is required to disclose whether All disclosures concerning diversity of the Scope 2 indirect emissions from there are any significant agreements that Groups Directors, senior management electricity consumed for office, sales and take effect, alter or terminate upon a and employees as required under the development site activities: change of control.
Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report Scope 3 other indirect emissions relating Change of control provisions are included and Directors Report Regulations 2013 to office, sales and development site as standard in many types of commercial are contained within the Strategic Report activities: work related travel in leased and agreement, notably bank facility on page 47. employee owned vehicles: business air agreements and joint venture shareholder Sustainability travel: transmission and distribution losses agreements, for the protection of both The Group considers its approach to of purchased electricity: and upstream parties.
Such standard terms are included sustainability, defined as the effective emissions.
in Berkeleys bank facility agreement management of environmental, social and which contains provisions that give the Emissions include 50% of those resulting economic risks and opportunities facing banks certain rights upon a change of from the Groups joint ventures on the basis the company, to be an integral part of control of the Company.
Similarly, in certain of its equity share.
Our framework circumstances, a change of control may for the business, Our Vision, sets out The intensity ratio has been calculated give Berkeleys joint venture partners, our integrated approach to managing using the total number of direct employees Prudential Assurance Company Limited sustainability within the context of the across the Group and the number of and National Grid plc, the ability to exercise wider aims for the business.
This approach contractors working on our sites.
certain rights under the shareholder is outlined within the Strategic Report and agreements in relation to their St Edward The UK Government Environmental more extensive information is available on Homes and St William Homes joint Reporting Guidelines 2014 and UK Berkeleys website.
We believe that this ventures respectively.
Government GHG Conversion Factors integrated approach demonstrates how for Company Reporting 2014 have been In addition, the Companys share schemes sustainability is embedded within the dayused to calculate and report the Groups contain provisions which take effect to-day operations of our business.
These do not We remain committed to enhancing the entitle the participants to a greater 2014 data has been restated based on Groups high standards through continuous interest in the shares of the Company energy billing information which was improvement.
The Board is responsible than that created by the initial grant of received after the publication of the 85 02 BERKAR15 DirRemReport 66-87NEW.
indd 85 14 07 2015 10:45 berkeley AnnuAl report 2015 governAnce Directors Report continued the award.
The Company does not have International Financial Reporting Standards a. the Group financial statements, which any arrangements with any Director that IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, have been prepared in accordance with provide compensation for loss of office or and have prepared the Parent Company IFRSs as adopted by the European employment resulting from a takeover.
Financial Statements in accordance with Union, give a true and fair view of the United Kingdom Accounting Standards assets, liabilities, financial position and The remaining information required to be United Kingdom Generally Accepted profit of the Group: and disclosed under the Takeover Directive Accounting Practice and applicable law.
can be found within notes 6 and 20 to the b. the Strategic Report, together with the consolidated financial statements.
Under company law the Directors must not Directors report, includes a fair review approve the financial statements unless of the development and performance Independent Auditors and disclosure of they are satisfied that they give a true and of the business and the position of the information to Auditors fair view of the state of affairs of the Group Group, together with a description of the Each of the persons who is a Director at and the Company and of the profit or loss principal risks and uncertainties that it the date of approval of this Annual Report of the Group for that period.
faces: confirms that: In preparing these financial statements, the c. the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is So far as the Director is aware, there is no Directors are required to: fair, balanced and understandable and relevant audit information of which the provides the information necessary for Companys auditors are unaware: and select suitable accounting policies and shareholders to assess the Companys then apply them consistently: The Director has taken all the steps that performance, business model and he she ought to have taken as a Director make judgements and estimates that are strategy.
in order to make himself herself aware reasonable and prudent: Going concern of any relevant audit information and to state whether IFRS as adopted by The Groups business activities together establish that the Companys auditors the European Union and applicable with the factors likely to affect its future are aware of that information.
UK accounting standards have been development performance and position This confirmation is given and should followed, subject to any material are set out in the Strategic Report.
The be interpreted in accordance with the departures disclosed and explained financial position of the Group, its cash provisions of Section 418 of the Companies in the Group and Parent Company flows, liquidity position and borrowing Act 2006.
Financial Statements respectively: and facilities are all described in the Trading and Financial Review on pages 50 to 54.
A resolution to appoint KPMG LLP as prepare financial statements on auditors to the Company will be proposed the going concern basis unless it is The Group has significant financial at the Annual General Meeting.
inappropriate to presume that the Group resources and the Directors have assessed will continue in business.
the future funding requirements of the Annual general meeting Group, including the repayment of 1.7 The Annual General Meeting of the The Directors are responsible for keeping billion to shareholders by 2021, and Company is to be held at the Woodlands adequate accounting records that compared this to the level of committed Park Hotel, Woodlands Lane, Stoke are sufficient to show and explain the loan facilities and cash resources over the DAbernon, Cobham, Surrey KT11 3QB Companys transactions and disclose medium term.
In making this assessment at 11.00am on 8 September 2015.
The with reasonable accuracy at any time the consideration has been given to the Notice of Meeting, which is contained in a financial position of the Company and uncertainty inherent in future financial separate letter from the Group Chairman the Group and to enable them to ensure forecasts and where applicable reasonable accompanying this report, includes that the financial statements and the sensitivities have been applied to the key a commentary on the business to be Directors Remuneration Report comply factors affecting the financial performance transacted at the Annual General Meeting.
with the Companies Act 2006 and, as of the Group.
regards the Group financial statements, Share capital structure Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are The Directors have a reasonable The Company is compliant with DTR 7.2.
6. also responsible for safeguarding the expectation that the Company has and the information relating to the assets of the Company and the Group adequate resources to continue its Companys share capital structure is and hence for taking reasonable steps for operational existence for the foreseeable included in the Directors Report on page 84. the prevention and detection of fraud and future.
For this reason they continue Statement of Directors responsibilities other irregularities.
to adopt the going concern basis of in respect of the Annual Report and the accounting in preparing the annual The Directors are responsible for the Financial Statements financial statements.
maintenance and integrity of the Companys The Directors are responsible for preparing website.
Legislation in the United By order of the Board the Annual Report, the Directors Kingdom governing the preparation and Remuneration Report and the financial dissemination of financial statements may statements in accordance with applicable differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
EA Driver law and regulations.
Company Secretary Directors responsibility statement Company law requires the Directors The Berkeley Group Holdings plc Each of the Directors, whose names and to prepare financial statements for Registered number: 5172586 functions are listed on pages 58 and 59 each financial year.
Under that law the 30 June 2015 confirm that, to the best of each persons Directors have prepared the Group knowledge: Financial Statements in accordance with 86 02 BERKAR15 DirRemReport 66-87NEW.
indd 86 14 07 2015 10:45 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE Kidbrooke Village.
87 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIALS Joggers on the riverbank at Woodberry Park in Hackney.
88 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIALS Financials 89
