STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Our plan and commitments for the business: Our Vision Berkeleys plan for the business is articulated through the framework of Our Vision.
It sets out our aspiration to be a world-class business and five areas of focus.
Every two years we set targeted, challenging commitments to meet in each of the five areas alongside our everyday actions.
Our Vision To be a world-class business generating long-term value by creating successful, sustainable places where people aspire to live.
Five Focus Areas Customers Homes Places Operations Provide exceptional Develop individually Create great places Make the right long-term service to all of our designed, high quality where residents enjoy decisions whilst running customers and put homes with low a good quality of life, the business efficiently them at the heart of environmental impact.
and working with our our decisions.
Our People Develop a highly skilled workforce who run autonomous businesses, operate in a safe and supportive working environment, and contribute to wider society.
For Berkeley to generate long-term value, In 2014 we set 16 challenging commitments This culture informs the way we work, the skills, commitment and approach of to work towards over a two year period.
the way we lead the business, and what our people throughout the business are These were determined based on input we deliver to our customers.
We need to ensure that everyone from an external stakeholder panel and just as hard on the way we work as the has the right tools to enable them to issues review, together with consultation products we deliver.
work towards a common set of goals.
Our with each of our autonomous companies We expand on each of the five Vision sets out our company values with and specialist committees.
We are now focus areas of Our Vision over the five key focus areas and a series of clear half way through the current two year next few pages.
strategic commitments to help empower cycle of commitments.
our people and give them clear direction For more information see The vision is underpinned by a core set of across every discipline of the business.
These are having integrity, being Our Vision also helps to explain our passionate about what we do, showing approach and areas of focus externally.
respect for people, thinking creatively and achieving excellence through detail.
37 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Customers Provide exceptional service to all of our customers and put them at the heart of our decisions.
Our approach Why focus on customers Our customers are at the heart of all our decisions.
We Ensuring our customers are satisfied is crucial to the aim to understand their needs and consistently meet ongoing success of the business: ultimately all or exceed their expectations.
The service we provide areas of our strategy are focused on the end customer is professional, efficient and helpful to make the home and putting them at the centre of our decisions.
buying process as straightforward and enjoyable as This extends beyond customer-facing activities, possible.
Our levels of customer service aim to be from the initial purchase of the land through to the comparable to other top brands.
design of the home and development.
All our customers are provided with a commitment that when they buy a new home from Berkeley they can be safe in the knowledge that it is built to very high standards of design and quality, has low environmental impact and that they will enjoy an exceptional customer experience.
Each customer receives tailored information relating to their purchase and has a dedicated point of contact throughout the customer journey.
Everyday actions Give every customer a dedicated point of contact at all stages in the customer journey Clearly set out our commitment to our customers Incorporate information on sustainability and Our Vision within sales suites and marketing material Provide all customers with easy-to-use Living Guides to help them operate their home efficiently Follow the sales manual to ensure consistently high standards Key commitments for 2014 2016 Deliver world-class customer service measured though the Net Promoter Score Launch an interactive way of communicating with our customers, My Home Plus Market all our developments in the UK first Net Promoter Score 69.8 Average NPS is 50, on a scale of -100 to 100 Institute of Customer Service 98% ServiceMark achieved across all businesses customers would recommend us to a friend 38 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Customer service My Home Plus Sustainable living We aim to provide exceptional customer My Home Plus is an interactive online Our Vision sets out a commitment that we service, from the moment someone system enabling customers to receive will develop homes with low environmental enquires about a property, through information and communicate with us impact where residents can enjoy a good the sales process, handover and post throughout the purchasing process, and quality of life.
To raise awareness of this occupation.
The first phases of the from the outset, sales suites and marketing new system were successfully launched in materials include information on all aspects A customers experience should be 2015, with several developments trialling of sustainability, from environmental professional, efficient and enjoyable and the portal.
Customer feedback has been features to community facilities.
our high levels of customer satisfaction are positive and we are now adding further testament to this.
Over 98% of customers Later in the purchasing process functionality and sites.
would recommend us to a friend and our customers are given access to information Net Promoter Score ranks us alongside Customers will be able to receive updates, on sustainable living and how to operate world-class brands such as Apple and such as photos of the construction their home efficiently.
process, make specification choices online we seek feedback from our customers and access documents and manuals on the sustainability features to help We are delighted that, following joining relating to their home.
the Institute of Customer Service in 2014, each of our operating businesses has now UK First Learn more about Customers at achieved the ServiceMark accreditation.
This International investors play a vital role in www.
co. uk is a national standard based on customer bringing inward investment into the UK.
about-berkeley-group feedback and engagement of employees In London, they help to reflect the citys our-vision customers which recognises our commitment to, and status as a world-class city.
However, we achievement in, customer service.
We are recognise that customers from the UK the only developer with this accolade.
In August 2013, ahead of the Mayoral Concordat, we made In 2015 we launched a new sales manual a pledge to offer all developments in the to ensure a consistent approach and high UK before marketing overseas.
This supplements extensive training provided in Our UK First Policy continues to be 2014 to all sales consultants and a range of implemented on all schemes.
This requires online modules and assessments.
the initial sales launch to be in the UK first, and every individual home to be made available to customers in the UK either first or at the same time as launching overseas.
Ensuring our customers are satisfied is crucial to the ongoing success of the business.
39 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Homes Develop individually designed, high quality homes with low environmental impact.
Our approach Why focus on homes Each of our homes and developments is bespoke As a residential-led developer, building high quality and and we use qualified architects to design each scheme.
well designed homes is fundamental to our business Attention to detail in design is paramount to ensure and is intrinsic to all the other areas of Our Vision.
It is homes meet the needs of our customers and our demanded of us by our customers and helps to set us specifications are planned to meet the varied needs apart from volume housebuilders.
It is clear that to have of all types of homebuyers, from luxurious houses to a successful business, our focus has to be on the end key worker apartments.
The impact on the environment product of the homes right from the outset.
throughout the lifetime of the home is considered during its design with an aim to minimise impacts and provide home owners with the opportunity to live more sustainably.
The high quality finish which we demand in our new homes requires a skilled workforce and thorough checks before handover.
Everyday actions Ensure optimal layouts and specifications Complete detailed checks of every home prior to handover Apply the principles of adaptability and flexibility Ensure each home has recycling facilities Key commitments for 2014 2016 Enable fibre broadband on all new homes and provide community Wi-Fi Guarantee space standards for all new homes Launch a new R&D programme to utilise customer feedback and drive innovation through improved design new developments to provide fibre 100% broadband-connected homes Evening Standard Awards 63% 2014, Best London Home individual homes supplied with low 375 Kensington High Street carbon or renewable technology 40 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Broadband and connectivity We will meet the Governments new Sustainability The internet is now regarded as the fourth standard where requested, and will In March 2015 the Government concluded utility, with customers demanding better continue to meet our three criteria in its review of housing standards, marking a connected homes.
We are committed to other locations.
significant change for the home building ensuring that fibre optic infrastructure is industry.
With the Code for Sustainable Research and development enabled in our homes.
Where possible, Homes now withdrawn, alongside many The design of our homes is continuously we aim to set this up so it is ready to use other standards, we are reviewing our evolving.
To help this process we are on move-in day.
Our approach continues to be undertaking research and development we are reliant on third party infrastructure to achieve a high standard across all of in two key areas.
our developments, regardless of location The first is to strengthen feedback loops or tenure.
The majority of our new developments will between customers and other stakeholders be able to meet this commitment.
We are We are preparing for the implementation and our design teams.
The second element also part of a Government and industry of Allowable Solutions from 2016 as part is research and development through round table to find practical solutions for of the Governments zero carbon homes trialling new processes, materials and helping the whole industry to provide policy.
We also sit on the UK Green products to further improve our homes.
Building Councils new round table on Bespoke design the future of sustainable homes.
Space standards There is no generic Berkeley scheme.
Every Lack of space is one of the most common Homes for everyone design is bespoke and we use architects reasons why customers choose not to Berkeley builds for everyone: from on every project, something which is buy new build homes.
In response, we families to first time buyers, students uncommon within the industry.
We were the first private developer to commit to older people, and luxury living to continue to promote good urban design to minimum space standards across affordable housing.
across the industry through sponsorship its portfolio.
We believe this provides a of the London Festival of Architecture.
We are pleased to have won the First genuinely better home for our customers.
Time Buyer Award 2015 for our homes at Attention to detail We have set standards for three core Kidbrooke Village and are proud of the The quality which we demand in our aspects in every home we build, covering homes we deliver for every generation.
new homes requires a skilled workforce master bedroom size, floor-to-ceiling and attention to detail.
We use our Learn more about Homes at height and storage space.
Since launching marketing suites as the benchmark for www.
co. uk the commitment, the Government has build quality and finish in each individual about-berkeley-group published a new Nationally Described home.
Every area is thoroughly checked our-vision homes Space Standard for use from autumn before handover to ensure that high 2015 where it is referenced in local standards are maintained.
Left: Roman House, City of London Right: Barns Green, West Sussex.
41 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Places Create great places where people enjoy a good quality of life, now and in the future.
Our approach Why focus on places We create well-designed, high quality, safe and To remain a developer of choice it is essential that sustainable places which will endure as settled, vibrant we focus on the outcome of our developments in communities long into the future.
These are places the long-term.
This begins right from the outset by where people choose to live, work and spend their ensuring the location is right at land purchase, to time, that directly encourage peoples wellbeing and focusing on placemaking during design and to quality of life, and offer them a space and a base from ensuring that suitable management processes are which to lead safe and fulfilling lives.
Through our in place once the development is occupied.
ability both to collaborate and to deliver, we aim to be the developer of choice for local authorities and existing communities.
We believe that appreciating the needs of our customers and wider stakeholders before, during and after the delivery of our schemes and what makes them thrive as a community, is the right model for a truly successful and sustainable business in our sector.
Everyday actions Apply our Community Engagement Strategy on all developments Consult an ecologist for all developments and incorporate living roofs on all suitable apartment roof spaces Incorporate rainwater harvesting, electric car charging points and cycle storage Achieve at least BREEAM Very Good on offices, retail space, Extra Care and student accommodation Key commitments for 2014 2016 Measure and increase peoples quality of life by applying a framework for social sustainability Test new forms of estate management and community governance Adapt all developments to climate change through measures on flooding, overheating and water shortage social sustainability 20 assessments completed Ideal Home Show Blue Ribbon Awards, Housing 100% Development of the Year new developments followed the Kidbrooke Village community engagement strategy 42 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Quality of life A Clore Social Leadership Programme We were pleased that the new linear park In 2014 we launched a toolkit to help research project has been undertaken and tree planting at Kidbrooke Village us measure and enhance peoples quality on one of our developments on the were highlighted as a best practice case of life.
We refer to it during the design different management options for green study within the UK Green Building process for all new developments and and public space.
Councils report on green infrastructure are committed to conducting a formal in February 2015.
Climate change adaptation assessment pre-planning for every The effects of climate change are already Community engagement development of 100 homes or more.
In being observed in the UK.
Climate change Our Community Engagement Strategy is 2015 100% of these larger developments adaptation is about taking action now to referred to for all new schemes.
The type conducted a formal assessment.
A report ensure that our homes and developments of engagement varies depending on the on life at Royal Arsenal Riverside showed remain comfortable places in which to scheme and location.
Many of our schemes that people report high levels of happiness, live in decades to come.
In 2015, all new adopt community planning strategies belonging, and trust in their neighbours.
developments submitted for planning will where local people are involved in the We presented the methodology at UK incorporate climate change adaptation design, whereas others include different Green Building Council events in June measures around the three key issues of types of community events to share and November and held a policy briefing flooding, overheating and water shortage.
information and encourage input from in January on housing and wellbeing.
Based on research during 2014, we have Estate management and produced a checklist for our development Partnerships community governance teams to help them to identify which issues Partnership arrangements need to be Our work on quality of life and social are likely to be most important on a site tailored to suit each project, skilfully sustainability has identified that depending on the type of development coordinating the investment and ambitions placekeeping is as important as planned and its location.
of Berkeley, the local authority, residents, placemaking and that they should be Registered Social Landlords and other thought about as two elements of Sustainability stakeholders.
We listen to what local people the same process.
Sustainability of the wider development and other partners want and incorporate is as important as the individual homes We take a long-term view for our this into the design wherever possible.
Typically issues such as ecology developments to ensure that they remain and transport are the focus areas.
We At Royal Wells Park we are working to great places in which to live for decades consult an ecologist on all schemes and build the first developer-led free school, to come.
We have begun to review incorporate living roofs on all suitable whilst at Highwood in Horsham we have current estate management practices roof spaces.
helped to deliver the second new road across the business.
built in the district in 13 years: the first was also built by Berkeley.
Learn more about Places at www.
co. uk about-berkeley-group our-vision places The Boat Race at Fulham Reach.
43 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Operations Make the right long-term decisions whilst running the business efficiently and working with our supply chain.
Our approach Why focus on operations Through recognition that the property market is Running our operations effectively and considerately is inherently cyclical we make decisions with a focus on fundamental to the long-term success of the business.
We understand the operational risks We need a skilled and reliable supply chain to help us in trying to successfully identify, design, build and sell deliver the pipeline of work and good relationships homes and create new places.
We aspire to maintain with local stakeholders are essential to maintain our excellent partnerships with our supply chain to ensure reputation for quality.
that high quality services and materials are consistently provided and we are a client of choice.
We support and engage with our supply chain and, through our supply chain, we help to provide employment and support to young people.
We conduct our day-to-day operations in an environmentally efficient manner and with consideration to our neighbours.
Everyday actions Communicate our requirements to contractors and procure on overall value rather than cost alone Register all sites with the Considerate Constructors Scheme and achieve at least 38 50 in every audit Ensure all timber is FSC or PEFC certified Implement water and carbon efficiency measures on each construction site and achieve a waste recycling rate of at least 90% Key commitments for 2014 2016 Achieve a 50% increase in site-based apprenticeships and training Launch a 2 million fund for the supply chain to support innovation in health and safety Map our supply chain risks and develop a sustainable specification and procurement strategy reduction in office carbon 15% emissions per person Considerate Constructors Scheme Awards 2015 41.6 50 Most Considerate Site Average Considerate Constructors Score MOST CONSIDERATE SITE Roman House Industry average: 35.7 44 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Apprenticeships and training Our supply chain, as well as employees, Considerate construction Key challenges for industry and industry bodies and universities, are We are delighted that our approach to Government are to encourage young encouraged to apply for a grant of up to considerate construction continues to people into the industry and increase 250,000 for an innovative idea.
One site, Roman House, capability in the workforce to ensure that has already received several successful was awarded with the most prestigious there are enough people with the right applications.
For more information, see accolade in the UK, the Most Considerate skills to deliver the pipeline of future work.
We have produced a new booklet for our Supply chain Another site was awarded Runner-Up supply chain to help provide information Once schemes are in production, the status, putting it in the top 30 sites in the on how to take on an apprentice and the support of a reliable and competent supply country, alongside more than 30 other funding available to help encourage uptake.
chain is critical to success.
Engagement Gold, Silver and Bronze awards.
with our suppliers is key to remaining a The Berkeley Apprenticeship Scheme was In August 2014 we were the first client of choice and achieving high quality launched at Kidbrooke Village in autumn homebuilder to reach the milestone of outcomes, on time and on budget.
2014 to offer 200 career opportunities over 500 sites registered and Goodmans five years to local people and help increase In 2015 we have focused on making it easier Fields is now one of the first ultra sites, the level of skilled workers.
The first intake for small businesses to work with us.
Our a new initiative from the Scheme where of apprentices are now working with the paperwork has been simplified and there services and materials are sourced from supply chain.
Various other initiatives are is a new online portal which includes all the registered suppliers.
in progress to encourage young people pertinent documents contractors need to Resource efficiency into the industry, including hosting the be aware of.
Our Supply Chain Taskforce We are pleased to report that office carbon 8th Annual Careers Fair at Imperial Wharf has also worked with new companies to emissions per person have reduced by 15%.
broaden our potential supply chain.
Further information on carbon emissions We continue to monitor the number of Sustainable procurement is set out within the Directors report on apprentices working on our sites and are We recognise that the majority of our page 85.
Our site waste recycling rate has planning more initiatives for 2016. sustainability impacts are likely to occur remained above our target of 90%.
indirectly through the supply chain.
In Innovation Fund Due to increasing legislation in this area, 2015 we identified our top materials A new Innovation Fund for the supply for example with the introduction of the and undertook research into sustainable chain was launched in January 2015 to Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme, we specification and procurement of these.
promote innovation in health and safety are in the process of implementing more A baselining exercise has been completed which reduces construction-related risk, advanced systems for recording in advance of a new strategy being drives the industry forward and improves and analysing information.
launched in 2016. health and safety performance.
Learn more about Operations at www.
co. uk about-berkeley-group our-vision operations Left: Site inspection at Fulham Reach, Hammersmith.
45 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Our People Develop a highly skilled workforce who run autonomous businesses, operate in a safe and supportive working environment, and contribute to wider society.
Our approach Why focus on our people A devolved business structure is at the heart of our Our people are key to the development process, from strategy.
Our recognised brands and autonomous the identification and purchase of land through to the operational teams carefully manage each individual sale of our homes and ongoing customer service.
scheme to ensure that the entrepreneurial spirit of To run any business successfully it is vital to ensure the business continues.
Recruiting and retaining a that the workforce is highly skilled and motivated.
high calibre workforce is crucial to our approach.
We understand the importance of supporting all our We must support both our direct employees and the employees to allow them to work in a safe environment wider workforce of the contractors working on our and to continue to advance their knowledge and skills.
We are proud to be safe: safety continues to Developing and retaining our workforce enables us to be a key focus area across all of our operations, in deliver our objectives and grow as a business.
addition to enhancing health and wellbeing.
We also aim to have a positive impact on society and enable young people to get into work through our support of the Berkeley Foundation.
Everyday actions Monitor staff retention rates and employee diversity Undertake individual training assessments for each member of staff Monitor and report on accident and incident rates Undertake unannounced H&S audits on all sites, in addition to weekly Director visits Support the Job Creation Programme as part of the Berkeley Foundation Key commitments for 2014 2016 Pay at least the Living Wage to all direct employees Reduce energy costs by up to 500,000, investing 50% of the saving in new health and wellbeing initiatives Encourage and support every member of staff to be involved with the Berkeley Foundation each year Launch a talent management programme which develops new ideas to enhance the business Accident Incident Rate 2.46 Industry average: 4.12 HSE, 2014 figures 73% Gold Medal: Berkeley First, East Thames, Employees involved with the Berkeley Foundation Oxford and Chiltern 2014: 64% 46 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Living Wage The Job Creation Programme launched Supporting a diverse workforce The Living Wage is calculated according in 2013 has so far enabled more than Our business continues to grow: we now to the basic cost of living and provides 400 unemployed people to get into have over 2,100 direct employees who enough for an acceptable standard of work.
Street Elite has been another major are central to our success.
We pay at least the Living Wage programme we have supported.
We work in a range of roles across more than to all our employees, and encourage our are delighted that a graduate of Street 100 sites and offices.
Across the Group, contractors to do so.
Elite, Yasar Ugar won the Construction 37% of employees are female as are 30% Youth Trust Award in 2015 and 14 of the of our Main Board directors.
Energy and wellbeing graduates of the scheme now work We have set a target to reduce energy In addition to our direct employees, we for us.
For more information see consumption by around 10% each also support a large workforce through our www.
year across all aspects of the business contractors: in April 2015 more than 10,500 including sites, offices and sales suites.
In Talent management people were working on our sites.
2015, we have focused on understanding This commitment looks to recognise Health and safety consumption and charges for energy.
employees performance and potential and In 2015 we rolled out new Group Health A number of our sites are trialling more to provide support and further development and Safety Standards to ensure a effective sub-metering and there has been a through a focus on implementing their ideas consistent approach across all of our focus on out-of-hours usage and temporary to enhance the business.
There are various sites and our supply chain.
We have also undertaken a talent management programmes in place launched a new strategy document which comparison exercise of unit charges for across the operating businesses.
Some are clearly sets out our approach.
The launch energy across our different facilities.
intensive schemes for selected individuals, of the Innovation Fund summarised within whereas other businesses are progressing Health and wellbeing initiatives have the Operations section on page 45 is an programmes for all staff.
been selected locally and include well example of a leading initiative to improve person clinics, office fruit baskets and There has been a focus in 2015 on improving health and safety, not just within Berkeley exercise classes.
inductions for new starters and on reviewing but across the industry as a whole.
our approach to training, increasingly The Berkeley Foundation We are pleased to be able to report a moving to a broader assessment of not The percentage of staff engaged with reduced Accident Incident Rate AIR only technical and safety skills, but also the activities of the Berkeley Foundation of 2.46 2014: 2.92, demonstrating softer skills.
This performance beyond the industry average.
includes fundraising, Give As You Earn and We are delighted that one of our project Our AFR is 0.12, down from 0.16 in 2014. volunteering.
Our aim is for all employees to managers, Damian Bates, won the Learn more about Our People at be involved with the Foundation each year.
prestigious accolade of the NHBCs www.
co. uk Pride in the Job Supreme Award for the Over the last four years the Foundation about-berkeley-group multi-storey category in January.
has committed or invested more than our-vision our-people 6 million to the lives of young people and their families, including a new three year agreement with Shelter.
Employee diversity Female Male Total Total Employees 800 1,378 2,178 Senior Management 2 5 7 Board of Directors 3 10 13 At 30 April 2015.
Our people are key to the development process.
47 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT New apartment at Riverlight in Nine Elms.
