BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE Board of Directors Chairman and Executive Directors N Tony Pidgley CBE Rob Perrins BSC Hons FCA Richard Stearn FCA Karl Whiteman BSC Hons Co-founder of the Company Joined the Company in 1994.
Re-joined Berkeley on 13 April Joined Berkeley in 1996 as in 1976 with Jim Farrer.
He was He was appointed to the 2015 as Finance Director, having a Construction Director and appointed Group Chairman Group Main Board on 1 May previously worked for the currently leads the Berkeley on 9 September 2009, having 2001 on becoming Managing company from 2002 to 2011 as Homes East Thames division.
previously been the Group Director of Berkeley Homes Group Financial Controller.
Prior He joined the Board on Managing Director since the plc.
He became Group Finance to re-joining Berkeley, Richard 10 September 2009 as a formation of the Group in 1976 Director on 2 November 2001, spent three years at Quintain Divisional Executive Director.
and is currently Chairman of the moving to his current role as Estates and Development plc, London Chamber of Commerce Group Managing Director on becoming its Finance Director in and Industry.
He originally trained of the Nomination Committee.
a Governor of Wellington and practiced for 12 years as a College and Aston University.
Non-executive Directors N R A N A Sir John Armitt Adrian Li Alison Nimmo CBE Veronica Wadley Appointed a Non-executive Appointed a Non-executive Appointed a Non-executive Appointed a Non-executive Director on 1 October 2007 Director on 2 September Director on 5 September 2011, Director on 3 January 2012. and became Deputy Chairman 2013.
He is currently Executive Alison is Chief Executive of The She is currently Chair of the on 5 September 2012.
He is Director and Deputy Chief Crown Estate.
Prior to that she Arts Council London, a Senior currently Chairman of the Executive of The Bank of East led the design and delivery of Adviser to the Mayor of London Olympic Delivery Authority, Asia, Ltd.
He is an Independent the London 2012 Olympic and and a National Council member Chairman of National Express Non-executive Director of Paralympic venues as Director of Arts Council England.
Group PLC, Chairman of City Sino Land Company Ltd. of Regeneration and Design at Previously Editor of The and Guilds and is a member Tsim Sha Tsui Properties Ltd. the Olympic Delivery Authority.
Evening Standard, she is also an of the Transport for London Sino Hotels Holdings Ltd. She is a trustee of the UKs Independent Director of Times Board.
He was Chairman of China State Construction Green Building Council.
Newspapers Holdings Ltd. the Engineering and Physical International Holdings Ltd. Science Research Council and COSCO Pacific Ltd.
From a member of the International 2001 to 2007, he was Chief Advisory Board of Abertis Executive of Network Rail Infraestructuras, S. A. and its predecessor, Railtrack.
Sir John is the Senior Independent Director.
58 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE Chairman and Executive Directors Jim Farrer With great sadness we report that our Honorary Life President, Jim Farrer, passed away during the year.
Jim, along with Tony Pidgley, was a co-founder of Berkeley and Group Chairman until his retirement in 1992.
Sean Ellis BSC Hons Greg Fry FCA Joined Berkeley in 2004 with Joined the Group in 1982 and an expertise in land and is is currently Chairman of St currently Chairman of St James George, having been a Director Group, Berkeley Homes Eastern since its inception in 1986.
He Counties and St William Homes.
was reappointed to the Group He joined the Group Main Main Board on 5 September Board on 9 September 2010 as 2011 as a Divisional Executive a Divisional Executive Director.
Director, having previously been a member of the Group Main Board from 1 May 1996 to 22 July 2010.
Non-executive Directors Company Secretary E A Driver A R A R Glyn Barker BSc Hons FCA Andy Myers BEng ACA Diana BrightmoreArmour FCCA, MCT Appointed a Non-executive Appointed a Non-executive Director on 3 January 2012 Director on 6 December 2013, Appointed as a Non-executive following a 35 year career with he is currently Chief Financial Director on 1 May 2014, Diana PwC, most recently as its UK Officer at McLaren Technology is currently the UK CEO of The Vice Chairman.
He previously Group Limited, having previously Australia and New Zealand held a number of senior posts held senior finance roles in Rolls Banking Group Ltd and within PwC including Managing Royce plc and BMW Rover previously held the position Partner and Head of Assurance Group.
He is Chairman of the of CEO, Corporate Banking at and also established and ran Audit Committee.
Lloyds Banking Group 2004- their Transactions Services 2012.
Diana has 30 years of business.
Glyn is a Noninternational experience in executive Director of Aviva banking, corporate finance, plc and Transocean Limited, financial management, Chairman of the law firm treasury and audit.
Irwin Mitchell and a Director of the English National Opera Company.
He is Chairman of Key the Remuneration Committee.
N Nomination Committee A Audit Committee R Remuneration Committee 59
