STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT What we do Our business is about placemaking, not just housebuilding: its about creating strong communities where people enjoy a great quality of life.
Identifying and acquiring land Making Customer Designing the right service and and planning decisions stewardship new homes and places Marketing and Building new selling homes homes and places 17 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT What we do The places that we create range from a few homes in market towns to complex, mixed-use urban regeneration schemes of over 4,000 homes.
Identifying and acquiring land We have invested nearly 2 billion in new land since the bottom of the market in 2009 and have formed St William, a joint venture with National Grid, to regenerate redundant gas works across London and the South of England.
Experience Appraisal Entrepreneurship Our experienced land teams understand We undertake a rigorous internal appraisal The Group thrives in adopting an our focus on investing selectively in the process to assess the opportunities entrepreneurial approach in taking on right locations in our core markets of and risks of potential acquisitions and complex, challenging, brownfield land London and the South of England where pre-authorise all land offers at Board which others shy away from, but only there is underlying demand for new level which enables us to act quickly, where there are the right commercial homes, good transport links and the innovatively and decisively, and deliver fundamentals, the potential to add scope to create successful new places.
value and where we have the vision to create something special through the development process.
Designing and planning new homes and places We work with consultants, local authorities and communities and aim to create places characterised by the quality of their design, public realm, sustainability, transport links and access to jobs and amenities.
Consultation Sustainability Partnerships We use professional architects and leading We have addressed the challenge of We engage closely with our partners in consultants and engineers to provide understanding what makes a successful the local authorities and communities bespoke designs for every new scheme, place by implementing a framework to surrounding each of our sites to understand however large or small, in consultation promote quality of life and strength of stakeholders needs and prevailing with local communities.
With the knowledge community, which we now apply to our sensitivities and reflect these in our designs.
gained on our other developments, we strive schemes.
We have led the way in delivering We continue to cement our reputation to deliver schemes which are of high quality, environmentally sustainable living on largefor quality and for delivering on our sensitive to their heritage and surroundings scale developments and continue to lead promises, and thrive on the strong working and meet the aspirations of our customers our sector in sustainable development.
relationships that we have developed.
and local and national stakeholders.
18 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Building new homes and places We are employing some 12,000 people in our offices and on our schemes under construction, building new homes and places for this generation and the next.
Intensive management Health and safety Considerate construction Each of our developments is led by a We place the utmost importance on the The reputation of Berkeley amongst its dedicated project team responsible for all health, safety and wellbeing of our people partners and stakeholders relies on all of our aspects of detailed design, quality, delivery, and our subcontractor teams on site with project teams engaging with surrounding health and safety, commercial appraisal dedicated health and safety managers communities, being a responsible and and technical detail.
The coordination of overseeing all of our developments and considerate neighbour and working with our professional teams of consultants and health and safety matters monitored, suppliers and contractors to complete our contractors and strong communication prioritised and debated at every Board schemes on time and budget.
We recently won throughout are critical in ensuring the meeting in every company within the the award for most considerate construction smooth delivery of every project.
We are proud of our record in site in Britain at Roman House.
We are signed this area but seek continual improvement up to the Prompt Payment Code, and aim in other methodologies and approach.
to develop strong, long-term relationships.
Marketing and selling homes Whether first-time buyers, families, experienced investors, retailers, our partners in housing associations or providers of student accommodation, Berkeley strives to ensure that its customers receive an unparalleled service when buying from Berkeley.
Customer focus Meeting demand Modern living Sales teams across the business have an We aim to forward sell our homes where We are constantly evolving our design, in-depth knowledge of their developments possible to ensure that what we are product and features, as well as the wider and help our customers find the right building reflects what our customers on-site amenities on each scheme, to help home to suit their needs.
They have the want and enables us to provide a range of turn our developments into the homes knowledge and understanding to explain customer choices and a bespoke service that people expect today.
Many of our the intricacies of every development, across all of our developments.
Our commitments under Our Vision reflect from the specification of each new financial strength affords us the flexibility changing priorities for our customers and home and the technical details to the to evolve our product to meet our help keep our homes at the forefront of on-site amenities and wider context of customers tastes and be flexible in how modern living.
19 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT What we do continued Customer service and stewardship Customer satisfaction is the essential measure of whether our homes and our service meet the aspirations of our customers.
Customer journey Estate management Future-proofing Dedicated customer relationship managers Successful places need the right We recognise that technology advances look after every stage of the customer long-term management strategy rapidly, sometimes more quickly than journey and provide a level of care and and we work closely with appointed we can build our schemes, and that we service after completion which we expect managing agents to set the right tone need to be at the forefront of employing to match the quality of our product for our schemes long after they have new techniques and enabling the latest across all of our schemes.
We benchmark been completed, and are committed technology to serve our customers.
Our our performance on customer service to investigating and implementing the current commitments under Our Vision not just across the sector but against best forms of estate management and include enabling fibre optic broadband the top businesses in the country, and community governance on our schemes.
cabling in all our new homes.
look to continually improve our offering with features such as My Home Plus, an interactive portal for our customers.
Awards Queens Award for Enterprise: PLC Awards 2014 - Winner - Winner - Most Considerate Site - Sustainable Development 2014 Achievement in Sustainability March 2015 Considerate Constructors Scheme Awards 2015 Roman House MOST CONSIDERATE SITE 20 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Seasonal changes at Edenbrook in Fleet.
21 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Our site teams, as in the photo below at Goodmans Fields, Aldgate, understand the importance of supporting all our employees to enable them to work in a safe environment and to continue to advance their knowledge and skills.
