BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Business model Berkeley builds new homes, neighbourhoods and communities.
Its strategy rests on five core principles, it has a clear plan to implement this strategy, and the results can be seen in the places we create and our shareholder returns.
What we do Strategy Our business is about placemaking Berkeleys strategy rests on five not just housebuilding, creating key principles in two areas strong communities where people enjoy a great quality of life.
These places range in size from a few homes in market towns to complex, mixed-use urban 1 : C yclical market regeneration schemes of over We recognise that the property market is 4,000 homes all built with safety, inherently cyclical.
sustainability and quality at their heart.
Read more: see pg 23 How we manage risk Berkeley runs the business with the aim of being successful over 2 : Operational challenges the long-term.
We understand that there are significant operational risks in successfully identifying, designing, building Read more: see pg 17 What we do and selling homes and creating new places.
Read more: see pg 23 How we manage risk 3 : Knowing our market We operate in London and the South of England, markets that we know and understand.
We believe that recognising the importance of relationships and local knowledge gives us a competitive advantage and enables us to deliver new places which are socially, environmentally and economically successful.
Read more: see pg 32 Where we operate 4 : Sound financials We aim to keep financial risk low, by maintaining a strong balance sheet, forward selling new homes where possible, carefully allocating resources to the right projects and buying land in the right locations at the right time.
Read more: see pg 49 Trading and financial review and outlook 5 : Autonomy and values We have recognised brands and autonomous, talented operational teams who carefully manage each individual scheme, regardless of size, to a bespoke design, and embrace Berkeleys core values in their approach.
Read more: see pg 23 How we manage risk 08 Managing our risks and delivering value Understanding our risks STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Plan Results How we embed our The results of what we strategy in the business do and how we do it Shareholder returns We have a plan to return 13 per share over 1.7 billion by 2021 and to retain a successful, sustainable business thereafter.
Our performance demonstrates that we are on track to achieve this.
Read more: see pg 49 Homes Berkeleys plan, designed We are building new homes to help the country to implement this strategy meet the housing shortfall and creating places and help all of our people characterised by the quality of their design, public contribute to the success of realm, transport and access to jobs and amenities.
the business, is embedded in Read more: see pg 10 the framework of Our Vision, which articulates a clear set of commitments across every area of the business.
Jobs We have created some 12,000 jobs in our offices This framework, and our and on our developments and we continue to progress in delivering support our supply chain.
We have a loyal and against these commitments, dedicated workforce.
is explained in more detail in the Strategic Report.
Read more: see pg 12 We believe that meeting our commitments under this plan is central to Community how we can generate We aim to deliver sustainable communities long-term value.
which endure long after our work is complete, supported by our engagement with local people Read more: see pg 37 through the Berkeley Foundation which has raised over 6 million over the last four years.
Read more: see pg 14 09 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Results: Homes Quality and attention to detail in all our homes 10 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Building quality sustainable homes for the future erkeley has built a total of nearly This year in particular we have delivered 17,000 new homes over the last five some exceptional affordable housing Byears, of which over 10,000 have schemes.
These include 180 one, two, three been built over the last three.
and four bedroom homes delivered by St James at Chambers Wharf in Southwark, The homes delivered by Berkeley include designed by Ian Simpson architects, and a broad range of tenures including private the first new affordable homes delivered housing, social housing for Registered by Berkeley Homes at One Tower Bridge.
Providers, housing sold to qualifying residents under discount schemes agreed with local We recognise that delivering homes that authorities, student accommodation, senior are environmentally sound is right for our living and housing with care.
Some 65% customers and we led the industry with our of the homes that were built by Berkeley commitment in 2008 for all new schemes to over the five years to 2014 were sold for less reach Code for Sustainable Homes Level 3. than 250,000, below the 5% previously Since this time, environmental performance 3% threshold for stamp duty.
of homes has become heavily regulated and we are now focusing on connectivity Regardless of tenure, we believe in building and guaranteeing space standards for all homes of exceptional quality, using new homes.
leading architects to design every scheme individually to suit its location and context and the right amenities for its setting.
We treat landscaping as an integral part of each development, placing huge significance on creating beautiful outside spaces that work in harmony with their settings.
16 900 65% new homes delivered over homes sold for less than 250,000 the last five years over the five years to 2014 Main image: Marryat Place, Wimbledon.
Above left: One Tower Bridge Above right: Woodberry Park, Hackney.
11 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Results: Jobs 5.6 jobs created for each home built by Berkeley 12 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Creating growth through long-term job opportunities ast year, Berkeley supported a total of The programme is designed to open up 21,000 jobs either directly, indirectly opportunities to people for whom the job L through its subcontractors and market seems closed.
Inevitably, many of suppliers, or through the induced effects these people need support with the process of of their employees expenditure creating jobs moving into work.
By working with partners in the wider economy.
This is 5.6 jobs in the like Young London Working and Crisis, we UK for each home built by Berkeley.
In 2014 can ensure that this support is there when it we launched a new commitment to increase is most needed.
Not everybody in the Job Creation Amongst the many activities of the Berkeley Programme comes through this route.
Foundation, its Job Creation Programme, Operating companies and supply chain now in its second year, helps unemployed companies working on Berkeley sites are people to access job opportunities within also encouraged to employ formerly the Berkeley Group and our supply chain.
In It is our response to the employment crisis total, 400 unemployed people have moved that followed the recession.
into work in this way since July 2013.
Berkeley has committed to creating 500 jobs for unemployed people across the lifetime of the programme.
They range across the property and construction industry, from office based roles in administration, marketing and customer services, to site based roles across the full range of trades.
21 000 500 jobs supported by Berkeley and jobs being created for its supply chain in 2014 unemployed people through the Berkeley Foundations Job Creation Programme Left: Site inspection at Chelsea Creek Above: Apprentices working for Berkeley and its contractors.
13 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Results: Community Berkeley built a brand new primary school in Barns Green to replace their old small school 14 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS E F I L Community space L A R U T Transport links L Ability to influence U C L A I Distinctive character C O S V O I Local integration C Community facilities E A N D BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT We are dedicated to creating places that will be enjoyed for years to come ur business is about placemaking, Berkeley uses this framework to measure not just housebuilding.
At Berkeley, and increase peoples quality of life on all its Owe recognise that the quality of developments of more than 100 homes.
It new development has a direct impact on uses the toolkit throughout the planning peoples wellbeing.
process and beyond to consider the issues of placekeeping as well as placemaking.
Working with the University of Reading and Social Life, the Berkeley Group has created a The toolkit can help our wider stakeholders, toolkit which helps developers and planners including planners and decision-makers, by apply the idea of social sustainability in helping councils meet the social sustainability practice.
It does this by measuring peoples requirements of the NPPF and to discharge views about their own wellbeing and their responsibilities for improving public health, experience of living on our developments, measuring the long-term impact of planning alongside an assessment of the quality of and regeneration policies on the wellbeing local amenities and infrastructure.
of residents and empowering councillors and planning officers to demand more of the right things from applicants.
The framework is made up of 13 criteria covering three themes: 1 Social cultural life what its like to live there 2 Voice and influence how people affect what goes on 3 Amenities and social infrastructure the design and facilities 71% 91% of people at Woodberry Down feel of residents at Kidbrooke Village able to influence local decisions reported feeling like they belong to compared to an average of 40% the neighbourhood: across Britain across Britain only 67% of people feel the same 15 Street layout I N Feelings of safety E F R L U U T E Adaptable space C N U C R E Wellbeing T S A R F N I Links with neighbours L A Willingness to act I C O S D Local delivery N A S E I T I N E M A BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Edenbrook, Fleet.
