Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report for the 52 week period ended 27 March 2015.
The UKLAs Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules also require the Company to make certain disclosures, some of which have been included in other appropriate sections of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The following are incorporated into the Directors Report by reference: Future Developments in the Business 47 Directors responsibility statements 55 Employment policy and employee involvement 10 Financial instruments 7981 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 11 Post balance sheet events 88 Corporate Governance Report 2024 The Strategic Report, which the Company is required to prepare, can be found on pages 1 to 15 and is incorporated by reference and deemed to form part of this report.
The Strategic Report includes information on the principal risks and uncertainties.
Dividends The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 3.14 pence per ordinary share.
If approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 8 July 2015, this final dividend will be payable on 10 July 2015 to shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 12 June 2015.
An interim dividend of 0.52 pence per share was paid on 28 November 2014.
If the final dividend is approved by shareholders, dividends for the year will total 3.66 pence per ordinary share 2014: 3.20 pence.
Return of Capital The Company is proposing to implement a capital return to shareholders of 3.50 pence per ordinary share at a cost of approximately 62m based on the amount of issued share capital of the Company.
It is proposed that this is achieved by the issue of a new class of B Shares which shareholders will be able to redeem for cash.
Interests of Directors in Contracts During the period no Director had any material interest in any significant contract to which the Company or any subsidiary was a party.
Changes of Control All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
The Company is not a party to any other significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid other than its bank facility agreement, which provides that on a change of control the lender shall not be obliged to fund a utilisation except for a rollover loan and, if it so requires, may cancel its commitment and declare its participation in all outstanding utilisations immediately due and payable.
Further the Company is not party to any agreement with the Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs as a result of a takeover bid other than with Charles Wilson, in that in the event of a change of control of the Company, Charles Wilson has the right to terminate his employment on 30 days notice and to receive a payment equal to his gross salary for his contractual notice period.
Directors The names of those persons serving as Directors of the Company during the year are set out below.
The Directors held office throughout the period.
Charles Wilson Jonathan Prentis Mark Aylwin Guy Farrant Bryn Satherley Richard Rose Lord Bilimoria Helena Andreas Andrew Cripps Stewart Gilliland Karen Jones Biographical details of the current Directors are set out in the section headed Directors and Officers on pages 18 and 19.
Directors and Officers Liability Insurance The Company maintains appropriate directors and officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its Directors and Officers.
The Directors may also be indemnified in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the maximum extent permitted by law, although no such indemnities are currently in place.
The insurance does not, and any indemnities if granted would not, provide cover where the relevant Director or Officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
16 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Share Capital As at 27 March 2015, the Companys share capital consisted of 1,755,014,689 issued and fully paid Ordinary Shares with a nominal value of 1 pence per share.
The rights and obligations attaching to these shares are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Each Ordinary Share carries the right to one vote on a poll, and to attend and speak at a general meeting of the Company, to appoint proxies to exercise full voting rights and to participate in any distribution of income or capital.
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of the Ordinary Shares, nor are there any requirements for prior approval for their transfer.
At the Annual General Meeting held in 2014, the Company was granted authority by shareholders to purchase up to 174.3 million Ordinary Shares, representing less than 10% of the Companys ordinary share capital as at 28 May 2014.
No Ordinary Shares were purchased pursuant to this authority during the year.
In accordance with current best practice, the Company will seek to renew this authority at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Substantial Interests The Company has been notified under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests in the voting rights attaching to the Companys issued share capital as at 20 May 2015.
Lansdowne Partners International 8.15% Charles Wilson 6.17% Prudential Plc 4.96% Schroder Investment Management 4.89% Ameriprise Financial Inc 4.70% Artemis Investment Management 4.36% Cazenove Capital Management 3.95% Aviva Plc 3.95% Legal & General Group Plc 3.12% Norges Bank 3.07% Ethical Code Details of the Groups Ethical Code can be found at www.
Disability The Group is an equal opportunities employer.
Applications for employment and promotion of disabled persons are treated on the same basis as those from other applicants.
The Group's policy is to provide opportunities for the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons and to seek to continue the employment of, and to arrange training for, employees who have become disabled during the period when they were employed by the Group.
Going Concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Groups and Companys financial statements.
Further information in relation to the Directors assessment of going concern is contained in note 1f to the financial statements.
Disclosure of Information to Auditor Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware and that he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor KPMG LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office and a resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for their reappointment as the External Auditor to the Company.
