Global network Bodycote is experienced in all major market sectors and is able to combine the capability and expertise of a network of 178 worldwide locations to deliver global, or local, services for customers.
Overview North America As the only global provider of subcontract thermal processing services, Bodycote is able to offer significant advantages to its customers.
Through an international network of plants, Bodycote can effectively utilise a wealth of knowledge, experience and specialist expertise to deliver quality service when and where it is needed.
The network operates from 178 worldwide locations, with customers able to benefit from Bodycotes comprehensive range of services from multiple locations.
Customers know that if their business expands, Bodycote will have the capability to meet their needs.
They recognise that if they were to broaden their manufacturing footprint, Bodycote would be able to assist them.
They are aware that they can obtain the same process to the same quality standards from multiple locations.
Bodycote is the largest provider of thermal processing services Such a large network brings economies of scale, with technology in North America by a significant margin, with a comprehensive developed at one location being available globally if the market network coverage.
This network offers locations convenient to requires it.
Similarly, network utilisation is enhanced by using customers in all areas where manufacturing and technical industries logistics to put customers work into the most effective facilities are concentrated.
Our facilities offer the widest and deepest range of processes for The Bodycote network has a wealth of technical accreditations, aerospace and energy applications and all the leading technologies some industry or customer specific, others more general.
operations concentrate on the accreditations suited to their market.
Although Bodycote is headquartered in the UK, 91% of the Groups revenue is derived outside the UK.
With facilities in 24 countries, Bodycote is truly global.
Group revenue by market sector Revenue by market sector North America m m Aerospace and Defence 135.1 81.0 Aerospace and Defence Energy 66.3 Energy 27.6 Automotive 153.0 Automotive 54.6 General Industrial 212.8 General Industrial 56.4 Total 567.2 Total 219.6 12 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Although Bodycote is headquartered in the UK, 91% of the Groups revenue is derived outside the UK.
Western Europe Emerging Markets Bodycote is the number one provider of thermal processing Bodycote has 26 facilities in emerging geographies covering services in Western Europe, with by far the largest network and a Eastern Europe, China, Mexico, Singapore and Dubai.
Bodycote is the number one thermal processing provider in Eastern The range of process offerings varies somewhat by country and Europe and is the leading Western provider in China.
These markets region, reflecting which types of industry are prominent in those have a special emphasis in the Groups growth strategy for the locations, thus enabling the Group to best meet the needs of future.
Revenue by market sector Western Europe Revenue by market sector Emerging markets m m 52.6 1.5 Aerospace and Defence Aerospace and Defence Energy 37.1 Energy 1.6 Automotive 76.0 Automotive 22.4 General Industrial 141.4 General Industrial 15.0 Total 307.1 Total 40.5 13 Stock code: BOY www.
com 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Markets Aerospace, Defence & Energy markets Automotive & General Industrial markets Civil aerospace revenues increased in 2015 by 1% at constant Revenues in car and light truck markets increased year-on-year by exchange rates 1% increase at actual exchange rates, reflecting 6% at constant exchange rates 2% at actual exchange rates.
The increased demand for new generation engines, especially in France, increase in revenue was widely spread across the Group, reflecting and despite continued significant Original Equipment Manufacturer both new contract wins and strong OEM production rates.
Available seat kilometres grew by 6% Heavy truck sector revenues in North America grew strongly indicating a continued increase in aircraft flying hours which, in turn, again in 2015 and were ahead of the prior year by 9% at constant resulted in resilient demand for aftermarket parts.
Sales into the exchange rates 18% at actual exchange rates.
In contrast, demand civil aerospace sector account for 18% of Group revenues.
in Western Europe was very weak and revenues declined by 10% Sales into the defence sector, which accounted for 6% of Group at constant exchange rates, in part driven by a notable programme revenues, were again soft.
turning end-of-life in Sweden the decline was 19% at actual exchange rates.
Demand for the Groups services in the power generation sector were weak, with revenues below 2014 by 9% at constant exchange Bodycote provides thermal processing services for a wide range rates 9% decrease at actual exchange rates.
In 2015, many sectors served by Bodycote were badly affected by the heavy declines in most Revenues in oil & gas were substantially lower in 2015 as a result commodity prices.
This was particularly noteworthy in agricultural of the fall in crude oil prices.
Heat treatment and surface technology equipment and in many types of industrial machinery.
Overall bore the brunt of the reduction in demand.
HIP PF revenues were revenues fell by 5% at constant exchange rates 11% decline at lower than in 2014 but by notably less than the background market actual exchange rates.
as new orders continue to be won.
Overall revenues were down 28% at constant exchange rates compared to 2014 and by 29% at actual exchange rates.
Sales into the oil & gas sectors accounted for 8% of Group revenue.
14 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5
