Our technologies Classical Heat T reatment Specialist T echnologies Virtually every type of metal component, whatever its application, Bodycotes Specialist Technologies refer to a group of processes has received some form of processing before its introduction which require very specialist expertise and technology.
In some cases, to service to enable it to perform to the required standard and they are proprietary technologies which have undergone extensive last longer.
Working to very exacting quality specifications, heat development and offer unique solutions for a variety of applications.
treatment uses precisely controlled furnaces to process a huge Hot Isostatic Pressing Services variety of metals and alloys, improving their material properties.
Impact resistance and fatigue properties, in particular, are extremely Bodycotes Classical Heat Treatments describe a group of mature sensitive to small amounts of porosity.
Through the simultaneous processes such as nitriding, carburising, annealing, tempering and HIP application of heat and pressure, the HIP process eliminates internal many more that are used to achieve the desired properties.
porosity from components, improving fatigue strength, tensile ductility Below are a few examples of material properties obtained by heat and fracture toughness.
treatment: Hot Isostatic Pressing Product Fabrication What is it?
The ability of a material to resist deformation, This method of manufacture combines the HIP process with scratching and indentation under force.
design and production expertise to create a component from Why is it important?
Improving a materials hardness through HIP PF metal powder.
The flexibility of the HIP PF process means heat treatment allows it to resist various types of wear.
that combinations of materials can be used to give desired properties, enabling metallic compositions that are difficult or impossible to forge or cast.
The ability of a material to absorb energy and Speciality Stainless Steel Processes plastically deform without fracture.
Steel is often chosen for its inherent corrosion resistance, but Why is it important?
Heat treatment can be used to strengthen often requires hardening.
Standard heat treatments will harden 3 S P the material and help improve its resistance to impact.
the steel, but can negatively impact the corrosion resistance.
3 S P technology uniquely hardens stainless steel, nickel-based alloys and cobalt-chromium alloys improving mechanical and wear properties without adversely affecting corrosion resistance.
The stress level at which component failure occurs Low Pressure Carburising when subjected to repeated stress cycles.
A case hardening process used to obtain a hardened surface and Why is it important?
Part failure due to fatigue can have tough core, giving increased wear resistance and fatigue life, LPC catastrophic consequences, particularly if the part is safety with minimal risk of treatment distortion.
LPC is a clean process, critical.
Through heat treatment, a materials fatigue strength is carried out under vacuum, and is an  improved.
The measure of a materials ability to resist high Corr-l-Dur temperature deformation.
A proprietary thermochemical treatment for the simultaneous Why is it important?
Some metals and alloys must operate improvement of corrosion and wear resistance through the CiD at temperatures close to their melting point.
Heat treatment generation of a nitride-oxide combination layer.
Corr-l-Dur is an enables them to perform at higher temperatures with little or no  alternative to the use of hard chromium, movement.
electroless nickel and other galvanic coatings.
The ability of a material to deform without breaking.
Surface T echnology Why is it important?
In order to form or shape a complex ST incorporates specialised plasma spray, HVOF High Velocity component, good ductility is required.
Heat treatment is used to Oxygen Fuel and thermo-chemically formed coatings to improve ST soften the material which makes it easy to work as part of the wear resistance, hardness and durability and is able to surface manufacturing process.
engineer components including complex shapes and internal bores designed to operate in the most demanding of industrial applications.
10 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Creep Fatigue Ductility Toughness Hardness resistance strength
