Business model Provider of essential services to engineering manufacturers Classical Heat Treatment Specialist Technologies Working to very exacting quality Virtually every type of metal component, Bodycotes Specialist Technologies refer specifications, heat treatment uses whatever its application, has received some to a group of processes which require precisely controlled furnaces to process form of processing before its introduction to very specialist expertise and technology.
a huge variety of metals and alloys, service to enable it to perform to the required These technologies offer unique solutions improving their material properties.
for a variety of applications, and some are proprietary.
Bodycotes Classical Heat Treatments describe a group of mature heat treatment processes and includes metal joining technologies which are used to join and assemble parts.
The global leader Customer focus Global network Transferable know-how Bodycote is focused on continual Bodycotes global network of 178 marketThe global Bodycote network provides 12, 13 improvement of our quality of service and focused facilities in 24 countries unique opportunities for the transfer of takes an active role in finding solutions brings economies of scale, particularly for knowledge and skills, and the transfer of to technical issues and promoting mutual logistics and equipment utilisation.
business development with our customers.
makes Bodycotes processing inherently With some of the best metallurgists, more efficient than customers in-house Bodycote seeks to secure service-specific engineers and technicians in the industry, 32 operations and enhances our competitive arrangements with our customers which Bodycote is ideally placed to provide position in the sub-contract market.
provide protection from supply disruption solutions for customers, whatever their by leveraging Bodycotes unique facility The capital intensive nature of Bodycotes market or wherever in the world they network.
business also provides significant barriers may be.
The scope of Bodycotes network Bodycotes scale enables continuous yet enables us to specialise more effectively focused investment, both in the latest than competitors at individual locations processes and in the most efficient and and provides comprehensive back-up for environmentally friendly equipment.
The supplier of choice Service Quality Expertise Bodycote has become the supplier of Bodycotes quality management systems, Bodycotes extensive facilities and choice for many of the worlds most validated by major engineering OEMs, expertise mean that projects can extend respected and innovative engineering have been developed to meet the beyond customers in-house capabilities, companies by providing highly efficient, requirements of international and national combining identification and provision cost-effective services to the highest accrediting bodies.
All Bodycote facilities of technical solutions which address quality standards through strategic hold industry and customer approvals in-service specification and deliver valueinvestment in people and the latest appropriate to the services they offer and adding material properties.
technology, equipment and quality the markets they serve.
Our own enhancements and systems.
improvement of standard processes has led to Bodycote offering a range of proprietary processes which far outperform their standard counterparts.
Creating value For customers For Bodycote For investors Value-adding services.
Mutually beneficial customer Financially stable and sustainable relationships.
Global supplier which can meet multiple processing needs.
Wide customer base means Bodycote is Good growth drivers.
not reliant on any one customer.
Access to entire Bodycote knowledge Superior return on investment.
Ideally positioned to promote growth Strong margins and cash flow.
in emerging markets and selected Cost and environmental benefits versus technologies.
Superscript numbers indicate reference to other pages in the report where further information can be found.
08 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5
