Adding value a component journey ADDING VALUE A COMPONENT JOURNEY 3D-PRINTED METAL PART Almost all metal parts built by the additive manufacturing process require secondary The metal part is built onto a plate in a treatments to make them suitable for their 3D printing machine by depositing metal intended use.
powder in layers which are then consolidated, Bodycote provides a complete post-manufacture for example by use of lasers.
service solution including hot isostatic pressing to Photo courtesy of Simon Scott-AM remove micro-porosity and reduce the extent of segregation in the built structure, heat treatment to improve material properties, and associated The part is stress quality assurance testing.
relieved in a vacuum furnace to minimise any distortion.
The part next undergoes heat treatment to achieve full material properties and improve the microstructural characteristics of the component if needed.
The component is then removed from its build plate by electrical discharge Hot Isostatic Pressing HIP ensures machining EDM to prepare that any porosity within the part is for HIP and heat treatment.
removed, thereby reducing the Photo courtesy of Simon Scott-AM variation in mechanical properties Various testing methods are when compared with the as-built used to check that the part part, and improving ductility and meets specication these fatigue strength.
may include radiography, tensile testing, and metallography.
The component will undergo any necessary nish machining and dimensional inspection.
BODYCOTE COMPONENT JOURNEYS This is just one example of how Bodycote brings together the huge wealth of knowledge and expertise from across the Group to provide the vital engineering services our customers need... For more component journeys visit www.
com 3D printing is creating components in a range of industries including aerospace, Denotes the parts of the component journey undertaken by Bodycote medical, and power generation.
com 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
