Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS Richard Rose Age: 59 Jonathan Prentis Age: 53 Bryn Satherley Age: 54 Non-Executive Chairman Group Finance Director Operations Director Richard was an Executive Director and Chairman Jonathan qualified as a chartered accountant Bryn is Operations Director responsible for of Blueheath Holdings plc Blueheath with Deloitte.
He was appointed as Group property, IT, logistics and supply chain of the immediately prior to the reverse acquisition Finance Director of Booker in 2005.
Prior to this Booker Group.
Bryn was at Booker plc between of Blueheath by the Booker Group in 2007 appointment, Jonathan was Finance Director of 1999 and 2001 and rejoined Booker in 2005. and became Non-Executive Chairman of the Group Logistics within The Big Food Group plc.
Prior to 1999 he was at Exel plc and was on Company upon completion of the merger.
He Prior to 2003, he was with TDG plc.
the board of Alldays Ltd. is also Non-Executive Chairman of Anpario plc, AO World Plc, Crawshaw Group plc, Marlow Retail Limited and Quindell plc.
Richard was formerly Chief Executive of Whittard of Chelsea plc, a director of Hagemeyer UK Ltd, Non-Executive Chairman of AC Electrical Wholesale Ltd and Executive Chairman of Helphire Group plc.
Charles Wilson Age 49 Guy Farrant Age: 53 Mark Chilton Age: 52 Chief Executive Managing Director Booker Wholesale Company Secretary Charles started his career in 1986 with Guy is Managing Director of the Groups UK Mark acts as Company Secretary and General Procter and Gamble following which he was a cash and carry business.
Guy has a wealth Counsel to the Group and was appointed to consultant with OC&C Strategy Consultants and of food experience having worked in the food his present role in June 2007.
Mark qualified a Director of Abberton Associates.
In 1998 he industry for 25 years rising to be Director of Food as a solicitor in 1987.
Mark was appointed as became an Executive Director of Booker Group and, latterly, Operations and Retail Director at Company Secretary of the Booker Group in plc which merged with Iceland plc in 2000.
Previously, he was head of legal at the In 2001 he became an Executive Director of Big Food Group plc.
Prior to that, he was at Arcadia Group plc and in 2004 he became an The Greenalls Group Plc.
Executive Director of Marks and Spencer Plc.
In 2005 he was appointed as Chief Executive of Booker.
18 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Lord Bilimoria CBE, DL Age: 53 Stewart Gilliland Age: 58 Karen Jones CBE, Age: 58 Non-Executive Director and Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director Stewart is currently a Non-Executive Director of Chairman of Remuneration Committee Karan Bilimoria is the founder of Cobra Beer, C&C Group Plc, Mitchells & Butlers plc, Sutton Karen is a founder and Chairman of Food and Chairman of the Cobra Beer Partnership Limited and East Surrey Water Plc and Vianet Group Fuel Ltd, a hospitality company.
Karen is a a joint venture between Molson Coors Brewing plc.
He is also a director of Nature's Way Foods Non-Executive Director of ASOS Plc.
She is Company UK Ltd and Bilimoria Holdings Ltd, Ltd and Tulip International UK Ltd. also a Non-Executive Director of Cofra AG, and Chairman of Molson Coors Cobra India a Corbin and King Ltd, Firmenich International Stewart was formerly Chief Executive of Muller joint venture between Cobra Indian Beer Pvt.
and Chairman of Hawksmoor Ltd. She is also Dairies UK and Ireland and has held senior Ltd and Molson Coors Brewing Company.
on the Board of RNTE Royal National Theatre roles with leading consumer facing companies, Karan is an independent Crossbench Peer in Enterprises Board.
Karen was formerly CEO of Spirit Group Ltd, He qualified as a chartered accountant with a private equity-backed 2,000 strong pub and Ernst & Young and graduated in law from the restaurant group.
Prior to Spirit, Karen founded, University of Cambridge.
He is an honorary grew and floated The Pelican Group Plc, owner fellow of Sidney Sussex College Cambridge.
of a number of restaurant chains including Caf Rouge.
Karen was awarded a CBE in 2006 for services to hospitality, and an honorary doctorate from the University of East Anglia in July 2013.
Helena Andreas Age: 40 Andrew Cripps Age: 57 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Helena was appointed as Head of Group Chairman of Audit Committee Marketing and Communications for Nordea Andrew is currently Non-Executive Deputy Bank in 2014.
Formerly she was Group Head of Chairman of Swedish Match AB.
He is also Retail & Distribution at Vodafone Group.
Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Boparan Holdings Prior to joining Vodafone Helena held senior Limited and Chairman of the Audit Committee positions in marketing and operations at Tesco of Stock Spirits Group plc.
Group plc and previously was a business consultant at Accenture.
Helena holds an Andrew spent twenty years with Rothmans MBA from INSEAD.
Helena is a Non-Executive International and British American Tobacco Director of Extenda, a leading supplier of retail Plc.
He read Economics at the University of POS systems.
Cambridge prior to qualifying as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG.
