Geopolitical committee Chairmans and nomination committees Chairmans introduction Chairmans introduction I am pleased to report on the work of this committee that was formed I am pleased to report on the two board committees that I chair.
I have been asked to chair this committee until the 2016 actively sought to develop the membership of the board and its AGM, when I will retire from the board and Sir John Sawers will take the governance during the year.
Carl-Henric Svanberg Antony Burgmans Committees chair Committee chair Chairmans committee Role of the committee Role of the committee The committee monitors the companys identication and management of To provide a forum for matters to be discussed among the non-executive geopolitical risk.
Key responsibilities Key responsibilities To monitor the companys identication and management of major and Evaluate the performance and the effectiveness of the group chief correlated geopolitical risk and to consider reputational as well as executive.
financial consequences: Review the structure and effectiveness of the business organization.
Major geopolitical risks are those brought about by social, economic Review the systems for senior executive development and determine or political events that occur in countries where BP has material the succession plan for the group chief executive, the executive investments that can be jeopardized: directors and other senior members of executive management.
Correlated geopolitical risks are those brought about by social, economic Determine any other matter that is appropriate to be considered by or political events that occur in countries where BP may or may not have non-executive directors.
a presence but that can lead to global political instability.
Opine on any matter referred to it by the chairman of any committees To review the companys activities in the context of political and comprised solely of non-executive directors.
economic developments on a regional basis and to advise the board on these elements in its consideration of BPs strategy and the annual plan.
Members The committee comprises all non-executive directors who join the Members committee at the date of their appointment to the board.
The chief executive attends the committee when requested.
Antony Burgmans Member and committee chair since chair September 2015 Activities during the year Paul Anderson Member since September 2015 The committee met seven times in the year.
During the year the committee: Frank Bowman Member since September 2015 Monitored the progress of the Gulf of Mexico litigation and, in particular, Cynthia Carroll Member since September 2015 considered the proposals which led to the Agreements in Principle to Phuthuma Nhleko Member since September 2015 settle federal and state claims and claims made by local government entities.
John Sawers Member since September 2015 Reviewed BPs strategy in light of the continuing decline in oil prices.
Andrew Shilston Member since September 2015 Considered the succession and organization of the executive team.
Evaluated the performance of the chairman and chief executive.
Carl-Henric Svanberg and Bob Dudley attend all committee meetings and the executive vice president, strategy and regions and the vice president, government and political affairs attend as required.
Activities during the year The committee met twice during the year.
During those meetings it considered: The committees terms of reference.
An overview of the companys current geopolitical risks.
The relationship of the committee with the International Advisory Board.
The effect of the oil price on geopolitical matters.
The companys relationships with national oil companies.
The companys relationships in specic countries and regions.
74 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
