Board activity The boards activities are structured to enable the directors to full their role, in particular with respect to strategy, risk, performance and monitoring.
Board focus in 2015 Low oil price environment.
Quarterly and full year results.
Strategy Performance Feedback from committees.
Risk Monitoring Identication and allocation of risks to BP brand and global reputation.
the board and committees for 2016.
Board evaluation.. Strategy Monitoring The board discussed strategy or strategic elements at every full meeting.
All meetings include a report from the chair of each committee that has The board also reviewed the BP Energy Outlook, updated in February 2015, met since the last meeting.
These are supplemented with feedback on which looks at long-term energy trends and develops projections for world board and committee site visits, including a deep dive on exploration at energy markets over the next two decades.
the upstream learning centre in Sunbury in May.
In January the executive team presented the 2015 annual plan to describe The board monitors employee opinion via an annual pulse survey which how the strategy should be implemented.
The board met for two days in includes measurement of how the BP values are incorporated into daily Houston in September to review the strategy in depth.
culture around our global operations.
The board received an update in December on BPs reputation in the US Risk and UK compared with competitors, based on the results of our 2015 During the year the board, either directly or through its committees, reputation research across a number of consistent reputational attributes regularly reviewed the processes whereby risks are identied, evaluated measured over time.
The effectiveness of the groups system of internal control and risk management was also assessed.
The board considered the allocation of group risks between the monitoring committees the audit, SEEA, and Gulf of Mexico committees, and from September, the geopolitical committee and the board itself, and confirmed the schedule for oversight of these risks.
The group risks reviewed by the board during 2015 included risks associated with the delivery of major projects, particularly in the Upstream, and geopolitical risk associated with BPs operations around the world.
For 2016 the group risks allocated to the board for review include financial resilience which examines how the group is able to respond to a volatile oil and gas price environment and cybersecurity with the audit committee and SEEAC reviewing elements of cybersecurity risk in their work over the year.
The group risks allocated to the committees for review over the year are outlined in the reports of the committees on pages 68-72.
Further information on BPs system of risk management is outlined in Our management of risk on page 51.
Information about BPs system of internal control is given on page 93.
Performance The board reviews financial and operational performance at each meeting.
It receives regular updates on the groups performance for the year across a range of metrics as well as the latest view on expected full-year delivery against external scorecard measures.
Updates are also given on various components of value delivery for BPs business.
The board reviews the quarterly and full-year results, including reviewing shareholder distribution policy.
Both the 2014 and 2015 annual reports were assessed in terms of the directors obligations and appropriate regulatory requirements.
64 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
