developing the resources we believe are likely to add the most value Upstream to our portfolio.
Our strategy is to have a balanced portfolio of material, enduring positions in the worlds key hydrocarbon basins: to employ capital and execute projects and other activitiesefciently: and to operate Our strategy is to have a balanced portfolio across safely and reliably in every basin to deliver increasing value.
the worlds key basins, working safely and reliably Our strategy is enabled by: while maintaining a focus on capital discipline and A continued focus on safety, reliability and the systematic quality execution to deliver value.
Prioritizing value over volume, and a continuous focus on executional excellence, managing costs and business delivery.
Maintaining disciplined investment in a balanced portfolio of opportunities, in deep water, gas value chains, giant elds and unconventionals.
Delivering competitive operating cash growth through improvements in efficiency and reliability for both operations and capital investment.
Strong relationships built on trust, mutual advantage and deep knowledge of the basins where we operate.
Our performance summary For upstream safety performance see page 44.
We achieved an upstream BP-operated plant reliability of 95%.
We started up three major upstream projects.
Operators work on board the oating production, storage and ofoading Our exploration function gained access to new potential resources vessel in the Pluto, Saturno, Vnus and Marte elds in Angola.
2 covering almost 8,000km in four countries.
Our divestments generated $0.8 billion in proceeds in 2015.
Our business model and strategy Upstream profitability $ billion The Upstream segment is responsible for our activities in oil and natural RC profit before interest and tax Underlying RC profit before interest and tax gas exploration, eld development and production, as well as midstream 40 transportation, storage and processing.
We also market and trade natural gas, including liqueed natural gas, power and natural gas 26.4 25.2 30 22.5 liquids.
In 2015 our activities took place in 25 countries.
19.4 18.3 16.7 15.2 20 With the exception of our US Lower 48 onshore business, we deliver 8.9 10 our exploration, development and production activities through five 1.2 -0.9 global technical and operating functions: 0 The exploration function is responsible for renewing our resource -10 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 base through access, exploration and appraisal, while the reservoir development function is responsible for the stewardship of our See Financial performance on page 29 for an explanation of the main resource portfolio over the life of each eld.
The global wells organization and the global projects organization are responsible for the safe, reliable and compliant Outlook for 2016 execution of wells drilling and completions and major projects.
We expect underlying production to be broadly at with 2015.
The The global operations organization is responsible for safe, reliable actual reported outcome will depend on the exact timing of project and compliant operations, including upstream production assets and start-ups, divestments, OPEC quotas and entitlement impacts in our midstream transportation and processing activities.
We optimize and integrate the delivery of these activities across 12 Capital investment is expected to decrease, largely reecting our regions, with support provided by global functions in specialist areas of commitment to continued capital discipline and the rephasing and expertise: technology, finance, procurement and supply chain, human refocusing of our activities and major projects where appropriate in resources and information technology.
response to the current business environment.
We will continue to manage our costs down using all levers available to us.
These include The US Lower 48 began operating as a separate onshore business continuing and expanding the simplication and efficiency efforts in 2015. started in 2014, continuing to drive deation into our third-party spend, Technologies such as seismic imaging, enhanced oil recovery and big inuencing spend in our non-operated assets, and bringing headcount data analytics support our upstream strategy by helping us gain new down to a level that reects the size of our operations and the current access, increase recovery and reserves and improve production environment.
See Our distinctive capabilities on page 16.
Oil prices continue to be challenging in the near term.
We actively manage our portfolio and place increasing emphasis on accessing, developing and producing from elds able to provide the greatest value including those with the potential to make the highest contribution to our operating cash ow.
We sell assets that we believe have more value to others.
This allows us to focus our leadership, technical resources and organizational capability on 28 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
