OECD Our market outlook We believe that a diverse mix of fuels and technologies will be essential to meet the growing demand for energy and challenges facing our industry.
Affordability Near-term outlook For further detail on our projections of future Fossil fuels are currently cheaper than The global economy continues to experience energy trends contained in this section, renewables but their future costs are hard to weaker growth in the main developing please refer to BP Energy Outlook.
Some fossil fuels may become more economies and slower than expected recovery costly as the difficulty to access and process in the developed world.
World gross domestic them increases: others may be more affordable product GDP is expected to grow by 2.8% in Our markets in 2015 with technological progress, as seen with US 2016, led by the OECD, but with significant See page 24 for information on oil and gas shale gas.
While many renewables remain downside risks from emerging economies, prices in 2015. expensive, innovation and wider deployment are particularly commodity exporters.
likely to bring down their costs.
After around four years of averaging about $100 Supply security per barrel, oil prices fell by nearly 50% in 2015.
Energy resources are often distant from the Even as US production growth stalled and global hubs of energy consumption and in places oil demand rebounded, a large increase in OPEC facing political uncertainties.
More than half of production continued to push inventories higher.
the worlds known oil and natural gas reserves Price declines continued into early 2016, with are located in just eight countries.
daily prices reaching levels not seen since 2004.
Sustainability Prices are expected to remain low at least Fossil fuels though plentiful and currently more through the near term.
And while we anticipate affordable than other energy resources emit supply chain deflation in 2016 and beyond, as carbon dioxide CO and other greenhouse 2 industry costs follow oil prices with a lag, this gases GHG through their production and use in will be a tough period of intense change for the homes, industry and vehicles.
Renewables are industry as it adapts to this new reality.
lower carbon but can have other environmental or social impacts, such as high water Long-term outlook consumption or visual intrusion.
The world economy is likely to more than double from 2014 to 2035, largely driven by rising Effective policy incomes in the emerging economies and a BP believes that carbon pricing is the most projected population increase of 1.5 billion.
comprehensive and economically efficient policy We expect world demand for energy to increase to limit GHG emissions.
Putting a price on Global energy consumption by region by as much as 34% between 2014 and 2035. carbon one that treats all carbon equally, This is after taking into account improvements in billion tonnes of oil equivalent whether it comes out of a smokestack or a car energy efficiency, a shift towards less energyOther Other Asia China exhaust would make energy efficiency more 18 intensive activities in fast-growing economies, attractive and lower-carbon energy sources, governmental policies that incentivize lower- 16 such as natural gas and renewables, more cost carbon activity, and national pledges made at the 14 competitive.
A carbon price incentivizes both 12 2015 UN climate conference in Paris.
energy producers and consumers to reduce their 10 GHG emissions.
Governments can put a price There are more than enough energy resources 8 on carbon via a well-constructed carbon tax or to meet this growing demand, but there are a 6 cap-and-trade system.
10 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 Strategic report Strategic report We believe shale gas will contribute more than Energy efficiency BP Technology Outlook Technology choices for a secure, affordable half of the growth in natural gas globally and sustainable energy future Greater efficiency helps with affordability between 2014 and 2035.
In the US, the growth because less energy is needed: with security of shale gas has already had a significant impact because it reduces dependence on imports: and on gas demand as well as CO emissions, which 2 with sustainability because it reduces have fallen back to 1990s levels.
Innovation can play a key role in The increasing gas supply in the US and other improving technology, bringing down cost and increasing efficiency.
In transport, for example, countries is encouraging the use of liquefied November 2015 natural gas worldwide, which is expected to we believe energy-efficient technologies and biofuels could offer the most cost-effective double between 2014 and 2035.
The BP Technology Outlook shows how pathway to a secure, lower-carbon future.
technology can play a major role in meeting the New sources of hydrocarbons may be more energy challenge by widening energy resource difficult to reach, extract and process.
BP and All sorts of energy required choices, transforming the power sector, others in our industry are working to improve We believe a diverse mix of fuels and improving transport efficiency and helping to techniques for maximizing recovery from technologies is needed to meet growing energy address climate concerns out to 2050. existing and currently inaccessible or demand, while supporting the transition to a undeveloped fields.
These are reasons why See bp.
com technologyoutlook our portfolio includes oil, gas and renewables.
Renewables Renewables are the fastest-growing energy Oil and natural gas source.
Over the past few years, there has been Over the next few decades, we think oil and rapid expansion of the use of solar power due to natural gas are likely to continue to play a cost reduction in manufacturing and public significant part in meeting demand for energy.
That said, renewables, excluding They currently account for around 56% of total large-scale hydroelectricity, currently account for energy consumption, and we believe they will around 3% of energy consumption.
While they decrease to about 54% in 2035.
For comparison, are starting from a low base, we estimate that under the International Energy Agencys most by 2035 they will contribute around 9% of total ambitious climate policy scenario the 450 global energy demand.
a scenario, oil and gas would still make up 50% of the energy mix in 2030 and 44% in 2040 Temporary policy support is needed to help assuming carbon capture and storage is widely commercialize lower-carbon options and BP Energy Outlook provides our projections of deployed.
technologies, but they will ultimately need to future energy trends and factors that could affect become commercially self-sustaining, supported them out to 2035, based on our views of likely Oil is a good source of energy for transportation only by a carbon price.
economic and population growth and as it has a high energy density.
That means developments in policy and technology.
Also vehicles go further on less weight and volume Beyond 2035 available in Excel and video format.
Also, oils liquid form We expect that growing population and per makes it easy to move around, globally and capita incomes will continue to drive growing See bp.
For these reasons, we expect oil to still demand for energy.
These dynamics will be account for almost 90% of transportation fuels shaped by future technology developments, in 2035 compared with 94% today.
changes in tastes, and future policy choices Natural gas is likely to play an increasing role in all of which are inherently uncertain.
Concerns meeting global energy demand, because its about energy security, affordability and available at scale, relatively low cost and lower environmental impacts are all likely to be carbon than other fossil fuels.
By 2035 gas is important considerations.
These factors may Our strategy expected to provide 26% of global energy, accelerate the trend towards more diverse placing it on a par with oil and coal.
sources of energy supply, a lower average Find out how BP can help meet energy demand for years to come on page 12. carbon footprint, increased efficiency and a From World Energy Outlook 2015.
The IEA 450 scenario assumes Climate change a set of policies that bring about a trajectory of greenhouse gas Our sector has an important part to play emissions from the energy sector that is consistent with in addressing climate change.
See page limiting long-term average global temperature increase to 2C.
46 to find out what BP is doing.
Energy consumption billion tonnes of oil equivalent Today around 32% of energy consumed 2035 comes from oil, 30% from coal, and 24% from gas so 86% from fossil fuels in total.
Hydroelectricity accounts for 7%, nuclear for 4% and other renewables for just 3%.
2015 Oil Renewables 1995 Gas Hydro Coal Nuclear 0 3 6 9 12 15 18 Source: BP Energy Outlook.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 11 11
