Corporate governance The evaluation results were generally positive.
Committee members Role of the committee considered that the committee continued to possess the right mix of skills The committee was formed in July 2010 to oversee the management and and background, had an appropriate level of support and received open and mitigation of legal and licence to operate risks arising out of the Deepwater transparent briengs from management.
The committee considered that Horizon accident and oil spill.
Its work is integrated with that of the board, the eld trips remained an important element of its work, in particular as which retains ultimate accountability for oversight of the groups response such trips gave committee members the opportunity to examine how risk to the accident.
management is being embedded in businesses and facilities, including management culture.
An area of focus for 2016 will be examining areas of Key responsibilities overlap across the committee and the audit committee in terms of how Oversee the legal strategy for litigation, investigations and suspension financial and operational risk could be better managed.
debarment actions arising from the accident and its aftermath, including the strategy connected with settlements and claims.
Review the environmental work to remediate or mitigate the effects of the oil spill in the waters of the Gulf of Mexico and on the affected Gulf of Mexico committee shorelines.
Oversee management strategy and actions to restore the groups reputation in the US.
Review compliance with government settlement agreements arising out of the Deepwater Horizon accident and oil spill, including the SEC Consent Order, the Department of Justice plea agreement and the EPA administrative agreement.
This is done in co-ordination with other committees and board oversight.
Members Ian Davis chair Member since July 2010: committee chair since July 2010 Paul Anderson Member since July 2010 Alan Boeckmann Member since September 2014 Frank Bowman Member since February 2012 George David Member from July 2010 to April 2015 Chairmans introduction The Gulf of Mexico committee continued to oversee the groups response George David ceased to be a member of the committee when he retired to the Deepwater Horizon accident, ensuring the company fulls all its from the board in April 2015. legitimate obligations while protecting and defending the interests of the group.
The major development in the year was the execution of Meetings and attendance agreements in principle with the United States and five Gulf states There were five committee meetings in 2015, including one by Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas on 2 July.
All directors attended every meeting for which they were agreements, subject to final court approval of the proposed Consent eligible, with the exception of George David who did not attend the Decree, resolve all Clean Water Act penalties, natural resource damage committee meeting called at short notice on 9 February 2015 due to a prior claims and various economic loss claims pursued by the Gulf states.
Assuming that the Consent Decree order is approved by the court as anticipated, we intend to recommend to the board that the committee ceases its activities and is stood down at the end of the first quarter of 2016.
Reporting of remaining proceedings will be made directly to the board or other committees as appropriate thereafter.
Ian Davis Committee chair Gulf of Mexico committee focus in 2015 Multi-district litigation 2179 and 2185.
Legal Operational External affairs and community outreach.
Department of Justice plea agreement.
Reputation Compliance US government and media communications.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 73 Dened on page 256.
