Members Committee reports Brendan Nelson chair Member since November 2010: committee Audit committee chair since April 2011 George David Member from February 2008 to April 2015 Phuthuma Nhleko Member since February 2011 Paula Rosput Reynolds Member since May 2015 Andrew Shilston Member since February 2012 Brendan Nelson is chair of the audit committee.
He was formerly vice chairman of KPMG and president of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Currently he is chairman of the group audit committee of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc.
The board is satisfied that Mr Nelson is the audit committee member with recent and relevant financial experience as outlined in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
It considers that the committee as a whole has an appropriate and experienced blend of commercial, financial and audit expertise to assess the issues it is required to address.
The board also determined that the audit committee meets the independence criteria provisions of Rule 10A-3 of the US Securities Chairmans introduction Exchange Act of 1934 and that Mr Nelson may be regarded as an audit committee financial expert as dened in Item 16A of Form 20-F. 2015 was another active year for the audit committee.
We took the opportunity of the new UK Corporate Governance Code reporting Meetings and attendance requirements to take a fresh look at the companys risk management There were 11 committee meetings in 2015, of which three were carried processes.
This involved reviewing the groups principal risks, considering out by teleconference and five were joint meetings with the SEEAC.
All scenarios that might impact the companys longer-term viability and directors attended every meeting for which they were eligible, with the debating the categorization of what would constitute significant failings and following exceptions: weaknesses in our system of internal control.
George David did not attend the teleconference on 25 February 2015 The committee continued to build its understanding of BPs business, due to prior commitments.
including how key risks are identied and mitigated and how segments and Phuthuma Nhleko did not attend the committee meeting on 23 April functions are performing to achieve the groups strategy.
To complement 2015 due to a clash with the AGM of another company.
the presentations received in the board room, the committee met Paula Rosput Reynolds did not attend the committee meeting on employees on several site visits including trading floors in Houston and 23 September 2015 due to a conflicting board meeting.
London and the groups cybersecurity monitoring centre.
Meetings are also attended by the chief financial officer, group controller, During 2015 the committees membership evolved, with our longest-serving chief accounting officer, head of group audit and external auditor.
member George David retiring in April and Paula Rosput Reynolds joining us in May.
I would like to thank George for his insight and challenge during his Activities during the year tenure and to welcome Paula, who brings broad financial and corporate Training knowledge from her business career.
The skills and experience of our The committee held a learning event on changes to the UK Corporate committee membership remain strong and I believe that the committee has Governance Code and received technical updates during the year from performed effectively over the year.
the chief accounting officer on developments in financial reporting and Brendan Nelson accounting policy.
Committee chair Financial disclosure The committee reviewed the quarterly, half-year and annual financial Role of the committee statements with management, focusing on the integrity and clarity of The committee monitors the effectiveness of the groups financial disclosure, compliance with relevant legal and financial reporting standards reporting, systems of internal control and risk management and the and the application of critical accounting policies and judgements.
integrity of the groups external and internal audit processes.
The committee jointly reviewed with the SEEAC whether the BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 was fair, balanced and understandable and Key responsibilities provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups Monitoring and obtaining assurance that the management or mitigation position and performance, business model and strategy.
The two of financial risks is appropriately addressed by the group chief executive committees considered the processes underpinning the compilation and and that the system of internal control is designed and implemented assurance of the report in relation to financial and non-financial effectively in support of the limits imposed by the board executive management information.
Following this joint review, the full board limitations as set out in the BP board governance principles.
reviewed the report as a whole including tone, balance, language and Reviewing financial statements and other financial disclosures and consistency between the narrative sections and financial statements.
Part monitoring compliance with relevant legal and listing requirements.
of the boards evaluation included a review of the companys internal Reviewing the effectiveness of the group audit function, BPs internal processes that form the groups reporting governance framework.
The financial controls and system of internal control and risk management.
boards statement on the report is on page 93.
Overseeing the appointment, remuneration, independence and performance of the external auditor and the integrity of the audit process as a whole, including the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services to BP.
Reviewing the systems in place to enable those who work for BP to raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other issues and for those matters to be investigated.
68 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
