Corporate governance Risk management and internal control Directors statements Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, the board is responsible for the companys risk management and internal control systems.
In discharging Statement of directors responsibilities this responsibility, the board through its governance principles, requires the The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the group chief executive to operate the company with a comprehensive financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
system of controls and internal audit to identify and manage the risks that The directors are required by the UK Companies Act 2006 to prepare are material to BP.
In turn, the board, through its monitoring processes, financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of satisfies itself that these material risks are identified and understood by the financial position of the group and the parent company and the financial management and that systems of risk management and internal control are performance and cash flows of the group and parent company for that in place to mitigate them.
These systems are reviewed periodically by the period.
Under that law they are required to prepare the consolidated board, have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting this report and are consistent with the requirements of principle C. 2 of the Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and applicable Code.
law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements The board has processes in place to: in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and United Kingdom accounting standards United Kingdom generally accepted accounting assess the principal risks facing the company.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements the directors monitor the companys system of internal control which includes the have also elected to comply with IFRSs as issued by the International ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: review the effectiveness of that system annually.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Non-operated joint arrangements and associates have not been dealt with as part of this board process.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that A description of the principal risks facing the company, including those that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information.
could potentially threaten its business model, future performance, solvency provide additional disclosure when compliance with the specific or liquidity, is set out in Risk factors on page 53.
During the year, the board requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the undertook a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company.
impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the The principal means by which these risks are managed or mitigated are set groups financial position and financial performance.
out in Our management of risk on page 51. state that applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject In assessing the risks faced by the company and monitoring the system of to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent internal control, the board and the audit, safety, ethics and environment company financial statements.
assurance, Gulf of Mexico and geopolitical committees requested, prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is received and reviewed reports from executive management, including inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
management of the business segments, corporate activities and functions, The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that at their regular meetings.
A report by each of these committees, including disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the its activities during the year, is set out on pages 68 to 74. group and company and enable them to ensure that the consolidated During the year, the committees also met with management, the group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of head of audit and other monitoring and assurance functions including the IAS Regulation and the parent company financial statements comply group ethics and compliance, safety and operational risk, business with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding integrity, group control, group legal and group risk and the external auditor the assets of the group and company and hence for taking reasonable as appropriate.
Responses by management to incidents that occurred steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
were considered by the appropriate committee or the board.
Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the directors are aware, A joint meeting of the audit and safety, ethics and environment assurance there is no relevant audit information as defined by Section 418 3 of the committees in January 2016 carried out an annual review of the Companies Act 2006 of which the companys auditors are unaware, and effectiveness of the system of internal control.
In considering this system, the directors have taken all the steps they ought to have taken to make the committees noted that it is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide the companys auditors are aware of that information.
reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: loss.
the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS This review included a report from the group head of audit which as issued by the IASB, IFRS as adopted by the EU and in accordance summarized group audits consideration of the design and operation of with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, give a true and fair view elements of BPs system of internal control over significant risks arising in of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the group.
the categories of strategic and commercial, safety and operational and the parent company financial statements, prepared in accordance with compliance and control and considered the control environment for the United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice, give a true and group.
The report also highlighted the results of internal audit work fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position, performance and conducted during the year and the remedial actions taken by management cash flows of the company.
in response to failings and weaknesses identified.
Where failings or the management report, which is incorporated in the strategic report weaknesses were identified, the board was satisfied that these were or and directors report, includes a fair review of the development and are being appropriately addressed by the remedial actions proposed by performance of the business and the position of the group, together management.
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
A statement regarding the companys internal controls over financial C-H Svanberg reporting is set out on page 244 Additional disclosures, Controls and Chairman procedures.
4 March 2016 This page does not form part of BPs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 93 Going concern In accordance with provision C. 1.3 of the Code, the directors have made an assessment of the groups ability to continue as a going concern and consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Longer-term viability In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, the directors have assessed the prospects of the company over a period significantly longer than 12 months.
The directors believe that an assessment period of three years is appropriate based on managements reasonable expectations of the position and performance of the company over this period, taking account of its short-term and longer-range plans.
Taking into account the companys current position and its principal risks, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over three years.
The directors assessment included a review of the financial impact of the most severe but plausible scenarios that could threaten the viability of the company and the likely effectiveness of the potential mitigations that management reasonably believes would be available to the company over this period.
In assessing the prospects of the company, the directors noted that such assessment is subject to a degree of uncertainty that can be expected to increase looking out over time and, accordingly, that future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
Fair, balanced and understandable The board considers the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
This page does not form part of BPs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
94 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
