Career Prior to this, Bob was chief executive Executive team Tufan Erginbilgic was appointed chief of BP Angola and also held several executive, Downstream on 1 October management positions in Trinidad, 2014. including chief operating officer for As at 4 March 2016 Atlantic LNG and vice president of Prior to this, Tufan was the chief operations.
Bob has also served in a operating officer of the fuels business, variety of engineering and management accountable for BPs fuels value chains positions in onshore US and deepwater worldwide, the global fuels businesses Gulf of Mexico.
and the refining, sales and commercial optimization functions for fuels.
Tufan During 2016 Bob will also take on joined Mobil in 1990 and BP in 1997 accountability for remediation and has held a wide variety of roles in management.
refining and marketing in Turkey, various Katrina Landis European countries and the UK.
In 2004 he became head of the European Current position fuels business.
Tufan took up leadership Executive vice president, corporate of BPs lubricant business in 2006 before business activities moving to head the group chief Rupert Bondy Executive team tenure executives office.
In 2009 he became Appointed 1 May 2013 chief operating officer for the eastern Current position Group general counsel hemisphere fuels value chains and Outside interests lubricants businesses.
Independent director of Alstom SA Executive team tenure Founding member of Alstoms Ethics, Appointed 1 May 2008 Compliance and Sustainability Outside interests Committee Non-executive director, Indivior PLC Member of Earth Day Networks Andy Hopwood Global Advisory Committee Age 54 Nationality British Ambassador to the US Department of Current position Energys US Clean Energy Chief operating officer, strategy and Career Education & Empowerment regions, Upstream Rupert Bondy is responsible for legal and program compliance matters across the BP group.
Executive team tenure Age 56 Nationality American Appointed 1 November 2010 Rupert began his career as a lawyer in private practice.
In 1989 he joined US law Outside interests Career firm Morrison & Foerster, working in San No external appointments Katrina Landis is responsible for BPs Francisco and London, and from 1994 he integrated supply and trading activities, Bob Fryar Age 58 Nationality British worked for UK law firm Lovells in London.
renewable energy activities, shipping, In 1995 he joined SmithKline Beecham technology and remediation Current position as senior counsel for mergers and Career management.
Executive vice president, safety and acquisitions and other corporate matters.
Andy Hopwood is responsible for BPs operational risk He subsequently held positions of upstream strategy, portfolio, and Katrina began her career with BP in 1992 increasing responsibility and, following the leadership of its global regional in Anchorage, Alaska and held a variety Executive team tenure merger of SmithKline Beecham and presidents.
She was chief executive Appointed 1 October 2010 GlaxoWellcome to form GlaxoSmithKline, officer of BPs integrated supply and Andy joined BP in 1980, spending his Outside interests was appointed senior vice president and trading Oil Americas from 2003 to first 10 years in operations in the North No external appointments general counsel of GlaxoSmithKline 2006, group vice president of BPs Sea, Wytch Farm, and Indonesia.
In 1989 in 2001. integrated supply and trading from 2007 Age 52 Nationality American Andy joined the corporate planning team to 2008, and chief operating officer of BP In April 2008 he joined the BP group, and formulating BPs upstream strategy, and Alternative Energy from 2008 to 2009.
Andy he became the group general counsel in She was then appointed chief executive May 2008.
Bob Fryar is responsible for held commercial leadership positions in officer of BP Alternative Energy in 2009. strengthening safety, operational risk Mexico and Venezuela, before becoming management and the systematic the Upstreams planning manager.
In May 2013, she became executive vice management of operations across the president, corporate business activities.
Following the BP-Amoco merger, Andy BP group.
He is group head of safety Since mid-2010 she has served as an spent time leading BPs businesses in and operational risk, with accountability independent director of Alstom SA, a Azerbaijan, Trinidad & Tobago, and for group-level disciplines including world leader in transport infrastructure, onshore North America.
In 2009, he engineering, health, safety, security power generation and transmission, and joined the upstream executive team as and the environment.
In this capacity, is a founding member of Alstoms ethics, head of portfolio and technology and in he looks after the group-wide operating compliance and sustainability committee.
2010 was appointed executive vice management system implementation president, exploration and production.
Katrina will step down from her executive and capability programmes.
vice president role in May 2016 and will Bob has 30 years experience in the retire from BP in July 2016. oil and gas industry, having joined Amoco Production Company in 1985.
Tufan Erginbilgic Between 2010 and 2013, Bob was executive vice president of the Current position production division and was Chief executive, Downstream accountable for safe and compliant Executive team tenure exploration and production operations Appointed 1 October 2014 and stewardship of resources across all regions.
Outside interests Independent non-executive director of GKN plc Member of the Turkish-British Chamber of Commerce & Industry Board of Directors Age 56 Nationality British and Turkish 60 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 Corporate governance Bernard Looney Lamar McKay Dev Sanyal Helmut Schuster Current position Current position Current position Current position Chief operating officer, production Chief executive, Upstream Executive vice president, strategy and Executive vice president, group human regions resources Executive team tenure Executive team tenure Appointed 1 November 2010 Appointed 16 June 2008 Executive team tenure Executive team tenure Appointed 1 January 2012 Appointed 1 March 2011 Outside interests Outside interests Fellow of the Royal Academy of Member of Mississippi State Outside interests Outside interests Engineering University Deans Advisory Council Independent non-executive director of Non-executive director of Ivoclar Member of the Stanford University Man Group plc Vivadent AG, Germany Age 57 Nationality American Graduate School of Business Member of the Accenture Global Age 55 Nationality Austrian Advisory Council Energy Board Career Fellow of the Energy Institute Member of the Board of Advisors of Lamar McKay is responsible for the Career the Fletcher School of Law and Age 45 Nationality Irish Upstream segment which consists of Helmut Schuster became group human Diplomacy exploration, development and production.
resources HR director on 1 March 2011.
Vice Chairman of the Centre for China in Career Lamar started his career in 1980 with He completed his post graduate diploma the World Economy, Tsinghua Bernard Looney is responsible for BPs Amoco and held a range of technical and in international relations and his PhD in University operated production, with specific leadership roles.
economics at the University of Vienna Age 50 Nationality British and Indian accountability for drilling, operations, and then began his career working for During 1998 to 2000, he worked on the engineering, procurement and supply Henkel in a marketing capacity.
Since BP-Amoco merger and served as head of chain management, and health, safety Career joining BP in 1989 Helmut has held a strategy and planning for the exploration and environment in the Upstream.
Dev Sanyal is responsible for the number of leadership roles.
He has and production business.
In 2000 he Europe and Asia regions and worked in BP in the US, UK and Bernard joined BP in 1991 as a drilling became business unit leader for the functionally for group strategy and continental Europe and within most parts engineer, working in the North Sea, central North Sea.
In 2001 he became long-term planning, risk management, of refining, marketing, trading, and gas Vietnam and the Gulf of Mexico.
In 2005 chief of staff for exploration and government and political affairs, policy and power.
he became senior vice president for BP production, and subsequently for BPs and group integration.
Alaska, before moving in 2007 to be head deputy group chief executive.
Lamar Before taking on his current role his of the group chief executives office.
became group vice president, Russia and Dev joined BP in 1989 and has held a portfolio of responsibilities as a vice Kazakhstan in 2003.
He served as a variety of international roles in London, president, HR included the refining and In 2009 he became the managing member of the board of directors of Athens, Istanbul, Vienna and Dubai.
marketing segment of BP, and corporate director of BPs north sea business in the TNK-BP between February 2004 and He was general manager, former Soviet and functions.
That role saw him leading UK and Norway.
Union and eastern Europe, prior to being the people agenda for roughly 60,000 Bernard became a member of the Oil & appointed chief executive, BP Eastern people across the globe and included Gas UK Board.
He became executive In 2007 he was appointed executive vice Mediterranean Fuels in 1999. businesses such as petrochemicals, fuels vice president, developments, in October president, BP America.
In 2008 he value chains, lubricants and functional 2010 and took up his current role in became executive vice president, special In November 2003 he was appointed experts across the group.
He is also a February 2013. projects where he led BPs efforts to chief executive officer of Air BP non-executive director of BP Europa SE.
restructure the governance framework International.
In June 2006 he was During 2016 Bernard will take on the role for TNK-BP.
In 2009 Lamar was appointed head of the group chief of chief executive, upstream, in addition appointed chairman and president of BP executives office.
He was appointed to maintaining his current portfolio.
America, serving as BPs chief group vice president and group treasurer representative in the US.
During this period, he was also 2013, he became chief executive, chairman of BP Investment Management Upstream.
Ltd and was accountable for the groups aluminium interests.
During 2016 Lamar will take on the role of deputy group chief executive.
In During 2016 Dev will take on the role of addition to assuming some of the group chief executive, alternative energy and chief executives duties he will be executive vice president, regions.
accountable for group strategy and long-term planning, safety and operational risk, group technology and will also focus on various corporate governance activities including ethics and compliance.
The executive team represents the principal executive leadership of the BP group.
Its members include BPs executive directors Bob Dudley and Dr Brian Gilvary whose biographies appear on page 57 and the senior management listed left.
The ages of the executive team are correct as at 4 March 2016.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 61
