Our business model and strategy We aim to create value for our investors and benefits for the communities and societies where we operate.
The new semi-submersible Deepsea Aberdeen Our business model By having upstream and downstream drilling vessel carries out ultra-deepwater drilling We believe the best way to achieve businesses and well established trading in the UK North Sea.
sustainable success as a group is to act in the capabilities, we have a cushion to oil price long-term interests of our shareholders, our volatility as downward pressures in one part of An officer working in the under-deck pipe partners and society.
By supplying energy, we the group can create opportunities in another.
passageway on board BPs LNG tanker support economic development and help to Integration also allows us to share functional British Trader.
improve quality of life for millions of people.
excellence more efficiently across areas such Our activities also generate jobs, investment, as safety and operational risk, environmental infrastructure and revenues for governments and social practices, procurement, technology Illustrated business model and local communities.
For an at a glance overview of our Our business model spans everything from Every stage of the hydrocarbon value chain business model see page 2. exploration to marketing.
We have a diverse offers opportunities for us to create value, integrated portfolio that is balanced across through both the successful execution of Our businesses resource types, geographies and businesses, activities that are core to our industry, and the For more information on our and adaptable to prevailing conditions.
Our application of our own distinctive strengths upstream and downstream business geographic diversity gives us access to and capabilities in performing those activities.
models, see pages 28 and 34 growing markets and new resources and respectively.
provides robustness to geopolitical events.
What we do differently Our partnerships in Russia Global energy trading We apply our capabilities of advanced BP has been collaborating with leading Using our knowledge and insights to help keep Russian oil and gas companies for 25 years, the worlds energy moving, our energy trading technology, strong relationships and creating a successful presence in a country function is BPs face to global energy markets proven expertise across our operations with some of the largest oil and gas reserves and an integral part of our upstream and to help us deliver against our strategic and greatest potential worldwide.
We offer a combination priorities in ways that we believe set us partnership with Rosneft, the worlds largest of expertise in physical supply and trading, apart from our peers.
These examples listed oil company in terms of production innovative financial structures and advanced volume, we are able to build on the experience analytics to deliver long-term value, from reflect our distinctive ways of working and success we have achieved over the past wellhead to end customer.
We trade a variety across the business.
quarter century and continue to grow BPs of physical products such as crude oil, refined business in Russia.
products, natural gas, LNG and power, and aim to maximize value from our assets by managing the flow of these commodities.
See page 16 for details of our distinctive capabilities.
12 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 Strategic report Industry context A relentless focus on safety remains the Quality portfolio See how we are responding to the top priority for everyone at BP.
Rigorous We undertake active portfolio management lower price environment on pages management of risk helps to protect the to concentrate on areas where we can play 18-19. people at the front line, the places where we to our strengths.
We focus on high-value operate and the value we create.
We upstream assets in deep water, giant Our key performance indicators understand that operating in politically fields, selected gas value chains and See how we measure our progress complex regions and technically demanding unconventionals.
And, in our downstream on page 20. geographies requires particular sensitivity to businesses, we plan to leverage our upgraded assets, customer relationships, brand and local environments.
Risks technology to continue to grow free Find out how we manage the risks to Our strategy cash flow.
We prioritize value over volume by actively Our portfolio of projects and operations is managing a high-value upstream and focused where we believe we can generate downstream portfolio and investing where the most value, using our commercial agility we can apply the distinctive strengths, and technical capability.
This allows us to capabilities and technologies we have built build a strong pipeline of future growth.
Distinctive capabilities We aim to create shareholder value by Our ability to deliver against our priorities growing sustainable free cash flow and and build the right portfolio depends on our distributions over the long term.
We apply advanced We are pursuing our strategy by setting clear technology across the hydrocarbon value priorities, actively managing a quality portfolio chain, from finding resources to developing and employing our distinctive capabilities.
energy-efficient and high-performance products for customers.
We work to develop Clear priorities and maintain strong relationships with First, we aim to run safe, reliable and governments, partners, civil society and others compliant operations leading to better to enhance our operations in more than 70 operational efficiency and safety performance.
And the proven We target competitive project execution to expertise of our employees comes to the fore deliver projects as efficiently as possible.
in a wide range of disciplines.
Making disciplined financial choices focused on capital and cost discipline allows us to maximize free cash flow and increase the resilience of our portfolio to changing price environments.
Innovative customer offers Collaborative partnerships Pioneering commercial arrangements We provide our customers with a broad range We have considerable experience of managing We find innovative and mutually beneficial ways of premium products, tailored to meet their the complexities of large projects with multiple of working.
The Rumaila oil field in Iraq is one of needs.
Our Castrol brand has a long history parties.
For example, BP is leading the Shah the worlds largest by production, although this of product innovation and industry firsts, such Deniz Stage 2 and Southern Corridor projects, had fallen after years of conflict and underas our recently launched Nexcel oil-change in partnership with 10 other national and investment.
In 2009 BP and China National technology.
In retail, our combination of quality international oil companies, to construct one of Petroleum Corporation committed to work brands creates a highly differentiated offer.
For the worlds longest pipelines from Azerbaijan to with Iraqs South Oil Company to modernize example, in the UK this includes our partnership Italy.
Our history of working with governments, operations and increase production.
BP with Marks & Spencer, a market-leading loyalty international agencies, communities and recovers costs, irrespective of oil price, and a programme with Nectar, the Wild Bean Caf partners has proved invaluable in establishing fee per barrel of incremental production above a and Apple Pay.
the route between the landlocked Caspian Sea defined threshold.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 13 Defined on page 256.
