Board of directors Board biographies As at 4 March 2016 See bp.
com governance See BPs board governance principles relating to director independence on page 244.
Carl-Henric Svanberg Bob Dudley Dr Brian Gilvary Paul Anderson Chairman Group chief executive Chief financial officer Non-executive director Chair of the nomination and Chair of the SEEA committee: chairmans committees: attends member of the geopolitical, Gulf of a geopolitical, Gulf of Mexico, SEEA Mexico, nomination and chairmans and remuneration committees committees Alan Boeckmann Admiral Frank Bowman Antony Burgmans Cynthia Carroll Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Member of the SEEA, Gulf of Member of the SEEA, geopolitical, Chair of the geopolitical committee: Member of the SEEA, geopolitical, Mexico, remuneration and Gulf of Mexico and chairmans member of the SEEA, remuneration, nomination and chairmans chairmans committees committees chairmans and nomination committees committees Ian Davis Professor Dame Ann Dowling Brendan Nelson Phuthuma Nhleko Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Chair of the Gulf of Mexico Chair of the remuneration committee: Chair of the audit committee: Member of the audit, geopolitical and committee: member of the member of the SEEA, nomination member of the nomination and chairmans committees remuneration, nomination and and chairmans committees chairmans committees chairmans committees Paula Rosput Reynolds Sir John Sawers Andrew Shilston David Jackson Non-executive director Non-executive director Senior independent director Company secretary Member of the audit and chairmans Member of the SEEA, geopolitical Member of the audit, geopolitical, committees and chairmans committees remuneration, nomination and chairmans committees a Safety, ethics and environment assurance.
56 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 Corporate governance Career Career SEEAC with that of the audit committee, Carl-Henric Svanberg to provide a cohesive and robust Bob Dudley became group chief Dr Brian Gilvary was appointed chief executive on 1 October 2010. financial officer on 1 January 2012. overview of business risks.
Chairman Bob joined Amoco Corporation in 1979, He joined BP in 1986 after obtaining a His experience of business in the US Tenure working in a variety of engineering and and its regulatory environment has PhD in mathematics from the University Appointed 1 September 2009 commercial posts.
Following a variety of greatly assisted the work of the Gulf of Outside interests 1997, he worked on corporate Mexico committee and is an asset to the roles in the Upstream, Downstream and Chairman of AB Volvo development in Russia.
In 1997 he trading in Europe and the US, he geopolitical committee.
became general manager for strategy became Downstreams chief financial Age 63 Nationality Swedish for Amoco and in 1999, following the officer and commercial director from Alan Boeckmann merger between BP and Amoco, was 2002 to 2005.
From 2005 to 2009 he Career appointed to a similar role in BP.
was chief executive of the integrated Carl-Henric Svanberg became chairman Independent non-executive director supply and trading function, BPs of the BP board on 1 January 2010.
Between 1999 and 2000, he was commodity trading arm.
In 2010 he was Tenure executive assistant to the group chief He spent his early career at Asea Brown appointed deputy group chief financial Appointed 24 July 2014 executive, subsequently becoming Boveri and the Securitas Group, before officer with responsibility for the finance group vice president for BPs Outside interests moving to the Assa Abloy Group as function.
renewables and alternative energy Non-executive director of Sempra president and chief executive officer.
In 2002 he became group vice He was a director of TNK-BP over two Energy From 2003 until 31 December 2009, president responsible for BPs upstream periods, from 2003 to 2005 and from Non-executive director of Archer Daniels businesses in Russia, the Caspian when he left to join BP, he was 2010 until the sale of the business and Midland president and chief executive officer of region, Angola, Algeria and Egypt.
acquisition of Rosneft equity in 2013.
Age 67 Nationality American Ericsson, also serving as the chairman From 2003 to 2008 he was president Brian will also take on accountability for of Sony Ericsson Mobile and chief executive officer of TNK-BP.
integrated supply and trading and Career Communications AB.
He was a On his return to BP in 2009 he was shipping during 2016.
Alan Boeckmann retired as nonnon-executive director of Ericsson appointed to the BP board and oversaw executive chairman of Fluor Corporation between 2009 and 2012.
He was Relevant skills and experience the groups activities in the Americas in February of 2012, ending a 35-year appointed chairman and a member of Dr Brian Gilvary has spent his entire and Asia.
Between 23 June and 30 career with the company.
Between the board of AB Volvo in April 2012. career with BP.
He has a strong September 2010 he served as the 2002 and 2011, he held the post of knowledge of finance and trading, a president and chief executive officer of He is a member of the External Advisory chairman and chief executive officer and deep understanding of BPs assets and BPs Gulf Coast Restoration Board of the Earth Institute at Columbia was president and chief operating businesses and has very broad Organization in the US.
He was University and a member of the officer from 2001 to 2002.
His tenure experience of the business as a whole.
appointed a director of Rosneft in 2013 Advisory Board of Harvard Kennedy with the company included following BPs acquisition of a stake in School.
He is also the recipient of the Brian has been instrumental in responsibility for global operations.
King of Swedens medal for his transforming BPs capital structure and chairman and CEO, he refocused the contribution to Swedish industry.
operational costs during its recovery and Relevant skills and experience company on engineering, procurement, as it adjusts to a low oil price construction and maintenance services.
Relevant skills and experience Bob Dudley has spent his whole career environment, while ensuring the group in the oil and gas industry.
He has held Carl-Henric Svanberg is a highly After graduating from the University of is capable of meeting new opportunities experienced leader of global senior management roles in Amoco and Arizona with a degree in electrical going forward.
BP and as the chief executive officer of corporations.
He has served as both engineering, he joined Fluor in 1974 as chief executive officer and chairman to TNK-BP from 2003 to 2008. an engineer and worked in a variety of high profile businesses, giving him a Over the five years that he has been domestic and international locations, Paul Anderson deep understanding of international group chief executive, Bob has including South Africa and Venezuela.
His transformed BP into a safer, stronger Independent non-executive director Alan was previously a non-executive experience allows him to co-ordinate the and simpler business.
By focusing the director of BHP Billiton and the diverse range of knowledge and skills Tenure groups approach on value not volume Burlington Santa Fe Corporation and has provided by the board.
Appointed 1 February 2010 and operating through a set of served on the boards of the American consistent values, Bob has guided BPs Outside interests Petroleum Institute and the National recovery to a position of greater No external appointments Bob Dudley Petroleum Council.
He was also a board resilience, to enable it to continue member and trustee of the Eisenhower Age 70 Nationality American delivering results in an uncertain Group chief executive Medical Center in Rancho Mirage, economic environment.
California and the Advisory Board of Career Tenure Southern Methodist Universitys Cox Paul Anderson was formerly chief Appointed to the board 6 April 2009 School of Business.
Dr Brian Gilvary executive at BHP Billiton and Duke Outside interests Energy, where he also served as He led the formation of the World Non-executive director of Rosneft chairman of the board.
Having previously Chief financial officer Economic Forums Partnering Against Member of Tsinghua Management been chief executive officer and Corruption Initiative in 2004.
Tenure University Advisory Board, managing director of BHP Limited and Beijing, China Appointed to the board 1 January 2012 Relevant skills and experience then BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Member of BritishAmerican Business Alan Boeckmann has been a chairman Billiton Plc, he rejoined these latter two Outside interests International Advisory Board and chief executive officer in the boards in 2006 as a non-executive Visiting professor at Manchester Member of UAE UK CEO Forum worldwide engineering and construction director, retiring in January 2010.
University Member of the Emirates Foundation industry and in the energy sector.
He Previously he served as a non-executive External advisor to director general Board of Trustees brings deep experience to the board and director of BAE Systems PLC and on a spending and finance, HM Member of the World Economic Forum in his roles on the SEEAC and Gulf of number of boards in the US and Treasury Financial Management WEF International Business Council Mexico committee, not only from his Australia, and was also chief executive Review Board Chair of the WEF Oil and Gas Climate profession as an engineer but also of officer of Pan Energy Corp.
Nominated for appointment by the AGM Initiative international project management and as a non-executive director of LAir Relevant skills and experience Member of the Russian Geographical procurement.
Liquide S. A. from May 2016 Paul Anderson has spent his career in Society Board of Trustees Member of the 100 Group Committee Alan joined the remuneration committee the energy industry working with global Fellow of the Royal Academy of GB Age Group triathlete in 2015. organizations, and brings the skills of an Engineering experienced chairman and chief Age 54 Nationality British Age 60 Nationality American executive officer to the board.
As chairman of the SEEAC since 2012, he has maintained the boards focus on safety and broader non-financial issues.
This year he has worked with Brendan Nelson to integrate the oversight of the BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 57 American plc, the global mining group, Admiral Frank Antony Burgmans Professor Dame Ann operating in 45 countries with 150,000 employees, and was chairman of Bowman Dowling Independent non-executive director fide Beers s. a. and Anglo Platinum Tenure Limited.
She stepped down from Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Appointed 5 February 2004 these roles in April 2013.
Tenure Tenure Outside interests Appointed 8 November 2010 Relevant skills and experience Appointed 3 February 2012 Member of the supervisory board of Cynthia Carroll has led multiple large Outside interests Outside interests SHV Holdings NV complex global businesses in the President of Strategic Decisions, LLC President of the Royal Academy of Chairman of the supervisory board of extractive industries.
This has required Director of Morgan Stanley Engineering TNT Express deep strategic and operational Mutual Funds Deputy vice-chancellor and Professor Chairman of Akzo Nobel NV involvement.
In leading these Director of Naval and Nuclear of Mechanical Engineering at the businesses a high level of interaction Age 69 Nationality Dutch Technologies, LLP University of Cambridge with governments, the media, special Member of the Prime Ministers Council interest groups and other stakeholders Age 71 Nationality American Career for Science and Technology has been needed.
Antony Burgmans joined Unilever in Non-executive director of the Career Cynthia is an experienced former chief 1972, holding a succession of marketing Department for Business, Innovation Frank L Bowman served for more than executive who has spent all of her and sales posts, including the & Skills BIS 38 years in the US Navy, rising to the career in the extractive industries, chairmanship of PT Unilever Indonesia Age 63 Nationality British rank of Admiral.
He commanded the having trained as a petroleum geologist.
from 1988 until 1991. nuclear submarine USS City of Corpus Her leadership experience related to In 1991, he was appointed to the board Career Christi and the submarine tender USS enhancing safety in the mining industry of Unilever, becoming business group Dame Ann Dowling is a deputy Holland.
After promotion to flag officer, brings a strong contribution to the work president, ice cream and frozen foods vice-chancellor at the University of he served on the joint staff as director of of the SEEAC, as does her Europe in 1994, and chairman of Cambridge, where she was appointed a political-military affairs and as the chief understanding of business strategy in an Unilevers Europe committee, professor of mechanical engineering in of naval personnel.
He served over eight industry with a long capital return cycle.
In the department of engineering in 1993. years as director of the Naval Nuclear Her international experience with 1998, he became vice chairman of She was head of the department of Propulsion Program where he was governments is an asset to the Unilever NV and in 1999, chairman of engineering at the University of responsible for the operations of more geopolitical committee.
Unilever NV and vice chairman of Cambridge from 2009 to 2014.
Her than one hundred reactors aboard the Unilever PLC.
In 2005 he became research is in fluid mechanics, acoustics US navys aircraft carriers and non-executive chairman of Unilever NV and combustion, and she has held submarines.
He holds two masters Ian Davis and Unilever PLC until his retirement in visiting posts at MIT and at Caltech.
She degrees in engineering from the 2007.
During his career he has lived and was appointed director of the University Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Independent non-executive director worked in London, Hamburg, Jakarta, Gas Turbine Partnership with After his retirement as an Admiral in Tenure Stockholm and Rotterdam.
Rolls-Royce in 2001, and chairman in Appointed 2 April 2010 2004, he was president and chief 2009.
Between 2003 and 2008 she Relevant skills and experience executive officer of the Nuclear Energy chaired the Rolls-Royce propulsion and Outside interests Antony Burgmans is an experienced Institute until 2008.
He served on the Chairman of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc power systems advisory board and now chairman and chief executive who spent BP Independent Safety Review Panel chairs BPs technical advisory Non-executive director of Majid Al his executive career at Unilever where and was a member of the BP America Futtaim Holding LLC committee.
he developed skills in production, External Advisory Council.
He was Non-executive director of Johnson & distribution and marketing.
She is a fellow of the Royal Society and appointed Honorary Knight Commander Johnson Inc the Royal Academy of Engineering and of the British Empire in 2005.
He was His experience of consumer facing Non-executive director of Teach for All is a foreign associate of the US National elected to the US National Academy of business has meant that he has been Academy of Engineering and the French Engineering in 2009.
Age 64 Nationality British able to provide the board with deep Academy of Sciences.
She has honorary insight in the fields of reputation, brand, Frank is a member of the CNA military degrees from nine universities, including Career culture and values.
He has served on advisory board and has participated in the University of Oxford, Imperial Ian Davis is senior partner emeritus of the board for 12 years and has made a studies of climate change and its impact College London and the KTH Royal McKinsey & Company.
He was a major contribution to the SEEA and on national security.
Additionally he was Institute of Technology, Stockholm.
partner at McKinsey for 31 years until remuneration committees and latterly co-chair of a National Academies study 2010 and served as chairman and through chairing the geopolitical She was elected President of the Royal investigating the implications of climate managing director between 2003 and committee.
Academy of Engineering in September change for naval forces.
In December 2015 she was Relevant skills and experience appointed to the Order of Merit, which Ian has a MA in Politics, Philosophy and Frank Bowman brings exceptional Cynthia Carroll is in the sole gift of the Queen and Economics from Balliol College, experience in safety issues arising from limited to just 24 members.
his time with the US Navy and the Independent non-executive director Relevant skills and experience Nuclear Energy Institute, coupled with Relevant skills and experience Tenure Dame Ann Dowling is an internationally direct knowledge of BPs safety goals Ian Davis brings the skills of a managing Appointed 6 June 2007 respected leader in engineering from his work on the BP Independent director with significant financial and research and the practical application of Safety Review Panel.
He also has a Outside interests strategic experience to the board.
He has new technology in industry.
The broad perspective of systems and of Chair of Vedanta Resources Holding Ltd worked with and advised global department of engineering at people from the many other roles Non-executive director of Hitachi Ltd organizations and companies in a wide Cambridge University that she led is one throughout his career.
variety of sectors including oil and gas Age 59 Nationality American of the leading centres for engineering and the public sector, enabling him to He has built on this experience with the research worldwide, and her draw on knowledge of diverse issues Gulf of Mexico and SEEA committees Career contribution has been widely recognized and outcomes to assist the board.
His since 2010 and his background and Cynthia began her career as a petroleum by universities around the world.
She role in the Cabinet Office, from which he experience of US and global political and geologist with Amoco Production chairs BPs technical advisory stepped down in March 2016, gives him regulatory systems are valuable assets company in Denver, Colorado, after committee and makes a significant a unique perspective on government to the geopolitical committee.
completing a masters degree in geology.
contribution to the work of the SEEAC.
In 1989 she joined Alcan Aluminum Dame Ann became chair of the He has chaired the Gulf of Mexico Company of Canada and ran a remuneration committee in 2015 and committee since its formation and has packaging company, led a global bauxite, has spent time with key shareholders to led the boards oversight of the response alumina and speciality chemicals listen and reflect their views in the work in the Gulf.
business and later was president and of the committee.
chief executive officer of the Primary Metal Group, responsible for operations in more than 20 countries.
In 2007 she became chief executive of Anglo 58 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 Corporate governance He stepped down as group chief Paula has led several groups through Brendan Nelson Andrew Shilston executive of MTN Group at the end of restructuring and mergers so can March 2011.
He was formerly a director contribute knowledge and experience to Independent non-executive director Senior independent non-executive of a number of listed South African the board when considering director Tenure companies, including Johnnic Holdings simplification and value creation.
Appointed 8 November 2010 formerly a subsidiary of the Anglo Tenure American group of companies, Appointed 1 January 2012 Outside interests Sir John Sawers Nedbank Group, Bidvest Group and Non-executive director and chairman of Outside interests Alexander Forbes.
the group audit committee of Chairman of Morgan Advanced Independent non-executive director The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Relevant skills and experience Materials plc Tenure Member of the Financial Reporting Non-executive director of Circle Phuthuma Nhleko has had a wideAppointed 14 May 2015 Review Panel ranging career in infrastructure, banking Holdings plc and telephony as well as the extractive Outside interests Age 66 Nationality British Age 60 Nationality British industries.
This broad experience Chairman and partner of Macro Advisory leading multinational companies, Partners LLP Career Career particularly in emerging markets, Visiting professor at Kings College Brendan Nelson is a chartered Andrew Shilston trained as a chartered enables him to contribute strongly to the London accountant.
He was made a partner of accountant before joining BP as a board and geopolitical committee on Governor, Ditchley Foundation KPMG in 1984.
He served as a member management accountant.
His commercial of the UK board of KPMG from 2000 to subsequently joined Abbott Age 60 Nationality British experience also gives him insight into 2006, subsequently being appointed Laboratories before moving to financial issues relevant to the audit vice chairman until his retirement in Enterprise Oil plc in 1984 at the time of committee.
At KPMG International he held a flotation.
In 1989 he became treasurer John Sawers spent 36 years in public number of senior positions including of Enterprise Oil and was appointed service in the UK, working on foreign global chairman, banking and global finance director in 1993.
After the sale Paula Rosput policy, international security and chairman, financial services.
of Enterprise Oil to Shell intelligence.
Reynolds in 2002, in 2003 he became finance He served for six years as a member of John was Chief of the Secret director of Rolls-Royce plc until his the Financial Services Practitioner Panel Independent non-executive director Intelligence Service, MI6, from 2009 to retirement in December 2011. and in 2013 was the president of the 2014, a period of international upheaval Tenure He has served as a non-executive Institute of Chartered Accountants of and growing security threats as well as Appointed 14 May 2015 Scotland.
director on the board of Cairn Energy plc closer public scrutiny of the intelligence where he chaired the audit committee.
Prior to that, the bulk of his Relevant skills and experience Non-executive director of BAE Systems career was in diplomacy, representing Brendan Nelsons career in audit and Relevant skills and experience Ltd the British government around the world finance makes him ideally suited to chair Andrew Shilston is a highly Non-executive director of and leading negotiations at the UN, in the audit committee and to act as its knowledgeable director with wide TransCanada Corporation the European Union and in the G8.
He held a range of experience from roles in finance, from Non-executive director of Siluria was the UK ambassador to the United senior leadership roles at KPMG giving several positions as a chief financial Technologies Nations 2007-09, political director and him broad management and business officer, and the oil and gas industry in main board member of the Foreign experience.
His specialism in the general.
His deep understanding of Age 59 Nationality American Office 2003-07, special representative financial services industry allows him to commercial issues has assisted the in Iraq 2003, ambassador to Egypt contribute insight into the challenges board in its work in overseeing the Career 2001-03 and foreign policy advisor to faced by global businesses by regulatory groups strategy and in particular the Paula Rosput Reynolds is the former the Prime Minister 1999-2001.
evaluation of capital projects, while his chairman, president and chief executive in his career, he was posted to financial skills are an asset to both the Brendan brings related input from his officer of Safeco Corporation, a Fortune Washington, South Africa, Syria and audit and remuneration committees.
500 property and casualty insurance role as the chair of the audit committee Yemen.
of a major bank and as a member of the company that was acquired by Liberty As senior independent director he has John is now chairman of Macro Mutual Insurance Group in 2008.
She overseen the evaluation of the chairman Financial Reporting Review Panel.
Advisory Partners, a firm which advises also served as vice-chair and chief and led the external evaluation of the clients on the intersection of policy, restructuring officer for American board in 2015.
Phuthuma Nhleko politics and markets.
International Group AIG for a period after the US government became the Relevant skills and experience David Jackson Independent non-executive director financial sponsor from 2008 to 2009.
Sir John Sawers deep experience of Tenure international political and commercial Previously Paula was an executive in the Company secretary Appointed 1 February 2011 matters is an asset to the board in energy industry.
She was chairman, navigating the complex issues faced by Tenure president and chief executive officer of Outside interests a modern global company.
His Appointed 2003 AGL Resources Inc. an operator of Non-executive director and chairman of management of reform at MI6 also natural gas infrastructure in the US.
Prior MTN Group Ltd complements BPs focus on value and to this, she led a subsidiary of Duke David Jackson, a solicitor, is a director of Chairman of the Pembani Group simplification.
Energy Corporation that was a merchant BP Pension Trustees Limited.
Age 55 Nationality South African operator of electricity generation.
She As a former UK government commenced her energy career at PG&E representative, Sir John brings Corp. Career knowledge and skills related to Phuthuma Nhleko began his career as a analysing and negotiating on a She currently chairs the board of the civil engineer in the US and as a project worldwide basis, which are invaluable to Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research manager for infrastructure the geopolitical and SEEA committees.
In 2014 developments in southern Africa.
Paula was awarded the National Following this he became a senior Association of Corporate Directors US executive of the Standard Corporate and Lifetime Achievement Award.
Merchant Bank in South Africa.
He later Relevant skills and experience held a succession of directorships before joining MTN Group, a pan-African Paula Rosput Reynolds has had a long career leading global companies in the and Middle Eastern telephony group represented in 21 countries, as group energy and financial sectors.
Her experience with international and US president and chief executive officer in 2002.
During his tenure at the MTN companies gives her insight into strategic and regulatory issues, and her Group he led a number of substantial mergers and acquisitions transactions.
financial background is an asset to the audit committee.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 59
