Corporate governance Training and induction Audit committee visit to cybersecurity centre To help develop an understanding of BPs business, the board continues to build its knowledge through briengs and eld visits.
In 2015 the board During a strategy meeting in Houston, the audit committee and the received training on ethics and compliance, and the introduction of the new chairman visited the cybersecurity centre.
The board met local management and external stakeholders at its board meetings in Sunbury and Houston.
Directors met the cybersecurity leadership team and saw demonstrations of how the group monitors and defends against attacks, NEDs are expected to attend at least one eld visit per year.
In 2015 the and considers broader digital security trends.
audit committee visited the cybersecurity centre in Houston and members of the SEEAC visited BPs operations in Trinidad, Oman and Rotterdam.
After each visit, the board or appropriate committee was briefed on the impressions gained by the directors during the visit.
The two new NEDs, Paula Rosput Reynolds and Sir John Sawers followed a structured induction process.
This included one-to-one meetings with management and the external auditors and also covered the board committees that they joined.
Director induction programme Board and governance BPs board governance model, directors duties, interests and potential conflicts.
Upstream exploration, development, production, overview of our operations.
Downstream rening, marketing and lubricants.
Shareholder engagement BPs performance relative to its competitors.
The company operates an active investor relations programme and the board receives feedback on shareholder views through results of an Functional input anonymous investor audit and reports from management and those Finance and tax.
directors who met with shareholders over the year.
Controls, external auditors and internal audit.
Shareholder engagement cycle 2015 Human resources.
January BP Energy Outlook presentation February Fourth quarter results Ethics and compliance.
Investor roadshows with the group chief Safety and operational risk S&OR, BPs operating management executive and chief financial officer system OMS and environmental performance.
March Engagement on remuneration and governance Research and technology.
issues Chairman and board committee chairs meeting Trading.
UKSA private shareholders meeting SRI roadshow following the launch of After completing the induction, the directors are asked for feedback on the BP Sustainability Report 2014 process to help further improve it going forward.
April Annual general meeting First quarter results BPs response to lower oil prices launch June BP Statistical Review of World Energy launch July Second quarter results Investor roadshows with the group chief executive and chief financial officer Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change meeting August Engagement with UKSA private shareholder panel on BPs 2014 financial reports September Oil and gas sector conferences October Third-quarter results and medium-term outlook November SRI annual meeting BP Technology Outlook launch Meetings with investors on remuneration into December December Medium-Term Outlook launched on bp.
com BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 65 Dened on page 256.
