Fuels and lubricants marketing we invest in higher-returning Downstream businesses with reliable cash ows and growth potential.
Portfolio quality we maintain our focus on quality by high-grading of assets combined with capital discipline.
We continued to improve our personal and process Simplification and efficiency we are embedding a culture of simplification and efficiency to support performance improvement safety and delivered strong operations and and make our businesses even more competitive.
marketing performance, contributing to record Disciplined execution of our strategy is helping improve our underlying replacement cost profit before interest and tax.
performance and create a more resilient business that is better able to withstand external environmental impacts.
This is with the aim of ensuring Downstream remains a reliable source of cash ow for BP.
Our performance summary For Downstream safety performance see page 45.
We have delivered record replacement cost profit before interest and tax and pre-tax returns this year, demonstrating that we are creating a more resilient Downstream business.
We delivered strong availability and operational performance across our refining portfolio and year-on-year improvement in utilization.
We commenced the European launch of our BP fuels with ACTIVE technology in Spain, which are designed to remove dirt and protect car engines.
We announced the agreement to restructure our German refining joint operation with Rosneft.
We halted operations at Bulwer refinery in Australia.
The Cherry Point refinery processes crude oil sourced from Alaska, mid-continent US and Canada and has a capacity of 234,000 barrels per day.
In Air BP we completed the integration of Statoil Fuel and Retails aviation business which added more than 70 airports to our global network.
Our business model and strategy In our lubricants business we launched Castrols Nexcel, an The Downstream segment has global manufacturing and marketing innovative automotive oil-change technology.
It is the product and service-led arm of BP, made up of We completed start-up of the Zhuhai 3 plant in China the worlds three businesses: largest single train purified terephthalic acid PTA unit.
Fuels includes refineries, fuels marketing and convenience retail Our simplification and efficiency programmes contributed to material businesses, together with global oil supply and trading activities that progress in lowering cash costs.
These programmes include make up our fuels value chains FVCs.
We sell refined petroleum right-sizing the Downstream organization, implementing site-by-site products including gasoline, diesel and aviation fuel.
improvement plans to deliver manufacturing efficiency in refining and Lubricants manufactures and markets lubricants and related petrochemicals, and focusing on third-party costs.
products and services globally, adding value through brand, Downstream profitability $ billion technology and relationships, such as collaboration with original equipment manufacturing partners.
RC profit before interest and tax Underlying RC profit before interest and tax 7.5 8 7.1 Petrochemicals manufactures, sells and distributes products, that 6.5 6.0 are produced mainly using proprietary BP technology, and are then 5.5 6 used by others to make essential consumer products such as paint, 4.4 3.7 3.6 plastic bottles and textiles.
We also license our technologies to third 4 2.9 2.9 parties.
2 We aim to run safe and reliable operations across all our businesses, supported by leading brands and technologies, to deliver high-quality 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 products and services that meet our customers needs.
See Financial performance on page 35 for the main factors inuencing Our strategy focuses on a quality portfolio that aims to lead the downstream profit.
industry, as measured by net income per barrel, with improving returns and growing operating cash ow.
Our five strategic priorities Outlook for 2016 are: We anticipate a weaker refining environment.
Safe and reliable operations this remains our first priority and we continue to drive improvement in personal and process We expect the financial impact of refinery turnarounds to be higher safety performance.
than 2015 as a result of increased turnaround activity.
Advantaged manufacturing we continue to build a top-quartile refining business by having a competitively advantaged portfolio underpinned by operational excellence that helps to reduce exposure to margin volatility.
In petrochemicals we seek to sustainably improve earnings potential and make the business more resilient to a bottom of cycle environment through portfolio repositioning, improved operational performance and efficiency benefits.
34 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
