Additional disclosures determined that BPs internal control over financial reporting as of audit partner every five years.
See Financial statements Note 35 and Audit committee report on page 68 for details of fees for services 31 December 2015 was effective.
The companys internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in Directors report information reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and This section of BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 forms part of, and dispositions of assets: provide reasonable assurances that transactions includes certain disclosures which are required by law to be included in, are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in the Directors report.
accordance with IFRS and that receipts and expenditures are being made Indemnity provisions only in accordance with authorizations of management and the directors In accordance with BPs Articles of Association, on appointment each of BP: and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely director is granted an indemnity from the company in respect of liabilities detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of BPs assets incurred as a result of their office, to the extent permitted by law.
These that could have a material effect on our financial statements.
BPs indemnities were in force throughout the financial year and at the date of internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2015 has been this report.
In respect of those liabilities for which directors may not be audited by Ernst & Young, an independent registered public accounting indemnified, the company maintained a directors and officers liability firm, as stated in their report appearing on page 101 of BP Annual Report insurance policy throughout 2015.
During the year, a review of the terms and Form 20-F 2015. and scope of the policy was undertaken.
The policy was renewed during Changes in internal control over financial reporting 2015 and continued into 2016.
Although their defence costs may be met, neither the companys indemnity nor insurance provides cover in the There were no changes in the groups internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by the Form 20-F that event that the director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Certain subsidiaries are trustees of the groups pension have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our internal controls over financial reporting.
Each director of these subsidiaries is granted an indemnity from the company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of such a subsidiarys activities as a trustee of the pension scheme, to the extent Principal accountants fees and services permitted by law.
These indemnities were in force throughout the The audit committee has established policies and procedures for the financial year and at the date of this report.
engagement of the independent registered public accounting firm, Financial risk management objectives and policies Ernst & Young LLP, to render audit and certain assurance and tax The disclosures in relation to financial risk management objectives and services.
The policies provide for pre-approval by the audit committee of policies, including the policy for hedging, are included in Our specifically defined audit, audit-related, tax and other services that are not management of risk on page 51-52, Liquidity and capital resources on prohibited by regulatory or other professional requirements.
Ernst & page 219 and Financial statements Notes 28 and 29.
Young are engaged for these services when its expertise and experience of BP are important.
Most of this work is of an audit nature.
Tax services Exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk were awarded either through a full competitive tender process or The disclosures in relation to exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity following an assessment of the expertise of Ernst & Young relative to risk and cash flow risk are included in Financial statements Note 28. that of other potential service providers.
These services are for a fixed Important events since the end of the financial year term.
Disclosures of the particulars of the important events affecting BP which have occurred since the end of the financial year are included in the Under the policy, pre-approval is given for specific services within the following categories: advice on accounting, auditing and financial Strategic report as well as in other places in the Directors report.
reporting matters: internal accounting and risk management control Likely future developments in the business reviews excluding any services relating to information systems design An indication of the likely future developments of the business is and implementation : non-statutory audit: project assurance and advice included in the Strategic report.
on business and accounting process improvement excluding any Research and development services relating to information systems design and implementation An indication of the activities of the company in the field of research and relating to BPs financial statements or accounting records : due diligence development is included in Our business model and strategy on in connection with acquisitions, disposals and joint arrangements pages 12-17. excluding valuation or involvement in prospective financial information : Branches income tax and indirect tax compliance and advisory services: employee As a global group our interests and activities are held or operated through tax services excluding tax services that could impair independence : subsidiaries, branches, joint arrangements or associates established provision of, or access to, Ernst & Young publications, workshops, in and subject to the laws and regulations of many different seminars and other training materials: provision of reports from data jurisdictions.
gathered on non-financial policies and information: and assistance with understanding non-financial regulatory requirements.
BP operates a twoEmployees tier system for audit and non-audit services.
For audit related services, The disclosures concerning policies in relation to the employment of the audit committee has a pre-approved aggregate level, within which disabled persons and employee involvement are included in Corporate specific work may be approved by management.
Non-audit services, responsibility Employees on pages 49-50. including tax services, are pre-approved for management to authorize per Employee share schemes individual engagement, but above a defined level must be approved by Certain shares held as a result of participation in some employee share the chairman of the audit committee or the full committee.
The audit plans carry voting rights.
Voting rights in respect of such shares are committee has delegated to the chairman of the audit committee exercisable via a nominee.
Dividend waivers are in place in respect of authority to approve permitted services provided that the chairman unallocated shares held in employee share plan trusts.
reports any decisions to the committee at its next scheduled meeting.
Change of control provisions Any proposed service not included in the approved service list must be On 5 October 2015, the United States lodged with the district court in approved in advance by the audit committee chairman and reported to MDL 2179 a proposed Consent Decree between the United States, the the committee, or approved by the full audit committee in advance of Gulf states, BP Exploration & Production Inc. BP Corporation North commencement of the engagement.
America Inc. and BP p. l. c. to fully and finally resolve any and all natural The audit committee evaluates the performance of the auditors each resource damages claims of the United States, the Gulf states and their year.
The audit fees payable to Ernst & Young are reviewed by the respective natural resource trustees and all Clean Water Act penalty committee in the context of other global companies for cost claims, and certain other claims of the United States and the Gulf states.
The committee keeps under review the scope and results Concurrently, BP entered into a definitive Settlement Agreement with of audit work and the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
the five Gulf states Settlement Agreement with respect to state claims External regulation and BP policy requires the auditors to rotate their lead for economic, property and other losses.
The proposed Consent Decree Defined on page 256.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 245
