Our strategy in action Safe, reliable and compliant operations Safe, reliable and compliant operations Disciplined financial choices Clear priorities Competitive Disciplined project financial Competitive project execution choices execution Delivering energy to the world Source future growth Source Focus on future high-value growth upstream assets Focus on high-value upstream assets Quality portfolio Build high-quality Build high-quality downstream businesses downstream businesses Advanced technology Our ability to deliver Distinctive capabilities against our priorities and build the right portfolio How we measure Proven Strong depends on our distinctive For definitions of how we measure expertise relationships our performance, see Our key capabilities.
14 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 Strategic report Strategic report How we deliver How we measure Strategy in action in 2015 We prioritize the safety and reliability of our Recordable injury Improving reliability operations to protect the welfare of our frequency, loss of primary Improvement plans are 20 workforce, local communities and the containment, greenhouse increasing UK North Sea tier 1 process environment, and to improve the efficiency of gas emissions, tier 1 plant reliability.
This also helps preserve value process safety events.
2014: 28 and secure our right to operate around the world.
Operating cash flow, We rigorously screen our investments and we work Capturing value to keep our annual capital expenditure within a set gearing, total shareholder Improving the quality of $ 19.1bn return, underlying range.
Ongoing management of our portfolio helps future investments.
operating cash flow ensure focus on more value-driven propositions.
replacement cost profit See page 30.
We balance funds between shareholder distributions and investment for the future.
We seek efficient ways to deliver projects on Major project delivery.
Adapting rapidly time and on budget, from planning through to Using local knowledge to 3 day-to-day operations.
Our wide-ranging project increase our competitiveness.
major project start-ups experience makes us a valued partner and See page 29. in Upstream enhances our ability to compete.
2014: 7 We target opportunities with the greatest Proved reserves Unlocking energy potential % potential to increase value, using our commercial replacement ratio.
Investing in exploration and 61 agility and technical capability.
This allows us to development in Egypt.
reserves build a strong pipeline for future growth.
a See page 33. replacement ratio 2014: 63% We are strengthening our portfolio of high-return Production.
Optimizing our assets and longer-life assets across deep water, giant Using our technical expertise 3.3 fields, gas value chains and unconventionals to to maintain a secure and million barrels of oil provide BP with momentum for years to come.
a equivalent per day See page 31.
2014: 3.2 million We benefit from our high-performing fuels, Refining availability.
Improving operations % lubricants, petrochemicals and biofuels Improvements at Castelln 94.7 businesses.
Through premium products, refinery are helping to refining availability powerful brands and supply and trading, increase profitability.
2014: 94.9% Downstream provides strong cash generation See page 36. for the group.
Creating shareholder value by generating sustainable free cash flow over the long term Advanced technology Strong relationships Proven expertise We develop and deploy technologies we Our talented people help to drive our business We aim to form enduring partnerships in the expect to make the greatest impact on our countries in which we operate, building strong forward.
They apply their diverse skills and businesses from enhancing the safety and expertise to deliver complex projects across relationships with governments, customers, reliability of our operations to creating partners, suppliers and communities to create all areas of our business.
competitive advantage in energy discovery, mutual advantage.
Co-operation helps unlock recovery, efficiency and products.
resources found in challenging locations and transforms them into products for our customers.
a On a combined basis of subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 15 Defined on page 256.
