Strategic report Our total hydrocarbon production for the segment in 2015 was 5.4% higher compared with 2014.
The increase comprised a 5.7% increase 13.2% increase for liquids and 1.6% decrease for gas for subsidiaries and a 2.4% increase 1.2% increase for liquids and 5.8% increase for gas for equity-accounted entities compared with 2014.
For more information on production see Oil and gas disclosures for the group on page 227.
In aggregate, underlying production was at versus 2014.
The group and its equity-accounted entities have numerous long-term sales commitments in their various business activities, all of which are expected to be sourced from supplies available to the group that are not subject to priorities, curtailments or other restrictions.
No single contract or group of related contracts is material to the group.
Gas marketing and trading activities Our integrated supply and trading function markets and trades our own and third-party natural gas including LNG, power and NGLs.
This provides us with routes into liquid markets for the gas we produce and generates margins and fees from selling physical products and derivatives to third parties, together with income from asset optimization and trading.
This means we have a single interface with gas trading markets and one consistent set of trading compliance and risk management processes, systems and controls.
Unlocking energy potential Our upstream marketing and trading activity primarily takes place in the US, Canada and Europe and supports group LNG activities, managing BP has invested in Egypt for half a century.
And in recent years, it has market price risk and creating incremental trading opportunities through been a key location for BP discoveries.
Our ongoing investment and the use of commodity derivative contracts.
It also enhances margins and exploration activities are helping to unlock energy potential in the area.
generates fee income from sources such as the management of price risk on behalf of third-party customers.
In March we made a gas discovery 6,400 metres below sea level in the Our trading financial risk governance framework is described in Financial North Damietta offshore area.
We are working with the Egyptian government to accelerate the development of the Atoll discovery.
statements Note 28 and the range of contracts used is described in Glossary commodity trading contracts on page 256.
The discovery is in line to become our next major project in Egypt after completion of our West Nile Delta project.
For an analysis of our upstream business by geographic region Building a pipeline of future growth opportunities.
and key events in 2015, see page 221.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 33
