Institutional investors How the board works Senior management regularly meets with institutional investors through The board operates within a system of governance that is set out in the BP roadshows, group and one-to-one meetings and events for socially responsible investors SRIs.
These principles define the role of the board, its processes and its relationship with executive management.
During the year the chairman and remuneration committee chair held individual investor meetings to discuss strategy, the boards view on BPs This system is reflected in the governance of the groups subsidiaries.
In March the chairman and all See bp.
com governance for the board governance principles.
board committee chairs held an annual investor event.
This meeting Role of the board enabled BPs largest shareholders to hear about the work of the board and The board is responsible for the overall conduct of the groups business its committees and for NEDs to engage with investors.
and the directors have duties under both UK company law and BPs In November the chairman and members of the executive team met with Articles of Association.
socially responsible investors as part of BPs annual SRI meeting.
The meeting examined a number of operational and strategic issues, including The primary tasks of the board include: how the board looks at risk and strategy, the groups approach to Active consideration and direction of long-term strategy and operational risk, context for the sector and BP in terms of oil price and approval of the annual plan.
energy supply-demand, operating and energy performance in the Upstream, and BPs response to the shareholder resolution.
Monitoring of BPs performance against the strategy and plan.
com investors for investor presentations, including the groups Obtaining assurance that the principal risks and uncertainties to financial results and information on the work of the board and its BP are identied and that systems of risk management and committees.
control are in place to mitigate such risk.
Private investors Board and executive management succession.
BP held a further event for private investors in conjunction with the UK Shareholders Association UKSA in 2015.
The chairman and head of The board seeks to set the tone from the top for BP by working with investor relations made presentations on BPs annual results, strategy and management to agree BP values and considering specic issues including the work of the board.
The shareholders asked questions on BPs activities health, safety, the environment and reputation.
Later in the year, the UKSA met with the company to Key roles and responsibilities give feedback on BPs 2014 financial reports.
The chairman AGM Carl-Henric Svanberg Voting levels decreased slightly in 2015 to 62.28% of issued share capital, Provides leadership of the board.
including votes cast as withheld, compared to 63.13% in 2014 and Acts as main point of contact between the board and management.
Each year the board receives a report after the AGM Speaks on board matters to shareholders and other parties.
giving a breakdown of the votes and investor feedback on their voting Ensures that systems are in place to provide directors with accurate, decisions to inform the board on any issues arising.
timely and clear information to enable the board to operate effectively.
UK Corporate Governance Code compliance Is responsible for the integrity and effectiveness of the BP boards system of governance.
BP complied throughout 2015 with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code except in the following aspects: The group chief executive B.
3.2 Letters of appointment do not set out xed-time commitments Bob Dudley since the schedule of board and committee meetings is subject to change according to the demands of business and other events.
Our Is responsible for day-to-day management of the group and executes letters of appointment set a general guide of a time commitment strategy.
All directors are expected to Chairs the executive team ET, the membership of which is set out demonstrate their commitment to the work of the board on an on pages 60 to 61. ongoing basis.
This is reviewed by the nomination committee in recommending candidates for annual re-election.
The senior independent director Andrew Shilston D. 2.2 The remuneration of the chairman is not set by the remuneration committee.
Instead the chairmans remuneration is reviewed by the Acts as an internal sounding board for the chairman.
remuneration committee which makes a recommendation to the Serves as intermediary for other directors with the chairman when board as a whole for final approval, within the limits set by necessary.
This wider process enables all board members to Is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be discuss and approve the chairmans remuneration, rather than solely addressed through normal channels.
the members of the remuneration committee.
Neither the chairman nor the senior independent director are employed as International advisory board an executive of the group.
Appointment and time commitment BPs international advisory board IAB advises the chairman, group chief executive and the board on geopolitical and strategic issues relating to the The chairman and NEDs have letters of appointment: there is no term limit company.
This group meets once or twice a year and between meetings on a directors service, as BP proposes all directors for annual re-election IAB members remain available to provide advice and counsel when by shareholders a practice followed since 2004. needed.
While the chairmans appointment letter sets out the time commitment The IAB is chaired by BPs previous chairman, Peter Sutherland.
Its expected of him, letters of appointment for NEDs do not set a xed-time membership in 2015 comprised Ko Annan, Lord Patten of Barnes, Josh commitment, but instead set a general guide of between 30-40 days per Bolten, President Romano Prodi, Dr Ernesto Zedillo and Dr Javier Solana.
The time required of directors may fluctuate depending on demands The chairman and chief executive attend meetings of the IAB.
Issues of BP business and other events, and they are expected to allocate discussed during the year included emerging geopolitical issues that could sufficient time to BP to perform their duties effectively and make impact BPs business, developments in the Middle East and Latin America, themselves available for all regular and ad-hoc meetings.
the effects of migration in Europe and the 2016 US election.
66 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 Corporate governance Executive directors are permitted to take up one external board appointment, subject to the agreement of the chairman.
Fees received for an external appointment may be retained by the executive director and are reported in the annual report on remuneration see page 76.
Board diversity BP recognizes the importance of diversity, including gender diversity, at the board and all levels of the group.
We are committed to increasing diversity across our operations and have a wide range of activities to support the development and promotion of talented individuals, regardless of gender and ethnic background.
The board operates a policy that aims to promote diversity in its composition.
Under this policy, director appointments are evaluated against the existing balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the board, with directors asked to be mindful of diversity, inclusiveness and meritocracy considerations when examining nominations to the board.
Implementation of this policy is monitored through agreed metrics.
During its annual evaluation, the board considered diversity as part of the review of its performance and effectiveness.
We continue to support the UK governments review of gender diversity on boards, undertaken by Lord Davies in 2011, and maintain an aspiration to increase female representation to 25%.
At the end of 2015, there were three female directors 2014 2, 2013 2 on our board of 15.
Our nomination committee remains mindful of diversity in considering potential candidates for appointment to the board.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 67
