Our distinctive capabilities Advanced technology We select and develop the technologies that can We employ scientists and technologists at best help us manage risk and grow value for our seven major technology centres in the US, 3 1 businesses.
Our first priority is to enhance the UK and Germany.
BP and its subsidiaries hold safety and reliability of our operations.
Beyond more than 4,500 granted patents and pending that we aim to build and maintain leadership patent applications throughout the world.
In positions in selected technologies.
2015 we invested $418 million in research and development 2014: $663 million, 2013 Our upstream technology programmes include $707 million.
advanced seismic imaging to help us find more oil and gas, and enhanced oil recovery to get We partner with universities for research, more from existing fields.
New techniques are recruitment, policy insights and education.
improving the efficiency of unconventional Our long-term research programmes around oil and gas production.
Our downstream the world are exploring areas from reservoir fluid technology programmes are designed to flow to novel lubricant additives and lowerimprove the performance of our refineries carbon energy sources.
For example research and petrochemicals plants and create highat the BP International Centre for Advanced 2 quality, energy-efficient products.
4 Materials has led to its first patent application on a strong steel alloy that resists becoming brittle and is less likely to crack.
This has the potential to enhance the reliability of our equipment.
High-speed graphics workstations in our Sunbury office use state-of-the-art software and projection See bp.
com technology equipment to create a 3D virtual world.
1 2 Seismic imaging Our Independent Simultaneous Source ISS technology makes large-scale 3D seismic surveys faster and reduces cost by using multiple surveying sources and receivers at the same time.
Our 2015 ISS survey at Prudhoe Bay in Alaska delivered a 10-fold increase in productivity, meaning we could acquire higher-quality images in just one winter season.
3 Production optimization We began to deploy a new automated well choke control system as part of our Field of the Future technology suite in Azerbaijan in 2015.
Sand can cause wells to fail, but this system is helping us manage well start-up and unsteady flow during operations, contributing to improved operational efficiency and production rates.
Proven expertise We aim to maintain a skilled workforce to deliver Internal promotion Group leaders Graduate intake our strategy and meet our commitments to We promoted 4,729 Our group leaders have Our global graduate and investors, partners and the wider world.
We employees including an average of 21 years postgraduate programmes compete for the best people within the energy 476 to senior level and experience in BP.
recruited 298 people in 2015. sector and other industries.
Our people are talented in a wide range of disciplines from geoscience, mechanical engineering and research technology to government affairs, trading, marketing, legal and others.
Developing the talent pipeline We have a bias towards building capability and promoting from within the organization and complement this with selective external recruitment.
External hires We invest in our employees development to build We hired 5,303 people enduring capability for the future.
including 53 to senior level Our approach to professional development and and group leader roles.
training helps build individual capabilities.
We Employees believe our shared values help everyone at BP to For more information about our contribute to their full potential.
16 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 Strategic report s p i h s n o i t a 6 5 7 6 8 8 9 4 6 8 Enhanced oil recovery EOR Lubricants Petrochemicals Bright Water technology, invented by BP, helps Castrols new technology, the Nexcel oil cell, BP is one of the worlds largest producers of to maximize oil production by recovering and is an easy-to-change unit containing both purified terephthalic acid PTA, a raw material moving more oil to our wells.
We use it in more engine oil and filter.
We believe the technology for many consumer products.
In 2015 we than 140 wells worldwide to date.
It costs less is a significant oil change innovation for the entered into licensing agreements in Oman and than $5 to recover each additional barrel of oil automotive industry.
It is designed to lower CO China, for plants that will use our latest 2 released through Bright Water, and we deliver emissions, improve vehicle servicing and generation PTA technology, with a combined more light oil EOR production than any other increase the recycling of used oil for cars of capacity to produce more than two million international oil company.
5 7 9 Corrosion prevention Fuels Biofuels We use automated phased array ultrasonic BP began marketing a range of dirt-busting We are developing biobutanol in conjunction testing PAUT across our refineries to safely fuels with a launch in Spain in 2015.
This second-generation biofuel can inspect our tanks and pipelines.
Our PAUT contain our new ACTIVE technology that cleans be blended into gasoline in greater proportions technology uses ultrasonic pulses to examine and protects car engines with proprietary and is more compatible than ethanol with the the integrity of these assets and detect cracks additives.
Our fuels are designed to remove infrastructure used for existing fuel supplies.
The technique reduces deposits and prevent their formation helping facility downtime, decreases turnaround costs engines perform in the way they were designed and risks, and avoids production losses.
Strong relationships We work closely with governments, national oil Internally we put together collaborative teams of companies, other resource holders and local people with the skills and experience needed to communities to build long-lasting relationships address complex issues, work effectively with Universities National and research and international that are crucial to the success of our business.
our partners, engage with our stakeholders institutions oil companies and help create shared value.
We place enormous importance on acting responsibly and meeting our obligations as we Governments Banks and know from experience that trust can be lost.
We and providers of work on big and complex projects with partners regulators finance ranging from other oil companies to suppliers and contractors.
Our activity creates value that BP benefits governments, shareholders, customers, local communities and other partners.
Industry Customers bodies We believe good communication and open dialogue are vital if we are to meet their expectations.
Suppliers, partners and Communities contractors BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 17 l e r l a n r e t n I
