Remuneration policy table This is a summary of the remuneration policy as set out in the 2014 directors remuneration report and approved by shareholders.
Element and purpose Operation and opportunity Performance framework Salaries are normally set in the home Salary and benefits currency of the executive director and reviewed annually.
Provides base-level fixed remuneration to reflect the scale and dynamics of Salary levels and total remuneration of oil the business, and to be competitive with the external market.
and other top European multinationals, and related US corporations, are considered by the committee.
Internally, increases for the group leaders as well as all employees in relevant countries are considered.
Total overall bonus before any deferral is Annual bonus based on performance relative to measures and targets reflected in the annual plan, which in turn reflects BPs Provides a variable level of remuneration dependent on short-term strategy.
performance against the annual plan.
On-target bonus is 150% of salary with 225% as maximum.
A third of the annual bonus is required to Deferred bonus be deferred and up to a further third can be deferred voluntarily.
This deferred bonus is awarded in shares.
Reinforces the long-term nature of the business and the importance of sustainability, linking a further part of remuneration Deferred shares are matched on a to equity.
one-for-one basis, and both deferred and matched shares vest after three years depending on an assessment by the committee of safety and environmental sustainability over the three-year period.
Shares up to a maximum value of five and Performance shares a half times salary for the group chief executive and four times salary for the other executive directors can be awarded Ties the largest part of remuneration to long-term performance.
varies according to performance relative to measures linked directly to strategic priorities.
Vesting of shares after three years is dependent on performance relative to measures and targets reflecting BPs strategy.
Executive directors participate in the Pension company pension schemes that apply in their home country.
Recognizes competitive practice in home country.
Current UK executive directors remain on a defined benefit pension plan and receive a cash supplement of 35% of salary in lieu of future service accrual when they exceed the annual allowance set by legislation.
88 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 Corporate governance Corporate governance Element and purpose Operation and opportunity Performance framework Salary increases will be in line with all Salary increases are not directly linked to employee increases in the UK and US performance.
However a base-line level of and limited to within 2% of average personal contribution is needed in order to be increase for the group leaders.
considered for a salary increase and exceptional sustained contribution may be Benefits reflect home country norms.
grounds for accelerated salary increases.
The current package of benefits will be maintained, although the taxable value may fluctuate.
Achieving annual plan objectives equates Specific measures and targets are determined flow, replacement cost operating profit and cost to on-target bonus.
The level of threshold each year by the remuneration committee.
management, as well as operating measures payout for minimum performance varies such as major project delivery, Downstream A proportion will be based on safety and according to the nature of the measure net income per barrel and Upstream unplanned operational risk management and is likely to in question.
The specific metrics chosen each year include measures such as loss of primary will be set out and explained in the annual report containment, recordable injury frequency on remuneration.
and tier 1 process safety events.
The principal measures of annual bonus will be based on value creation and may include financial measures such as operating cash Where shares vest, additional shares Both deferred and matched shares must from the safety, ethics and environmental representing the value of reinvested pass an additional hurdle related to safety and assurance committee, may conclude that dividends are added.
environmental sustainability performance in shares vest in part, or not at all.
Before being released, all matched shares All deferred shares are subject to clawback that vest after the three-year performance If there has been a material deterioration in provisions if they are found to have been period are subject after tax to an safety and environmental metrics, or there granted on the basis of materially misstated additional three-year retention period.
have been major incidents revealing underlying financial or other data.
weaknesses in safety and environmental management then the committee, with advice Where shares vest, additional shares Performance shares will vest on the following deemed to be more aligned to strategic representing the value of reinvested three performance measures: priorities.
These are explained in the annual dividends are added.
Total shareholder return relative to other report on remuneration.
Before being released, those shares that The committee may exercise judgement to Operating cash flow.
vest after the three-year performance adjust vesting outcomes if it concludes that the Strategic imperatives.
period are subject after tax to an formulaic approach does not reflect the true additional three-year retention period.
Measures based on relative performance to oil underlying performance of the companys majors will vest 100%, 80%, 25% for first, business or is inconsistent with shareholder second and third place finish respectively and benefits.
0% for fourth or fifth position.
All performance shares are subject to The committee identifies the specific strategic clawback provisions if they are found to have imperatives to be included every year and may been granted on the basis of materially also alter the other measures if others are misstated financial or other data.
Current US executive directors participate Pension in the UK is not directly linked to in transition arrangements related to performance.
heritage plans of Amoco and Arco and Pension in the US includes bonus in normal defined benefit plans that apply to determining benefit level.
executives with an accrual rate of 1.3% of final earnings salary plus bonus for each year of service.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 89
