Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting their annual report for Annual General Meeting the year ended 31 December 2015.
Notice of the 2016 Annual General Meeting to be held on Tuesday, 10 May 2016 is set out on pages 122 to 126.
Other disclosures made in the Annual Report Members wishing to vote should return forms of proxy to the The Company is required to disclose certain information in its Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours, excluding nondirectors report which the directors have chosen to disclose working days, before the time for holding the meeting.
elsewhere in the Annual Report and is incorporated by The directors believe that all the resolutions to be considered reference.
Details of where this information can be found are at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of set out below: the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The directors Subject Pages unanimously recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the directors intend to do in respect of their Likely future developments in the business 12 to 15 own shares in the Company.
Important events since the year end 120 Going concern statement 30 Directors Details of the directors are shown on pages 44 to 45.
Directors' interests 64 John Warren retired from the Board on 15 May 2015 after nine Employee involvement employment of disabled persons 34 years as a director and eight years as Chairman of the Audit Greenhouse gas emissions 36 Committee.
Ralph Findlay was appointed as an independent non-executive director on 7 April 2015 and took over as Corporate governance report 47 to 55 Chairman of the Audit Committee on 15 May 2015.
Directors' remuneration 57 to 72 Jonathan Hill resigned as Group Finance Director on 6 March 2015 and Earl Sibley was appointed Group Finance Director on Subsidiaries and associated undertakings 115 16 April 2015.
Details of directors pay, pension rights, service contracts and Research and development directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are We continue to undertake research and development to included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages improve the processes, materials and products used in the 57 to 70. construction of our developments and to enhance the energy In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, efficiency of our range of homes.
all the current directors will retire at the 2016 Annual General Meeting, and, being eligible, offer themselves for Disclosure of information under Listing Rule re-appointment.
4R There is no further information to be disclosed in accordance Directors indemnities with Listing Rule 9.8.
During the financial year and as at the date of this report, indemnities were in force under which the Company has Dividends agreed to indemnify the directors, to the extent permitted by An interim dividend of 13.7p 2014: 12.0p net per share was law and the Companys Articles of Association, in respect of paid on 20 November 2015.
The Board proposes to pay, subject all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the execution to shareholder approval at the 2016 Annual General Meeting, of their powers, duties and responsibilities, as directors of the a final dividend of 26.3p 2014: final dividend of 23.0p net per Company or any of its subsidiaries.
share in respect of the 2015 financial year on 20 May 2016 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on David Ritchie is a director of Bovis Homes Pension Scheme 29 March 2016.
On this basis, the total dividend for 2015 will Trustee Limited the Pension Trustee and the Companys be 40p 2014: 35.0p, representing an increase of 14%.
subsidiary, Bovis Homes Limited, has granted a qualifying The dividend reinvestment plan gives shareholders the pension scheme indemnity to the directors of the Pension opportunity to reinvest dividends.
Trustee to the extent permitted by law in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors of the Pension Trustee.
80 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance Shareholders are entitled to attend, speak and vote at general Powers of the directors meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies and, if Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, UK legislation they are corporations, to appoint corporate representatives.
and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every powers of the Company.
The directors have been authorised to shareholder present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has allot and issue ordinary shares and to make market purchases of one vote and on a poll every shareholder present in person or by the Companys ordinary shares and these powers may be exercised proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share under authority of resolutions of the Company passed at its Annual held.
Further details regarding voting, including the deadlines for General Meeting.
The rules in relation to the appointment and voting, at the Annual General Meeting can be found in the notes replacement of directors are set out in the Companys Articles to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting at the back of this of Association.
No shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either personally or Articles of Association by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise any other shareholder Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of rights if he or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a Association, they may only be amended by a special resolution of notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and has failed the Companys shareholders at a general meeting.
to supply the Company with the requisite information within the prescribed period.
Share capital Shareholders may receive a dividend and on a liquidation may share The Company has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
in the assets of the Company.
None of the ordinary shares of the As at 19 February 2016, its share capital comprised 134,380,184 Company, including those held by the Companys share schemes, fully paid Ordinary Shares of 50 pence each.
At the Companys carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
2015 AGM, the directors were authorised to: Employees participating in the Bovis Homes Group Share Incentive allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or Plan may direct the trustee to exercise voting rights on their behalf convert, any security into shares up to an aggregate nominal at any general meeting but are not required to do so.
amount of 22,348,969: The instrument of transfer of a certificated share may be in any allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 44,697,938 usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
for the purpose of a rights issue: and The Board may refuse to register any instrument of transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal make market purchases up to 13,422,804 shares in the Company does not prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued share place on an open and proper basis.
Certain employees and officers capital at the time.
of the Company must conform to the Companys share dealing rules: these restrict the ability to deal in the Companys shares at Shareholders will be asked to renew similar authorities at the certain times and require permission to deal.
The Board may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated During the year the Company allotted 151,618 shares in connection share unless the instrument of transfer: i is lodged, duly stamped with the exercise of options under the Companys employee if stampable, at the registered office of the Company or any share plans.
The Employee Benefit Trust purchased 240,000 shares other place decided by the Board accompanied by the certificate during the year in order to satisfy awards under the Companys for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the Long Term Incentive Plan.
All share purchases were made in openBoard may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor market transactions.
to make the transfer: ii is in respect of only one class of shares: The Company has not held any shares in treasury during the period and iii is in favour of not more than four transferees.
uncertificated shares must be carried out using the relevant system and the Board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated All issued shares are fully paid and free from any restrictions on share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation their transfer, except where required by law, such as insider trading of the relevant system and with UK legislation.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys limitations on the holding of ordinary shares in the Company and ordinary shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, the Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or by writing to the Group Company Secretary.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 81 Directors report Substantial shareholdings As at 31 December 2015, the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital had been notified to the Company: % of voting rights of % direct % indirect % financial Total number of the issued Ordinary shares of 50p each holding holding instruments shares held share capital BlackRock, Inc - 5.0 - - 5.0 Prudential plc group 5.07 - - 6,817,739 5.07 Standard Life Investments Holdings 4.35 5.64 - 13,415,807 9.99 Between 1 January and 19 February 2016, the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital were notified to the Company: % of voting rights of 19 February 2016 % direct % indirect % financial Total number of the issued Ordinary shares of 50p each holding holding instruments shares held share capital Prudential plc group - 4.94 0.15 6,853,351 5.09 Takeover directive Auditors On a change of control, provisions in the Groups syndicated Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this banking facility agreements described in note 4.3 to the report confirms that: accounts would allow lenders to withdraw the facility.
so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit All of the Groups share schemes contain provisions relating information of which the Companys auditors are to a change of control.
Under these provisions, a change unaware: and of control would be a vesting event, allowing exercise of each director has taken all the steps that he she ought to outstanding options and awards, subject to satisfaction of have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of performance conditions, as required.
any relevant audit information and to establish that the There are a number of commercial contracts that could alter Companys auditors are aware of that information.
in the event of a change of control.
None is considered to be This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in material in terms of their potential impact on the Group in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the this event.
Financial risk management Following an audit tender process conducted at the end of Details of financial risk management and exposure to credit 2014,  LLP were appointed as auditor liquidity risks are included in note 4.6 to the accounts.
with effect from the Annual General Meeting held on 15 May 2015.
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Political donations Act 2006, resolutions concerning the re-appointment of  LLP and their remuneration will be No political donations were made during the year ended placed before the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
The Group has a policy of not making donations to political parties or incurring political expenditure.
82 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance The directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken Statement of directors responsibilities as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the the information necessary for shareholders to assess a Companys Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in performance, business model and strategy.
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements page 44 to 45 of the Annual Report confirm that, to the best of for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared their knowledge: the Group and Parent company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in by the European Union.
Under company law the directors must not accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Group: and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
the Strategic Report contained in the Annual report includes a In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union By Order of the Board have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed M T D Palmer and explained in the financial statements: Group Company Secretary prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 19 February 2016 unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Bovis Homes Group PLC continue in business.
Registered number 306718 The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 83 The Fairways Leamington Spa 84 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance Bovis Homes Group PLC | 85
