Corporate governance Board meetings The board in 2015 There were 13 board meetings in 2015, of which two were carried out by teleconference.
All directors attended every meeting for which they were Board membership eligible, with the following exceptions: On 1 January 2016 the board had 15 directors the chairman, two executive Phuthuma Nhleko did not attend the board meeting scheduled at short directors and 12 independent non-executive directors NEDs.
notice on 15 June due to prior commitments.
NEDs are expected to be independent in character and judgement and free Antony Burgmans, Cynthia Carroll, Brendan Nelson, Paula Rosput from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with Reynolds and Sir John Sawers did not attend the board meeting exercising that judgement.
It is the boards view that all NEDs, with the scheduled at short notice on 23 June due to prior commitments.
exception of the chairman, are independent.
See page 244 for a description Phuthuma Nhleko did not attend the board meeting on 3 December due of BPs board governance principles relating to director independence.
The board benefits significantly from the diverse balance of background, Board evaluation gender, skills and experience represented by the NEDs.
There are three Each year BP undertakes a review of the board, its committees and female directors on the board and three directors from non-UK US individual directors.
The chairmans performance is evaluated by the backgrounds.
chairmans committee and his evaluation is led by the senior independent director.
Director Key skills and experience The evaluation operates on a three-year cycle, with one externally led Paul Anderson Oil and gas industry experience: leading evaluation followed by two subsequent years of internal evaluations a global business carried out using a questionnaire prepared by an external facilitator.
Alan Boeckmann Engineering, construction and Activity following prior year evaluation procurement: leading a global business An evaluation was carried out at the end of 2014 by means of a questionnaire, facilitated by an external consultant Lintstock.
The Admiral Frank Bowman Safety, technology, engineering and risk evaluation concluded that reports from the business and on major management projects were robust and informative.
In a changing economic and Antony Burgmans Food and consumer goods: leading a geopolitical climate, the board was keen to ensure that it managed its global business time to allow appropriate levels of discussion by balancing the boards monitoring activities with discussion on strategic matters: this has been Cynthia Carroll Oil, gas and extractive industry achieved by agenda planning during the year.
The evaluation highlighted experience: leading a global business the future role of technology in delivering BPs strategy: briefings on this Professor Dame Ann Dowling Engineering, technology and education topic were planned into the boards agenda, including a technology presentation with respect to climate change.
Ian Davis Strategy, advisory and consulting 2015 evaluation Brendan Nelson Audit, financial services and trading For 2015 an externally facilitated evaluation was held in addition to, and to Phuthuma Nhleko Civil engineering, telecoms and banking an extent based on, the established annual questionnaire process.
Following a selection process led by the senior independent director, Paula Rosput Reynolds Energy industry: leading a global Bvalco was engaged as the external evaluator.
The results of the annual business questionnaire process were shared with the external evaluator who Sir John Sawers International affairs conducted a series of interviews with each director, members of the executive team and those who attended or supported the board.
Andrew Shilston Oil and gas industry experience: finance Interviews were focused on evaluating the effectiveness and Carl-Henric Svanberg Manufacturing and telecoms: leading a performance of the board, and separately that of the chairman.
In addition global business to these interviews, the evaluators reviewed the board agendas and materials for the past year and observed a board meeting.
The board is satisfied that there is no compromise to the independence of, The evaluation tested key areas of the boards work including its participation and nothing to give rise to conflicts of interest for, those directors who in the formation of strategy, succession and composition, and its oversight serve together as directors on the boards of outside entities or who hold of business performance, risk and governance processes.
The effectiveness other external appointments.
The nomination committee keeps the other of the committees in alleviating the oversight task of the board was also interests of the NEDs under review to ensure that the effectiveness of the tested and focus was given to whether the board added value.
Results of the board evaluation and feedback from these interviews were Succession collectively discussed by the board at its meeting in January 2016, with the results of the chairmans evaluation discussed by the chairmans committee.
Paula Rosput Reynolds joined the board in May 2015 as a non-executive director.
She is a member of the audit committee and the chairmans The evaluation concluded: committee.
Recognizing the current state of the market and important Sir John Sawers also joined the board in May 2015 as a non-executive developments for the company during the year, there was a continued director.
He is a member of the safety, ethics and environment assurance desire to ensure an effective strategy process that focused on the long committee, the geopolitical committee and the chairmans committee.
term and which acknowledged the important role of the board in this George David, a non-executive director, retired from the board at the annual process.
Good progress had been made in succession for the board: going forward this would continue to be built on.
Professor Dame Ann Dowling became the chair of the remuneration The board was seen to have a collaborative and inclusive environment.
committee when Antony Burgmans stood down from the role in July 2015.
To build on this further, the board agreed to try and put more of their Andrew Shilston and Alan Boeckmann joined the remuneration committee monitoring tasks into the committees to allow more time for broader after the 2015 annual general meeting.
Antony Burgmans became chair of the newly formed geopolitical Committee work was seen as being of a high quality.
Given the breadth of committee in September 2015.
Antony Burgmans will step down from the topics covered by the committees, further steps should be taken to ensure board at the 2016 AGM after 12 years of service as a non-executive director.
that where appropriate all directors could access information and attend Sir John Sawers will then take the chair of the geopolitical committee.
external visits for those committees of which they were not members.
Phuthuma Nhleko will step down from the board at the 2016 AGM after five It was noted that the board governance principles would be reviewed and years of service due to external business commitments.
amended to capture these conclusions, where appropriate, and to reflect the current roles and practices within the board.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 63
