Strategy, performance and pay In a difficult environment, BPs leadership delivered strong operating performance, based on a sound strategy and consistently improved safety performance.
They have acted early and decisively in response to low oil prices to preserve future growth.
Highlights of the year Strong safety and operational performance in a difficult environment Responded early and decisively to lower oil price environment.
Excellent safety standards with continuous improvement over the past three years, leading to improvements in reliability and operations.
Strong operating cash flow and underlying replacement cost profit relative to plan.
Net investment managed aggressively to reflect lower for longer oil price environment.
Executive directors pay outcomes reflect strong operating performance relative to plan.
Alignment between executives and shareholders with the majority of executive director remuneration paid in equity with lengthy retention requirements.
In an ever more challenging world BP executives normalize for changes in oil and gas price and performed strongly in 2015 in managing the refining margins.
This avoids both windfall gains things they could control and for which they and punitive losses in periods of extreme were accountable.
BP was one of the first to volatility such as we are currently experiencing.
These pages constitute the remuneration recognize the shift to a lower for longer price committee chairs annual statement which Against this background, I am pleased to give environment and through early action delivered forms part of the Directors remuneration an overview of key elements of executive distinctive competitive performance on costs.
report, the rest of which can be found on remuneration for 2015.
All of the detail is set out Momentum built through the year in page 76. in the Directors remuneration report on page 76. simplification and efficiencies, such that operating cash flow significantly exceeded plan.
Short-term performance Assets ran well and major projects were The annual cash bonus is based on safety 30% commissioned on time.
Good performance on and value 70% measures directly linked to our safety has led to sound and reliable operations.
In setting annual safety There has been a high quality of execution.
targets, the committee reviews the three-year Our pay structure is relatively simple and reflects performance and in each case aims for improvement.
We measure value by reference to a number of key overriding principles.
It is long-term, performance-based and tied directly operating cash flow and underlying replacement cost profit.
In addition, two value measures, to strategy and delivery.
It is biased towards equity with long retention periods.
This is reductions in corporate and functional costs and net investment organic, reflect progress in reflected in the policy framework that was approved by shareholders in 2014.
Targets were based on the boards plan set in January 2015, with the remuneration is primarily based on true underlying performance and not driven by maxima tested for stretch.
Results were strong across all measures.
factors over which the executives have no control.
Consistent with past practice, we Short-term: annual bonus Measure Result Target Outcome Safety and operational risk a Loss of primary containment Spills and leaks declined.
253 events 208 events Process safety tier 1 events The most serious process 29 events 20 events safety events were reduced.
Recordable injury frequency Number of work-related 0.261 200k 0.223 200k b b recordable injuries per 200k hours hours hours fell.
Value For more information on the groups key Operating cash flow Significantly ahead of plan.
Underlying replacement Significantly ahead of plan.
$4.2bn $5.9bn cost profit Net investment organic Significantly ahead of plan.
18% 27% Corporate and functional costs Significantly ahead of plan.
5.9% 17.6% Major project delivery On target.
4 4 a Adjusted in accordance with the treatment of the loss of primary containment key performance indicator on page 20. b Excludes biofuels.
22 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 Strategic report The safety and operational risk performance has Long-term: performance share plan been excellent.
This has led to increased Measure Result Target Outcome reliability and more efficient operations.
There is a proposed settlement of the federal and state Relative TSR BPs TSR ranked third Outperform Third claims and settlement of most of the local versus other oil majors.
peers government claims relating to the Deepwater Operating cash flow Strong operating cash $17.7bn $19.1bn Horizon incident.
BP responded quickly and flow in 2015 relative to decisively to the drop in oil price, continuing to plan.
simplify its activities and significantly reducing Strategic imperatives its cost base.
Capital discipline has been demonstrated in a strategic way that offers Relative reserves replacement BPs RRR preliminary Outperform First flexibility and resilience now and options for ratio RRR ranked first versus other peers future growth.
Our belief is that management oil majors.
has delivered very well in a difficult year.
Safety and operational risk: Downward trend over a the last three years.
Loss of primary containment 208 events 212 events The overall group score achieved was 1.91 out of a maximum of 2.00.
As is our normal practice, Process safety tier 1 events 30 events 20 events the committee reviewed this result and Recordable injury frequency 0.240 200k 0.223 200k considered whether it produced a fair outcome b hours hours in light of the underlying performance of the Major project delivery 15 major projects were 11 15 company and the wider environment.
this both the committee and the group chief executive believed some recognition of the a Adjusted in accordance with the treatment of the loss of primary containment key performance indicator on page 20. b dramatic fall in oil prices and its impact on Excluding biofuels.
As a result the three-year retention period before being released Pay outcomes group score was lowered to 1.70 and this has to the individual.
The resulting remuneration for executive directors been used to determine annual bonuses for BPs is shown below.
Consistent with the wider In our assessment, the overall quantum of wider management group.
For executive population of BP employees, executive directors remuneration is market competitive and directors our approved policy limits annual bonus received no increase in base salary in 2015.
It is based to 1.50. is being continued with no salary increase for the heavily on performance and mainly paid in equity Long-term performance senior leadership and executive directors in 2016. with long retention periods.
Executive directors The 2012 deferred bonus was contingent on are required to hold shares in excess of As described above, annual bonus was limited to safety and environmental sustainability over a five-times salary.
While the value of their shares a group score of 1.50, the 2012 deferred bonus three-year period.
The committee saw good has, as for all shareholders, dropped with the oil vested fully and 77.6% of shares in the evidence of a continued improvement on safety price, they satisfy that requirement.
2013-2015 performance share plan are expected that is both ingrained in the culture and has led to vest.
These will be finally determined later in For the single figure remuneration to more reliable and efficient operations.
The the year when results from all oil majors are table see page 77. award vested in full.
The shares that vest will have a further The 2013-15 performance share plan was, as in Total remuneration excluding pensions previous years, based on three sets of measures equally weighted: relative total shareholder return Chief financial officer Group chief executive TSR over the three-year period, 2015 operating cash flow and finally, strategic imperatives which included safety and operational risk, relative 1 1 16% 15% reserves replacement ratio RRR and major project delivery over the three years.
2 2 11% For TSR, BP was in third place.
The target set in 12% 2013 for operating cash flow in 2015 was $35 billion based on the plan assumptions.. At the start 3 4.8m $13.1m 3 20% 26% of the year, this was normalized for the change in oil and gas price, and refining margins since 2013.
We also, as in previous years, adjusted for major 4 4 46% divestments and for contributions to the Gulf of 54% Mexico restoration.
The resulting target was $17.7 billion.
This compared to an outcome of $19.1 billion.
Safety performance at the end of the 1.
Salary and benets three-year period, against targets previously set at 2.
Annual cash bonus the outset, was strong.
The final results from the 3.
2012 deferred bonus comparator group for RRR are not yet available 4.
2013-15 performance shares but on the evidence, our preliminary assessment is that the company is in first place.
There will be new proposed policy for approval at the 2017 Conclusion a final assessment later in the year.
Major project Annual General Meeting.
In conclusion, BP has performed well and delivery exceeded target.
surpassed the boards expectations on almost all BP is a strong company with strong leadership.
As a result 77.6% of the shares are expected to of the measures.
I am pleased that our current The company continues to evolve as will our policy has appropriately recognized this in the vest.
Reviewing the period 2013-15, the remuneration policy and practice to ensure we committee believes that this represents a fair 2015 outcomes.
There remain challenging times remain performance driven and competitive.
with an evolving remuneration landscape.
In that time there has been the delivery of the 10-point plan in 2014, consistent 2016, the committee will be undertaking a full review of our policy.
I have already met with improvements in safety performance and Professor Dame Ann Dowling effective budgetary and capital discipline in some of our key shareholders and look forward to continuing this engagement as we develop a Chair of the remuneration committee difficult circumstances.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 23 Defined on page 256.
