Corporate governance Activities during the year Remuneration committee During the year, the committee met five times.
Key discussions and Members decision items are shown in the table below.
Professor Dame Ann Member since July 2012: committee chair Remuneration committee 2015 meetings Dowling chair since May 2015 Jan May Jul Sept Dec Antony Burgmans Member since May 2009: committee chair Strategy and policy from May 2011 to May 2015 Review and approve directors remuneration Alan Boeckmann Member since May 2015 report DRR for 2015 AGM George David Member from May 2009 to April 2015 Consider DRR votes from 2015 AGM Ian Davis Member since July 2010 Review committee tasks and operation Review of BP remuneration strategy Andrew Shilston Member since May 2015 Salary review 2015 was a year of transition for the committee as the membership Executive directors evolved.
Dame Ann Dowling took the chair from Antony Burgmans after Executive team and leadership group the May meeting.
George David stood down from the board in April, Alan Annual bonus Boeckmann and Andrew Shilston joined the committee.
Assess performance Carl-Henric Svanberg and Bob Dudley attend meetings of the committee Determine bonus for 2014 except for matters relating to their own remuneration.
The group chief executive GCE is consulted on the remuneration of the other executive Agree measures and targets for 2015 director and the executive team and on matters relating to the performance Review measures for 2016 of the group.
The group human resources director normally attends Consider measures and targets for 2016 meetings of the committee, and other executives may attend relevant parts of those meetings.
The committee consults other relevant committees of Long-term equity plan the board, for example the SEEAC, on issues relating to the exercise of its Assess performance judgement or discretion.
Determine vesting of 2012-2014 plan Key tasks of the remuneration committee Determine vesting of 2011 deferred bonus Determine the policy for the chairman and the executive directors the Agree measures, targets and awards policy for inclusion in the remuneration policy for all directors as required for 2015-2017 plan by the regulations.
Review measures for 2016-2018 plan Review and determine as appropriate the terms of engagement, Consider measures and targets remuneration and termination of employment of the chairman and the for 2016-2018 plan executive directors in accordance with the policy, and be responsible for Other items compliance with all remuneration issues relating to the chairman and the Review principles for target setting executive directors required by the regulations.
and disclosure Prepare for the board an annual report to shareholders on the Other issues as required implementation of the policy, so far as it relates to the chairman and the executive directors, as required by the regulations.
Independence and advice Approve the principles of any equity plan for which shareholder approval Independence is to be sought.
The board considers all committee members to be independent with no Approve the terms of the remuneration including pension and personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the committees termination arrangements of the executive team as proposed by the decisions.
Advice Approve changes to the design of remuneration as proposed by the During 2015 David Jackson, the company secretary, who is employed by GCE, for the group leaders of the company.
the company and reports to the chairman of the board, acted as secretary to the remuneration committee.
The company secretary periodically Monitor implementation of remuneration for group leaders to ensure reviews the independence of the committees advisers.
Gerrit Aronson, an independent consultant, is the committees Engage such independent consultants or other advisers as the independent adviser with experience of advising a number of companies in committee may from time to time deem necessary, at the expense of the UK and Europe.
He is engaged directly by the committee.
services on particular remuneration matters were also received from other In these tasks, regulations means regulations made from time to time external advisers appointed by the committee.
under the Companies Act 2006, the UK Corporate Governance Code Willis Towers Watson provided information on the global remuneration adopted by the Financial Reporting Council and the UK Listing Authoritys market, principally for benchmarking purposes.
Freshfields Bruckhaus Listing Rules in relation to the remuneration of directors of quoted Deringer LLP provided legal advice on specific compliance matters to the companies.
Both firms provide other advice in their respective areas to the group.
Total fees or other charges based on an hourly rate paid in 2015 to the above advisers for the provision of remuneration advice to the committee as set out above save in respect of legal advice are as follows: Gerrit Aronson 130,000 Willis Towers Watson 38,309 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 83
