Strategic report First, it seeks to identify the best markets and prices for our crude oil, Our petrochemicals business source optimal raw materials for our refineries and provide competitive Our petrochemicals strategy is to improve our earnings potential and make supply for our marketing businesses.
We will often sell our own crude and the business more resilient to a bottom-of-cycle environment.
We develop purchase alternative crudes from third parties for our refineries where this proprietary technology to deliver leading cost positions compared with our will provide incremental margin.
We manufacture and market four main product lines: Second, it aims to create and capture incremental trading opportunities by Purified terephthalic acid PTA.
entering into a full range of exchange-traded commodity derivatives, Paraxylene PX.
over-the-counter contracts and spot and term contracts.
In combination with rights to access storage and transportation capacity, this allows it to Acetic acid.
access advantageous price differences between locations and time Olefins and derivatives.
periods, and to arbitrage between markets.
We also produce a number of other specialty petrochemicals products.
The function has trading offices in Europe, North America and Asia.
Our presence in the more actively traded regions of the global oil markets We aim to reposition our portfolio, improve operating performance and supports overall understanding of the supply and demand forces across create efficiency benefits.
We are taking steps to significantly improve the these markets.
resilience of the business to a bottom-of-cycle environment by: Our trading financial risk governance framework is described in Financial Restructuring a significant portion of our portfolio, primarily in our statements Note 28 and the range of contracts used is described in aromatics business, to shut down older capacity in the US and Asia and Glossary commodity trading contracts on page 256. assess disposal options for less advantaged assets.
Aviation Retrofitting our best technology in our advantaged sites to reduce overall Air BPs strategic aim is to continue to hold strong positions in our core operating costs.
locations of Europe and the US, while expanding our portfolio in airports Growing third-party licensing income to create additional value.
that offer long-term competitive advantage in material growing markets such as Asia and South America.
We are one of the worlds largest global Delivering operational improvements focused on turnaround efficiency aviation fuels suppliers.
Air BP serves many major commercial airlines as and improved reliability.
well as the general aviation sectors.
We have marketing sales of more than Delivering value through simplification and efficiency programmes.
430,000 barrels per day and we added more than 70 airports to our global In addition to the assets we own and operate, we have also invested in a network with the acquisition of Statoil Fuel & Retails aviation business.
number of joint arrangements in Asia, where our partners are leading Our lubricants business companies in their domestic market.
We are licensing our distinctive technologies, including recently announced licensing agreements for our Our lubricants strategy is to focus on our premium brands and growth latest generation PTA technology in Oman and China.
markets while leveraging technology and customer relationships.
With more than 50% of profit generated from growth markets and continued In 2015 the petrochemicals business delivered a higher underlying RC growth in premium lubricants, we have an excellent base for further profit before interest and tax compared with 2014 and 2013.
The result expansion and sustained profit growth.
reected improved operational performance and benefits from our Our lubricants business manufactures and markets lubricants and related simplification and efficiency programmes leading to lower costs.
products and services to the automotive, industrial, marine and energy Compared with 2013, the 2014 result was lower, reecting a continuation markets across the world.
Our key brands are Castrol, BP and Aral.
Castrol of the weak margin environment, particularly in the Asian aromatics sector, is a recognized brand worldwide that we believe provides us with and unplanned operational events.
In technology, we apply our expertise to Our petrochemicals production of 14.8 million tonnes in 2015 was create differentiated, premium lubricants and high-performance uids for higher than 2014 and 2013 2014 14.0mmte, 2013 13.9mmte, with the low customers in on-road, off-road, sea and industrial applications globally.
margin environment in 2014 and 2013 driving reduced output.
We are one of the largest purchasers of base oil in the market, but have In 2015, our Zhuhai 3 PTA plant in China was fully commissioned adding chosen not to produce it or manufacture additives at scale.
Our 1.25 million tonnes of production capacity to our petrochemicals portfolio.
participation choices in the value chain are focused on areas where we can During the year we also shut down older capacity of certain units in the US leverage competitive differentiation and strength, such as: and Asia.
Applying cutting-edge technologies in the development and formulation We are upgrading our PTA plants at Cooper River in South Carolina, US and of advanced products.
Geel in Belgium using our latest proprietary technology.
We expect these Creating and developing product brands and clearly communicating their investments to significantly increase manufacturing efficiency at these benefits to customers.
We plan to continue deploying our technology in new asset platforms to access Asian demand and advantaged feedstock sources.
Building and extending our relationships with customers to better understand and meet their needs.
We announced in January 2016 that we had reached an agreement to sell our Decatur petrochemicals complex in Alabama, US, as part of The lubricants business delivered an underlying RC profit before interest our strategy to refocus our global petrochemicals business for and tax which was higher than 2014 and 2013.
The 2015 result reected long-term growth.
strong performance in growth markets and premium brands and lower costs from simplification and efficiency programmes.
These factors contributed to around a 20% year-on-year improvement in results, which was partially offset by adverse foreign exchange impacts.
The 2014 result benefited from improved margins across the portfolio, offset by adverse foreign exchange impacts.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 37
