Strategic report BP also runs two wind farms in our refinery sites in the Netherlands, Gulf of Mexico oil spill operating on a much smaller scale and managed by our Downstream segment, with 32MW of generating capacity.
Our net share of wind generation for 2015 was 4,424GWh, compared with 4,617GWh a year ago.
Lower power generation was primarily a BP reached agreements resolving the largest result of less windy weather across the US in 2015. remaining liabilities.
See our Sustainability Report or bp.
com renewables for additional information on our renewable energy activities.
Shipping The primary purpose of BPs shipping and chartering activities is the safe transportation of the groups hydrocarbon products using a combination of BP-operated, time-chartered and spot-chartered vessels.
Surplus capacity may also be used to transport third-party products.
All vessels conducting BP shipping activities are subject to our health, safety, security and environmental requirements.
At 31 December 2015, our fleet included four vessels supporting operations in Alaska, 44 BP-operated and 40 time-chartered vessels for our deep-sea, international oil and gas shipping operations.
In addition 28 deep-sea oil tankers and six LNG tankers are on order and planned for delivery into the BP-operated fleet between 2016 and 2019.
The first of these new vessels, the British Respect oil tanker, was formally named at a ceremony in November.
Treasury Shrimpers off the coast of Grand Isle in Louisiana.
Treasury manages the financing of the group centrally, with responsibility for managing the groups debt profile, share buyback programmes and dividend payments, while ensuring liquidity is sufficient to meet group Key events requirements.
It also manages key financial risks including interest rate, BP reached agreements in principle with the United States federal foreign exchange, pension and financial institution credit risk.
From government and five Gulf states in July to settle all federal and state locations in the UK, US and Singapore, treasury provides the interface claims arising from the Deepwater Horizon accident and oil spill the between BP and the international financial markets and supports the incident.
In addition, BP also settled the vast majority of claims made financing of BPs projects around the world.
Treasury trades foreign by local government entities.
exchange and interest-rate products in the financial markets, hedging The United States lodged a proposed Consent Decree with the group exposures and generating incremental value through optimizing and district court in October to resolve all United States and Gulf states managing cash ows and the short-term investment of operational cash natural resource damage claims and all Clean Water Act penalty balances.
Trading activities are underpinned by the compliance, control claims.
At the same time, BP entered a Settlement Agreement and risk management infrastructure common to all BP trading activities.
with the Gulf states for economic, property and other losses.
For further information, see Financial statements Note 28.
The proposed Consent Decree and the Settlement Agreement are Insurance conditional on each other and neither will become effective unless The group generally restricts its purchase of insurance to situations where the court provides final approval of the Consent Decree.
this is required for legal or contractual reasons.
Some risks are insured with The final submission deadline for claims under the 2012 Plaintiffs third parties and reinsured by group insurance companies.
This approach is Steering Committee settlements was 8 June 2015. reviewed on a regular basis and if specific circumstances require such a review.
By the end of 2015, the cumulative pre-tax income statement charge as a result of the incident amounted to $55.5 billion.
This excludes Outlook amounts that BP does not consider possible to measure reliably at Other businesses and corporate annual charges, excluding non-operating this time.
items, are expected to be around $1.2 billion in 2016.
Federal and state settlements On 2 July 2015 BP announced that BP Exploration & Production Inc. BPXP had reached agreements in principle to settle all federal and state claims arising from the incident.
The United States is expected to file a motion with the court to enter the Consent Decree as a final settlement around the end of March, which the court will then consider.
Subject to final court approval, payments under the terms of the agreements will be made at a rate of around $1.1 billion a year for the majority of the 18-year payment period.
See Legal proceedings on page 237 for further details including a summary of what is not covered by the proposed Consent Decree and the Settlement Agreement.
For additional details on the financial impacts see Financial statements Note 2.
BP shipping reached a centenary of maritime achievement in April 2015.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 41 Defined on page 256.
Plaintiffs Steering Committee settlements Financial update The Plaintiffs Steering Committee PSC was established to act on a Analysis of cumulative $55.5 billion charge to the behalf of individual and business plaintiffs in the multi-district litigation income statement $ billion proceedings in federal court in New Orleans MDL 2179.
In 2012 BP reached settlements to resolve the substantial majority of legitimate 1.
Environmental 8.6 individual and business claims and medical claims stemming from the b 4 3.
Approximately $2.3 billion was paid out under the PSC 4.
Clean Water Act penalties 4.1 settlements during 2015.
Claims continue to be assessed and paid.
Functional costs 1.4 The medical benefits class action settlement provides for claims to be paid 2 Total 55.5 to qualifying class members.
The deadline for submitting claims under the a The cumulative income statement charge does not include settlement was 12 February 2015.
3 amounts that BP considers are not possible to measure reliably at this time.
Securities litigation and other legal proceedings b The litigation and claims cost is net of recoveries of $5.7 billion.
The multi-district litigation proceedings pending in federal court in Houston MDL 2185, including a purported class action on behalf of purchasers of American depositary shares under US federal securities The group income statement for 2015 includes a pre-tax charge of law, are continuing.
A jury trial is scheduled to begin in July 2016.
$12.0 billion in relation to the incident.
The charge for the year reects the amounts provided for the proposed Consent Decree: the Settlement In MDL 2179, claims by individuals and businesses that opted out of the Agreement with the five Gulf states and local government claims as PSC settlements or whose claims were excluded from them, including described above: additional provisions made for business economic loss claims for recovery of losses allegedly resulting from the 2010 federal claims under the PSC settlement and other items.
As at 31 December deepwater drilling moratoria and the related permitting processes, are 2015, the total cumulative charges recognized to date amounted to $55.5 continuing.
The total amounts that will ultimately be paid by BP in relation to all BP is subject to additional legal proceedings in connection with the the obligations relating to the incident are subject to uncertainty, and the incident.
For more information see Legal proceedings on page 237. ultimate exposure and cost to BP and the timing of such costs will be dependent on many factors, including in relation to any new information or Environmental restoration future developments.
These could have a material impact on our In April 2011 BP committed to provide $1 billion in early restoration consolidated financial position, results and cash ows.
funding to expedite recovery of natural resources injured as a result of the incident.
By the end of 2015 BP had provided approximately $762 BP has provided for spill response costs, environmental expenditure, litigation and claims and Clean Water Act penalties that can be measured million to support restoration projects, with the remaining $238 million expected to be funded in 2016.
The federal and state settlements referred reliably.
There continues to be uncertainty regarding the extent and timing of the remaining costs and liabilities not covered by the proposed Consent to above include more than $7 billion to resolve all natural resource damage claims, which is in addition to this $1 billion.
Decree and Settlement Agreement, including: In May 2010 BP committed $500 million over 10 years to fund independent Claims asserted in civil litigation, including any further litigation by parties excluded from, or parties who opted out of, the PSC settlement, and the scientific research through the Gulf of Mexico Research Initiative.
BP had contributed $278 million to the programme by the end of 2015. private securities litigation pending in MDL 2185.
The cost of business economic loss claims under the PSC settlement See bp.
com gulfofmexico for further information on environmental and economic restoration.
not yet processed or processed but not yet paid except where an eligibility notice has been issued before the end of the month following Process safety and ethics monitors the balance sheet date and is not subject to appeal by BP within the Two independent monitors an ethics monitor and a process safety claims facility.
monitor were appointed under the terms of the criminal plea agreement Any obligation that may arise from securities-related litigation.
BP reached with the US government in 2012.
Under the terms of the Payments made out of the $20-billion Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust agreement, BP is taking additional actions to further enhance ethics and the Trust during 2015 totalled $3.2 billion.
As at 31 December 2015, the compliance and the safety of its drilling operations in the Gulf of Mexico.
aggregate cash balances in the Trust and the associated qualified The ethics monitor delivered an initial report early in 2015.
He delivered a settlement funds amounted to $1.4 billion, nearly all of which was second report later in the year under a separate administrative agreement committed to specific purposes including the seafood compensation fund with the US Environmental Protection Agency.
Recommendations from and natural resource damage early restoration projects.
As of January the two reports largely relate to BPs ethics and compliance programme 2016, payments in respect of claims and other costs previously funded and code of conduct, including its implementation and enforcement.
The from the Trust are now being made by BP.
recommendations have been agreed and BP is now in the process of More details regarding the impacts and uncertainties relating to the implementing them.
The ethics monitor is meanwhile conducting a follow-up review as the next phase of his engagement.
Gulf of Mexico oil spill can be found in Risk factors on page 53, Legal proceedings on page 237 and Financial statements Note 2.
The process safety monitor reviews and provides recommendations concerning BPXPs process safety and risk management procedures for deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico.
BPXP is the BP group company that conducts exploration and production operations in the Gulf of Mexico.
The process safety monitor also submitted a report in 2015.
Following discussions between BPXP, the process safety monitor and the US Department of Justice, the recommendations have now been finalized and implementation by BPXP is underway.
42 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
