Who we are We aim to create long-term value for shareholders by helping to meet growing demand for energy in a safe and responsible way.
We strive to be a world-class operator, a responsible corporate citizen and a good employer.
BP is one of the worlds leading Our proposition for value growth integrated oil and gas companies For BP good business starts with a based on market capitalization, proved relentless focus on safe and reliable reserves and production.
Our portfolio enables us to work we provide customers with fuel develop high-quality opportunities from for transportation, energy for heat and a broad set of options.
We prioritize light, lubricants to keep engines moving value over volume and invest where and the petrochemicals products used we can apply our distinctive strengths, to make everyday items as diverse as capabilities and technologies.
Our objective is to create shareholder We believe a mix of fuels and value by growing sustainable free technologies is needed to meet cash flow and distributions over the growing energy demand, improve long term through capital and cost efficiency and support the transition to discipline.
These are the reasons why our portfolio includes oil, gas and renewables.
Our projects and operations help to generate employment, investment and tax revenues in countries and communities across the world.
We have well-established operations in Europe, North and South America, Australasia, Asia and Africa and employ around 80,000 people.
Your feedback Front cover images In Omans remote desert, we use our advanced We welcome your comments and feedback technology to unlock gas from hot sandstone on our reporting.
You can provide this at almost three miles below the earths surface.
com annualreportfeedback or by emailing the Construction work has started on the Khazzan corporate reporting team details are on the field one of the Middle Easts largest back cover.
unconventional gas resources and we expect Your views are important to us and help shape first gas in late 2017. our reporting for future years.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
