BP around the world Gulf of Mexico B P has operations in more Fuels than 70 countries.
Over the past decade, no oil and gas company Our fuels business is made up of regionally has invested more in its operations in the based integrated fuels value chains, that deepwater Gulf than BP.
We are a leading include refineries and fuels marketing acreage holder and producer of oil and natural businesses, together with global oil supply Countries where we have operations gas in the region.
Our production comes and trading activities.
We supply fuel and or interests are shaded green.
from more than 10 fields and includes four related convenience services to consumers BP-operated hubs.
at around 17,200 retail sites under a BP brand and market our products in more than 50 Upstream countries.
Locations are categorized as liquids or natural gas based on 2015 production.
Where production is yet to commence, categorization is based on proved reserves.
Exploration sites have no significant proved reserves or production as at 31 December 2015.
Petrochemicals site s. Downstream see page 34.
BP group employees by region 1.
Middle East and North Africa 5,900 6.
Sub-Saharan Africa 2,300 Total 79,800 2 Employee figures include 15,600 service station staff and 4,800 agricultural, operational and Lower 48 Renewable energy seasonal workers in Brazil.
The US Lower 48 onshore business produces BP has the largest operated renewables Employees see page 49. natural gas, oil, condensate and NGLs from business among our oil and gas peers.
Our conventional and unconventional sources participation in renewable energies is including gas, coalbed methane and shale gas focused on biofuels and onshore wind.
It is one of the largest producers of operations include three sugar cane mills in natural gas in the US, with a presence in seven Brazil and 16 wind farms in the US.
prolific gas basins in the country.
4 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 Strategic report North Sea Azerbaijan Rosneft BP has been operating in the North Sea for We are a significant investor in Azerbaijan, with Rosneft is Russias largest oil company many decades, where we remain a major player two major production-sharing agreementsand and the worlds largest publicly traded thanks to our large asset base in the area.
We seven platforms in the country, as well as oil company in terms of hydrocarbon have two major projects under way in the UK: interests in other exploration leases.
BPs 19.75% share of Rosnefts Quad 204 and Clair Ridge.
Our activities cover Sea is one of the worlds major hydrocarbon proved reserves on an SEC basis is the entire industry life cycle, from access and provinces, and development of the regions 5 billion barrels of oil and 11 trillion cubic exploration to production and decommissioning.
offshore oil and gas fields and onshore pipelines feet of gas.
Rosnefts downstream has made Azerbaijan a focal point of the global operations include interests in 15 refineries.
Angola Lubricants Petrochemicals We have interests in eight major deepwater We market lubricants and related products We manufacture petrochemicals products licences offshore, and operate four of these.
and services in approximately 75 countries across 17 sites and sell them in more than 40 In 2015 19% of our total net oil production through direct sales and or locally approved countries.
Our proprietary technologies are worldwide excluding Rosneft came from distributors.
We leverage brand, technology one of the businesss distinctive sources of Angola.
and relationships, focusing our resources on competitive advantage and support the core and growing markets.
Our Castrol, BP development of our licensing business.
and Aral brands are recognized for innovation and high performance.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 5
