Capturing value Continued declines in oil prices have put upstream earnings under pressure across the industry.
In this challenging environment we are focused on maximizing the value of our assets, improving the quality of investment and maintaining capital discipline.
As part of this, we are reviewing our projects to nd opportunities to improve their value.
Our Thunder Horse South Expansion project in the Gulf of Mexico is designed to sustain and grow quality deepwater oil production from our existing eld.
We have been able to simplify our plans and reduce drilling costs by examining the projects scope and costs and working with BP suppliers to use more of their standard offerings that take advantage of current deation in price.
Adopting newer and proven subsea metering technology has allowed the team to reduce complexity and simplify execution.
At the same time weve further optimized the drilling sequence to increase the production forecast for this project by 10% without changing the planned start-up date.
As a result the expected development cost per barrel is now more than 25% lower than before.
Financial results In total, disposal transactions generated $0.8 billion in proceeds in 2015, Sales and other operating revenues for 2015 decreased compared with with a corresponding reduction in net proved reserves of 20mmboe within 2014, primarily reecting signicantly lower liquids and gas realizations and our subsidiaries.
lower gas marketing and trading revenues partly offset by higher production.
The major disposal transaction during 2015 was the sale of our 36% The decrease in 2014 compared with 2013 primarily reected lower liquids interest in the Central Area Transmission System CATS business in the realizations partially offset by higher production in higher-margin areas, higher UK North Sea to Antin Infrastructure Partners.
More information on gas realizations and higher gas marketing and trading revenues.
disposals is provided in Upstream analysis by region on page 221 and Replacement cost RC loss before interest and tax for the segment Financial statements Note 4. included a net non-operating charge of $2,235 million.
This is primarily Exploration related to a net impairment charge associated with a number of assets, following a further fall in oil and gas prices and changes to other The group explores for oil and natural gas under a wide range of licensing, assumptions.
See Financial statements Note 4 for further information.
joint arrangement and other contractual agreements.
We may do this Fair value accounting effects had a favourable impact of $105 million alone or, more frequently, with partners.
relative to managements view of performance.
In exploration we have reduced capital spending by 50% since 2014 with a The 2014 result included a net non-operating charge of $6,298 million, focus on prioritizing near-term activity while creating options for longerprimarily related to impairments associated with several assets, mainly in term renewal.
the North Sea and Angola reecting the impact of the lower near-term New access in 2015 price environment, revisions to reserves and increases in expected 2 We gained access to new potential resources covering almost 8,000km in decommissioning cost estimates.
Fair value accounting effects had a four countries UK North Sea, Egypt, the US, and Azerbaijan.
We acquired a favourable impact of $31 million relative to managements view of 20% participatory interest in Taas-Yuryakh Neftegazodobycha, a Rosneft performance.
The 2013 result included a net non-operating charge of subsidiary that will further develop the Srednebotuobinskoye oil and gas $1,364 million, which included an $845-million write-off attributable to condensate eld in East Siberia, in November 2015.
Related to this, Rosneft block BM-CAL-13 offshore Brazil, as a result of the Pitanga exploration well and BP will jointly undertake exploration in an adjacent area of mutual interest.
not encountering commercial quantities of oil or gas, and an unfavourable Rosneft and BP have also agreed to jointly explore two additional areas of impact of $244 million from fair value accounting effects.
mutual interest in the prolic West Siberian and Yenisey-Khatanga basins After adjusting for non-operating items and fair value accounting effects, where they will jointly appraise the Baikalovskoye discovery subject to receipt the decrease in the underlying RC profit before interest and tax compared of all relevant consents.
This is in addition to the exploration agreement with 2014 reected signicantly lower liquids and gas realizations, rig announced in 2014 for an area of mutual interest in the Volga-Urals region of cancellation charges and lower gas marketing and trading results partly Russia, where Rosneft and BP have commenced joint study work to assess offset by lower costs including benets from simplication and efficiency potential non-shale, unconventional tight-oil exploration prospects.
activities and lower exploration write-offs, and higher production.
Exploration success Compared with 2013 the 2014 result reected lower liquids realizations, We participated in two potentially commercial discoveries in Egypt Atoll and higher costs, mainly depreciation, depletion and amortization and Nooros in 2015. exploration write-offs and the absence of one-off benets which occurred Exploration and appraisal costs in 2013.
This was partly offset by higher production in higher-margin areas, Excluding lease acquisitions, the costs for exploration and appraisal higher gas realizations and a benefit from stronger gas marketing and were $1,794 million 2014 $2,911 million, 2013 $4,811 million.
costs included exploration and appraisal drilling expenditures, which Total capital expenditure including acquisitions and asset exchanges in were capitalized within intangible xed assets, and geological and 2015 was lower compared with 2014.
This included $100 million capital geophysical exploration costs, which were charged to income as expenditure before closing adjustments in 2015 relating to the purchase of incurred.
additional equity in the West Nile Delta concessions in Egypt and $81 Approximately 26% of exploration and appraisal costs were directed million capital expenditure before closing adjustments relating to the towards appraisal activity.
We participated in 29 gross 16.76 net purchase of additional equity in the Northeast Blanco and 32-9 exploration and appraisal wells in six countries.
concessions in the San Juan basin onshore US.
30 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
