D e l i v e r i n g p r o d u c p t s o C l o e v m e d m e & r e c i r i a l u i s q e c F y i A n c a n e n i c c i a ffi l e m BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our business model 26 Strategic Report Core purpose: At BTG we are focused on bringing tomarket innovative products in specialist areas ofmedicine to serve doctors and patients better.
Ourgrowing portfolio of Interventional Medicine products is designed to advance the treatment oflivertumours, severe blood clots, varicose veins andadvanced emphysema, while our Specialty Pharmaceuticals portfolio offers antidotes that alleviate toxicity and treat rare conditions.
Core purpose To advance the treatment of underserved patient populations by bringing to market innovative products.
Key activities Key activities include identifying unmet medical needs, acquiring and developing innovative products, manufacturing those products to the Core highest standards and purpose selling them either directly or through partners.
Read more on pages 28 and 29 g a n n i t a a g r e e m p e O t n t h g M i s a n n i r u f e a m c t o u t r s e u I C n v e s t i n g f o r g r o w t h BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27 Strategic Report and look for ways to move into new medical areas that fit Creating value withour strategy and complement our existing portfolio and At BTG we acquire, develop, manufacture and commercialise capabilities.
Manufacturing feasibility is assessed at an early specialist medical products that meet the needs of our stage and wetake appropriate precautions to fide-risk our customers and advance the treatment of their patients.
We seek a commercial advantage by targeting Thecore activities we undertake are designed to maximise specialist physicians and providing them with new treatment shareholder value by using our unique customer insights, options that better serve their patients.
We commercialise our experience and internal capabilities to execute our growth products through small, relatively low-cost sales forces that strategy across a range of therapy areas and geographies.
We add value at each stage of our key activities.
Our close customer relationships enable us to identify new product opportunities or ways in which our current products can be improved.
We constantly assess the competitive landscape The person at 911 told me to put my arm down.
Its good Specialty that she said that, because I always thought you were supposed to put your arm up.
She the 911 dispatcher Pharmaceuticals: wasreally great, telling me that you must keep it below theheart.
focus on rescue Within moments of her 911 call, the local Fire and Rescue, Atmore Ambulance and air paramedics were on their way medicine to her remote home.
I really did not realize the seriousness of it all until about CroFab antivenom mitigates half an hour later, when my arm began to swell.
When the long-term damage swelling got to here, she said, pointing at a spot nearing Walnut Hill, Alabama her elbow they decided to give me the antivenom.
Sandy Marsh was outside her home picking weeds that She ended up with four doses of CroFab antivenom.
were popping through the rocks in her well-manicured lawn.
She reached under a bench to pull a small weed, and thats Sandys story is a great example of how a snake bite can when she was bitten on the finger by a poisonous snake.
happen while doing daily chores and how the venom can progress quite quickly.
Not only did the emergency Marsh said she remained calm and called 911.
She told personnel act quickly, and responsibly, but they the operator that she was bitten by a pygmy rattler and demonstrated textbook knowledge in controlling she was 40 miles from Pensacola.
envenomation, so as to mitigate long-term damage.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our business model continued 28 Strategic Report Acquire and develop Key activities BTG has a rich history of acquisition and in-licensing activity.
Customer insight We look for opportunities where we can add value through Our products are used by specialist groups of physicians ourexisting capabilities, such as products or late-stage withwhom we engage in a number of ways.
We promote programmes that we can sell through our own sales channels, and provide training on theapproved uses of our products: or through a new sales team that can be supported by our we offer dedicated medical support to physicians regarding existing commercial infrastructure.
the safety, efficacy or use of our products and provide data We also seek to exploit our strong capabilities in areas of when requested: we invite proposals for funding to explore the technology convergence, such as  use of our products in different patient populations to inform combination products.
Here we look for opportunities where our innovation strategy.
we can drive further growth by investing in development, These interactions give us unique insights into our customers regulatory approvals and commercial activities.
and the way they choose to treat their patients.
At BTG we see For every technology, whether developed organically ourselves as a trusted partner with these physicians.
Our oracquired, we create a lifecycle plan to maximise value.
innovation team specifically engages with them and the wider Thismay include product innovation, clinical trials to broaden scientific and medical community in order to get a deeper the indicated uses, and commercial activities to expand the understanding of treatment practice and trends, and to geographical availability.
identify areas where we may focus our development efforts.
Our development programmes take place once a feasibility We supplement these insights from customers and others study has been assessed.
Typically we look to expand the with formal market research, using the information to identify approved use of a product where the safety and efficacy potential new market opportunities.
These may be profiles have already been established as this is a lower-risk addressable with our current products and technology approach.
We prefer to focus on opportunities where proof platforms, or they may require us to acquire and or develop ofconcept has been established and we apply strict criteria new technologies.
which allow us to pursue those opportunities that have the greatest chance of success.
Our strategy has the potential Having identified additional patient populations that may to create significant value for benefit, we liaise with clinicians, regulators and others to determine the appropriate trial designs.
personnel manage these activities and oversee the contract research organisations involved in conducting many of our Louise Makin studies in order to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals Chief Executive Officer toaccess new commercial opportunities.
We also support significant large-scale clinical studies which often differentiates us from our competition within the medical devices sector.
See pages 14 and 15 for more details.
Working in partnership with our customers Developing a radiopaque bead The ongoing advances in imaging are central to the growth in Interventional Medicine.
At BTG we workclosely with KeyOpinion Leaders KOLs and have collaborated with PhilipsHealthcare, the US National Institutefor Health andJohns Hopkins University to advance image guided transarterial embolisation procedures and develop newtreatment protocols in interventional oncology.
Thishascontributed to the development of an imageable beadthat willhelp the interventional radiologist guide thetherapy andpotentially treat more effectively.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29 Strategic Report Focus on manufacturing CroFab The production of CroFab, BTGs antidote for North American snakebites, involves a complex global supply chain.
Here we describe the process that from start to finish can take up to eight months.
Salt Lake City, Utah Venom collection from 1 live snakes at BTGs controlled facility 4 2.
T urretfield, South Australia Dedicated sheep flock in Australia are immunised with venom to raise the required antibody serum 3.
Llandysul, Wales Frozen serum arrives at our manufacturing plant in Wales where the 2 antibodies are extracted and then shipped to the US 4.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Final product is processed into vials, packaged and stored ready for sale by BTGs acute care sales force Manufacture Commercialise Our Bead products and Varithena are manufactured at our We sell our products directly in the US, where we have sitein Farnham, UK, with Bead product development activities dedicated sales teams for Varithena, our Interventional also taking place at our site in Alzenau, Germany and Oncology products, for EkoSonic andouracute care Camberley, UK.
TheraSphere is currently manufactured for products.
In 2014 we expanded our directsales force in us by Nordion, Inc. in Canada.
Our EkoSonic Endovascular Europe that sells TheraSphere and morerecently we System is manufactured at our site in Seattle, Washington and have added our Bead products to this team following the the RePneu Coil System is manufactured and assembled expiry of a distributor contract.
in-house at our facility in Mountain View, California.
We have identified significant cross-selling opportunities We manufacture the ovine polyclonal antibodies CroFab across our four sales forces.
For example, our EKOS sales andDigiFab.
The supply chain involves raising antibodies team calls on specialist hospital physicians, some of whom indedicated sheep flocks in Adelaide, Australia, processing are conducting varicose vein procedures in addition to using and converting into bulk substance at our manufacturing the EKOS products in treating blood clots.
plant in Llandysul, Wales, and then filling and freeze-drying Our Specialty Pharmaceuticals field force calls on emergency bya third party in the US.
room doctors with our acute care products.
Approximately Certain aspects of our manufacturing supply chain are 50% of blood clots present in emergency rooms.
outsourced, though we remain responsible for meeting Elsewhere we sell mainly through partners or distributors.
regulatory and quality requirements and for the overall Wewill continue to review options to sell directly in territories safety of our products.
We continue to invest in upgrading outside the US as we build sufficient critical mass to justify our manufacturing operations and capabilities to ensure the additional investment.
we continue to meet all relevant standards as they evolve Outside the US we also sell certain products on a named and to provide further capacity as the business grows.
patient basis where those products are not yet approved butmeet the required criteria to be made available.
Rigorous quality control Although no longer a core part of our activities, we may procedures ensure the safety alsocommercialise programmes that we do not intend and availability of our products.
todevelop into products to sell ourselves.
These may beassetswe acquire in transactions we undertake that aredeemed non-core or legacy assets from our historic Anthony Higham licensing business.
Head of Manufacturing and Supply
