Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic management Industry insight The global tobacco industry sells around 5,600 billion cigarettes each year and generates an estimated 450-500 billion in net sales.
The market is also one of the most highly regulated in the world, with tobacco subject to extensive, and often differing product, and taxation requirements in different markets.
However, sudden and steep increases in Growth in these products continues to be Global economic uncertainty tobacco excise taxes can lead to an increase in strong.
In 2015, globally, sales of Vapour The global economic recovery remains tobacco trafficking increasing the likelihood Products are expected to have grown to fragile, with the pace of growth slower of governments receiving less revenue US$6.1 billion, up from US$3.9 billion in than anticipated.
2014, according to data from Euromonitor In some major markets across the globe, International.
That growth trend is expected The illegal tobacco market remains a concern unemployment has levelled off to around to continue through to 2020.
Vapour Products globally, with increases seen across many pre-recession levels but real disposable income are expected to account forthe majority of markets.
Whilst there is evidence that the is yet to do so.
Such economic weakness is that growth.
increase in government enforcement in attributable to a number of factors, including some countries is beginning to yield results, There remains a lack of consensus on the best mounting debt levels in some emerging the global illegal market still accounts for way to regulate these products.
However, economies and continuing weak import some 600 billion cigarettes and deprives the industry is working to help ensure that demand, particularly among higher-income national treasuries of around 30 billion in sensible and consistent regulatory frameworks countries.
Short-term pressures in some legitimate taxes.
exist to foster further growth in this emerging countries, including volatile foreign exchange product category.
movements, are likely to continue.
Regulatory challenges continue to include the introduction of plain packaging, productFurther details of the industry risks outlined Resilience of tobacco continues specific regulation, graphic health warnings in this section, and our response to them, The global tobacco industry continues to be on packs, tougher restrictions on smoking are available in the Principal Group risk a substantial contributor to the economies of in enclosed public places and bans on shops factors section.
many countries and the livelihoods of millions displaying tobacco products at the point of people across the globe, both directly see pages 3844 to learn more about the of sale.
Principal Group risk factors and indirectly.
Litigation continues in a number of forms While cigarette sales in developed countries against the tobacco industry with the most continue to decline year on year, sustained common being third-party reimbursement volume growth is widely predicted in cases, class actions and individual lawsuits.
Special factors which led to litigation in the US and Canada are not typically replicated Notwithstanding the prevailing macroinother countries, which is why large volume economic fragility, the overall value of the and high-value litigation has not spread to tobacco industry is expected to continue other parts of the globe.
growing in the future, with the ability to drive profits through good pricing remaining.
The industry has a proven track record of defending its rights and dealing with risks The resilience of the industry is underlined such as these.
by the continued year-on-year net revenue growth, at constant rates of exchange.
Growth in tobacco and beyond The combustible market is likely to be the Industry-specific risks mainstay of the industrys profits for some There remain a number of industry-specific years to come, but Next Generation Products, risks which the industry continues to monitor, such as Vapour Products e-cigarettes and manage and mitigate.
Tobacco Heating Products, are constantly Excise, which remains a significant source advancing, both in terms of technology and of revenue to the majority of governments market growth.
worldwide, leads many to view the industry as a potential source of extra funds during difficult economic times.
It is estimated that those governments collect an estimated 150 billion in excise on the sale of tobacco each year.
12 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015
