Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic management Our vision and strategy Our strategy enables our business to deliver growth today, while ensuring we generate the funds to invest in our future.
Tobacco remains at the core ofour business and will continue to provide us with opportunities for growth.
We are also committed to leading the Next Generation Product category globally.
08 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our vision Our mission Strategic focus areas Worlds best at satisfying Delivering our commitments The foundations upon which our consumer moments in tobacco to society, while championing strategy is built have been in place and beyond.
for many years, but we continue to refocus our activities in all four areas and constantly review our ways of working.
Satisfying consumer moments Champion informed consumer choice Growth page 13 We believe that by being the worlds best We need to continue to ensure that our adult Developing brands, innovations and new at satisfying consumer moments, we consumers are fully aware of the choices they products to meet consumers evolving needs.
will become the leader in our industry.
are making when they purchase our products.
Consumers are at the core of everything We recognise that we have a responsibility Productivity page 16 we do and our success depends on to offer a range of products across the risk Effectively deploying resources to increase addressing their evolving concerns, continuum, but we will also defend peoples profitsand generatefunds for investment.
right to make an informed choice.
Tobacco and beyond Deliver our commitments to society Winning organisation page 18 The second part of our vision tobacco As society changes and priorities and Ensuring we have great people, great teams and beyond recognises the strength of needs shift, we must be ready to meet new and a great place to work.
our traditional tobacco business and the challenges and take advantage of new opportunities we see in Next Generation opportunities.
We are a major international Sustainability page 20 Products.
This is a great potential business business and with this status comes opportunity because consumers are looking responsibilities such as developing less risky Ensuring a sustainable business that meets for choices and product categories in which products, being open about the risks of all our .
we are uniquely placed to succeed.
products, supporting agricultural communities in leaf-growing areas worldwide and minimising our impact on the environment.
Read about our industry page 12 Guiding Principles Our Guiding Principles provide clarity about what we stand for.
They form the core of our culture and guide how we deliver our strategy.
Enterprising Spirit Open Minded Freedom Through Strength from Diversity Responsibility We value enterprise from all of Our corporate culture is a great Our management population our employees across the world, strength of the business and one We give our people the comprises people from giving us a great breadth of ideas of the reasons we have been, and freedom to operate in their approximately 140 nations, and viewpoints to enhance the will continue to be, successful.
local environment, providing giving us unique insights into way we do business.
We have the We are forward-looking and them with the benefits of our local markets and enhancing our confidence to passionately pursue anticipate consumer needs, scale but the ability to succeed ability to compete across the growth and new opportunities winning with innovative, highlocally.
We always strive to do world.
We respect and celebrate while accepting the considered quality products.
We listen to, the right thing, exercising our each others differences and enjoy entrepreneurial risk that comes and genuinely consider, other responsibility to society and other working together.
We are bold and strive to perspectives and changing social stakeholders.
We use our freedom diversity of our people, cultures, overcome challenges.
We are open to to take decisions and act in the viewpoints, brands, markets cornerstone of our success.
and ideas to strengthen our business.
We value what makes each of us unique.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 09
