BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Market overview 24 Strategic Report Despite macro-economic challenges, there is a growingneed for improved healthcare treatments.
BTGs products are sold in selected markets worldwideand we operate within three distinct segments: Interventional Medicine, Specialty Pharmaceuticals and Licensing.
newtreatment options that are backed by level 1 clinical data The global context and offer patients improvements in efficacy, safety, and or Todays healthcare environment is changing.
At the macroqualityof life, and giving physicians access to new products economic level, affordability and value are under increasing and procedures that they can be confident address their scrutiny as governments adjust to ageing populations, patients needs.
increasing demand for access to improved medical We have found opportunity in two areas: Interventional treatments and breakthrough treatments that command Medicine and Specialty Pharmaceuticals.
In the private sector, payers are also adjusting to aLicensing business that generated royalties, although these changes and are examining the value and clinical benefit this isno longer a core activity.
of treatment options to formulate their coverage policies.
Doing more with less is an overarching theme of todays Interventional Medicine healthcare system.
In a cost-conscious environment, marginalimprovement is not enough and products need The trend towards minimally invasive, locoregional treatment todemonstrate real patient benefit and value in order to is growing, enabled by advances in imaging technologies and gainreimbursement coverage.
bythe development of innovative products that allow interventional specialists to undertake new procedures.
The cost of developing pharmaceuticals continues to rise in Within our Interventional Vascular portfolio we have a novel line with the need to develop differentiated products and to treatment for varicose veins and a device to treat blood clots.
demonstrate health economic data in addition to high quality Itis estimated that there are around 30 million Americans clinical data.
This is now no longer limited to the development who havevaricose veins of which, every year, 2.5 million of pharmaceuticals: it has become increasingly important in become symptomatic and thus eligible for reimbursed theworld of medical devices.
In2012, only 500,000 people received treatment At the clinician level, there is a growing desire to treat smarter.
which equates toapproximately 750,000 great saphenous Patients have more information and control over the vein GSV procedures.
We expect this numberto grow by 8% management of their disease than in the past.
Both parties annually to approximately 1.25 million by 2021.
Varithena are looking for more targeted treatments that have a better is a comprehensive patient-centric treatment that has the safety profile and areless invasive.
Innovation is playing potential to overcome many of the reasons why the majority its part with ongoing strides in imaging enabling physicians of Americans with symptomatic varicose veins do not currently to direct treatments to the exact part of the body where they receive treatment.
As a result, we are targeting Varithena are needed most, resulting in faster treatment and recovery sales intheUS reimbursed sector of over $250m by 2021. and better outcomes.
In addition, we areprogressing pathways to develop a self-pay market forVarithena in the US and to expand its use into other Our markets venous conditions and geographic territories.
We choose to operate in niche market segments where there In the US approximately 1 million people experience some are underserved patient populations and specialist physician form of serious blood clot every year, of which we estimate groups that can be served by small sales forces.
We look for 700,000 are candidates for interventional treatment.
opportunities to differentiate our products through innovation, Thisis still atanascent stage, although the number of and for medical areas where innovation is rewarded through interventional procedures grewto120,000 in 2014, from 95,000 appropriate product pricing and reimbursement.
in 2012, thanks toemerging clinical data showing benefits We believe that in order to succeed in todays healthcare overstandard anticoagulant therapy.
EkoSonic is a unique environment, it is important to get three things right: the device that uses an ultrasound catheter to assist the delivery of customer experience: the clinical data package: and a thrombolytic agent deeper into the clot.
The device isbacked demonstrating value to payers.
This means developing by clinical data and is the only product on themarket with a BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 25 Strategic Report clearance totreat pulmonary embolism, acondition that antidote to the toxic side effects ofhigh dose use of the results in approximately 200,000 US deaths per year.
chemotherapeutic agent, methotrexate, which affects In2014, sales were approximately $55m and our goal approximately 200-300 patients in the US each year.
We currently have one late-stage product in the pipeline: Our Interventional Oncology franchise comprises two main uridine triacetate, which is being developed by our partner products: TheraSphere, radioembolising glass spheres Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation.
This product is an antidote andour polymer beads, both of which are used in the for the potentially life-threatening toxic side effects of treatment of liver tumours.
We sell both products through overexposure to the chemotherapeutic 5-fluorouracil.
direct sales forces in the US and in selected markets in Europe.
Wellstat plans to submit a US NDA to the FDA which could We also have a direct sales force to sell beads in Taiwan and result in approval and commercial launch in late 2016. we use distributor contracts in other markets where we have BTGhasacquired EU and US commercial rights to uridine approval.
In August 2014 we received approval from the triacetate, which it currently supplies in the EU through China Food and Drug Administration for DC Bead for the adistribution partner on a named patient basis.
embolisation of malignant hypervascularised tumours.
Approximately half of the worlds liver cancer patients Licensing are in China and there is a great interest among Chinese Although not an active strategy for BTG, we receive royalties physicians to offer new, differentiated treatment options.
relating to the sales of products that are subject to intellectual We are now working with our distribution partner SciClone property and licence agreements between BTG and various Pharmaceuticals, Inc. on launch plans.
These royalties vary but are on average around for thefranchise amounted to approximately $120m.
Based on mid-single digit percentages of partners sales revenues.
technical suitability of patients and affordability, we estimate Within this segment, royalties from sales of Johnson & that the global market for interventional treatment of liver Johnsons prostate cancer drug Zytiga aberaterone acetate tumours will be approximately $1.3bn by 2021: our target are the largest contributor.
is toexpand our sales to $300m to $400m by then.
In January 2015 we completed the acquisition of PneumRx, Competition a commercial leader in the interventional treatment of Our industry is highly competitive.
Our strategy to mitigate advanced emphysema.
It is estimated that there are more thisis to focus on niche therapeutic areas where we develop than 10 million people in the US and largest five EU countries leading positions because we can compete effectively in with emphysema resulting in a significant economic burden terms of commercial footprint and the capability and on healthcare systems relating to both in-patient and resources to undertake product innovation and clinical out-patient care costs.
There is no cure, with the current development.
Focusing on specialist areas of medicine places standard of care seeking to relieve symptoms through drug BTG in a strong position to in-license or acquire assets from therapy and pulmonary rehabilitation.
Until recently there was thirdparties.
little doctors could do to help these patients, the only options being major surgery to remove the diseased portion oftheir lungs or give them a lung transplant.
PneumRx manufactures Regulation and sells the RePneu Coil System, a shape memory metal The healthcare industry is highly regulated and companies coil that is planted in the patients lung that compresses the operating within this are subject to strict rules governing diseased tissue and allows healthy tissue to function research, clinical development, pharmacorigilance, more efficiently.
Approved in the EU, sales in 2014 were manufacturing and commercial activity.
At BTG we have built approximately $25m.
Now, with a fully recruited US pivotal up extensive quality, pharmacovigilance and compliance trial, ourtarget is to reach $250m in sales by 2021. systems and procedures, as well as recruiting and training highly skilled and experienced employees, to ensure that we Specialty Pharmaceuticals comply with all regulatory matters.
Wealso payclose attention to the future regulatory landscape and thepotential Our portfolio of antidote products is used in the emergency impact of healthcare reforms.
This is of particular importance room setting and is sold throughout the US through our when reviewing new product or acquisition opportunities.
AcuteCare field force of 19 representatives.
CroFab, the onlycurrently available treatment for North American crotalidsnake envenomation, is only sold in the US whereas Risks DigiFab and Voraxaze are also sold through partners in The market for pharmaceutical products and medical other countries where approved or where permitted to be deviceshas inherent risks.
Safety issues, competition, loss of made available on a named patient basis.
All these products intellectual property, regulatory issues and challenges and poor address markets that are bounded by the number oftoxic reimbursement or adoption by physicians are among the key events occurring each year.
Inthe case of CroFab there are risks for the industry.
See pages 33 to 36 for BTG-specific risks.
For DigiFab there is an average range of between 1% and 4% ofthe 16 million digoxin prescriptions that result in patient toxicity.
