BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Board of Directors Our Board of Directors come from a wide range of backgrounds to enable us to access a broad knowledge base.
They define BTGs strategy and oversee its performance.
Garry Watts Dame Louise Makin 38 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Governance Garry Watts, FCA, MBE, joined the Board of BTG as non-executive Dame Louise Makin, MA, PhD Cantab, MBA, DBE, joined BTG as Chairman in January 2012.
He is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Chief Executive Officer in October 2004.
She is a non-executive director of Intertek Group plc and the Woodford Patient Capital Trust, Garry is Chairman of Spire Healthcare and of Foxtons Group plc, and a Trustee of the Outward Bound Trust.
deputy chairman of Stagecoach Group plc.
and non-executive director of Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. Until December 2010, he was From 2001, she was President, Biopharmaceuticals Europe of for seven years CEO of SSL International plc and before that its CFO.
Baxter Healthcare, where she was responsible for Europe, Africa Garry is a former partner at KPMG.
He was previously an executive and the Middle East.
Louise joined Baxter Healthcare in 2000 as Vice director of Celltech plc and of Medeva plc and a non-executive President, Strategy & Business Development Europe.
Before joining director of Protherics PLC.
Other roles have included 17 years as a Baxter, she was Director of Global Ceramics at English China Clay and member of the UK Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory prior to that she held a variety of roles at ICI between 1985 and 1998.
Susan Foden Ian Much Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Susan Foden, MA, DPhil, joined BTG as a non-executive director in Ian Much joined BTG as a non-executive director in August 2010.
He is March 2015 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Susan is currently Chair of BerGenBio AS and Cizzle Biotech Ltd, a non-executive director with Vectura Group plc, Evgen Ltd, Source Ian is currently a non-executive director and the senior independent Bioscience plc and is an advisory board member for CD3 a joint director of Chemring Group PLC.
Ian was Chief Executive of fide La Rue initiative between Leuven University and the European Investment plc between 1998 and 2004 and Chief Executive of T&N plc between Fund.
Previously Susan was an Investor Director with the venture 1996 and 1998.
Previous non-executive director appointments capital firm Merlin Biosciences, CEO of the technology transfer include Manchester United plc, Camelot plc and Admiral plc.
company, Cancer Research Campaign Technology Ltd and Head of Academic Liaison at Celltech Ltd. BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 What are the responsibilities of the Board?
Our Board of Directors are responsible for governing the Company and are ultimately accountable to our shareholders for our activities, strategy and performance.
Each year we hold an Annual General Meeting at which the Board provide a report to shareholders on the performance of the business, what its future plans and strategies are and also submit themselves for re-election to the Board.
Rolf Soderstrom Jim OShea 39 Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Governance Rolf Soderstrom, BA, ACA, joined BTG as Chief Financial Officer Jim OShea joined BTG as a non-executive director in April 2009 in December 2008 from Protherics PLC, where he was Finance and he is a member of the Nomination Committee.
He is a director of Cardiome Pharma, Prostrakan Group Plc, and From 2004, he was a Divisional Finance Director of Cobham plc, Trevi Therapeutics, Inc. and a former Chairman of the US National managing a portfolio of businesses across Europe and the USA.
From 2007 to 2008, he was Vice Chairman From 2000 he was a Director of Corporate Finance at Cable & Wireless of Sepracor, Inc. where he was also President and Chief Operating plc.
Prior to this, he worked in the Corporate Recovery and Corporate Officer from 1999 to 2007.
Previously, Jim was Senior Vice President Finance Department of  after qualifying of Sales & Marketing and Medical Affairs for Zeneca Pharmaceuticals as a Chartered Accountant.
US, a business unit of Zeneca Inc.
While at Zeneca, he held several management positions of increasing responsibility in international sales and marketing in the US and the UK.
Giles Kerr Richard Wohanka Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Giles Kerr, FCA, joined BTG as a non-executive director in Richard Wohanka joined BTG as a non-executive director in January October 2007 and is the Companys Senior Independent director.
2013 and is a member of the Audit Committee.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Richard has more than 20 years experience in building asset Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
He was CEO of Union Bancaire Prive Asset Giles is currently the Director of Finance with the University of Oxford, Management between October 2009 and June 2012, and from 2001 UK.
He is also a Director of Victrex plc, Isis Innovation Ltd and Senior to 2009 he was CEO of Fortis Investment Management.
Previously Giles was the Group Finance Director and Chief board member of the Nuclear Liabilities Fund and of Scottish Widows.
Financial Officer of Amersham plc, acquired by GE Healthcare in 2004.
Prior to his role at Amersham, he was a partner with Arthur Andersen in the UK.
He is a graduate of the University of York.
