Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Overview We are a global business with a proud history Our heritage Our products British American Tobacco was founded in 1902 and was first listed in 1912.
Today, we are one of the top 10 companies on the London Stock Exchange.
We also have a secondary listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
We make the cigarettes chosen by around one in eightof the worlds one billion adult smokers and Traditional tobacco range are market leaders in more than 55 countries.
Our core tobacco product range comprises cigarettes, Fine Cut We continue to deliver value to shareholders today roll-your-own and make-your-own tobacco, Swedish-style snus and while investing in our markets, our brands, our cigars.
Utilising insights from our consumers, we continue to develop high-quality products and market-leading innovations to differentiate new product categories and our people to ensure our brands.
asustainable future for our business.
Next Generation Products Investment in building a portfolio of innovative new tobacco and nicotine-based products continues alongside our traditional tobacco business.
These Next Generation Products include: Vapour Products e-cigarettes, battery-powered electronic devices which heat a solution to create a vapour which can be inhaled: Tobacco Heating Products, devices designed to work with specifically engineered cartridges, containing tobacco, to deliver a real tobacco taste and aroma: and Licensed Medicinal Products, licensed nicotine products to help smokers reduce, replace or stop.
see pages 1315 to learn more Our cigarette portfolio Our Global Drive Brands comprise Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike, Pall Mall Lucky Strike and Rothmans.
These famous brands continued to drive volume and Based on its rich legacy dating back share growth inour markets worldwide in 2015. to 1871 when the brand was created by its founder RA Patterson, Lucky Our portfolio also comprises other popular international brands Strike stands for the true and original with strong market positions in many countries.
Vogue, Viceroy, Kool, Peter Stuyvesant, Craven A, Benson & Hedges, 32bn John Player Gold Leaf, State Express 555 and Shuang Xi.
Cigarette volume Dunhill Pall Mall Dunhills roots date back to 1907 Pall Mall is the third biggest cigarette whenDunhill Tobacco of London Limited brand in the world.
For more than was established on Gentlemens Row.
115years its core proposition has been More than a century later, Dunhill is our centred on offering adult smokers round premium international brand, embodying the world a combination of value and perfect taste, always.
59bn 92bn Cigarette volume Cigarette volume Kent Rothmans Kent symbolises progress through Rothmans is an iconic brand established technology in the cigarette category and in London in 1890.
A timeless classic stands out as the most innovative and with high-quality standards, Rothmans forward-looking brand in the industry.
is finding increasing appeal among It is a pioneering brand, whichhas led the adult smokers worldwide thanks to way since 1952. acontemporary proposition.
66bn 52bn Cigarette volume Cigarette volume 02 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our people Our sustainable approach We employ more than 50,000 people worldwide who work in an Our Sustainability Agenda is about creating shared value for both our array of environments, from city offices to factories, from remote shareholders and our stakeholders in wider society, focusing on the farms to research laboratories.
three key areas which have the greatest significance to our business and our stakeholders: The international nature of our business is reflected in the diverse range of nationalities of our people in 2015, for example, Harm reduction: We are committed to researching, developing and 69nationalities were represented at our London head office.
commercialising potentially less risky alternatives to regular cigarettes.
We are also proud to partner with some 90,000 independent tobacco Sustainable agriculture and farmer livelihoods: We are committed to farmers worldwide.
Whilst we do not employ them directly, they working to enable prosperous livelihoods for all farmers who supply represent an important part of our business.
Corporate behaviour: We are committed to operating to the highest see pages 1821 to learn more standards of corporate conduct and transparency.
see pages 2021 to learn more Our geographic diversity We have strong market positions in each of ourfourregions.
Our Key Markets, shown here, accountfor around 80% of both our total 44 55 volumeandGroup profit.
countries where factories in 41 countries We also have two principal associate companies Reynolds American we are market leader producing cigarettes and Inc. in the US and ITC Ltd in India and we have a joint operation, Other Tobacco Products CTBAT, with subsidiaries of China National Tobacco Corporation.
Americas Western Europe Argentina Colombia Belgium Poland Brazil Mexico Czech Republic Romania Canada Denmark Spain Chile France Sweden Germany Switzerland Italy United Kingdom Netherlands see page 25 to learn more see page 26 to learn more Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia-Pacific Algeria Morocco Australia Pakistan Bangladesh Philippines Egypt Nigeria GCC Russia Indonesia South Korea Iran South Africa Japan Taiwan Iraq Turkey Malaysia Vietnam New Zealand Kazakhstan Ukraine see page 27 to learn more see page 24 to learn more British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 03
