BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report The directors present their report together with the financial Directors and their powers and interests statements and the independent auditors report for the year The directors of the Company at the date of this report, ended 31 March 2015. together with their biographical details and dates of appointment, are shown on pages 38 and 39.
Strategic report The Board confirms that each of the directors who served The strategic report can be found on pages 2 to 36 and during the year has been formally appraised during the period.
incorporates the Groups business model, growth strategy, All the directors continue to demonstrate commitment to the business objectives, financial review, market overview, a Group, the Board and to their role.
In accordance with the UK description of risk management and principal risks facing the Corporate Governance Code, all directors of the Company business and corporate responsibility.
The principal activity will stand for election or re-election annually.
The Board is of the Group is the business of an international specialist proposing the election of Susan Foden, who has been appointed healthcare company, developing innovative products in since the last AGM, and the re-election of all the other directors.
specialist areas where current treatment options are limited.
In accordance with the Companys articles of association, The results of the Group are set out in detail on pages 83 to 87 76 throughout the year the Company has maintained insurance and the accompanying notes.
Governance cover for its directors and officers and those of its subsidiary The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to set companies under a directors and officers liability policy as out a fair and balanced review of the business, including the permitted by sections 232 to 235 of the Companies Act 2006. performance and development of the Company during the year The Company has also, to the extent permitted by law, entered and at the year end and a description of the principal risks it into separate Deeds of Indemnity in favour of each of its faces.
This information is contained within the strategic report directors to provide them with appropriate protection with on pages 2 to 36 and incorporated into this report by reference: respect to potential liabilities arising from the discharge of The Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5, the their duties.
Neither the insurance policy nor the indemnities Chief Executives review on pages 6 and 7 and the provide cover where the relevant director or officer is found to At a glance section on page 2 provide details have acted fraudulently or intentionally breached the law.
of the Groups principal activities and strategy, its Information on directors remuneration, contracts, options and performance during the year and its prospects for their beneficial interests, including those of their immediate future development opportunities families, in the shares of the Company are shown in the Details of the principal risks facing the Group are set directors remuneration report on pages 56 to 75.
None of out on pages 33 to 36 the directors had an interest in any contract of significance to Information relating to the environment, employees and which the Company or any of its subsidiaries was party during stakeholders, health and safety, ethical considerations, the year.
charitable donations and policies regarding its employees is set out on pages 30 to 32 Corporate governance A report on corporate governance may be found on pages This information is prepared solely to assist shareholders 40 to 49. to assess the Companys strategies, the risks inherent in them and the potential for those strategies to succeed.
Environmental matters The directors report should not be relied on by any other Our greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated as person or for any other purpose.
Forward-looking statements carbon dioxide equivalents, these are disclosed in the contained in this report have been made by the directors in corporate responsibility section of the strategic report on good faith based on the information available to them up to pages 30 to 32. the time of their approval of this report and such statements should be treated with caution due to the uncertainties, Share capital and shareholders including economic and business risk factors inherent in them.
As at 31 March 2015 the issued share capital of the Company was 38,177,670.30, divided into 381,776,703 shares of 10p Further information on the Group is available on the each.
During the year the share capital increased by Companys website: www.
Notwithstanding the 20,190,169 shares due to the exercise and vesting of share references made in this Annual Report to the Companys awards by employees and former employees under the website, none of the information made available on the Companys employee share schemes and a share placing for website constitutes part of, or should be deemed to be a total of 18,867,925 new ordinary shares in December 2014. incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report.
The Company has only one class of shares and there are Results and dividends no restrictions on voting rights or on the holding or transfer The results for the year and the financial position at 31 March of these securities.
2015 are shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on Details of the movements in the Companys share capital are page 83 and the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position shown in note 19 to the financial statements on page 108. on page 85.
The directors do not recommend the payment of At 31 March 2015, the Company had 9,361 shareholders a dividend for the year 2013 14: nil.
Further details of shareholdings and Company for the year are explained further on pages 20 to 23. reporting dates may be found on page 131.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The BTG Employee Share Trust holds shares in the Company Research and development which may be used for the benefit of employees.
The shares Research and development R&D is an important part of held by the Trust have the same rights as those held by all the Groups activities focusing in the areas of Interventional other shareholders.
Further details of the Trust are set out Medicine and Specialty Pharmaceuticals.
The Group spent in note 24 to the financial statements on page 114.
Details of outstanding share options and awards are set Treasury management out in note 23 to the financial statements on pages 112 to 114.
The Groups policy on the use of financial instruments and As at 15 May 2015, the Company had been notified of the the management of financial risks is set out in note 26 to the following interests held, directly or indirectly, in 3% or more accounts on pages 115 to 119. of the Companys issued share capital.
Going concern Shareholding % holding The Groups business activities and the factors affecting Invesco Asset Management 80,901,054 21.19 its performance, position and future development are set M&G Investment Management Ltd 25,843,710 6.76 out within the strategic report on pages 2 to 36.
77 Woodford Investment The directors have reviewed the current and projected Governance Management 25,137,550 6.58 financial position of the Group, making reasonable AXA Investment Management 22,812,414 5.98 assumptions about future performance and taking into Aviva Investors 19,535,392 5.12 account the Groups cash balances and available financial Old Mutual Plc 18,053,383 4.72 facilities.
On the basis of this review, and after making due BlackRock Investment enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that Management Ltd 15,402,488 4.03 the Company and the Group have adequate resources to Standard Life Investments Ltd 15,212,886 3.98 continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
For this reason Schroders Plc 14,274,133 3.74 they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Legal & General Investment the financial statements.
Management Ltd 11,612,837 3.04 Political donations The Company did not make any political donations during Articles of association the financial year 2014: nil.
The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Companys Annual General Meeting articles of association the Articles and any directions given The AGM of the Company will be held at 10.30 am on 15 July by a special resolution of the shareholders.
The Articles, for 2015 at the offices of Stephenson Harwood LLP, 1 Finsbury instance, contain certain specific provisions and restrictions Circus, London EC2M 7SH.
Matters to be considered at the regarding the Companys power to borrow money.
Powers meeting include resolutions to receive the Annual Report and relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are included Accounts, to reappoint the auditor and re-elect the directors.
in the Articles and are subject to such authorities being approved annually by shareholders at the Annual General Disclosure of information to the auditor Meeting AGM.
There is no current intention of requesting the The directors who held office at the date of approval of this authority to buy back shares of the Company.
The rules for the Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no election and re-election of directors are set out in the Articles relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is however, as reported in the corporate governance report, unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they the directors will stand for annual re-election at the AGM, ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the The articles are available on the Companys website at Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor Change of control Resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual There are a number of agreements with third parties with General Meeting, to reappoint KPMG LLP as auditor and terms that take effect after, or terminate upon, a change of to authorise the directors to determine its remuneration.
control of the Company, such as commercial contracts, bank By order of the Board facility agreements, guarantees, property agreements and employee share plans.
None of these are considered to be Dr Paul Mussenden significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Company Secretary Group as a whole.
Furthermore, the directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or 18 May 2015 employment following a takeover of the Company.
