Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic management Regional review Asia-Pacific Adjusted profit, at current rates of exchange, was down by 79 million to 1,469 million as strong profit performances in Pakistan, Bangladesh, New Zealand, Sri Lanka and Vietnam were offset by a challenging environment in Australia and adverse foreign exchange rates in a number of markets.
At constant rates of exchange, adjusted profit was in line with 2014.
Volume was marginally ahead of 2014 at 198 billion, as increases in Bangladesh, Vietnam, Indonesia and Japan were offset by Pakistan, Malaysia and South Korea, where lower volume was due to market decline.
Jack Bowles Director, Asia-Pacific Performance at constant rates of exchange Australia Pakistan The region increased Volume fell due to market contraction.
ExciseHigh excise-driven pricing led to market led price increases, a challenging environment contraction and an increase in illicit trade.
market share in 9 of our 11 and continued high prevalence of illicit trade Volume decline was lower than the market, Key Markets, with excellent led to down-trading and a significant reduction leading to an increase in market share, in profit.
The roll-over of prior growth in GDB volume.
year pricing and cost efficiencies drove profit Malaysia I am extremely proud of significantly higher.
Profit was stable, as the introduction of sales the progress we have made Vietnam tax GST and large ad hoc excise-led price increases were offset by a reduction in industry Volume was up, in line with the industry.
in an environment that volume, which was partly due to an increase Profit was higher due to increased volume, I expect to remain in illicit trade.
Market share was up, driven by pricing and an improvement in mix.
South Korea Japan Market share grew strongly, driven by Dunhill Excellent growth in market share was driven and Vogue.
Volume declined as a result of by a strong performance by Kent, supported significant industry contraction following by innovations.
Profit was down mainly due high excise-driven price increases, leading to to the adverse exchange rate impact on lower profit.
cost of sales, which was partly mitigated by Indonesia productivity savings.
Volume and market share were up and New Zealand profitability improved as Dunhill continued Profit was higher as pricing offset lower to grow, driving an improvement in mix and volume.
Rothmans performed strongly leading offsetting the decline in local brands.
to an increase in market share.
Taiwan Bangladesh Market share was higher driven by Pall Profit continued to increase strongly, driven by Mall.
Good pricing was offset by marketing higher volume, significant market share growth investment, leading to a small decline in profit.
Philippines Market share increased driven by Pall Mall, Share of Adjusted profit leading to an improvement in profitability.
Group revenue from operations at CC 26% 1,546m 2014: 27% -0.1% 2014: 1,548m 24 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Americas Adjusted profit, at current rates of exchange, declined by 117 million to 1,169 million, mainly due to exchange rate movements in Brazil, Canada and Venezuela.
At constant rates, adjusted profit rose by 140 million, or 10.9%, driven by good performances from Canada, Mexico, Venezuela and Chile.
Volume was lower by 5.2% at 124 billion, mainly due to Brazil, Argentina, Chile and Canada, partially offset by higher volume in Mexico.
Ricardo Oberlander Director, Americas Performance at constant rates of exchange Brazil Mexico Market share and GDB Dunhill and Minister performed well with Market share was up, driven by the continued higher market share, but were more than offset growth in Pall Mall and Lucky Strike.
Profit was volume both grew, with by the rest of the portfolio.
Market contraction higher driven by pricing and higher volume.
revenue and profit up due to the effects of illicit trade and the Colombia deterioration in the economic environment strongly, at constant rates Market share growth was partly driven by led to lower volume and a reduction in profit.
Kool and Lucky Strike, with volume flat despite of exchange.
There are Canada industry decline.
Profit was up as pricing offset a number of economic Profit grew strongly driven by good pricing the impact of adverse foreign exchange on and cost reductions, offsetting lower volume.
challenges across the region, Market share fell, despite growth in Pall Mall.
Argentina but I am confident that we Chile Pricing more than offset the impact of lower will continue to win in the Strong profit growth was due to good pricing volume and led to higher profit.
and up-trading to capsule offers, offsetting grew market share, continuing to perform well lower volume and the effect of adverse in the premium segment.
exchange rates on cost of sales.
Kent, Lucky Strike and Pall Mall all grew market share.
Venezuela Profit was higher as significant pricing was required to offset the combined effects of local inflation and the devaluation of the bolivar following the introduction of the SIMADI exchange rate mechanism.
Share of Adjusted profit Group revenue from operations at CC 23% 1,426m 10.9% 2014: 22% 2014: 1,286m British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 25 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic management Regional review continued Western Europe Adjusted profit, at current rates of exchange, declined by 43 million to 1,146 million, largely reflecting the devaluation of the euro.
At constant rates, adjusted profit was higher by 60 million or 5.1% with good performances in a number of markets including Denmark, Germany and Romania.
This was partly offset by the effect of lower volume in Italy and Netherlands.
Total cigarette volume was up by 0.5% to 112 billion but, excluding the acquisition of TDR, would have declined by 1.1%.
Fine Cut volume was lower by 3.9% at 20 billion sticks equivalent.
Naresh Sethi Director, Western Europe Performance at constant rates of exchange Germany Netherlands Western Europe performed Volume and market share were higher, driven Market share was higher due to the good by Lucky Strike and Pall Mall, which, coupled performance of Lucky Strike and Pall Mall.
very well, increasing profit with pricing, led to an increase in profit.
Industry decline led to lower volume and and revenue at constant Fine Cut volume was lower.
Good Switzerland Belgium Profit was up as pricing offset lower volume Profit was stable as pricing offset lower volume.
share growth in a number and a decline in market share.
Market share declined as growth in Lucky of markets reflects the Strike was more than offset by the rest of the Italy local portfolio.
continued investment The migration of Pall Mall to Rothmans United Kingdom behind our GDB portfolio.
progressed very well, with an increase in the brands combined market share.
Total volume Rothmans drove an increase in market From these strong fell, with profit down partly due to increased share, with profit higher as good pricing foundations I am confident marketing investment.
offset marginally lower volume, due to industry decline.
we will continue to deliver Romania Spain Market share grew, driven by Pall Mall and another good performance Dunhill, consolidating the Groups leadership Profit was flat as pricing was offset by lower in 2016. position.
Good pricing and a marginal increase volume and reduction in market share.
in volume drove profit higher.
Poland France Profitability improved as pricing more than Volume was higher as Lucky Strike continued offset a fall in volume, which was in part due to to perform very well, driving an increase in total further industry contraction.
Pall Mall continued market share.
Profit fell, partly due to downto demonstrate excellent momentum, with an trading and increased marketing investment.
Denmark Volume and profit were higher following the trade fide-stocking in 2014.
Market share declined driven by competitive pricing activity at the low end of the market.
Share of Adjusted profit Group revenue from operations at CC 24% 1,249m 2014: 23% 5.1% 2014: 1,189m 26 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa EEMEA Adjusted profit, at current rates of exchange, decreased by 172 million to 1,208 million.
Good pricing across the region and strong profit growth in a number of markets was offset by the effect of currency devaluation, notably in Russia, Nigeria and Ukraine.
At constant rates of exchange, profit would have increased by 19 million or 1.3%.
Volume was 1.1% higher at 229 billion, with growth in a number of markets including Turkey, Iran, Kazakhstan and Ukraine offsetting lower volume in Egypt, Russia, Nigeria and South Africa.
Johan Vandermeulen Director, Eastern Europe, MiddleEast and Africa Performance at constant rates of exchange Russia Iran At constant rates of Market share continued to grow, driven Kent continued to perform extremely well, by a strong performance by Rothmans.
with higher volume driving an increase in exchange, EEMEA delivered Industry volume decline was due to excise-led profit despite a change in excise that was very good growth in revenue price increases, with the Groups volume partly borne by the industry.
falling at a lower rate than the market.
and profit, despite significant Ukraine Pricing partially offset the significant adverse Geopolitical instability continued to impact transactional foreign effect of devaluation on cost of sales, leading performance, with a significant deterioration in to a decrease in profit.
exchange headwinds, which currency and intense price competition leading South Africa to a decline in profit.
Volume was up, driven I anticipate will continue Market share was down despite good growth by Rothmans.
to impact our performance from Benson & Hedges, following the launch Turkey in 2016.
Our GDBs had an in 2014, and Pall Mall.
Lower volume and Higher volume and excellent market share down-trading were offset by pricing and exceptional year and we are growth were driven by Kent and Rothmans.
cost savings, with profit flat on prior year.
Profit fell due to the continued part absorption well placed for 2016, despite GCC of excise.
the continued instability Higher volume, driven by JPGL and Rothmans, Egypt and the full-year effect of pricing taken in 2014, in a number of markets.
Volume, market share and profitability more than offset negative mix to deliver an declined, due to down-trading following the increase in profit.
change in the excise regime in 2014.
Nigeria Kazakhstan Profit was down, partly due to the effect of Rothmans drove an increase in volume adverse exchange rates on cost of sales and and market share.
Profitability improved as a reduction in volume, which was driven by higher volume more than offset the effect of market contraction.
Algeria Excellent market share growth drove an increase in volume and profit.
Share of Adjusted profit Group revenue from operations at CC 27% 1,399m 1.3% 2014: 28% 2014: 1,380m British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 27
