BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Delivering our growth strategy 08 Strategic Report Geographic expansion Taking Interventional Medicine to new territories We have built a platform for international expansion ofour Interventional Medicine business.
Wedevelop optimum regulatory pathways to gain product approvals in new markets that present significant commercial opportunities, which we then address byestablishing our owndirect sales forcesor through distributornetworks.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 09 Strategic Report New Hong Kong Establishing a office strengthens new direct sales our global presence force in Europe 3.
Direct sales in Taiwan In the year we completed recruitment of a direct sales forceinTaiwan to sell our embolic and chemoembolising beads.
Taiwan represents an important early step in our Asia Hong Kong strategy:it has a large addressable market for our products New regional and a healthcare system that supports the use of advanced regulatory and treatment options.
Japan medical hub South Korea 4.
Increasing our European China commercial footprint During the year we significantly expanded our direct sales force for TheraSphere in major European markets and inApril2015 this team also commenced direct sales of Taiwan DCBead and Bead Block.
We are unique in providing bothmain locoregional treatment modalities to our European customers.
This patient-centric approach with physicians provides us with valuable insights into treatment practice andunmet medical needs that will help guide our future 1.
Support hub established for Asia innovation and development focus.
Asian countries have become important markets for medical products manufacturers as economic growth has led to wider access to healthcare and has fuelled demand for the best We are expanding our commercial treatments available.
BTGs oncology products are relevant toAsian countries owing to the high prevalence of hepatitis B operations into new markets that and therefore liver cancer.
To support our expansion in Asia we represent an important opportunity have opened a new office in Hong Kong, which serves as a hub for us.
to support commercial, regulatory and medical affairs across the region.
Duncan Kennedy Head of Interventional Oncology 2.
DC Bead approved in China In August 2014 the China Food and Drug Administration approved DC Bead for the embolisation of malignant hypervascularised tumours.
Approximately half of the worldsliver cancer patients are in China and there is a greatinterest among Chinese physicians to offer new, differentiated treatment options.
Following this approval, ourpartner SciClone Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is progressing launch activities.
