Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Remuneration Report Policy Report Introduction Summary of key changes This policy section of the Remuneration Report the Policy Report sets The background and explanation of the proposed key changes from out a proposed new Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors the current Remuneration Policy are given in the Annual Statement and the Non-Executive Directors the Executive Directors principally from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee starting on in the Future Policy Table and the Chairman and the Non-Executive page 67 of this Remuneration Report.
In addition a summary of these Directors in the Remuneration Table.
changes is set out in the At a glance tables on pages 72 and 73.
This new Remuneration Policy, which is intended to replace the Policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, is subject to a binding vote by shareholders at the AGM on 27 April 2016 and, if approved, will come into effect from 28 April 2016.
A Remuneration Policy will be put to shareholders again no later than the 2019 AGM.
The new Remuneration Policy is set out in full on the following pages with changes from the Current Policy identified for reference.
Principles of remuneration The Committees remuneration principles are to: reward, as an overriding objective, the delivery of the Groups strategy in a manner which is simple, straightforward and understandable and which is aligned with shareholders longterm interests: structure a remuneration package that is appropriately positioned relative to the market and comprises core fixed elements and performance-based variable elements: the fixed elements comprise base salary, pension and other benefits and these are designed to recognise the skills and experience of our Executive Directors and to ensure current and future market competitiveness in attracting talent: the variable elements are provided via two performance-based incentive schemes a single cash and share incentive annual bonus plan IEIS, and a single long-term incentive scheme LTIP which are designed to be both transparent and stretching and to motivate and reward the delivery of the Groups strategy and of growth to shareholders on a long-term sustainable basis: maintain an appropriate balance between fixed pay and the opportunity to earn performance-related remuneration with immediate and deferred elements: the performance-based elements form, at maximum opportunity, between 75% and 85% of the Executive Directors total remuneration packages: and conduct an annual review to ensure that the Policy is both rigorously applied and remains aligned with business needs to promote the long-term success of the Company.
74 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Future Policy Table Executive Directors Base salary How the element supports To attract and retain high calibre individuals to deliver the Companys strategic plans by offering market the Companys strategic competitive levels of guaranteed cash to reflect an individuals skills, experience and role within the Company.
objectives Operation of the element Base salary is normally paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year.
Salaries are normally reviewed annually in February with salary changes effective from April or subject to an ad hoc review on a significant change of responsibilities.
Salaries are reviewed against appropriate market data including general UK pay trends and a company size and complexity model based on UK companies, as well as a Pay Comparator Group, the constituents of which at the date of this report for use in 2016 are as follows: Revisions to Pay Comparator AstraZeneca GlaxoSmithKline Mondelez International Royal Dutch Shell Group made in 2015: BP Heineken Nestl SABMiller for 2016, non-UK based BT Imperial Brands PepsiCo Unilever multinational and FMCG Coca-Cola Japan Tobacco International Pernod Ricard Vodafone companies have been Colgate-Palmolive Johnson & Johnson Philip Morris International included as these are key Danone LOral Procter & Gamble competitors for talent.
Diageo LVMH Reckitt Benckiser The Committee will continue to exercise its judgement to vary the constituents of the Pay Comparator Group over the life of this Remuneration Policy.
There are no contractual provisions for clawback or malus.
Maximum potential value Current levels stated in the Annual Report on Remuneration will be increased in line with the Policy following the 2016 salary review.
Increases will generally be in the range of the increases in the base pay of other UK-based employees in the Group.
The salary of a recently appointed Executive Director as he or she progresses in a role may exceed the top of the range of the salary increases for UK-based employees where the Committee considers it appropriate to reflect the accrual of experience.
Year-on-year increases for Executive Directors, currently in role, will not exceed 10% per annum during the policy period.
A significant change in responsibilities may be reflected in an above average increase which may exceed 10% of salary.
Promotion leading to a complete change of role would be considered in line with the Committees approach to recruitment.
used, weighting and time period applicable British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 75 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Remuneration Report Policy Report continued Benefits How the element supports To provide market competitive benefits consistent with role which: the Companys strategic help to facilitate the attraction and retention of high calibre, senior individuals to deliver the Companys objectives strategic plans: and recognise that such talent is global in source and that the availability of certain benefits e. g. relocation, repatriation, taxation compliance advice will from time to time be necessary to avoid such factors being an inhibitor to accepting the role.
Operation of the element The Company currently offers the following contractual benefits to Executive Directors: a car or car allowance: the use of a driver: tax advice in instances where multi-jurisdictional tax authorities are involved : tax equalisation payments where appropriate : private medical insurance, including general practitioner walk-in medical services: personal life and accident insurance: and relocation and shipment of effects and associated expenses on appointment and at the end of tenure, and housing and education allowances or similar arrangements as appropriate to family circumstances.
Other benefits not identified above may be offered if, in the Committees view, these are necessary in order to remain aligned with market practice.
The cost of legal fees spent in reviewing a settlement agreement on departure may also be provided where appropriate.
With the exception of the car or car allowance, in line with the UK market and the practice followed for all the Groups other UK employees, it is also practice to pay the tax that may be due on these benefits.
In addition the partners of the Executive Directors may, from time to time, accompany the Directors to participate in a partners programme occasionally organised in conjunction with overseas or UK-based Board meetings and otherwise at hospitality functions during the year.
HM Revenue & Customs may classify this and the provision of certain other services and payments as taxable benefits.
Services or payments classified in this way include: the provision of home and personal security and the reimbursement of certain travel and related expenses.
It is also part of the Remuneration Policy to pay the tax that may be due on these types of benefits.
Maximum potential value The maximum potential values are based on market practice for individuals of this level of seniority.
Any tax due on these benefits paid by the Company is in addition to the maximum amounts specified below.
The maximum annual value subject to periodic inflation-related increases where applicable that can be offered for each benefit is: car or car allowance: 20,000: use of a company driver: variable maxima as the actual cost is dependent on the miles driven in any year: variable maxima will apply to the cost of private medical insurance which is dependent on an individuals circumstances and is provided on a family basis: GP walk-in medical services located close to the Groups headquarters in London: 5,000 per annum: personal life and accident insurance designed to pay out at a multiple of four and five times base salary respectively: international tax advice as required, but not exceeding 30,000 per annum: and tax equalisation payments as agreed by the Committee from time to time: and relocation and shipment expenses at the beginning and end of service as an Executive Director up to 200,000 and, in addition, housing and education allowances or other similar arrangements, as appropriate to the individuals family circumstances.
Relocation and shipment expenses are subject to applicable clawback provisions.
used, weighting and time period applicable 76 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Pensions How the element supports To provide competitive post-retirement benefit arrangements which recognise both the individuals length the Companys strategic of tenure with the Group and the external environment in the context of attracting and retaining senior high objectives calibre individuals to deliver the Groups strategy.
Operation of the element British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund the Pension Fund non-contributory defined benefit section The early retirement rules in the Pension Fund permit a member to draw the accrued retirement pension within five years of Fund normal retirement age without actuarial reduction, subject to the employing companys agreement.
Alternatively, an Executive Director who was a member of the Pension Fund before 6 April 2006 may choose to leave and take a pension at any time on or after his or her 50th birthday without the employing companys agreement, subject to a reduction as determined by the Pension Fund trustee in conjunction with the Pension Fund actuary.
Accrual rates differ according to individual circumstances but do not exceed one-fortieth of pensionable salary for each year of pensionable service.
Although the defined benefit section is closed to new members generally, the Remuneration Committee may exercise its judgement to offer, by exception, a defined benefit pension to a new externally appointed Executive Director on appointment where such benefits have been enjoyed by that individual at his her previous employer.
The Pension Fund includes provision for spouses and childrens benefits on death in service or after retirement.
In the event of death in service, a spouses pension equal to half of the members prospective pension at normal retirement age would be payable together with, where there are dependent eligible children, a pension equal to half of the members prospective pension at normal retirement age, shared equally between any eligible children.
A spouses pension payable in the event of death after retirement is equal to half of the members pension, irrespective of any previous decision to exchange part of the benefit for a lump sum at retirement.
Eligible children share equally a pension equal to half of the members full pension.
British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund defined contribution section A defined contribution pension arrangement has been in place since April 2005 where an annual contribution of up to the equivalent of 35% of base salary would be made.
The actual level of contribution paid to the Pension Fund is restricted to take into account the annual allowance and lifetime allowance with any balance payable as a gross cash allowance or accumulated in the UURBS see below.
Unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS The Pension Fund retains a scheme-specific salary cap, currently 150,000 effective 1 April 2015, which is adjusted in April each year in line with the Retail Prices Index as at September of the previous year.
Where an individual is entitled to benefits calculated on a base salary that exceeds the scheme-specific cap, these are accrued in the Companys UURBS.
Pension accrual in the UURBS will not exceed the accrual rate applicable tothe individual in respect of their Pension Fund entitlement maximum one-fortieth per annum.
Under UK regulations, there are annual allowance and lifetime allowance limits on pension accrual in the defined benefit section of the Pension Fund and on contributions to the defined contribution section of the Pension Fund.
In order to ensure that these limits are not breached, benefits and contributions respectively are adjusted.
In the defined contribution section, the individual may elect to accumulate the balance of the contributions in the UURBS or receive the balance as a gross cash allowance.
From April 2016, the Pension Fund will have an automatic limit of 10,000 on the value of any members defined benefit accrual or defined contributions.
Upon retirement, Executive Directors who have accrued defined benefits in the UURBS will have the opportunity to receive this element of their overall entitlement either in the form of a single lump sum or as an ongoing pension payment.
Lump sums in lieu of a pension entitlement in the UURBS are subject to a decrement of between 19% and 21%, depending on age.
In addition, a further reduction that recognises the Companys liability to employers national insurance will also be made.
For Executive Directors with defined contribution benefits in the UURBS, a lump sum payment will be made on leaving the Group with a credit adjustment based on the Companys average weighted cost of debt in respect of each year that benefit has accrued.
Pensionable pay covers base salary only.
Maximum potential value The pension accrual rate in the Pension Fund and the UURBS will not exceed the maximum one-fortieth of salary per annum.
Internal appointees as Executive Directors may have existing defined benefit or defined contribution pension entitlements with the Group which may differ marginally from those outlined in the Policy and these will ordinarily remain unchanged.
Pension benefits and entitlements will continue to be calculated with reference to an individuals base salary.
Pension entitlements for external appointees as Executive Directors will be subject to negotiation taking into account the relevant annual and lifetime allowances.
In most cases the pension arrangements will fall within the scope of the Policy as outlined in this section.
Performance metrics There are no performance metrics.
used, weighting and time Pensions in payment are paid monthly or quarterly in accordance with the rules of the relevant section of the period applicable Pension Fund.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 77 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Remuneration Report Policy Report continued Short-term incentives: International Executive Incentive Scheme IEIS How the element supports To incentivise the attainment of corporate targets aligned to the strategic objectives of the Company on an the Companys strategic annual basis.
objectives Performance-based award in the form of cash and deferred shares, so that the latter element ensures alignment with shareholders long-term interests.
Strong alignment and linkage between individual and corporate annual objectives via the application of an individual performance adjustment factor to the corporate result.
To ensure, overall, a market competitive package to attract and retain high calibre individuals to deliver the Groups strategy.
Operation of the element: IEIS comprises an annual award referenced to base salary, which is normally paid approximately three months key points after the end of the financial year to which it relates: 50% is paid immediately in cash and 50% of the total bonus amount is awarded in shares through the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme DSBS.
The free deferred shares normally vest after three years and no further performance conditions apply in that period.
In certain circumstances, such as resigning before the end of the three-year period, participants may forfeit all of the shares.
Deferred shares attract a cash payment equivalent to the dividend on the after-tax position on all of a participants unvested ordinary shares held in the DSBS at each dividend record date.
Operation of the element: The Remuneration Committee sets the performance targets each year at the beginning of the performance the process cycle period and is able to vary the exact measures and the weighting of them from year to year.
The Committee then reviews performance for the prior year in February each year and the Groups external auditors perform certain specified procedures to assist the Committees assessment of the calculations used to determine the IEIS corporate bonus outcomes and future targets.
The total payout of the corporate result is determined by the Companys performance under each measure relative to that measures performance target.
The Committee may use its discretion to adjust the payout in circumstances where, it considers, the overall performance of the Company warrants a different outcome, whether higher or lower, than that determined by the application of the bonus formula.
An individual performance element for outstanding performance may be awarded being an adjustment factor of up to 20% of the annual corporate result up to the overall maximum and is paid in cash.
In cases ofidentified poor individual performance, the corporate result will be reduced by 50%.
Operation of the element: Malus for 2014 DSBS share awards onwards : provisions apply so that the number of shares subject to an other aspects unvested DSBS share award may be reduced where the Committee determines that there has been a material misrepresentation or misstatement of the performance of the Company and or the participant on the basis of which that or any prior DSBS share award was granted.
Clawback from 2016 IEIS cash awards and DSBS awards for performance ended 2015 : provisions operate under which all or a part of the value of an award may be recovered if the Committee determines that there has been: 1 a material misrepresentation or misstatement in relation to the performance of the Company and or the participant: or 2 an erroneous calculation in the assessment of the extent to which the award was made, and in either case which caused the award to be granted with a greater value than would otherwise have been the case.
This provision may be applied in respect of an IEIS cash award within the two-year period from payment and in respect of a DSBS share award within the three-year period from grant.
Clawback may also be applied at any time where the Committee determines that a participant committed, atany time prior to the payment vesting, an act or omission which justified dismissal for misconduct.
Where the Committee determines that these provisions are to be applied, the number of shares subject to an unvested DSBS share award may be reduced or the participant can be required to repay the excess value received and this repayment may be effected by reducing other cash or share-based awards held by the participant.
For IEIS participants determined by the Committee as good leavers: 1 a cash bonus is subject to a clawback period of two years from the payment date: and 2 a DSBS share award will vest or transfer to a participant upon termination of their contract, subject to a clawback period of up to three years referenced to the original award date.
The details of the policy on payment for loss of office which includes the scope for determination of good leaver status applied by the Committee is set out on page 89 of this Policy Report.
Awards under the annual incentive scheme are not pensionable and no element of the bonus is guaranteed.
78 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Short-term incentives: International Executive Incentive Scheme IEIS Maximum potential value The maximum annual bonus opportunity for the Chief Executive including any individual performance element is 250% of base salary.
The equivalent bonus opportunity for other Executive Directors including any individual performance element is 190% of base salary.
No bonus is paid for threshold performance of any 2016 Policy metric, which must be exceeded for that element of the bonus to be paid.
change proposed: The annual on-target bonus opportunity for the Chief Executive is 125% of base salary increasing up to to increase the maximum 150% if the Committee assesses individual performance as outstanding and applies the individual performance bonus opportunity for element at 20% to an on-target corporate result.
For the other Executive Directors, the on-target bonus Executive Directors.
opportunity is 95% increasing up to 114% if the individual performance element is awarded at a 20% level, See At a glance on page 72. based on an on-target corporate result.
Performance metrics The IEIS contains four corporate performance measures KPIs and weightings measured over the financial used, weighting and time year.
These KPIs are the same as those KPIs used to measure the Companys performance against its strategy as period applicable outlined and explained from page 13 of the Strategic Report.
1 Adjusted profit from operations 40% this is the profit from operations of the Groups subsidiaries KPIs: see summary on page 1 at constant rates of exchange adjusted for the items shown as memorandum information in the Group of the Strategic Report.
It is the Groups mediumto long-term aim to grow adjusted profit from operations onaverage by 5-7% annually.
2 Group s share of key markets 20% this is the Groups retail market share in its key markets, which accounts for around 80% of the volumes of the Groups subsidiaries.
The aim is to increase the Groups share year-on-year.
The information used in this calculation is based on information available on subscription on retail audit share.
The process is subject to rebasing as and when the Groups Key Markets change.
When rebasing occurs to reflect changes in the sample or estimated market size, the Company will also restate history and provide fresh comparative data on the markets.
3 Global Drive Brands GDBs and Key Strategic Brands KSBs volumes 20% this comprises: 1 the cigarette volumes of the following GDBs sold by the Groups subsidiaries: Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike, Pall Mall and Rothmans, including volumes of the Fine Cut variants of the above brands sold in Western Europe: and 2 the cigarette volumes of State Express 555 and Shuang Xi, being KSBs associated with the CNTC joint venture.
The aim is to improve the quality of the Group s portfolio by increasing the volume of GDBs and KSBs faster than the rest of the brands in the Groups portfolio.
4 Cash generated from operations 20% is defined as the free cash flow excluding restructuring costs, dividends and other appropriations from associate undertakings measured at constant rates of exchange.
The aim is to generate the optimal level cash flow while continuing to invest to support the short-medium and long-term requirements of the business.
A specific target is set each year.
Two levels of award attainment relative to the measures are defined under the IEIS: 1 Threshold which must be exceeded to attract any bonus pay-out in respect of that measure : and 2 Maximum a level of performance exceeding budget and at which the bonus pay-out for that measure is capped.
An individual performance element may also be awarded by the Remuneration Committee based on its assessment of an outstanding level of Executive Director performance against key strategic and commercial objectives set at the beginning of the year.
This element is applied to the corporate result but is subject to the maximum award limit as explained above.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 79 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Remuneration Report Policy Report continued Long-term incentives: Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP 2016 How the element supports To incentivise long-term sustainable growth in total shareholder return TSR, adjusted diluted earnings the Companys strategic per share EPS and net turnover NTO, together with the achievement of a consistently high measure objectives of operating cash flow to operating profit conversion ratio over a three-year period: to facilitate the appointment of high calibre, senior individuals required to deliver the Companys strategic plans: and to promote the long-term success of the Company.
2016 Policy change proposed: To put in place a combination of measures with appropriately stretching targets around the long-term plan that provides a balance relevant to the Companys business and market conditions as well as providing the Companys current alignment between Executive Directors and shareholders.
In setting performance criteria and thresholds Long-Term Incentive Plan targets, the Committee takes account of the Groups long-term plans and market expectations.
The proposed LTIP 2016 will be subject to approval by shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
See At a glance on pages 72 and 73.
Operation of the element for Discretionary annual awards of shares with vesting levels based on the achievement of defined and awards from 2016 appropriately stretching targets that are relative TSR, EPS growth and NTO growth, together with a consistently high measure of operating cash flow to operating profit conversion ratio, aligned to Groups strategic objectives over athree-year performance period with a five-year vesting period.
2016 Policy changes proposed: TSR performance is measured against a peer group of international FMCG companies using the return index calculated by Datastream and reviewed by the Companys remuneration consultants.
The current 1 a new per formance constituents of the FMCG peer group as at the date of this report are as follows: measure EPS at constant rates of exchange : Anheuser-Busch InBev Diageo Kimberly Clark Philip Morris International 2 a new per formance Campbell Soup Heineken LVMH Procter & Gamble measure cash Carlsberg Imperial Brands Mondele z International Reckitt Benckiser flow conversion : Coca-Cola Japan Tobacco Nestl SABMiller 3 an increased maximum award level: Colgate-Palmolive Johnson & Johnson PepsiCo Unilever 4 value of vesting award Danone Kellogg Pernod Ricard forthreshold performance TSR is measured on the basis that all companies dividends are reinvested in the shares of those companies.
reduced from 20% to The return is the percentage increase in each companys index over the three-year performance period.
15% of the award: and The opening and closing indices for this calculation are respectively: 1 the average of the index numbers for 5 the introduction of an the last quarter of the year prior to the start of the performance period: and 2 the average of the last quarter additional period of two of the final year of that performance period this methodology is employed to reflect movements of the years after the three-year indices over that time as accurately as possible.
performance period so A local currency basis is used for the purposes of TSR measurement.
This approach is considered to have the that vesting may take benefits of simplicity and directness of comparison with the performance of the comparator companies.
place no earlier than five years from the date of EPS growth in adjusted diluted EPS for these purposes incorporates an increase in adjusted diluted EPS grant of an award.
between the base year and the final year of the performance period, expressed as a compound annual growth rate over the period.
The EPS measure is split into two separate and equal components: 50% is measured using See At a glance on page 73. current rates of exchange and 50% is measured on constant rates of exchange adjusted for the impact of translational foreign exchange only.
NTO growth in gross turnover less excise, duties and rebates.
No vesting will occur for NTO unless the corresponding three-year constant currency compound annual growth rate CAGR of underlying operating profit exceeds the CAGR of the threshold performance level for underlying operating profit as approved by the Board, as defined annually in the IEIS.
Operating cash flow conversion ratio operating cash flow measured at actual rates expressed as a percentage of adjusted operating profit as defined for the purposes of the IEIS, except as for actual rates of exchange over a three-year period.
LTIP awards vest only to the extent that: 1 the per formance conditions are satisfied at the end of the three-year performance period: and 2 an additional vesting period of two years from the date of the third anniversary of the date of grant has been completed the LTIP Extended Vesting Period.
LTIP awards are therefore only exercisable once the total period of five years from the date of grant has elapsed.
80 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Long-term incentives: Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP 2016 Operation of the element for The Remuneration Committee may apply its discretion to vary the outcome either positively or negatively awards from 2016 continued of the formulaic performance to ensure a fair result for both the Executive Directors and shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee is able to vary the exact measures and the weighting of them from year to year, but will generally only seek to make amendments to them following consultation with shareholders.
Participants may receive a dividend equivalent payment to the value of the actual dividends that they would have received on the gross number of shares as shareholders on their vesting awards at the end of the LTIP Extended Vesting Period as no actual dividends will be paid during the LTIP Extended Vesting Period.
Any proportion of an award that lapses does not attract the payment of the LTIP dividend equivalent payment.
Clawback and malus for 2016 awards onwards : provisions operate under which all or a part of the value of an award may be recovered if, at any time within a period of five years from the date of grant, the Committee determines that: 1 there has been a material misrepresentation in relation to the performance of any Group Company, relevant business unit and or the participant: or 2 an erroneous calculation was made in assessing the extent to which an award is capable of vesting or vested, which in either case resulted in the number of shares in respect of which an award vested or became capable of vesting being more than it should have been.
The material misrepresentation may include but is not limited to : 1 a misstatement of the financial results and or health of any Group Company: or 2 an erroneous calculation in relation to any Group Companys results or other performance benchmark.
Clawback may also be applied at any time where the Committee determines that a participant committed, at any time prior to the vesting of an award at the end of the LTIP Extended Vesting Period including prior to grant, an act or omission which justified dismissal for misconduct.
Where the Committee determines that these provisions are to be applied, the participant may be required to repay the excess value which vested and this repayment may be effected so that the number of shares subject to the award may be reduced and or by reducing other cash held by or share-based awards granted to the participant.
For LTIP participants determined by the Committee as good leavers, the number of shares vesting is dependent on the performance at the end of the three-year performance period pro-rated for the period employed and shares vesting are subject to clawback at any time prior to the vesting of an award at the end of the LTIP Extended Vesting Period.
The detailed policy on payment for loss of office which includes the scope for determination of good leaver status applied by the Committee is set out on page 89 of this Policy Report.
Clawback for 2015 awards and malus for 2013, 2014 and 2015 awards : the equivalent provisions for the 2016 awards apply save for the absence of the LTIP Extended Vesting Period which did not apply to those awards.
Maximum potential value Maximum award of shares permitted is 500% of salary for the Chief Executive and 350% for other Executive and payment at threshold Directors.
Proportion of vesting is determined by reference to achievement of defined measures over a three-year period as set out in the performance metrics section below: 2016 Policy A maximum vesting of 100% will result in the vesting of shares to a value equivalent to 500% of the Chief change proposed: Executives salary as at the time of award, plus the appropriate dividend equivalent payment.
For other Executive Directors, a maximum vesting of 100% will result in the vesting of shares to a value to 350% of an increase in the maximum salary as at the time of award, plus the applicable dividend equivalent payment.
LTIP award level with a reduction in the value of If the threshold performance level is attained in respect of all five measures, 15% of the original award level threshold vesting from 20% will vest: 1 for the Chief Executive with shares to the value equivalent of 75% of salary at the time of the to15% of the award.
award: and 2 for the other Executive Directors with shares to the value equivalent of 52.5% of salary at the time of the award.
The appropriate dividend equivalent payment will attach to the shares vesting in each case.
Between threshold and maximum, the balance of an award vests on a straight-line basis.
Executive Directors departing as good leavers will receive vesting shares only at the end of the LTIP Extended Vesting Period based on the vesting percentage applicable on the satisfaction of the performance conditions at the end of the three-year performance period and pro-rated for the period of employment during that performance period.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 81 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Remuneration Report Policy Report continued Long-term incentives: Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP 2016 Performance metrics used, Performance will be measured over a three-year period and compared with the target range for each weighting and time period of five conditions.
In each case no award will vest for performance below the threshold of the range and applicable the maximum award will vest for performance at or above the top of the range.
The performance conditions which each account for 20% of any award and the relevant ranges are as follows: 2016 Policy 1 20% of an award based on the Company s relative TSR compared with a peer group of international changes proposed: FMCG companies: the threshold of the range is the median and the top of the range is at upper quartile versus the peer group.
In the event of a top quartile performance by the Company relative 1 two additional to this comparator group, this element of the award vests in full: 3% will vest for median performance.
performance measures The TSR portion of an LTIP award will not vest for below median performance.
EPS at constant rates of exchange and an 2 20% of an award is based on the per centage growth in adjusted diluted EPS measured in sterling operating cash flow atcurrent rates: the range is 5% to 10% CAGR.
If the Company achieves a CAGR of 10%, this element of to operating profit the award will vest in full.
If 5% CAGR is achieved, then 3% of the award will vest.
If CAGR over the period conversion ratio and is less than 5%, none of this EPS portion of an award will vest.
re-weighting of measures: 3 20% of an award is based on the per centage growth in adjusted diluted EPS measured at constant 2 an amendment to the rates: the range is 5% to 10% CAGR.
If the Company achieves a CAGR of 10%, this element of the award NTO threshold vesting: will vest in full.
If CAGR over the period is less than and 5%, none of this EPS portion of an award will vest.
3 value of vesting award 4 20% of an award is based on the per centage organic growth in net turnover NTO measured at forthreshold performance constant rates: the range is 3% to 5% CAGR.
If the Company achieves a growth rate of 5% this element reduced from 20% to of the award relating to NTO will vest in full.
If the Company achieves a CAGR over the three-year period 15% of the award.
of 3%, then 3% of the award will vest.
The NTO portion of the award will not vest for CAGR below 3%.
There is an underpin to the NTO measure: no vesting will occur for NTO unless the corresponding threeyear constant CAGR of underlying operating profit exceeds the CAGR of the threshold performance level for underlying operating profit as approved by the Board, as defined annually in the IEIS.
5 20% of an award is based on operating cash flow, measured at actual rates, expressed as a percentage of adjusted operating profit as defined for the purposes of the IEIS, except as for actual rates of exchange : the performance range is 85% to 95%.
If the Company achieves a ratio of operating cash flow to adjusted operating profit of 95% or more on average over a three-year period, this element of the award will vest in full.
If the Company achieves a ratio of operating cash flow to adjusted operating profit of 85% on average over a three-year period, 3% of the award will vest.
This measure will not vest if the ratio is below 85%.
The Remuneration Committee will also assess the performance of the current outstanding LTIP awards against the performance conditions applicable to those awards as follows: Measures applying for March 2013 LTIP awards vesting 22 March 2016 EPS: adjusted diluted compound annual growth rate CAGR of 3% measured at current rates of exchange in excess of UK inflation triggers threshold performance.
CAGR of 8% in excess of inflation would trigger maximum vesting under this measure.
For performance between these two points, a pro-rated award will vest.
None of the EPS portion of the award will vest if CAGR for the period is less than 3%.
TSR: relative to and measured against two groups of companies: 1 a group of international FMCG companies weighting 25% : and 2 the constituents of the London Stock Exchange s FTSE 100 Index weighting 25%.
Upper quartile performance by the Company relative to both the TSR comparator groups triggers 50% of the total award to vest in full: 6% of the total award vests for median performance.
The TSR portions of the LTIP award do not vest for below median performance.
The actual performance against these measures is set out on page 102.
Application of an early vesting percentage can apply.
Three-year performance period: no application of a two-year post-performance extended period to vesting.
82 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Long-term incentives: Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP 2016 Performance metrics used, Measures applying for March 2014 LTIP awards vesting 28 March 2017 and March 2015 LTIP awards weighting and time period vesting 27 March 2018 applicable continued EPS: adjusted diluted compound annual growth rate CAGR of 5% measured at current rates of exchange triggers threshold performance and 8% of the award will vest.
CAGR of 10% would trigger maximum vesting under this measure.
None of the EPS portion of the award will vest if CAGR for the period is less than 5%.
TSR: relative to and measured against a group of international FMCG companies.
Upper quartile performance by the Company relative to the TSR comparator group triggers 25% of the total award to vest in full: 6% of the total award vests for median performance.
The TSR portion of the LTIP award does not vest for below median performance.
NTO: compound annual growth measured at constant rates of exchange.
If the Company achieves a compound annual growth rate CAGR of 5%, this element of the award relating to NTO will vest in full.
If the Company achieves a CAGR over the three-year period of 2%, then 6% of the award will vest.
There is a pro-rata vesting between these points.
The NTO portion of the LTIP award will not vest for a CAGR below 2%.
There is an underpin to the NTO measure whereby the corresponding three-year constant currency CAGR of underlying operating profit must exceed the CAGR of the threshold performance level for underlying operating profit as defined annually in the IEIS and approved by the Board in order for an LTIP vesting payment in respect of the NTO measure to become payable.
No application of an early vesting percentage.
All-employee share schemes How the element supports Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys all-employee share schemes which are designed the Companys strategic to incentivise employees by giving them an opportunity to build shareholdings in the Company.
objectives Operation of the element and Sharesave Scheme an HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved scheme where eligible employees are performance metrics used granted savings-related share options to subscribe for ordinary shares in the Company.
Options are granted to be exercisable in conjunction with either a three-year or five-year savings contract with a monthly savings limit of currently 500.
Options are normally granted at a discount of 20% to market price at the time of invitation.
Proposed new Sharesave Scheme 2016: Share Incentive Plan SIP an HMRC-approved plan incorporating: the Companys current 1 Partnership Scheme eligible employees can allocate part of their pre-tax salary to purchase shares in Sharesave Scheme for all the Company.
Shares purchased are held in a UK-based trust, normally capable of transfer to participants employees expires in 2017. tax-free after a five-year holding period.
The annual value of partnership shares that can be purchased The proposed new Sharesave iscurrently 1,800.
Scheme 2016 is in all material 2 Share Reward Scheme eligible employees receive an award of shares in April of each year in which the respects unchanged from Scheme operates which may be based on performance in the previous financial year.
The performance the current scheme and conditions are aligned to those set for the IEIS in respect of the same performance period.
The plan shares will be subject to approval are held in a UK-based trust for three years and during that time the trust will exercise its voting rights as by shareholders at the directed by the plans participants.
For awards made from 2016 onwards, the maximum individual award 2016 AGM.
Maximum potential value Sharesave Scheme: the market value of the shares under option at the date of maturity of the Sharesave savings contract, less the grant price of the option at the contract start date.
SIP Partnership Scheme: the value of the shares purchased out of the potential maximum annual purchase value of currently 1,800 at the end of the five-year holding period.
SIP Share Reward Scheme: the value of the shares awarded out of the potential maximum annual award value of currently 3,600 at the end of the three-year holding period in the employee trust.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 83 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Remuneration Report Policy Report continued Shareholding guidelines How the element supports To strengthen the alignment between the interests of the Executive Directors and those of the shareholders by the Companys strategic requiring Executive Directors to build up a high level of personal shareholding in the Company.
objectives Operation of the element and Executive Directors are required to hold shares in the Company equal to the value of a multiple of salary.
performance metrics used Those Executive Directors who do not, at any point, meet the requirements of the shareholding guidelines, may generally sell a maximum of up to 50% of any shares vesting after tax under the Companys share plans until the threshold for the shareholding guidelines has been met.
Shares awarded but not yet vested and for 2016 Policy which performance conditions have already been met under the DSBS element of the IEIS are included in the changes proposed: calculation of the threshold for the shareholding guidelines for the Executive Directors.
Further, the estimated 1 increase to the minimum notional net number of shares held by an Executive Director in the LTIP Extended Vesting Period see page 80 shareholding requirement: will also count towards the respective shareholding requirements.
and A waiver of compliance with the shareholding guidelines is permitted at the discretion of the Remuneration 2 DSBS shares and shares in Committee in circumstances where a restriction on a requested share sale could cause undue hardship.
the LTIP Extended Vesting Period count towards the shareholding requirements.
Shareholding requirements Chief Executive: 500% of salary.
Other Executive Directors: 350% of salary.
External Board appointments How the element supports The Company recognises the opportunities and benefits that accrue to both the Company and its Executive the Companys strategic Directors who serve as Non-Executive Directors on the Boards of comparable companies.
objectives Operation of the element and Each Executive Director is limited to one external appointment, with the permission of the Board.
performance metrics used There are no performance metrics.
Maximum potential value Any fees from such appointments are retained by the individual in recognition of the increased level of personal commitment required.
Executive Directors may also serve as nominated directors on the Boards of the Companys associate undertakings.
In such instances, the fees will be paid to the Group and are not for the individuals account.
Additional notes to the Future Policy Table 1.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments where the terms were agreed prior to an individual being appointed an Executive Director of the Company or prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy including, for the avoidance of doubt, pursuant to the previous Remuneration Policy.
This includes the achievement of the applicable performance conditions, for Executive Directors who are eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy.
2 a This policy applies in a similar form, with appropriate eligibility criteria and gradations of salary, benefits and incentive awards to the members of the Management Board and senior management.
Award levels vary with seniority up to the appropriate maxima expressed within the relevant scheme rules.
2 b For other UK employees of the Group, remuneration will cover annual base salary, retirement plus other benefits and participation in the Companys annual short-term incentive scheme, including eligibility to participate in all-employee share plans.
2 c For employees employed outside of the UK, remuneration policy is set in accordance with conditions in the local marketplace.
Local policy is established with reference to Group guidelines concerning: annual base salary relative to the local market, the provision of retirement and other benefits where locally relevant and participation in short-term incentive plans where the incentive opportunity is established with reference to the local market conditions and locally relevant targets.
84 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Illustrations of the application of the Remuneration Policy The levels of remuneration received by Nicandro Durante and Ben Stevens as Executive Directors for the first complete year in which the Policy applies are shown as the hypothetical values of their remuneration packages under different performance scenarios in the charts below.
No share price growth has been assumed and benefits from all-employee share schemes Sharesave Scheme and Share Incentive Plan have been excluded.
Remuneration outcomes for varying levels of performance Chief Executive Minimum 1,739,000 100% Expectation 4,119,000 42% 36% 22% Maximum 10,664,000 16% 28% 56% Finance Director Minimum 1,521,000 100% Expectation 2,800,000 54% 30% 16% Maximum 6,203,000 24% 27% 49% Fixed remuneration IEIS LTIP The following assumptions have been applied in the table above.
Maximum award opportunities % of salary Chief Executive Finance Director IEIS 250% 190% LTIP 500% 350% Minimum Fixed pay only: No bonus payout: no vesting under LTIP Expectation Fixed pay plus: 50% of the maximum IEIS award: threshold vesting under the LTIP Maximum Fixed pay plus: 100% payout of the IEIS: 100% vesting under the LTIP Salary effective Benefits value Pension value 1 April 2016 for 2015 for 2015 Total fixed pay 000 000 000 000 Chief Executive Nicandro Durante 1,190 157 392 1,739 Finance Director Ben Stevens 867 110 544 1,521 Note: Benefits value for 2015: 1 excludes any expenses incurred in connection with individual and or accompanied attendance at certain business functions and or corporate events: and 2 includes Other emoluments life insurance.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 85 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Remuneration Report Policy Report continued Other policy provisions in relation to Directors pay Flexibility, judgement and discretion As the Companys Remuneration Policy needs to be capable of operating over a three-year period, the Committee has built in a degree of flexibility to enable the practical implementation of the policy over that prospective lifetime.
This is outlined in the table below under the categories of flexibility, judgement and discretion.
Flexibility pay, benefits and pension arrangements allowing the Committee to set these either on appointment or following an annual salary review, and to review and change the pay comparator groups to ensure they Areas of the Policy which remain appropriate.
The degree of flexibility to operate is constrained by the policy maximum.
the IEIS bonus plan, for example, allowing the Committee to design performance measures, agree their relative weighting and set annual targets to incentivise business outcomes aligned to the Groups short-term strategic objectives.
This is to ensure that these remain relevant and aligned to the Group Strategy.
the LTIP, allowing the Committee to make revisions to the performance measures, their respective weightings, threshold and target levels as permitted under the LTIP scheme rules.
Judgement considering an individuals remuneration award or the specific benefits or pension arrangements applying to an appointment.
The Committee will be required to exercise its judgement over varying the measures and their weightings, as well as setting specific targets, for example, in the IEIS in any the life of the Policy.
year to ensure that all elements continue to remain aligned to Group Strategy and drive the right behaviours.
For example when: determining the percentage of salary which can be earned as a bonus in excess of threshold, target and up to the maximum, or the percentage salary level in respect of an LTIP award in each case up to the relevant maximum set out in the Policy Table.
assessing the performance of each individual Executive Director in delivering against his or her personal performance objectives.
Discretion Short-term incentives IEIS The Committee has reserved to assess whether an individual performance element should be applied to an Executive Directors bonus discretion which may be outcome and at what level up to 20% for outstanding personal performance or -50% for poor personal exercised either upwards performance, subject to the overall cap as provided in the Policy.
or downwards to ensure to assess and override a payout in circumstances where the overall performance of the Company justifies a fair outcomes for both different outcome whether higher or lower than that determined by the bonus formula.
Directors and shareholders in relation to leavers other than automatic good leavers under the DSBS as to whether deferred shares will notwithstanding the be released and whether any bonus in whole or in part is payable during the year of departure.
application of the Policy in whether circumstances have arisen that should result in the application of the clawback and or malus certain instances.
provisions to deferred shares held by an Executive Director.
For example: Long-term incentives LTIP to assess and override the formulaic outcomes of the LTIP performance outcome either positively or negatively to ensure that the resulting LTIP payout reflects fairly the underlying performance of the business and serves the interest of shareholders.
in relation to leavers other than automatic good leavers under the LTIP as to whether shares will vest, the terms on which such shares will vest and the percentage level of the award which vests as well as whether any LTIP in whole or in part is payable during the year of departure.
whether circumstances have arisen which should result in the application of the clawback and or malus provisions to unvested LTIP awards.
Other on appointment of a new Executive Director, to agree a contract, for an initial period only, longer than the normal one-year rolling contract.
where the shareholding requirements are not yet met and where a waiver of compliance with the guidelines is agreed by the Committee.
In each case above, wherever the Committee exercises its discretion in relation to an Executive Director, itwill disclose the rationale for doing so in its Annual Report on Remuneration the following year.
86 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Approach to remuneration of Directors on recruitment Principles British American Tobacco seeks to appoint senior, high calibre managers and many of its competitors for talent are based outside the UK.
In making an Executive Director appointment whether an to offer a package both fixed salary, pension and performance-related remuneration which is sufficiently internal or external appointee competitive but not excessively so so that senior, high calibre candidates can be appointed which are the Remuneration Committee designed to promote the long-term success of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee will consider the will follow these principles.
market, including the Pay Comparator Group, and by reference to other companies of equivalent size and complexity to ensure that it does not overpay.
consideration will be given to relevant factors, such as the candidates skills, knowledge and experience and his or her current package and current location in determining the overall package.
internal pay relativities and the terms and conditions of employment of the new and existing Executive Directors will be considered to ensure fairness between Executive Directors.
External appointment to the Committee will consider matching up to the maximum of the expected value of the lost awards in order role of Executive Director to facilitate the recruitment of that individual.
additional considerations this may take the form of a one-off long-term incentive award with performance conditions and vesting Individual has variable period similar to the awards given up.
remuneration arrangements in addition, a sign-on award may be made on a like-for-like basis to compensate for any short-term incentives with his or her previous which may be forgone.
employer that will be any cash-based awards will normally only be used to replace a bonus for which the remaining performance lost on joining British period is less than three months and where the outcome is reasonably foreseeable.
where appropriate, such awards will also be made subject to clawback and malus provisions.
Relocation to the UK from Includes: overseas and return on the shipment of personal goods to from the Directors home to his her permanent office location.
retirement or departure from the provision of temporary accommodation.
the Group the provision of relocation support to find accommodation.
British American Tobacco the provision of tax support services to be provided by the Companys advisers.
may provide appropriate relocation support.
the payment by the Company of the cost of spouse or partner career counselling.
the provision of housing and schooling support for up to four years as appropriate for the individuals family circumstances.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 87 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Remuneration Report Policy Report continued Service contracts Executive Directors Current Executive Directors contracts are governed by English law.
Employed on a one-year rolling may be varied from time to time to take account of changes in terms and conditions as well as to incorporate contract, executed at the time best practice.
includes a provision for a termination or compensation payment in lieu of notice.
The Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion to award twoor three-year contracts in the event that an Executive Director is recruited externally or from overseas: contracts with an initial period of longer than one year will then reduce to a one-year rolling contract after the expiry of the initial period.
Under the current contracts to provide pay, contributions to applicable pension arrangements and benefits whether in cash or in kind British American Tobacco as specified in the contract, and to reimburse expenses incurred by the Executive Director in performing has agreed to the described their duties.
obligations, any of which to give the Executive Director eligibility to participate in: 1 short-term IEIS and long-term LTIP incentive could give rise to, or impact plans: and 2 all-employee share plans, subject to the rules of those schemes.
upon, the remuneration or to provide for the use of: 1 a company car for private and business use, subject to the terms of the payments for loss of office.
Companys car policy or to provide a monthly car allowance: and 2 the personal use of a car and driver.
It is not currently intended to provide 25 working days plus public holidays paid holiday per annum and to provide pay in lieu of any that future service contracts accrued but untaken holiday.
for Executive Directors would to provide sick pay as specified in the contract.
contain terms differing materially from this summary to give the Executive Director eligibility to participate in the following benefit schemes: private medical and in the Policy.
expenses scheme: personal accident scheme: and life assurance scheme, subject to the terms and conditions of such schemes from time to time in force.
subject to the termination, garden leave and suspension provisions of the service contract, to provide continued employment in the role to which the Executive Director has been appointed.
to terminate the contract only on the expiry of twelve months written notice or to make a payment in lieu of notice equal to the value of: 1 twelve months salary at his or her then current base pay: and 2 a cash payment in respect of benefits under the contract, such as medical insurance, or the Company may, at its option, continue those benefits for a twelve month period see below for the treatment of short-term and long-term incentive awards on termination.
in addition to the contractual rights to a payment on loss of office, Executive Directors will have statutory and or common law rights to certain additional payments for example, in a redundancy situation covering the review of settlement agreements and the provision of legal fees relating thereto, available to all employees.
Inspection of service contracts The dates of the latest service contracts are shown below: Copies may be inspected at Executive Directors Execution date of current service contract the Companys registered Nicandro Durante 10 December 2010 office: these contracts are 1 amended annually following Ben Stevens 26 March 2008 the salary review.
Note 1: Contract as amended by a side letter dated 23 July 2010.
Policy on payment for loss of office Principles The service contracts of the current Executive Directors are terminable on the expiry of twelve months The principles on which the notice from either the Director or the Company which means that, where an internal successor has not Remuneration Committee will been identified, the Company would have sufficient time to replace the Executive Director through an approach the determination for orderly external recruitment process and ideally have a period of handover.
compensation for loss of office in service contracts is limited to no more than twelve months salary and benefits excluding pension.
This amount would be payable where the requisite twelve months notice is not given to the Executive Director or when the Executive Director terminates by giving twelve months notice and the Company does not wish the Executive Director to serve notice.
if an Executive Director is required to serve a period of notice, the compensation payment is reduced pro rata.
In the event that the contract is terminated for cause such as gross misconduct, the Company may terminate the contract with immediate effect and no compensation would be payable.
in cases of underperformance, termination payments will not exceed twelve months salary and benefits.
88 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Policy on payment for loss of office continued Treatment of awards under Plan Good leaver Other leaver scenarios the share incentive schemes: IEIS In accordance with the IEIS rules, good leavers are No entitlement to a bonus but the International Executive eligible for a bonus pro-rated to the period of service Committee has the discretion to treat Incentive Scheme IEIS during the year: payments are cash only.
Awards made other leavers in the same manner Deferred Share Bonus under the DSBS component of the IEIS will vest or as good leavers: this discretion Scheme DSBS transfer to an individual upon termination of their is not exercisable in the case of Long-Term Incentive Plan contract in accordance with the specific circumstances summary dismissal.
LTIP set out in the rules of the scheme.
LTIP For awards made in 2014 and 2015, good leavers In all other circumstances, the awards will All-employee scheme: vesting on the normal vesting date is dependent on lapse immediately including any awards Share Reward Scheme SRS performance over the full performance period and promade from 2016 onwards and which are Executive Directors do not rated for the part of the performance period employed.
still subject to the LTIP Extended Vesting have contractual rights to the For awards made from 2016, vesting occurs at the Period unless the Committee, in its value inherent in any awards end of, and is subject to malus clawback reductions absolute discretion, decides otherwise.
held under the share incentive during, the LTIP Extended Vesting Period.
The release of awards made in 2013, good leavers vesting is dependent on is dependent on leaver status performance to date of leaving and pro-rated for the part and is at the discretion of of the performance period employed.
SRS The award is not forfeited.
If an individual ceases to be employed within three years of the allocation date, the shares and the dividend shares will be withdrawn from trust and transferred tothe individual.
The Remuneration Committee Guidelines retains discretion in deciding Individual event Indicative status good leaver status other than in cases of automatic Resignation intending to cease work altogether.
Good leaver and discretion to good leavers as set out in release awards.
the applicable provisions Resignation intending to take up a different occupation, Good leaver and discretion to of the DSBS and LTIP rules.
The discretionary powers are Delays resignation from the Company to accommodate the Good leaver and discretion to intended to provide flexibility Companys plans or the demands of their current workload.
as Executive Directors may Departure at the request of and or with the agreement of Good leaver and discretion to leave employment for a the Company.
broad variety of reasons Resignation from the Company to work for a competitor or Discretion not to release awards.
which may not necessarily to undertake a role or otherwise acting in conflict with the fall within the prescribed interests of the Company.
Resignation from the Company notwithstanding the Discretion not to release awards.
The Committee exercises its Companys plans and role demands.
discretion by reference to guidelines which set out its Dismissal for any reason such as misconduct or Discretion not to release awards.
agreed relevant factors to poor performance.
assist in the determination ofaleavers status.
In exercising its discretion, the Committee will also take into account the individuals overall performance as well as their contribution to the Company during their total period of employment.
Other discretionary powers payment of legal fees incurred by an individual in connection with reviewing a settlement agreement on termination of employment where the Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement and the The Remuneration Committee individual must obtain independent legal advice.
retains discretion to settle any other amounts reasonably reimbursement of reasonable relocation costs where an Executive Director had originally relocated to take due to an individual Executive up the appointment: these will relate to returning the individual and where relevant their family to their Director as set out here.
country of origin, the shipment of personal goods and winding up their affairs in the UK and the incidental costs incurred in doing so.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may approve new contractual arrangements with departing Executive Directors, potentially including but not limited to settlement, confidentiality, restrictive covenants and or consultancy arrangements: these arrangements would only be entered into where the Committee believes that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to do so.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 89 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Remuneration Report Policy Report continued Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company Process the Committee considers the budgeted salary increases for the UK-based employee population, the guidance given to managers on the range of salary increases and other remuneration arrangements and employment conditions for all UK-based employees, when determining the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
it is expected that future salary increases for Executive Directors will be in line with the range set out in the salary review guidelines for the general UK employee population, except in exceptional circumstances, such as where a recently appointed Executive Directors salary is increased to reflect his or her growth in the role over time or where significant additional responsibilities are added to the role.
annual bonus metrics and related targets for Executive Directors are aligned with those of senior management and are cascaded to lower tier bonus plans adjusted in some cases for local market context, inorder to maintain alignment and line of sight.
Employee opinion survey an employee opinion survey is conducted every two years and the Company includes general questions on consultation its pay arrangements in the survey, the outcomes of which are reviewed by the Board.
90 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Remuneration Table Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Fees Chairman The Remuneration Committee considers annually the fee payable to the Chairman.
Given that the role of a chairman can vary considerably between companies and sectors, this process using data from the FTSE30 companies takes into account the breadth of that role coupled with its associated levels of personal commitment and expertise in the overall context of international reach and the ambassadorial aspect of the role.
The Chairman is currently expected to make an annual time commitment of about 100 days to cover the responsibilities of the role.
The Chairman does not participate in any discussions on his level of remuneration.
Fees The quantum and structure of Non-Executive Directors remuneration will primarily be assessed against the Non-Executive Directors same pay comparator group of companies used for setting the remuneration of Executive Directors.
The Board may also make reference to and take account of relevant research and analysis on Non-Executive Directors fees in FTSE 100 companies published by remuneration consultants from time to time.
The fees for the NonExecutive Directors are reviewed annually, although the review does not always result in an increase in the Board fees or Committee fees.
The Board as a whole considers the policy and structure for the Non-Executive Directors fees on the recommendation of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in discussions on their specific levels of remuneration.
General It is anticipated that any future aggregate increase to any of the fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will be within the salary range which governs the Companys annual salary reviews for UK-based staff 1 and will not exceed the equivalent of 10% per annum in aggregate.
Benefits, travel and related Richard Burrows is reimbursed for the cost of travel and related expenses incurred by him in respect of expenses Chairman attendance at Board, Committee and General meetings including the cost of return airline tickets to London from his home in Ireland in connection with his duties as Chairman.
He is also entitled to the use of a Company driver: private medical insurance and personal accident insurance benefits: the provision of home and personal security: and general practitioner walk-in medical services based a short distance from the Companys Group headquarters in London.
In addition, Richard Burrows spouse may, from time to time, accompany him to participate in a partners programme occasionally organised in conjunction with overseas or UK-based Board meetings and otherwise at hospitality functions during the year.
In appointing a new Chairman, the Committee will offer the components set out in respect of the current Chairman, as appropriate, and may also offer housing allowances for a limited period and other relocation benefits.
Travel and related expenses Non-Executive Directors are generally reimbursed for the cost of travel and related expenses incurred by Non-Executive Directors them in respect of attendance at Board, Committee and General meetings.
In addition, it is the policy of the Board that the partners of the Non-Executive Directors may, from time to time, accompany the Directors to participate in a partners programme occasionally organised in conjunction with overseas or UK-based Board meetings and otherwise at hospitality functions during the year.
Non-Executive Directors are also eligible for general practitioner walk-in medical services based a short distance from the Companys Group headquarters in London.
Non-Executive Directors receive no other benefits.
General In instances where any reimbursements or expenses are classified by HMRC as a benefit to the Director, it is also the practice of the Company to pay any tax due on any such benefits.
Shareholding requirements The remuneration of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors is paid in cash.
There are no formal requirements or guidelines to hold shares in the Company.
Neither the Chairman nor the Non-Executive Directors participate in the British American Tobacco share schemes, bonus schemes or incentive plans and they are not members of any Group pension plan.
Aggregate fees limit: the total annual fees of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are limited to the overall aggregate annual limit of 2,500,000 authorised by shareholders with reference tothe Companys Articles of Association.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 91
