Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Other corporate disclosures Strategic Report disclosures Event Date 2016 Section 414C 11 of the Companies Act 2006 allows the Board to Last day to trade LDT cum-dividend JSE 11 March include in the Strategic Report information that it considers to be of Shares commence trading ex-dividend JSE 14 March strategic importance that would otherwise need to be disclosed in Shares commence trading ex-dividend LSE 17 March the Directors Report.
The Board has chosen to take advantage of this Record date JSE and LSE 18 March provision and accordingly, the information set out below, which would otherwise be required to be contained in the Directors Report, has Payment date 5 May been included in the Strategic Report.
As the Group reports in sterling, dividends are declared and payable in sterling except for shareholders on the branch register in South Africa Information required Section in the in the Directors Report Strategic Report whose dividends are payable in rand.
A rate of exchange of :R 21.32780 as at 23 February 2016 the closing rate for that date Financial Review Certain risk information about the use of as quoted on Bloomberg, results in an equivalent final dividend of financial instruments 2,230.88788 SA cents per ordinary share.
From the commencement An indication of likely future developments in Delivering our strategy of trading on 25 February 2016 the date of the preliminary the business of the Group announcement until the close of business on 18 March 2016, no An indication of the activities of the Group in Delivering our strategy: removal requests between the UK main register and the South Africa the field of research and development Sustainability branch register in either direction are permitted.
Further, from the A statement describing the Groups policy Delivering our strategy: close of business on 11 March 2016 until the close of business on regarding the hiring, continuing employment Winning organisation 18 March 2016, no transfers between the UK main register and the and training, career development and South Africa branch register are permitted and no shares may be promotion of disabled persons dematerialised or rematerialised between 14 March and 18 March Details of employee engagement: Delivering our strategy: 2016, both days inclusive.
information, consultation, share scheme Winning organisation South Africa branch register: Dividends Tax information participation and the achievement of a South Africa Dividends Tax of 334.63318 SA cents per ordinary share common awareness of the financial and will be withheld from the gross final dividend paid to shareholders on economic factors affecting the performance the South Africa branch register at the rate of 15% unless a shareholder of the Group qualifies for an exemption.
After Dividends Tax has been withheld, the Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas Delivering our strategy: net dividend will be 1,896.25470 SA cents per ordinary share.
The final emissions Sustainability dividend is regarded as a foreign dividend for the purposes of the South Africa Dividends Tax.
Listing Rules LRs disclosures British American Tobacco p. l. c. is registered with the South African For the purpose of LR 9.8.
4C R, the applicable information required to Revenue Service SARS with tax reference number 9378193172. be disclosed in accordance with LR 9.8.
4 R can be found in the sections Dividends Tax and the information provided above is only of direct set out below.
application to shareholders on the South Africa branch register.
Shareholders on the South Africa branch register should refer to Applicable information required by LR 9.8.
4 R Section in this Shareholder and contact information for the contact details of Annual Report Computershare Investor Services Proprietary Limited, the Companys Section 12 Shareholder waivers Remuneration Report, registrar for the branch register.
ofdividends page 111 and other corporate disclosures, Dividend information page 114 Further details of the total amounts of dividends paid in 2015 with2014 comparatives are given in note 8 on the accounts.
Section 13 Shareholder waivers Remuneration Report, offuturedividends page 111 and other Annual General Meeting AGM corporate disclosures, The AGM will be held at Milton Court Concert Hall, Silk Street, London page 114 EC2Y 9BH at 11.30am on 27 April 2016.
Details of the business to be proposed at the meeting are contained in the Notice of AGM, which is Dividends made available to all shareholders and published on www.
Final dividend recommendation The Company provides for the vote on each resolution to be by poll The Board recommends to shareholders for approval at the Annual rather than by show of hands.
This provides for greater transparency General Meeting on 27 April 2016, a final dividend of 104.6p per and allows the votes of all shareholders to be counted, including those ordinary share of 25p for the year ended 31 December 2015. cast by proxy.
The voting results are announced on the same day through the Regulatory News Service RNS and on www.
Final dividend key dates and South Africa branch register In compliance with the requirements of the London Stock Exchange LSE and Strate, the electronic settlement and custody system used by the JSE Limited JSE, the following are the salient dates for the payment of the final dividend: British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 113 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Other corporate disclosures continued The Company has unlisted trading privileges for the ADR programme Share capital and none of its securities are listed on any United States securities As at 31 December 2015, the Company had an allotted and fully paid exchange or registered pursuant to the securities laws of the United share capital of 2,026,866,724 ordinary shares of 25p each with an States.
As a result, the Company is subject to neither the NYSE MKT aggregate nominal value of 506.7 million including treasury shares listing standards nor the corporate governance rules under the and shares owned by the employee share trusts.
Nevertheless, the Board has chosen, At the close of business on 23 February 2016 the latest practicable in the interests of good governance, to make a voluntary statement date prior to the recommendation of the final dividend for the explaining the principal differences and common areas between the year ended 31 December 2015, the Company had a total of Companys corporate governance practices and those that would be 1,864,228,895 ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares.
required if the Company were subject to those rules.
The statement is The Company held 162,645,590 ordinary shares in treasury giving available at www.
atotal issued share capital of 2,026,874,485 ordinary shares.
Renewal of authority to purchase shares Significant shareholders The Companys share buy-back programme was suspended with effect from 30 July 2014 and the present authority for the Company At 31 December 2015, the following substantial interests 3% or to purchase its own shares granted at the 2015 AGM will expire more in the Companys ordinary share capital voting securities had at the 2016 AGM.
The Directors are seeking a fresh authority for been notified to the Company in accordance with Section 5.1.
2 of the Company to purchase its ordinary shares in order that the the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules.
As at 24 February 2016, appropriate mechanisms are in place to enable the share buy-back the Company had not received notification either of any change in programme to be reinstated at any time when, in the opinion of the the interests below or that any other person holds 3% or more of its Directors, the exercise of the authority would result in an increase in ordinary shares.
the Companys earnings per share and would be in the interest of its shareholders generally.
Number of % of issued Name ordinary shares share capital Under the proposed authority, the minimum price that may be paid for such shares is 25p and the maximum price is an amount equal BlackRock, Inc. 132,891,526 7.13 to 105% of the average of the middle market prices shown in the Reinet Investments S. C. A.
76,518,264 4.10 quotation for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock The Capital Group Companies, Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately Inc. 75,240,878 4.04 preceding the day on which the ordinary share is contracted to be purchased.
In accordance with the Companys policy, any Note: repurchased shares are expected to be held as treasury shares and as The percentage of issued share capital excludes treasury shares.
While treasury shares are held, no dividends are Stock market listings paid on them and they have no voting rights.
Treasury shares may be Premium listing resold at a later date.
The ordinary shares of the Company as British American Tobacco Further details are contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting p. l. c. have been listed on the Official List and traded on the main which is made available to all shareholders and is also published on market of the London Stock Exchange for listed securities since www.
8 September 1998 Share Code: BATS and ISIN: GB0002875804.
This is classified as a premium listing.
The share registrar is Significant agreements change of control Computershare Investor Services plc.
The following significant agreement contains certain termination Secondary listing and other rights for our counterparties upon a change of control of The Companys ordinary shares have a secondary listing on the JSE the Company.
Limited in South Africa JSE, under the abbreviated name BATS and On 29 May 2014, the Company, B.
A. T. International Finance p. l. c. the trading code BTI.
As at 31 December 2015, 290,914,691 ordinary British American Tobacco Holdings The Netherlands B. V. and B.
A. T. shares of the Company being 15.61% of the Companys issued Netherlands Finance B. V. as borrowers and, in the case of the ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares were on its South Company, as a borrower and guarantor entered into a revolving Africa branch register for which Computershare Investor Services credit facility agreement with HSBC Bank plc as agent and certain Proprietary Limited are share registrars.
financial institutions as lenders pursuant to which the lenders agreed American Depositary Receipts to make available to the borrowers 3 billion for general corporate purposes the Facility.
Pursuant to the Facility, should a borrower The Companys ordinary shares are also traded on NYSE MKT in the other than the Company cease to be a direct or indirect subsidiary of form of American Depositary Receipts ADRs under the symbol BTI the Company, such borrower shall immediately repay any outstanding with a CUSIP number 110448107.
Each ADR represents two of the advances made to it.
Where there is a change of control in respect of Companys ordinary shares and at 31 December 2015, 37,785,964 the Company, the lenders can require all amounts outstanding under ADRs were outstanding, representing 75,571,928 ordinary shares.
the Facility to be repaid.
Citibank, N. A. continues to act as depositary for the ADR programme.
114 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements LTIP change of control Objects and purposes The rules of the LTIP provide that in the event of a change of control The Company is incorporated under the name of British American of the Company as a result of a takeover, reconstruction or winding-up Tobacco p. l. c. and is registered in England and Wales under registered of the Company not being an internal reorganisation, LTIP awards number 3407696.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the Companys will become exercisable for a limited period based on the period of objects are unrestricted.
time that has elapsed since the date of the award and the achievement Directors: appointment and retirement of the performance conditions at that date, unless the Remuneration The Companys Articles of Association provide for a Board of Directors, Committee determines this not to be appropriate in the circumstances.
consisting unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution of In addition, the LTIP allows as an alternative to early release that the shareholders of not fewer than five Directors, and not subject to participants may, if permitted, exchange their LTIP awards for new any maximum.
awards of shares in the acquiring company on a comparable basis.
The Directors and the Company by ordinary resolution may appoint The rules of the proposed LTIP 2016 contain equivalent provisions a person who is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or in respect of the vesting of awards and the exercise of options in the as an additional Director.
A Director appointed by the Directors shall event of a change of control as a result of acorporate action.
retire at the next AGM and will put himself herself forward to be Directors interests and indemnities reappointed by the shareholders.
Such a Director shall not be taken into account in determining the number or identity of the Directors Further details of Directors contracts and letters of appointment, toretire by rotation at that next AGM.
remuneration and emoluments, and their interests in the Companys shares including share options and deferred shares as at At each AGM, all Directors shall retire from office by rotation who: 31 December 2015 are given in the Remuneration Report.
No Director 1 held office at the time of each of the two preceding AGMs and had any material interest in a contract of significance other than a who did not retire at either of them: and 2 if the number of Directors service contract with the Company or any subsidiary company during retiring in 1 above is less than one-third of the Directors who are the year.
subject to retirement by rotation or, if their number is not three or amultiple of three, is less than the number which is nearest to but The Company has arranged appropriate insurance to provide cover does not exceed one-third of the Directors, such additional number in the event of legal action against its Directors and also provides of Directors as shall, together with the Directors retiring under 1 indemnities to its Directors in accordance with the Companys Articles above, equal one-third of the Directors or, if their number is not three of Association and to the maximum extent permitted by law.
As at or amultiple of three, the number which is nearest to but does not the date of this report, such indemnities are in force covering any exceed one-third of the Directors.
costs, charges, expenses or liabilities that they may incur in or about the execution of their duties to the Company or to any entity which is Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act and the Articles of an associated company as defined in Section 256 of the Companies Association, the Directors to retire at an AGM under 2 above will be Act 2006, or as a result of duties performed by them on behalf of the those who have been in office the longest since their appointment or Company or any such associated company.
Information and advice Notwithstanding these provisions contained in the Articles of Association, the Company is not restricted to the number of Directors The Board and its Committees receive papers for review in good who may retire and seek re-election each year.
The Articles of time ahead of each meeting.
The Company Secretary ensures good Association merely set a minimum number of Directors who must information flow within the Board and its Committees, and between be subject to retirement by rotation each year.
As a result, since the the Non-Executive Directors and senior management.
She also advises introduction of the provision in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Board on all governance matters.
in 2011 that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company annual re-election by shareholders, all of the Directors of the Company Secretary, and a procedure is in place for them to take independent will be subject to re-election at the forthcoming AGM to be held on professional advice at the Companys expense if required.
Each of the 27 April 2016. four principal Committees of the Board may obtain independent legal A Director who retires at an AGM and is not reappointed shall retain or other professional advice, at the Companys expense, and secure office until the meeting elects someone in his place or, if it does not attendance at meetings of outsiders if needed.
do so, until the conclusion of the meeting.
In addition to any power Articles of Association of removal under the Companies Act, the Company may, by special resolution, remove a Director before the expiration of his period of The following description summarises certain provisions of the office and, subject to the Articles of Association, may by ordinary Companys current Articles of Association as adopted by special resolution, appoint another person who is willing to act as a Director, resolution at the AGM on 28 April 2010, applicable English law and and is permitted by law to do so, to be a Director instead of him.
the Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act.
This summary is A person so appointed shall be subject to retirement as if he had qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act and the become a Director on the day on which the Director in whose place Companys Articles of Association, available on www.
heis appointed was last appointed or reappointed a Director.
Share capital Fees for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman shall be All of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid and, accordingly, determined by the Directors but shall not exceed in aggregate an nofurther contribution of capital may be required by the Company annual sum of 2,500,000, unless determined otherwise by ordinary from the holders of such shares.
The remuneration of the Executive Directors is determined by the Remuneration Committee, which comprises independent Non-Executive Directors.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 115 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Other corporate disclosures continued Directors: meetings and voting Directors: borrowing powers The quorum for meetings of Directors is two Directors.
The Directors Without prejudice to their general powers, the Directors may exercise may delegate any of their powers that are conferred upon them all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage under the Articles of Association to such person or committee as they or charge its undertaking, property, assets present and future and consider appropriate.
uncalled capital or any part thereof, and subject to the provisions of the Articles of Association to issue debentures, debenture stock and The Articles of Association place a general prohibition on a Director other securities whether outright or as security for any debt, liability voting at a meeting of the Directors on any resolution concerning a orobligation of the Company or a third party.
matter in which he has an interest other than by virtue of his interest in shares in the Company.
However, in the absence of some other interest Directors: interests not indicated below, a Director is entitled to vote and to be counted Provided that the Director has disclosed to the other Directors in a quorum for the purpose of any vote relating to a resolution the nature and extent of any material interest of his, a Director, concerning the following matters: notwithstanding his office: 1. the giving to him of a guarantee, security or indemnity in respect of 1. may be a party to, or otherwise interested in, any transaction money lent to, or an obligation incurred by him for the benefit of, or arrangement with the Company or in which the Company is the Company or any of its subsidiaries: otherwise interested: 2. the giving to a third party of a guarantee, security or indemnity in 2. may be a Director or other officer of, or employed by or may be a respect of an obligation of the Company or any of its subsidiaries party to, or otherwise interested in, any transaction or arrangement for which the Director has assumed responsibility in whole or part with anybody corporate promoted by the Company or in which the and whether alone or jointly with others under a guarantee or Company is otherwise interested: indemnity or by the giving of security: 3. shall not, by reason of his office, be accountable to the Company 3. the giving to him of any other indemnity which is on substantially for any benefit which he derives from any such office or the same terms as indemnities given, or to be given, to all of employment or from any such transaction or arrangement or from the other Directors and or to the funding by the Company of any interest in any such body corporate: his expenditure on defending proceedings of the doing by the 4. shall not infringe his duty to avoid a situation in which he has, or Company of anything to enable him to avoid incurring such can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may possibly expenditure where all other Directors have been given, or are to be conflict, with the interests of the Company as a result of any such given, substantially the same arrangements: office or employment or from any such transaction or arrangement 4. any proposal concerning the purchase of Directors and officers or from any interest in any such body corporate: liability insurance: 5. shall not be required to disclose to the Company, or use in 5. any proposal concerning his being, or intending to become, a performing his duties as a Director of the Company, any participant in the underwriting or sub-underwriting of an offer of confidential information relating to such office or employment any such shares, debentures or other securities for subscription, if to make such a disclosure or use would result in a breach of purchase or exchange: duty or obligation of confidence owed by him in relation to or in connection with that office or employment: 6. any arrangements which relate in any way to a retirement benefits scheme or any arrangement for the benefit of the employees of 6. may absent himself from discussions and exclude himself from the Company or any of its subsidiaries including but without being information, which will or may relate to that office, employment, limited to an employees share scheme, which does not accord to transaction, arrangement or interest: and any Director any privilege or advantage not generally accorded to 7. no such transaction or arrangement will be liable to be avoided the employees and or former employees to whom the arrangement because of any such interest or benefit.
relates: and For the purposes of the Articles, a general notice given to the Directors 7. any transaction or arrangement with any other company, being that he is to be regarded as having an interest of the nature and extent a company in which the Director is interested only as an officer, specified in the notice in any transaction or arrangement in which creditor or shareholder, provided that he is not the holder of or aspecified person or class of persons is interested is deemed to be beneficially interested in 1% or more of the equity share capital of adisclosure that the Director has an interest in any such transaction that company or of any other company through which his interest ofthe nature and extent so specified.
is derived and not entitled to exercise 1% or more of the voting rights available to members of the relevant company disregarding, An interest of which a Director has no knowledge and of which it is for the purposes of this proviso: i any shares held by a Director as unreasonable to expect him to have knowledge is not treated as an bare or custodian trustee and in which he has no beneficial interest: interest: an interest which consists of a Director being a Director or ii any shares comprised in an authorised unit trust scheme in other officer of, or employed by any subsidiary of the Company is which the Director is interested only as a unit holder: and iii any not deemed to be a material interest: a Director need not disclose shares of that class held as treasury shares.
aninterest if it cannot be reasonably regarded as likely to give rise to aconflict of interest: and a Director need not disclose an interest if, The Company may by ordinary resolution suspend or relax to any orto the extent that, the other Directors are already aware of it.
extent, either generally or in respect of any particular matter, any provision of the Articles prohibiting a Director from voting at a meeting of the Directors or of a committee of the Directors.
116 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements A Director will no longer be regarded as having an interest in a The Directors may, with the sanction of an ordinary resolution of the transaction by virtue of a person connected to the Director having a shareholders, offer any holders of ordinary shares the right to elect to relevant interest.
However, the Director and the Company must still receive ordinary shares credited as fully paid instead of cash in respect take a view each time a matter is being considered as to whether the of the whole or part of all such dividends as may be specified by the interests of the Directors connected persons mean that a Director resolution.
Any general meeting declaring a dividend may, upon the should be treated as interested in a transaction.
recommendation of the Directors, direct payment or satisfaction of such dividend to be wholly or partly by the distribution of specific The Directors may subject to such terms and conditions, if any, as they assets.
Where difficulty arises in regard to distribution, the Directors may think fit to impose from time to time, and subject always to their may ignore fractions or issue fractional certificates, fix the value for right to vary or terminate such authorisation authorise, to the fullest distribution of any assets and may determine that cash shall be paid extent permitted by law: toany shareholder in order to adjust the rights of such members.
1. any matter which would otherwise result in a Director infringing Any dividend which has been unclaimed for 12 years from the date his duty to avoid a situation in which he has, or can have, a direct it became due for payment shall, if the Directors so resolve, be or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the forfeited and cease to be owed by the Company.
The Company can interests of the Company and which may reasonably be regarded cease sending dividend warrants and cheques by post or otherwise as likely to give rise to a conflict of interest including a conflict of if these have been returned undelivered to, or left uncashed by, the interest and duty or conflict of duties : and shareholder on at least two consecutive occasions, or, if following 2. a Director to accept or continue in any office, employment or one such occasion, reasonable enquiries have failed to establish the position in addition to his office as a Director of the Company and members new address.
No dividend shall bear interest against the may authorise the manner in which a conflict of interest arising out Company, unless provided by the rights attached to the share.
of such office, employment or position may be dealt with, either The Directors may elect to pay dividends to shareholders by bank or before or at the time that such a conflict of interest arises, provided electronic transfer only.
Amounts due to shareholders who provide no, that the authorisation is only effective if: a any requirement as to or invalid, account details may be held in an account in the Companys the quorum at the meeting at which the matter is considered is met name until such shareholders nominate a valid account.
The Company without counting the Director in question or any other interested shall not be a trustee of any such monies, shall be deemed to have Director: and b the matter was agreed to without their voting or discharged its payment obligations by paying the relevant monies into would have been agreed to if their votes had not been counted.
such account and interest will not accrue for shareholders on any such If a matter, or office, employment or position, has been authorised monies pending payment to such persons.
by the Directors then subject to such terms and conditions, if any, Voting rights asthe Directors think fit to impose, and subject to their right to vary Voting at any general meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands orterminate such authorisation or the permissions set out below : unless a poll is demanded.
On a show of hands, every shareholder who 1. the Director shall not be required to disclose any confidential is present in person at a general meeting has one vote regardless of the information relating to such matter, or such office, employment number of shares held by the shareholder.
or position, to the Company if to make such a disclosure would Every proxy appointed by a shareholder and present at a general result in a breach of a duty or obligation of confidence owed by meeting has one vote, except that if the proxy has been duly him in relation to or in connection with that matter, or that office, appointed by more than one shareholder entitled to vote on the employment or position: resolution and is instructed by one or more of those shareholders to 2. the Director may absent himself from discussions, whether in vote for the resolution and by one or more others to vote against it, or meetings of the Directors or otherwise, and exclude himself from is instructed by one or more of those shareholders to vote in one way information which will or may relate to that matter, or that office, and is given discretion as to how to vote by one or more others and employment or position: and wishes to use that discretion to vote in the other way he has one vote for and one vote against the resolution.
3. a Director shall not, by reason of his office as a Director of the Company, be accountable to the Company for any benefit which On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has he derives from such matter, office, employment or position.
one vote for every share held by the shareholder.
A shareholder or his duly appointed proxy entitled to more than one vote need not use all Dividend rights his votes or cast all the votes he uses in the same way.
A poll may be Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may, by ordinary resolution, demanded by any of the following: declare dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the amount recommended by the Directors.
The Directors may also pay 1. the Chairman of the meeting: interim dividends if it appears that such dividends are justified by the 2. the Directors: profits available for distribution.
No dividend shall be paid otherwise than out of profits available as specified under the provisions of the 3. not less than five shareholders having the right to vote at Companies Act.
the meeting: 4. a shareholder or shareholders representing not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders having the right to vote at the meeting excluding any voting rights attached to treasury shares : or British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 117 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Other corporate disclosures continued 5. a shareholder or shareholders holding shares which confer a right 1. is lodged, duly stamped, and is deposited at the registered office to vote on the resolution at the meeting being shares on which an of the Company or such other place as the Directors may appoint aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of and is accompanied by a certificate for the shares to which it relates the total sum paid up on all shares conferring that right excluding and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to any voting rights attached to treasury shares.
show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: Matters are transacted at general meetings of the Company by the 2. is in respect of only one class of share: and proposing and passing of two kinds of resolutions: 3. is in favour of not more than four transferees.
1. ordinary resolutions, which can include resolutions for the For uncertificated shares, transfers shall be registered only in appointment, reappointment and removal of Directors, the accordance with the terms of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations receiving of the Annual Report, the declaration of final dividends, 2001 so that Directors may refuse to register a transfer which would the appointment and reappointment of the external auditor, the require shares to be held jointly by more than four persons.
authority for the Company to purchase its own shares and the grant of authority to allot shares: and If the Directors refuse to register a share transfer, they must give the transferee notice of this refusal as soon as practicable and in any event 2. special resolutions, which can include resolutions amending the within two months of the instrument of transfer being lodged with the Companys Articles of Association and resolutions relating to certain Company.
No fees may be charged for registering a transfer.
matters concerning a winding-up of the Company.
Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a simple majority While holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under of the votes cast at a meeting at which there is a quorum in order to the Articles of Association, the ability of the Directors to cause the be passed.
Special resolutions require the affirmative vote of not less Company to issue shares, securities convertible into shares or rights than three-quarters of the votes cast at a meeting at which there is a to shares, otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme, is quorum in order to be passed.
The necessary quorum for a meeting restricted.
Under the Companies Act, the Directors of a company are, of the Company is a minimum of two shareholders present in person with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without or by proxy or by a duly authorised representative s of a corporation express authorisation, which may be contained in a companys Articles which is a shareholder and entitled to vote.
of Association or given by its shareholders in a general meeting, but When convening a meeting the Company may specify a time not which in either event cannot last for more than five years.
Under the more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting excluding any Companies Act, a company may also not allot shares for cash part of a day that is not a working day by which a person must be otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme without first entered on the register of members in order to have the right to attend making an offer to existing shareholders to allot such shares to them or vote at the meeting.
on the same or more favourable terms in proportion to their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a special resolution Winding-up of the shareholders.
If the Company is wound up, the liquidator may, with the sanction of a special resolution and any other sanction required by law, subject to Alteration of share capital the provisions of the Companies Act, divide among the shareholders The Company may, from time to time, by ordinary resolution: the whole or any part of the assets of the Company, and may, for that 1. consolidate and divide all or any of its shares into shares of a larger purpose, value any assets and determine how the division is to take amount than its existing shares: place as between the shareholders or different classes of shareholders.
Alternatively, with the same sanction, the liquidator may vest the whole 2. sub-divide any of its shares into shares of smaller amount than its or any part of the assets in trustees upon trusts for the benefit of the existing shares: and shareholders, but no shareholder will be compelled to accept any asset 3. determine that, as between the shares resulting from such a upon which there is a liability.
sub-division, any of them may have any preference or advantage Transfer of shares as compared with the others.
Shares may be transferred by an instrument of transfer in any usual Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act: form or in any other form which the Directors may approve and shall be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and, where the share is 1. the Company may reduce its share capital, its capital redemption not fully paid, by or on behalf of the transferee.
The Directors can, in reserve and any share premium account in any way: and their absolute discretion, refuse to register the transfer of a share in 2. the Company may purchase its own shares, including redeemable certificated form which is not fully paid, provided that such a refusal shares, and may hold such shares as treasury shares or cancel them.
would not prevent dealings in shares in certificated form which are not fully paid from taking place on a proper basis.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in certificated form whether fully paid or not unless the instrument of transfer: 118 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Disclosure of interests in the Companys shares Variation of rights There are no provisions in the Articles of Association whereby persons If the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain percentage of the shares, the rights attached to any class of shares may only be varied, Companys shares are required to make disclosure of their ownership either in such a manner as provided by those rights or in the absence percentage, although there are such requirements under statute of any provision, with the consent in writing of three-quarters in and regulation.
The basic disclosure requirement under Part 6 of the nominal value of the issued shares of that class or with the sanction Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and Rule 5 of the Disclosure of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of holders of Rules and the Transparency Rules made by the Financial Conduct such shares.
At any separate meeting, the necessary quorum is two Authority imposes a statutory obligation on a person to notify the persons together holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in Company and the Financial Conduct Authority of the percentage of nominal amount of the issued shares of the class but at an adjourned the voting rights in the Company he directly or indirectly holds or meeting shall be any one person holding shares of the class or his controls, or has rights over, through his direct or indirect holding of proxy.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the rights attached to certain financial instruments, if the percentage of those voting rights: any shares, those rights shall be deemed to be varied by the reduction of the capital paid up on those shares and by the creation or issue 1. reaches, exceeds or falls below 3% and or any subsequent whole of further shares ranking in priority for payment of a dividend or in percentage figure as a result of an acquisition or disposal of shares respect of capital or which confer on the holders voting rights more or financial instruments: or favourable than those conferred by the first-mentioned shares, but 2. reaches, exceeds or falls below any such threshold as a result of shall not otherwise be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue any change in the number of voting rights attached to shares in offurther shares ranking pari passu with them or subsequent to them.
Repurchase of shares The Disclosure Rules and the Transparency Rules set out in detail the Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company circumstances in which an obligation of disclosure will arise, as well may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Act.
ascertain exemptions from those obligations for specified persons.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon Under Section 793 of the Companies Act, the Company may, by completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the notice in writing, require a person that the Company knows or has Companys issued share capital.
There is no longer a requirement for reasonable cause to believe is or was during the three years preceding public companies to have specific authorisations in their articles of the date of notice interested in the Companys shares, to indicate association to undertake these actions.
whether or not that is the case and, if that person does or did hold an interest in the Companys shares, to provide certain information The Strategic Report and the Directors Report comprised in this asset out in that Act.
The Disclosure Rules and the Transparency Rules Annual Report have been approved and are signed by order of the further deal with the disclosure by persons of interests in shares or Board by: debentures of the companies of which they are Directors and certain associated companies.
Nicola Snook Secretary The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also imposes strict disclosure 24 February 2016 requirements with regard to dealings in the securities of an offeror or offeree company on all parties to a takeover and also on their respective associates during the course of an offer period.
General meetings and notices An AGM and all other general meetings of the Company must be called by at least 21 clear days written notice.
However, the Companies Act allows for this period of notice for meetings other than AGMs to be reduced to 14 clear days notice provided that two conditions are met: 1 a company must allow shareholders to make proxy appointments via a website such as that hosted by its share registrars : and 2 shareholders must pass a special resolution at the AGM every year approving that shortening of the notice period to 14 days.
A special resolution enabling the Company to hold general meetings other than AGMs on 14 days notice will be proposed at the AGM to be held on 27 April 2016.
Subject to the resolution being passed, the approval of the shortening of the notice period will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that the approval be renewed.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine.
Rather the Directors will consider on a case-by-case basis whether the use of the flexibility offered by the shorter notice period is merited, taking into account the circumstances, including whether the business of the meeting is time sensitive, and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Further, the shorter notice period would not be used unless both of the conditions as stated above are met.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 119
