governance directors report The articles give the directors power to appoint and replace The directors present their report and the directors.
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination audited consolidated financial statements Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the board.
The articles also of the company and the group for the 52 require directors to retire and submit themselves for election to the weeks ended 27 September 2015. first AGM following appointment and to retire at the AGM held in the third calendar year after election or last re-election, but to comply Business review and future development with the UK Corporate Governance Code all of the directors will submit themselves for election John Daly and Mathew Dunn or A review of the groups operations during the year and its plans for re-election at the AGM except for John Gibney who steps down the future is given in the Chairmans introduction, the Chief Executive from the board at the conclusion of the AGM.
The biographical Officers Review and the Chief Financial Officers Review between details of the directors are set out on pages 34 and 35 of this report.
Details of the groups business model and strategy are summarised Directors interests between pages 8 and 11.
The directors interests in ordinary shares of the company are shown within the Directors Remuneration Report on page 60.
No director Results and dividends has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of any group The groups profit before taxation attributable to the equity company.
shareholders amounted to 137.6m 2014: 120.1m and the profit Other than Joanne Averiss, who is a director of a number of after taxation amounted to 103.8m 2014: 89.7m.
PepsiCos subsidiaries, no director was or is materially interested in An interim dividend of 6.7p 2014: 6.1p per ordinary share was paid any contract, other than his service contract, which was subsisting on 10 July 2015. during or existing at the end of year and which was significant in relation to the groups business.
Further details of Joanne Averiss The directors have proposed a final dividend of 16.3p 2014: 14.8p appointments are set out on page 35 in the Corporate Governance per ordinary share payable on 5 February 2016 to shareholders on Report.
the register at the close of business on 4 December 2015, giving a total dividend in respect of 2015 of 23.0p 2014: 20.9p.
Directors liabilities 2016 annual general meeting As at the date of this report, customary indemnities are in place under which the company has agreed, to the extent permitted by The AGM will be held at Nomura, One Angel Lane, London EC4R law and the companys articles, to indemnify: 3AB at 11.00am on 27 January 2016.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are set out in the separate circular which The directors, in respect of all losses arising out of, or in has been sent to all shareholders with this annual report.
connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors of the company or any of its subsidiaries: and Articles of association Directors of companies which are corporate trustees of the The companys articles may only be amended by a special resolution groups pension schemes against liability incurred in connection at a general meeting of shareholders.
No amendments to the articles with those companies activities as trustees of such schemes.
are being proposed at the AGM.
Directors remuneration Directors The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the board, has adopted The following were directors of the company during the year: Gerald a policy that aims to attract and retain the directors needed to run Corbett, Simon Litherland, John Gibney, Joanne Averiss, John Daly the group effectively.
The policy is contained within the Directors appointed 27 January 2015, Ben Gordon, Bob Ivell, Silvia Lagnado Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 69. resigned on 31 July 2015 and Ian McHoul.
Subject to company law and the companys articles, the directors Employees may exercise all of the powers of the company and may delegate For full information on our employees, including the areas of learning their power and discretion to committees.
The executive team is and development, employee communication and engagement, responsible for the day-to-day management of the group.
health, safety and wellbeing and equal opportunities these are included in our Sustainable Business Review on pages 22 to 27.
70 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report gover governance finance financial statements other information governance directors report continued The company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders Political donations that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or No political donations were made by the group and its subsidiaries voting rights.
Shares held in employee benefit trusts Greenhouse gas emissions Under the rules of the Britvic Share Incentive Plan the Plan eligible Details of the greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide employees are entitled to acquire shares in the company.
Plan equivalent CO e for our office and manufacturing locations are set 2 shares are held in trust for participants by Equiniti Share Plan out in the Sustainable Business Review on page 25.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant does Major shareholders not submit an instruction to the Trustees no vote is registered.
In addition, the Trustees do not vote on any unawarded shares held At 24 November 2015 the company has been notified, pursuant to under the Plan as surplus assets.
As at 24 November 2015, the DTR5 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Trustees held 0.08% 2014: 0.19% of the issued share capital of the Transparency Rules, of the following notifiable voting rights in its company.
ordinary share capital: Similarly, if First Names Jersey Limited, as Trustee of the Britvic Number of Percentage Nature Employee Benefit Trust the Trustee, holds ordinary shares on trust ordinary of voting of holding for the benefit of the executive directors, senior executives and shares rights managers of the group, a dividend waiver is in place.
The Trustee is TIAA-CREF 12,873,383 4.935% Direct not permitted to vote on any unvested shares held in the trust unless Investment expressly directed to do so by the company.
The Trustees held 0.5% Management, LLC of the issued share capital as at 24 November 2015 2014: nil.
APG Asset 12,522,359 5.07% Direct Management N. V. Change of control provisions Kames Capital 12,295,181 4.97% Direct Indirect There are no agreements between the company and its directors or Standard Life 12,294,602 4.708% Direct Indirect employees providing for compensation for loss of office or Investments Ltd employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The companys PepsiCo, Inc. 11,813,032 4.88% Direct banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of control of the company.
Certain other indebtedness becomes repayable if a Share capital change of control leads to a downgrade in the credit rating of the The companys issued share capital comprised a single class of shares company.
The companys agreements with PepsiCo are terminable divided into ordinary shares of 20 pence each referred to as ordinary upon a change of control.
Further details of these agreements can shares.
An equity placing of 12,361,455 new ordinary shares was be found on page 28. undertaken by the company on 23 July 2015 for the purpose of funding the Ebba acquisition.
Full details of the ordinary shares in issue are given Financial risk management in note 21 to the financial statements on page 105.
It is the groups objective to manage its financial risk so as to minimise the adverse fluctuations in the financial markets on the Rights and restrictions attaching to shares groups reported profitability and cash flows.
The policies for On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company, every managing each of the groups main financial risk areas are referred holder of ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote shall to in the Treasury Management section of the Chief Financial have one vote, and on a poll, every member present in person or by Officers review on pages 17 to 21 and in more detail within proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary note 25 of the consolidated financial statements.
Any notice of general meeting issued by the company will specify deadlines for exercising voting rights and in appointing a Research and development proxy or proxies in relation to resolutions to be proposed at the The group carries out research and development necessary to general meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, support its principal activities as a manufacturer and distributor against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at of soft drinks.
the general meeting and published on the companys website after the meeting.
Post balance sheet event There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the On 30 September 2015, the group acquired 100% of the issued company other than: share capital of Empresa Brasileira fide Bebidas e Alimentos SA Certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by Ebba, a soft drinks company in Brazil.
Further details on the laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and acquisition can be found in note 33 to the financial statements on page 127.
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and Britvics share dealing code whereby certain employees of the group require the approval of the company to deal in its ordinary shares.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 71 governance directors report continued exposure to credit risk.
Based on the groups cash flow forecasts Directors statement as to disclosure of and projections, the board is satisfied that the group will be able to information to auditors operate within the level of its facilities for the foreseeable future.
For So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit this reason, the group continues to apply the going concern basis in information as defined by the Companies Act 2006 of which the preparing its financial statements.
Each director has taken all steps that ought to be taken by a director to make themself aware of, and to establish, Auditors that the auditors are aware of any relevant audit information.
Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to accept A copy of the financial statements is placed on the companys re-appointment as auditors of the company and a resolution website.
The maintenance and integrity of this website is the proposing their re-appointment is contained in the Notice of AGM responsibility of the directors.
The work carried out by the auditors and will be put to the shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the By order of the Board auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going concern In presenting the financial statements on a going concern basis, the Clare Thomas directors have considered both the business activities and principal Company Secretary risks and uncertainties as set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 29.
In addition, the directors have considered the following 24 November 2015 factors: the groups ability to generate cash flows, the financial resources available to it, headroom under bank covenants, and making lifes everyday moments more enjoyable 72 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015
