Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic management Delivering our strategy Growth Our brands delivered further Key performance indicators growth in 2015 as we continued Total shareholder return annual % FMCG group 1 January 2013 to invest in opportunities in compound annual growth rate to 31December 2015 The FMCG group comparison is based KeyMarkets and Next Generation on three months average values Products.
10.2% Highlights during the year BAT Median Group revenue grew by 5.4% at constant 10% 12% 30 rates of exchange.
Definition: Total shareholder return TSR is measured 25 according to the return index calculated by Datastream, Volume growth achieved across all on the basis of all companies dividends being reinvested 20 GlobalDrive Brands up 8.5% on 2014. in their shares.
The return is the percentage increase in 15 eachcompanys index over a three-year period.
10 Target: The Group is focused on increasing shareholder Market share in Key Markets up by over 5 value, which is measured using TSRcompared to a 40 bps.
0 fast-moving consumer goods FMCG peer group see page 80 for details.
The FMCG comparator Absolute volume growth achieved in three group is reviewed annually toensure it remains of our four regions.
KPI Lower quartile KPI Launched Vype, our Vapour Products e-cigarette brand in Italy, France, Poland, Revenue Group share of Key Markets Germany and Colombia.
at constant exchange rates increase in % share Completed 550 million acquisition of 14,720 13,971 TDR in Croatia, the leading independent cigarette manufacturer in Central Europe.
14, 720m 40 bps 5.4% Winning in combustibles The Group grew revenue by 5.4% at constant 2015 2014 rates of exchange, driven by a price mix of Definition: Gross turnover net of duty, excise and Definition: This is our retail market share in the Groups 5.9%.
Revenue decreased by 6.2% at current other taxes.
KeyMarkets, which cover around 80%ofthevolumes rates of exchange, impacted substantially by of subsidiaries.
Target: To grow revenue also known as Net Turnover or Target: To continue to grow market share.
Our combustible brands delivered significant NTO by 25% per year over the medium to long term.
further share growth in 2015, with another KPI KPI strong performance from all of our Global Drive Brands GDBs Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Global Drive Brands GDBs Adjusted diluted earnings per share Strike, Pall Mall and Rothmans which grew cigarette volume atcurrent rates volume by 8.5% overall and market share by 301 216.6 bn pence 208.4 208.1 278 120 bps.
263 Dunhill 301bn 208.4p Dunhill volume increased by 6.0% to 59 billion, with market share higher by 8.5% 0.1% 30bps, driven mainly by strong performances 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 in Indonesia, Brazil and South Africa, offsetting lower volume in South Korea, Malaysia Definition: GDB volume is calculated as the total Definition: This is our adjusted diluted earnings per share and Russia.
volumes of the five GDBs sold by our subsidiaries.
EPS the detail of the calculation and adjustments are explained in note 7 in the Financial Statements.
Target: To increase our GDBs share faster than the Target: To grow adjusted diluted EPS at the rate of high restofour portfolio.
2013 figures have beenre-stated to single figures per annum, on average, over the medium include Rothmans volume.
KPI British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 13 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic management Delivering our strategy continued Premium products Enhancing our position in Growth continued The Groups share of the premium segment highgrowth markets and was up 120 bps.
Volume was marginally Winning in combustibles contd through strategic investments down on 2014, by 0.1% to 180 billion, largely Kent High growth markets due to declines in Russia, Malaysia and Brazil.
Kents volume in 2015 was 66 billion, up by Market share in our Key Markets was higher Despite this overall decline, good growth was 3.3% as volume growth in Iran, Turkey, Japan by over 40 bps in 2015, driven by further seen in Indonesia, Vietnam and South Korea.
and Chile was partly offset by lower volume in brand investment and the roll-out of new and Local and international brands Russia and Ukraine.
innovative products in markets such as South Our other international brands down Korea, Mexico, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Lucky Strike 6.8% include Vogue, Viceroy, Kool, Peter France, Ukraine, Turkey, UK, Bangladesh Lucky Strikes market share grew 10 bps, with Stuyvesant, Benson & Hedges, State Express and Pakistan.
volume of 32 billion, up 3.7%, with increases 555, Shuang Xi and John Player Gold Leaf.
Acquisitions in Belgium, France and Chile more than These, in conjunction with our local brands offsetting decreases in Russia and Argentina.
During 2015, we completed the acquisition down 8.8%, continue to play an important of TDR in Croatia, the leading independent role in a number of our Key Markets, Pall Mall cigarette manufacturer in Central Europe.
including South Africa, Vietnam, Pakistan, Pall Malls volume in 2015 was 92 billion, See case study below for further details.
up 0.4% as growth in Pakistan, Venezuela, Poland and Mexico was partly offset by the The Group also acquired the rest of the shares Innovations effect of the brand migration to Rothmans in in our Brazilian subsidiary, Souza Cruz S. A.
Innovations grew by 14% in 2015, mainly Italy.
not currently owned by the Group and fidedriven by Tubes and Slimmer products, and listed the company.
now account for 26% of the Groups total Rothmans reported cigarettes volume.
Innovations share Additionally, the Group concluded the Rothmans had exceptional growth of 46.5%, of Global Drive Brand volume was 51.3%.
investment of US$4.7 billion to maintain our with volume of 52 billion, led by strong 42% stake in the enlarged, and substantially performances in Russia, Ukraine, Turkey, Italy, Other Tobacco Products stronger, Reynolds American Inc. following its Kazakhstan, Australia, Algeria and the UK.
Other Tobacco Products volume fell by purchase of Lorillard Inc. Market share was up 70 bps.
4.1% to 26 billion sticks equivalent due to a reduction in Fine Cut volume in Western Europe.
Pall Mall remains the number one Fine Cut brand in Western Europe.
Case study Case study Winning in combustibles Enhancing our position Innovation in Japan in highgrowth markets Acquisition of TDR Challenge Challenge To increase sales and market share in Japan, a Key Market for To provide immediate scale and establish a sustainable platform theGroup, where innovations remain a key competitive lever.
togrow our business in the Balkans, where we have previously hadlimited market share.
What we did What we did With even greater focus on the consumer, we delivered transformational innovations including tube filters, novel flavour The Group acquired TDR and other tobacco and retail assets from capsules in super slim and double flavour capsules.
Outcome Outcome The market delivered consistent market share growth over a By combining its existing business in the region together with TDR, number of months, with Kent becoming the fastest growing brand the Group acquired immediate scale in the core markets of Croatia, in Japan for two consecutive years.
Refined brand strategies for Kent Bosnia and Serbia adding 1.8 billion cigarettes to Group volumes and Kool were also implemented, with a robust innovation pipeline in 2015.
The Group expects to further benefit from highly skilled and new consumer activation.
people, well established brands, enhanced regional leaf processing capabilities, alocal high quality factory and print facility, and strong relationships with distributors and retailers in these markets.
14 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Next Generation Products Case study We are confident that Next Generation Leading Next Generation Products Responsibly meeting Products can deliver a substantial and sustainable commercial return to shareholders consumer needs in the online world over the long term.
Our ambition is Challenge Outcome to lead the Next Generation Product Online sales form an important component In 2015, the UK Department of Health category worldwide.
of the Vapour Products e-cigarettes acknowledged the need for businesses selling Our approach to this emerging product business.
Currently there are no universally into the UK to demonstrate an electronic category encompasses a number of key agreed standards for online age verification age-verification scheme that unambiguously drivers.
The Group continues to invest in for access to age-restricted products and confirms the consumers age.
Technical and a sustainable pipeline of high-quality Next services and we believe these need to exist.
policy experts from the Group have been Generation Products to give consumers a invited to sit on the steering committee What we did choice of potentially less risky alternatives to with the UK national standards body, the The Group worked with a global provider smoking.
We are also continuing our efforts, British Standards Institution, to establish of online age-verification solutions and through robust science, to set the bar on standards for an online age-verification implemented them through our govype.
com product safety and quality.
Additionally, process which will help prevent youth websites in the UK and subsequent launch weare supporting the development of access to Vapour Products.
We also became members of the suitable regulations, sharing our own Group has carried out in this area, through Digital Policy Alliance DPA a Westminsterresearch and approach, implementing its work on govype.
com, and working with based industry and policymakers group, to globally responsible marketing practices, relevant stakeholders, positions the business support the creation of credible standards for and collaborating with regulators and for responsible future growth in online sales online age verification.
Investing in a sustainable pipeline ofproducts In the Vapour Products e-cigarettes segment, since the launch, in 2013, of our Vype brand in the UK, we have developed the range, adding new flavours and devices, such as the eTank, a refillable device.
In 2015, we launched Vype in five further markets Italy, France, Poland, Germany and Colombia.
We also launched our first Tobacco Heating We have robust product assessment Acquisitions and partnerships Product, glo iFuse, in Romania, in 2015. procedures in place, facilitated by cuttingReinforcing the Groups commitment to This isan electronic device that heats a edge science and peer-reviewed research.
leading in Next Generation Products, we nicotine-containing liquid into an inhalable This includes our research published in signed a technology-sharing agreement with vapour, which then passes through a 2015 on toxicological risk assessments R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company in 2015. tobacco section, releasing tobacco flavour of e-liquid flavours and ingredients, and The agreement provides a framework for tothe consumer.
tests to investigate the effects of vapour in collaboration and mutual cross-licensing of Next Generation Products compared with In the Licensed Medicinal Products segment, the parties vapour product technologies up cigarette smoke.
we were the first tobacco company to have to 31 December 2022. a nicotine product licensed as a medicine.
Supporting the development Additionally in 2015, the Group completed This was following receipt of the relevant ofregulation its acquisition of the CHIC Group, the marketlicences from the UK medicinesregulator The Group would like to see high product leading Vapour Product business in Poland.
forour innovative nicotine inhaler, Voke.
standards across the whole industry, so we continue to advocate for, and collaboratively The CHIC Group has 800 points of sale We expect Voke will be launched in 2016. develop, consistent national and international in Poland.
Additionally, it has a dedicated Setting the bar on product safety standards and regulation.
e-liquids production facility, a modern andquality research and development centre and In 2015, we worked with the British Standards Given concerns regarding consumer safety leading Polish e-cigarette brands including Institution, and AFNOR, the French standards and uncertainty about how new products VOLISH, P1, Provog, Cottien, LiQueen and association, to develop new voluntary should be regulated, we think it is crucial for Aromativ.
As such, we have gained access to standards for Vapour Products.
consistent product standards and marketing Europes largest Vapour Products e-cigarettes rules to be implemented.
We are also looking carefully at the responsible retailing network.
sale and marketing of Vapour Products online.
Further information on our work in all these Further information on these activities can be areas can be found in our Sustainability found in the case study above.
Summary report, available at www.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 15 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic management Delivering our strategy continued Productivity We are driving a more efficient Key performance indicators Business measures andeffective globally integrated Adjusted profit from operations Operating margin organisation, with global systems atconstant exchange rates 5,620 38.7 38.1 38.1 and ways of working, aresponsive 5,043 supply chainand along-established approach to securing the highest 5,620m 38.1% quality leaf forour products.
4.0% -60 bps Highlights during the year 2015 2014 2013 10% excluding transactional FX 2015 2014 Continued optimisation of our Definition: This is the adjusted profit from operations of Definition: This is the percentage of adjusted profit from manufacturing operations, with 80% of our the Groups subsidiaries profit from operations at constant operations divided by revenue.
tobacco coming from our strategic sources rates adjusted for the items shown as memorandum in 2015, up from 65% in 2011. information on the Group Income Statement.
TaO operating model, supported by a Target: The Groups mediumto long-term target is Target: To increase operating margin by 50100 bps per global SAP template, so far implemented togrow adjusted profit from operations on average annum on average over the medium term.
in 180 markets, 40 factories and 25,000 by57% per year.
users within a period of two years and KPI three months.
Cash generated from operations Free cash flow as a percentage Accelerated roll-out of innovations, including at constant rates ofadjustedearnings capsules, double capsules and novel 3,656 90 flavours, now deployed in over 100 markets 82 across the globe.
2,660 64 3,656m 90% 37% 2015 2014 2015 2014 2013 Definition: Cash generated from operations is defined Definition: This measures our free cash flow see page as the free cash flow excluding restructuring costs and 33 per share as aratio of the adjusted diluted earnings dividends and other appropriations from associates, per share.
perthealternative cash flow on page 33.
Target: A specific target is set each year for the cash flow Target: To convert around 80% of our adjusted earnings from operations.
per share to free cash flow.
KPI Having a clear global view of our plans means Enhancing and streamlining we can allocate resources in the right areas.
oursupplychain It also improves our ability to react quickly in The Group operates a globally integrated situations when speed to market will give us supply chain delivering market-leading acompetitive advantage.
products and innovations to our markets to We continued to optimise our manufacturing satisfy consumers, drive share growth and operations in 2015 and at the end of the year create value for our business partners.
had 44 factories producing cigarettes and 2015 has seen an accelerated global rollOther Tobacco Products.
out of tube filter innovations along with the We are continually looking to improve the continued roll-out of capsules, including novel efficiency of our supply chain.
Last year flavours and double capsules products, along we launched Integrated Work Systems, with excellent growth of demi-slims products anew programme designed to maximise in a number of Key Markets.
productivity and flexibility in our factories Continued strategic investment in new while ensuring we maintain high standards machinery in 2015 supported by our global of product quality.
planning systems and integrated business In 2015, we also continued to drive cost model has ensured we deliver on time in full savings in our supply chain in areas such as in all our Key Markets at optimal cost, with leaf and blends, wrapping materials, logistics, speed and scale.
16 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Savings such as these not only enhance our We invest more than 60 million each year Case study profitability, but also release funds to invest in to support farmers with more than 1,000 leaf activities that will deliver sustainable growth.
technicians providing advice and training for farmers worldwide, who also benefit from our Integrated efficiencies cutting-edge research into tobacco plants and In order to become a more globally integrated agronomic practices.
enterprise, the Group decided to bring all its This integrated approach not only benefits entities onto the same SAP-based enterprise farmers today but helps to encourage future resource planning system.
The aim of generations whilst ensuring the quality and Programme TaO was to create a standard integrity of the tobacco we buy.
operating model, harmonise business processes and instil common ways of working Working together to strengthen Programme TaO across the Group.
This will enable the Group industry-wide supplier standards GroupTreasury to extend its use of shared services, drive cost Our Social Responsibility in Tobacco Challenge efficiencies, increase its business agility and Production SRTP programme sets out the exploit further transformation opportunities To ensure access to consolidated and minimum requirements we expect of our across the Group.
For an example of this, accurate information and to drive further suppliers.
We first developed it over 15 years please see the Group Treasury case study on efficiencies within the Treasury function, ago and have shared it with a number of the right of this page.
the role of which is to raise finance for other tobacco companies.
the Group, manage its cash resources TaO is a complex programme involving all and the financial risks arising from Over the years, we have worked to continually functions across the business.
In just two underlying operations.
strengthen and evolve the programme.
years and three months, the new Global As part of this, in 2015, we worked as part platform has been implemented in over What we did of an industry initiative to collaborate on the 180 markets and 40 factories.
More than Central Treasury was part of the development of a new Sustainable Tobacco 25,000 employees use the new systems and Programme TaO pilot that went live Programme, which will replace SRTP later global processes.
Since then, TaO in 2016. has enabled Treasury to implement a By harnessing the expertise of the IT function The new programme will apply to all the centralised operation with global reach: and business users across every region and major global tobacco manufacturers and operating across three time zones in market, this ambitious global transformation 100% of their suppliers.
It draws on best partnership with the Marketing and programme has been implemented practice from across the industry and Finance Shared Services Centres.
successfully on time and on budget.
external standards, such as those of the Outcome Working with farmers to secure International Labor Organization ILO and The new global system replaced the UN Guiding Principles on Business and access tohigh-quality leaf a standalone system with notable Human Rights.
It also includes additional It is crucial to our business to ensure we have improvements.
The change will bring enhancements to deal with future challenges secure and sustainable sources of high-quality substantial direct benefits, driven from and stronger processes, such as more frequent leaf.
This helps enable delivery of the Groups enhanced analytics capabilities and on-site reviews and a defined approach to strategic focus on delivering superior products more accurate and timely information.
Additional benefits will continue to be Continuing to focus on realised, with a better and faster view of The Group operates a fully integrated tobacco cash meaning we can use cheaper sources model encompassing research, growing, improving ourproductivity of funding.
For example, the Group was buying, processing, sourcing and deployment.
While transactional foreign exchange rates able to triple the use of cheaper short-term This ensures the business is effective in had a material impact on our cost base borrowings in 2015. the way it manages the overall asset base, in 2015, by continuing to improve our sustainable sourcing footprint, farmers and productivity in all areas of our supply chain, key suppliers while ensuring we are able to we can increase our profitability and continue deliver a robust leaf innovation pipeline.
to deliver returns to our shareholders today.
Whilst the Group does not own tobacco farms But it is not just about today: it also underpins or directly employ farmers, we buy more than our future.
The more efficient and effective we 400,000 tonnes of tobacco each year from become, the more we are able to generate some 90,000 contracted farmers and thirdfunds to invest in the things that will fuel party suppliers mainly in developing countries future growth: our products, our innovations, and emerging economies in Africa, Asia and our people, our markets and our Next Latin America.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 17 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic management Delivering our strategy continued Winning organisation A winning organisation is one Business measures withhigh-performing leaders Group diversity Nationalities represented inspiring diverse teams of Total Male Female Total committed and engaged people Main Board 13 9 4 Main Board level 8 ina fulfilling, rewarding and Senior managers 212 183 29 Global headquarters 69 responsible work environment.
Total Group Management level globally 138 Highlights during the year employees 50,599 37,132 13,467 Accelerated the capability enhancement of our senior leaders through new development programmes in conjunction Main Board Senior managers Employee engagement 72 69 with leading business schools.
index 14 Enhanced the content and scale of our 31 graduate intake programme.
69 86 72% Increased the digital reach and reputation of our employer brand Bring your Difference.
BAT FMCG BAT 72% Total Group employees FMCG Comparator group 69% Definition: Results from our biennial Your Voice 27 employee opinion survey, last carried out in 2014, enable us to calculate our employee engagement 73 index a measure that reflects employee satisfaction, advocacy and pride inthe organisation.
% Male % Female Objective: To achieve a more positive score than the norm for FMCG companies in ourcomparator benchmark group.
Senior managers are defined here as the members of the Management Board excluding the Executive Directors and the directors of the Groups principal subsidiary undertakings.
The principal subsidiary undertakings, as set out in the Financial Statements, represented approximately 81% of the Groups employees and contributed around 80% of Group revenue andprofitfrom operations in 2015.
In 2015, we invested in two core areas: Investing in leaders accelerating the capability enhancement of The quality of our people is a major reason our senior leaders through new development why the Group continues to perform well.
programmes in conjunction with leading In return, we commit to invest as much business schools: and enhancing the content time and energy in our people as we do and scale of our graduate intake programme our brands.
to strengthen the commercial experience and The way our people operate is embodied acumen of tomorrows leaders.
in our four Guiding Principles: Enterprising Attracting the best talent Spirit, Freedom Through Responsibility, Open Minded and Strength from Diversity.
When we do recruit externally, we seek to These principles underpin our culture and bring in people who will provide additional guide how we deliver our strategy.
knowledge and skills that will strengthen our teams and ultimately make us a stronger The culture of the Group is about developing business.
In 2015, we championed a talent talent from within, stretching and supporting culture shift, increasing the digital reach and the high-performing managers who will lead reputation of our employer brand Bring your the delivery of our strategy.
This year over Difference across core social media channels, 80% of our senior appointments were drawn achieving industry leadership of our talent from people already within the business brand on LinkedIn.
moves that have helped deliver stronger and more diverse leadership teams and We continue to raise our engagement with key succession plans.
talent pools about the opportunities within our business.
With a view to the future, we have run targeted campaigns and searches focusing on future capabilities tostrengthen our expertise and representation in growth markets.
18 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Safe place to work Case study The Group sets a goal of zero accidents Outcome Women in Leadership and is committed to providing a safe working environment for all our employees The programme has enabled the programme and contractors.
acceleration of performance of female talent.
Challenge Since 2013 we have had five waves of the Our people work in a diverse range of To better support career progression of programme, with 144 female managers environments and conditions, from city offices female talent within the Group, to unlock attending in total.
Delegates from major to remote farms.
Thousands also work in their full potential and develop inclusive Group locations have been involved, distribution and sales, often spending long leadership further whilst better representing representing all functions within the periods on the road when they are vulnerable a core adult consumer base.
In 2015 alone, the Group ran two to road traffic accidents, particularly in waves of the programme, with 50 women What we did developing countries where the transport identified as high-potential managers taking We established a coaching programme infrastructure can be poor.
In establishing this programme, we delivered in three phases over a period To reduce the main causes of accidents and have: engaged female talent sooner in their of six to nine months for high potential serious injuries, we focus on risk management careers to unlock their full potential: helped female employees.
It involves line managers and assessments, and in 2015 we further rolled them navigate towards more inclusive who work with the delegates throughout out our enhanced driver safety programme.
leadership: strengthened networking: and the programme.
The programme is As a result, while total accidents across the continued to address gender diversity at facilitated by an external executive coaching Group have remained relatively steady with senior levels across the Group.
consultancy that specialises in developing a small 1.7% reduction, we have achieveda and optimising female talent.
15% reduction in road traffic accidents.
Sadly, however, six members of the public lost their lives in accidents involving our vehicles, and one contractor died in a road accident.
In addition, six contractors died as a result of armed attacks.
We deeply regret this loss of life and the suffering caused.
We carry out reviews of all reported accidents and fatalities to learn lessons and identify actions to reduce the chances of similar events happening again.
We commit to provide equal opportunities to We also offer our UK employees the chance Diversity for growth all employees.
We do not discriminate when to share in our success via our Sharesave Diversity matters to the Group because it making decisions on hiring, promotion or Scheme, Partnership Share Scheme and Share makes good commercial sense having retirement on the grounds of race, colour, Reward Scheme.
We also operate several a diverse workforce means we are better gender, age, social class, religion, smoking similar schemes for senior management in able tounderstand and meet the needs of habits, sexual orientation, politics or disability, ourGroup companies.
consumers in more than 200 markets.
subject to the inherent requirements of the Engagement for change We are proud to have joined the 30% Club role to be performed.
We are committed an organisation focused on enabling growth to providing training and development for To win we must evolve, and as our through diversity.
Recruitment searches have employees with disabilities.
organisation evolves we focus on our culture been directed where we see mismatches in of passionate owners, having people who lead Rewarding people our employee profile compared with our and inspire each other for the journey ahead.
consumer profile ensuring that we are We believe strongly in the need to recognise Our most recent employee survey in 2014 addressing both current need and the talent excellence and, whilst we have a number of had a response rate of 93% 11 percentage pipeline for future opportunities.
recognition schemes globally, 2015 saw the points higher than the average response rate launch across Western Europe of a recognition The tables on page 18 set out the nationality for this type of survey of FMCG peers and one platform to enable managers and peers representation and gender breakdown percentage point up on our previous survey in to recognise colleagues.
This platform will within the Group as at 31 December 2015, 2012.
Our Employee Engagement Index score continue to be rolled out across the Group in comparing numbers for all employees, our of 72% was ahead of a FMCG comparator 2016 as part of our commitment to ensuring most senior managers and the Main Board.
Broadly, this index combines our people feel valued.
Our specific diversity ambition is to achieve employee satisfaction with their attitudes by 2020 a sustainable improvement in senior Additionally, we regularly review our towards recommending us as a place to work, representation of women and nationalities remuneration policy to reward our employees their desire to stay and their pride in working which is key to our success.
to drive the strategic fundamentals of the for us.
Further information on the Groups The Groups broad geographic presence Our High Performance Index score of 72% Remuneration Policy for the Executive means we are well placed to attract talented indicates our continued focus on leadership Directors and the Non-Executive Directors people from many different countries and and talent development is supporting our canbe found on pages 67112. diverse nationalities are widely represented high-performance culture.
across thebusiness, including at Board level.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 19 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic management Delivering our strategy continued Sustainability Sustainability is a key pillar of our Business measures Group strategy and has always Carbon dioxide equivalent CO e Group energy use 2 played a fundamental role within tonnes CO e per million cigarettes gigajoules per million cigarettes 2 equivalent produced equivalent produced 0.83 0.84 10.26 10.28 our business.
0.79 9.75 Our Sustainability Agenda focuses 0.79 9.75 on the three key areas which have the greatest significance to our 48% lower than 17.5% lower than 2000 baseline 2007 baseline business and our stakeholders, 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 inaddition to adhering to good Definition: We track Group CO e in tonnes per million Definition: We track Group energy use in gigajoules per 2 environmental practices.
Highlights during the year Target: To reduce Group CO e see above by 50% by Target: To reduce energy use see above to 9.82 by 2017, 2 2030 from our 2000 baseline of 1.52 and by 80% by 2050.
Included for the 14th consecutive year in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, maintaining our position as industry leader.
Water use Recycling Worked as part of an industry-wide initiative cubic metres per million cigarettes percentage of waste recycled equivalent produced to strengthen standards for tobacco 3.69 3.70 92.8 92.6 3.56 88.9 leaf suppliers.
Developed our new Supplier Code of 3.56 92.8% Conduct which clearly defines the minimum human rights standards we expect of all our 26.6% lower than suppliers worldwide.
2007 baseline 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 Made significant progress against our Definition: We track Group water use in cubic metres per Definition: We track the total percentage of Group waste environmental targets, with a 48% million cigarettes equivalent produced.
re-used or recycled against total waste generated.
reduction in CO e emissions from our 2 2000 baseline.
Objective: To reduce water use see above to 3.6 by 2017, Objective: To recycle more than 85% of waste generated 26% lower than our 2007 baseline.
Sustainability reporting Harm reduction Sustainable agriculture and Our approach farmer livelihoods Investing in a sustainable pipeline of highOur approach quality Next Generation Products that Supporting farmers livelihoods across consumers can trust.
five focus areas of: farm income: natural resources: skills knowledge and labour: Setting the bar on high product standards, infrastructure and resources: and based on robust science and implementing community networks.
Strengthening industry-wide supplier Supporting the development of regulation for standards and driving best practice and Next Generation Products by sharing our own continuous improvement.
research and approach, and collaborating with regulators and standards authorities.
Tackling agricultures social and Find out more about our focus on environmental challenges through We are committed to researching, developing sustainability in our Sustainability global and local initiatives and Summary report 2015. and commercialising potentially less risky stakeholder partnerships.
alternatives to regular cigarettes as a It is available onour corporate website www.
com sustainability fundamental part of our vision to satisfy We are committed to working to enable consumers in tobacco and beyond.
prosperous livelihoods for all farmers who supply our tobacco leaf.
In 2015, the Group made significant progress in the development of Vapour Products The farmers we work with are valued business e-cigarettes, Tobacco Heating Products and partners and crucial to the success of our Licensed Medicinal Products.
business if they do well, we do well.
You can read more about these products and our approach to them in the Growth section of this Strategic Report page 15.
20 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our specialist leaf technicians provide on-theOur Regional Audit and CSR Committees Good environmental management ground advice and support for some 90,000 monitor the performance of our companies As a global business, we have a responsibility contracted farmers worldwide.
We also in managing human rights in the workplace to reduce our impact on local communities work in collaboration with governments, and supply chain.
This includes reviews and the environment.
We do this through the industry and NGOs on programmes to of operations in countries of concern as a mixture of performance management, tackle social and environmental challenges in identified by independent human rights risk assessments and, where appropriate, farming communities.
strengthening our processes and procedures.
Exploitative child labour is an important issue Our approach to human rights is based on We continue to make good progress towards for any industry with an agricultural supply our core belief that universally recognised our long-term target to cut carbon dioxide chain.
Our Social Responsibility in Tobacco fundamental human rights should be equivalent CO e by 80% by 2050 from our 2 Production SRTP programme, against which respected.
Our Human Rights Policy details year 2000 baseline.
We use the Greenhouse all our first-tier leaf suppliers are reviewed, has our commitments to eliminating child labour Gas Protocol Corporate Standard to guide a specific focus on child labour.
In 2015, we and the exploitation of labour, as well as to our CO e reporting methodology see table 2 worked as part of an industry-wide initiative respect freedom of association.
below, adopting an equity share approach to develop a new Sustainable Tobacco to defining, consolidating and reporting our In 2015, to help suppliers meet our Policy Programme, which has a strengthened Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 CO e emissions.
commitments, we developed a new Supplier 2 process and more frequent on-site reviews.
Code of Conduct defining the minimum To address indirect impacts, environmental It will replace SRTP later in 2016. standards we expect.
This was published criteria are included in supplier assessments We also co-founded the Eliminating atbat.
com principles in early 2016. and programmes, and we support wider Child Labour in Tobacco Growing ECLT multi-stakeholder projects and afforestation Foundation and remain active members along programmes.
In 2015, 98.2% of the wood with others in the industry, the ILO and Save our farmers used for curing did not come the Children.
ECLT focuses on research and from natural forest.
advocacy and runs long-term community projects to address the root causes of Emissions 2015 2014 child labour.
Scope 1 CO e emissions tonnes 330,495 342,385 2 Corporate behaviour Scope 2 CO e emissions tonnes 363,501 370,724 2 Our approach Scope 3 CO e emissions tonnes 182,343 212,018 2 Engaging openly on regulation.
Total tonnes 876,339 925,127 Intensity per million cigarettes equivalent 0.79 0.83 Responsible marketing of tobacco products and working with retailers to prevent youth smoking.
Case study Collaborating with governments, law Sustainable agriculture and farmer livelihoods in Brazil enforcement agencies, international organisations and the industry to tackle the Challenge illegal tobacco trade.
People working in agriculture represent This has included a range of activities around 30% of global employment.
to increase farm productivity and crop Safeguarding human rights across our own Over the past few decades this has been yields, and incentives such as advance operations and our supply chain.
in steady decline, driven by negative payments of crop inputs to reduce debt Conducting our affairs with honesty, integrity perceptions of working in this area and high and long-term, strategic contracts with and transparency is key if we are to continue levels of migration among young adults.
This is to develop as a responsible, successful and We recognised the need to ensure a genuinely complemented with: training and capacity sustainable business.
sustainable livelihood for our farmers to secure building for over 20,000 farmers: multia sustainable supply of leaf for the business.
stakeholder projects focused on rural youth This is why we have clear principles and development: enhancing farm safety and policies in place that set out the way we What we did labour practices: womens leadership: and operate.
Integral to this are the Group Our company in Brazil has been working for eliminating child labour.
Standards of Business Conduct SoBC, over ten years on an holistic approach to which cover our policies and procedures Outcome demonstrate how farming in general, and on areas such as sanctions, and bribery and tobacco-growing specifically, can be a While the general trend in the country has corruption compliance.
desirable, profitable and sustainable business.
been for farmers average age to increase, The action being taken in relation to the the average age of our contracted farmers recent allegations of misconduct in East Africa has remained steady.
The number of farmers is described on page 65. aged 1830 has also increased from 17.5% to 20% since 2009.
We are now working to build upon this approach in our other leaf operations.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 21
