Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic management Our business model What we do Source At the heart of our business is the manufacturing and What we do marketing of superior Whilst the Group does not own tobacco farms or directly employ farmers, we buy more than cigarettes, Other Tobacco Our people 400,000 tonnes of tobacco each year from some Products and Next 90,000 contracted farmers and third-party suppliers, and relationships Generation Products.
mainly in developing countries and emerging economies in Africa, Asia and Latin America.
Our sustainable approach We employ more than 50,000 people worldwide, What makes us different to sourcing, production, engaged in securing our leaf We provide on-the-ground support and advice distribution and marketing supply through production to our contracted farmers to help ensure helps us to create value for and distribution, as well consistency and quality of supply.
awide group of stakeholders, as our efforts to develop We work to enable prosperous livelihoods new products.
for all farmers who supply our tobacco Our workforce is diverse, leaf, investing over 60 million each We use our uniquestrengths, multicultural and we have year to support them.
and employ our resources a devolved structure, Our Social Responsibility in Tobacco and relationships to deliver with each local company Production programme encourages having responsibility for sustainable growth inearnings continual improvement of suppliers its operations.
We encourage a culture ofpersonal ownership and value our employees talents see pages 3744 and abilities.
Their diverse perspectives help enable us to succeed.
We also have excellent Market relationships with a range of stakeholders, What we do including farmers, retailers We offer adult consumers a range of and distributors.
products, including: cigarettesand cigars, Fine Cut tobacco, Swedish-style We engage with regulators snus and Next Generation Products in a around the world to support number of markets.
Our range of highregulation that is based quality products covers all segments, on robust evidence and from value-for-money to premium.
thorough research, that respects legal rights and livelihoods, and delivers What makes us different on the intended policy Our successful portfolio of international, aims whilst recognising regional and local tobacco brands unintended consequences.
meets a broad array of adult consumer preferences wherever we operate, based onsound consumer insights.
You can learn more Our international brand strategy focuses about ourwork in on our Global Drive Brands, which account supporting farmers in our leaf supply chain for 45% of the cigarettes wesell and are www.
com farmervideo asignificant driver of growth.
com welcometobat Our commitment to substantial investment in a range of Next Generation Products, including see pages 1321 for Vapour Products e-cigarettes, Tobacco more information Heating Products and Licensed Medicinal Products, enables us to meet varied consumer needs in this emerging product category.
see pages 3744 10 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Produce What we do We manufacture high quality products in stateof-the-art manufacturing facilities all over the Innovation world.
We also ensure that these products and the tobacco leaf we purchase are in the right We make significant place at the right time.
We work to ensure that investments in research our costs are globally competitive and that we and development to deliver use our resources as effectively as possible.
innovations that satisfy or What makes us different anticipate consumer needs In 2015 we had 44 factories across the globe and generate growth for producing cigarettes and Other Tobacco the business.
These strategically placed factories cigarette innovations enable us to maximise efficiency and ensure such as capsule products, products are where they need to be at the additive-free products, right time.
tube filters and Reloc, our resealable pack technology.
Our production facilities are designed to meet We also look outside the the needs of an agile and flexible supply chain, traditional cigarette market providing a world-class operational base that and research, develop and isfit for the future.
test innovative products such as Vapour Products e-cigarettes, Tobacco see pages 3744 Heating Products and Consumers Licensed Medicinal Products.
We place adult consumers World-class science at the heart of our business.
We have an extensive We invest in world-class research scientific research to understand changing consumer programme.
We have spent needs and buying behaviour.
more than 460 million on This drives our leaf sourcing, research and development product development, innovations, over the past three years.
We are transparent We aim to satisfy consumers Distribute about our science and while addressing expectations publish details of our What we do about how weshould market research programmes on We distribute our products around the globe our products.
our dedicated website, effectively and efficiently.
com, and global volume is sold by retailers, supplied the results of our studies in through our direct distribution capability peer-reviewed journals.
We continuously review our route to market, including our relationships with wholesalers, distributors and logistics providers.
You can take a video tour inside our state-of-the-art What makes us different plant biotechnology Our relationships with, and efficient labsand meet some of the scientists behind the science distribution to, retailers worldwide ensures at www.
com labtour we can offer the products our adult or at www.
com consumers wish to buy, where and when welcometobat they want them.
see pages 1321 for Our global footprint and direct distribution more information capability enables new product innovations to be distributed to markets quickly and efficiently.
see pages 3744 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 11
