Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Directors Report Chairmans introduction We take these allegations extremely seriously.
We continue to evaluate our own performance Although we were aware of and had looked on an annual basis.
The evaluation includes into some of the allegations in the past, given a 360-degree review of all Board members, the high standards to which we hold ourselves including myself, and we receive individual and the number and nature of the allegations feedback.
The key outcomes from this years of which we are now aware, the Group has evaluation are set out in this section, including appointed an external law firm to conduct our proposed actions for 2016. afull investigation.
We aim to have a Board that is as diverse We have also informed the Serious Fraud as our geographic reach and our consumer Office of our approach and we are liaising profiles.
Sue Farr, Pedro Malan and Dimitri with them.
Panayotopoulos, who joined the Board in Richard Burrows February 2015, have added to the Boards All our employees are required to understand Chairman diverse composition, bringing valuable and abide by our Standards of Business business and geopolitical skills to the Board.
We will not tolerate corruption inour business anywhere in the world.
We also refreshed our Committee Dear Shareholder composition during 2015.
As a result Christine The Groups Statement of Business Principles One of the key objectives of our Board is Morin-Postel replaced Kieran Poynter as Chair is another policy that underpins the Groups establishing and driving clear, transparent and of the Audit Committee and Kieran Poynter commitment to high standards of corporate rigorous systems of Corporate Governance.
replaced Gerry Murphy as Chair of the behaviour and human rights.
We demand We aim to meet the best of international Remuneration Committee.
high standards from our suppliers and in early standards and regulatory requirements 2016 we formalised this through a Supplier We believe that this Annual Report presents a and review our ways of working regularly Code of Conduct which details the minimum fair, balanced and understandable assessment each year.
standards we expect our suppliers to meet in of the Companys position, its performance During 2015, both regulatory requirements these areas.
and its prospects as well as its business model and international standards were in sharp and strategy.
The Board remains committed As reported in the 2014 Annual Report, focus.
The Board worked closely with the to ensuring that our governance processes the Audit Committee agreed to conduct a Audit Committee to consider the broader and the culture throughout the Group competitive audit tender ahead of the AGM assessment of long-term solvency, liquidity continue to reflect the standards that you on 29 April 2015.
As a result of proposed and viability now required under the revised expect.
Many of you share your thinking with litigation by a Group subsidiary against provisions of the UK Corporate Governance me on this topic and I welcome this open and  LLP PwC, PwC Code on risk management and internal ongoing dialogue.
had notified us that it would not seek control.
These, together with our principal reappointment as the Groups auditors at Group risk factors, are reported upon in detail Richard Burrows the AGM in April 2015.
This situation arose in our Strategic Report on pages 3744.
Chairman from potential claims against PwC in respect Our Standards of Business Conduct came of work carried out by PwC in relation to under the spotlight in late 2015, as a result of the audit of the accounts of a third party.
media interest in allegations of bribes being These claims do not concern the audit of any paid in East Africa in 2012.
KPMG LLP was appointed as the Group Auditors in March 2015 and their appointment was confirmed by shareholders at our 2015 AGM.
Further details of the audit tender can be found on page 60.
Compliance statement Throughout the year ended 31 December 2015 and to the date of this document, we applied the Main Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code as revised in September 2014 the Code.
The Company was compliant with all provisions.
The Board considers that this Annual Report, and notably this section, provides the information shareholders need to evaluate how we have complied with our current obligations under the Code.
For ease of reference, we prepare a separate annual compliance report by reference to each provision of the Code.
This report is available at www.
We comply with the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules requirements for corporate governance statements by virtue of the information included in this section, together with the information contained in the other corporate disclosures section.
46 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015
