Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Remuneration Report Annual Statement In summary those issues were, and remain: a disconnect, in the design of the current long-term incentive plan, between managements performance in delivering against its longterm strategic objectives and compensation outcomes to reward that performance.
In particular, sterlings persistent strength, against the currencies in a number of countries where the Group operates, adversely impacts the financial results on translation from their local currencies into sterling.
The Groups objective is to deliver high single figure growth rates for earnings per share measured at constant rates of exchange.
Management has continued to deliver on that objective but our current long-term incentive plan LTIP vesting outcomes Kieran Poynter have not recognised and rewarded that performance.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee a lack of competitiveness in the design of our Executive Directors compensation.
We need to increase the amount of incentive opportunity to bring it more into line with the marketplace.
Actual earnings will, of Dear Shareholder course, continue to be driven by the levels ofperformance delivered.
It is essential that we attract and retain top international talent in order to deliver the high levels of performance that the Board and The proposed changes to our current Policy, as set out in the shareholders want and expect.
accompanying report, reflect key elements of the investor feedback we have received and which theCommittee believes will address the two In order to do this, our remuneration structure must be competitive issues highlighted above.
in that global talent market.
We also need to ensure there is a strong and clear relationship between delivery on key strategic metrics with First, we propose the introduction of a new LTIP, replacing our existing stretching performance targets and reward outcomes.
plan, with a re-configured set of balanced metrics.
We believe this will both reward management for strong delivery against key strategic In other words, management needs to be rewarded appropriately, objectives and align them with the interests of our shareholders.
based on competitive opportunity for delivering long-term sustainable Those metrics, their respective weights and performance ranges are set shareholder value.
We believe that the interests of shareholders and senior management Secondly, we propose increases in the maximum potential award levels should be strongly aligned over the long term.
of variable pay for the 2016 and future awards as follows: Last year my predecessor highlighted the issues affecting the existing a Chief Executive maximum LTIP award increases from 400% Remuneration Policy which had prompted dialogue with shareholders ofsalary to 500%: at the end of 2014.
Given the diversity of feedback received during that consultation, the Committee decided not to proceed with any b Finance Director maximum LTIP award increases from 300% Policy changes at that time and to evaluate the proposals in the light ofsalary to 350%: of the investor responses.
Nevertheless, his 2014 Statement also c Chief Executive target and maximum short-term incentive noted that the underlying issues that had prompted engagement STI opportunity will increase from 100% and 200% of salary remained unresolved.
respectively to 125% and 250%: Shareholder consultation proposals d Finance Director target and maximum STI opportunity will increase Consequently, in 2015, the Committees agenda has been focused on from 90% and 180% to 95% and 190% respectively.
its review of proposals to address and eliminate these persistent issues In order to instil greater alignment between the Groups management and to re-engage with shareholders.
Over the last few months I have and its shareholders, the Committee has determined that the new LTIP consulted with shareholders representing about 60% of our shares.
will include an additional two-year vesting period which will follow During this most recent dialogue, I am pleased to say that the response the three-year performance period for LTIP awards made in 2016 and has been encouraging, with shareholders recognising the degree to subsequent years.
Directors will be unable to exercise any LTIP awards, which our redesigned proposals reflected earlier concerns whilst at following the completion of the performance period, for a further the same time addressing the underlying issues compromising the two years.
effectiveness of the existing Policy.
Measure % of award Performance range Threshold vesting % Growth in earnings per share EPS at 5% 10% compound annual growth rate CAGR over current exchange rates 20 performance period 3 Growth in EPS at constant exchange rates 20 5% 10% CAGR over performance period 3 Total shareholder return TSR relative to global FMCG peers 20 Median performance vs. peer group to upper quartile 3 Growth in Net Turnover 20 3% 5% CAGR over performance period 3 Operating cash flow as a % of adjusted operating profit AOP 20 Cash flow is 85% 95% of AOP over performance period 3 Total 100 15 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 67 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Remuneration Report Annual Statement continued Furthermore the minimum shareholding requirements of our Executive increasing the award potential for the Executive Directors to Directors will be increased to match themaximum annual award ensure competitiveness in the market.
The Committee is acutely under the LTIP: Chief Executive to 500% of salary previously 400% conscious of shareholders general unease with the potential for and the Finance Director to 350% of salary previously 250%.
However, in proposing the variable award increases, we looked at the external market We will also make the following additional changes to the where we saw, for a company of British American Tobaccos current Policy: size and complexity when compared to its most relevant peers, we will revise the performance range for the NTO metric in the new a gap in potential earnings.
Our proposals, which have been LTIP scheme from the current 25% to a new 35%.
The Committee tempered in response to dialogue with shareholders, restores is of the view that the new range introduces an appropriate increase ameasure of competitiveness vis--vis the external market for in the degree of stretch represented by the metric.
several investors provided feedback that a combined level of LTIP We believe that the results of our discussions have resulted in a Policy vesting at threshold performance generating a value equivalent to which will reward management fairly for strong performance on key the annual salary of the Chief Executive was excessive.
of this, the Committee has decided to reduce the level of vesting at Incentive outcomes threshold performance from 20% to 15% of the new award levels The 2015 outcomes for both of our incentive schemes reflects not for the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
This lower level of only the Groups strong underlying performance especially evident threshold vesting will represent 75% and 52.5% of the respective inrespect of the STI but illustrates in stark terms, in respect of the annual salaries of the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
LTIP outcome, the logic for introducing a new LTIP based on the Committee has decided to introduce retrospective disclosure are-configured set of performance metrics.
ofthreshold and maximum performance points within its short-term As the Chief Executives statement highlights, in spite of the incentive scheme.
Given the commercial sensitivity that this entails, continued challenging global economic environment, the Group has disclosure will be on a two-year retrospective basis.
In other words, delivered a strong all-round performance on the key financial and in this 2015 report we will provide disclosures in respect of the 2014 marketing fundamentals.
short-term incentive scheme and on this basis in future years.
In terms of the STI outcomes, Global Drive Brands and Key Strategic Shareholder consultation principal themes Brands grew by 8% during 2015 while our volume share in the Given the importance the Committee attaches to its dialogue with Groups Top 40 markets increased by over 40 bps over the same shareholders, I would like to highlight some of the principal themes period, reflecting growth across the majority of the largest cigarette onwhich discussion centred: markets.
This strong share and volume delivery, together with a 4% an LTIP that does not function effectively to incentivise and growth in adjusted operating profit at constant rates which has reward management to drive the strategic fundamentals is not translated into a very satisfying cash generated from operations in the interests of its shareholders.
There was considerable diversity performance, has combined to result in the overall achievement of of opinion amongst our shareholders on preferred metrics with, a maximum award for 2015 under the IEIS.
This strong all-round in particular, TSR and some form of potential Returns measure performance will result in IEIS awards for 2015 for the Chief Executive attracting polarised opinions of like and dislike.
There was, however, and the Finance Director of 200% and 180%, respectively.
widespread acknowledgement that an LTIP which was not reflecting Following on from a 0% vesting of the 2012 LTIP award last year, strong underlying performance needed to be addressed and that the2013 LTIP award has vested at 8.7% with performance against its the metrics being proposed would deliver a stronger and more metrics materially impacted by translational currency headwinds as transparent linkage between performance on key strategic objectives aresult of sterlings strength versus key operational currencies over the and reward outcomes.
measured over several years, the Companys underlying On a constant currency basis, adjusting only for translational performance, when analysed on a consistent basis, has remained impacts, CAGR EPS of 9.2% was achieved over the 2013 LTIP award extremely strong.
In past years, when EPS growth in percentage performance period, delivering against our commitment of high terms on an actual currency basis achieved in a number of years the single-digit EPS growth.
However, as a result of translational currency high teens, benefiting its shareholders, underlying EPS growth on headwinds and inflation adjustment of 10.5%, actual real CAGR EPS a constant currency basis was at or near high single-digit growth.
growth has registered a decline of 1.3% leading to a nil vesting for the In more recent years of currency headwinds, caused by sterlings EPS element of the 2013 LTIP award.
It is, of course, much harder to appreciation, management has continued to deliver high singleisolate the impact of translational currency headwinds on the relative digit EPS growth on a constant basis.
In other words, managements TSR measure, suffice it to say it will be significant and similarly negative performance has been consistently strong, irrespective of positive in its impact on vesting.
or negative translational currency impacts.
The Committee believes that reward outcomes should continue to reflect that strong This continued disconnect between management performance and underlying performance.
reward outcomes has undermined the LTIPs role, in its present form, as an effective incentive mechanism and has prompted us to make the changes that I have discussed at length earlier.
68 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Remuneration Report Index to key elements POLICY REPORT Directors personal performance Principles of remuneration 74 Under the rules of the IEIS scheme the Remuneration Committee has discretion to award an individual performance uplift for outstanding Base salary 75 performance in any year up to the overall maximum opportunity under Benefits 76 the STI.
In 2015 the STI corporate result reached the maximum and so Pensions 77 no individual performance adjustment could be made.
Short-term incentives: IEIS 78 Long-term incentives: LTIP 80 Nevertheless the Board has evaluated the individual performance of All-employee share schemes 83 the Executive Directors and concluded they have both made a big contribution to the achievement of our short-term goals reflected in Shareholding guidelines 84 the IEIS and to the progress we have made towards the delivery of an External Board appointments 84 ambitious transformational strategic long-term agenda.
Illustrations of remuneration policy 85 Flexibility, judgement and discretion 86 Notwithstanding this strong performance, in view of the proposed Recruitment 87 increases in variable pay opportunities, we propose no increase this Service contracts 88 year in the fixed pay of our Executive Directors.
Payment for loss of office 88 Shareholder support Other discretionary powers 89 In summary, the Committee believes that the changes to our existing Consideration of employment conditions in Company 90 Remuneration Policy which it proposes to make are in the interests of Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 91 our shareholders as the revisions will ensure that the Companys ability to attract and retain top talent in a globally competitive marketplace ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION continues and is therefore in the interests of our shareholders.
Remuneration Committee 92 Consequently, I hope we can count on our shareholders to support not role and members 92 only those changes but also our Annual Report on Remuneration at the advisers 93 forthcoming AGM.
activities in 2015 93 Total shareholder return TSR Performance 94 Kieran Poynter Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Single figure: Executive Directors 95 Analysis by individual Executive Director 96 Short-term incentives: IEIS 98 Long-term incentives: LTIP 102 Percentage change in Chief Executives remuneration 104 Single figure: Non-Executive Directors 105 Single figure: Chairman 106 Pension entitlements 107 Shareholding guidelines 108 Share interests and scheme interests 108 Shareholder dilution options and awards outstanding 110 Voting on the Remuneration Report at the 2015 AGM 111 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 69
