BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Delivering our growth strategy 10 Strategic Report Indication e x p a n si o n Maximising the potential of our current portfolio We are investing in clinical trials in specific patient populations to expand the approved uses and addressable patient populations of our products, and to provide the high quality efficacy and safety data that give physicians confidence when treating their patients.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11 Strategic Report 3.
TheraSphere Phase III clinical trials Patients are currently being enrolled in three Phase III clinicaltrialsof TheraSphere, which is approved in the EUandCanada to treat liver tumours and in the US under aHumanitarian Device Exemption to treat patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma HCC, the most common form ofprimary liver cancer.
The trials are designed to secure PMAs in the US for treating unresectable HCC and as a second-linetreatment for metastatic colorectal cancer mCRC.
Bringing RePneu to the US The RePneu Coil System is intended to improve exercise capacity, lung function and quality of life in patients with bothheterogeneous and homogeneous emphysema.
EkoSonic cleared to treat PE Approvedin the EU in late 2010, a fully recruited pivotal PhaseIIItrial in the US is expected to lead to submission of Pulmonary embolism PE occurs in approximately 600,000 aPMA application, which has been granted fast-track review patients annually in the US, causing or contributing to around status by the FDA, and may lead to approval in late 2016.
There 200,000 deaths each year, which is approximately 15% of all are more than five million people in the US and the major five hospital deaths.
Improved outcomes were demonstrated EUmarkets with advanced emphysema, who presently have forPE patients treated with our EkoSonic Endovascular limited treatment options.
System in a clinical study that led to the US FDA clearing the device for the treatment ofPE in May 2014.
EkoSonic is the only interventional bloodclot treatment product with a label 5.
Varithena label expansion totreat PE.
We are exploring regulatory pathways to develop variations ofour Varithena product.
These include one for use in treating 2.
Chronic DVT PTS study underway aesthetic leg veins and another for treating a serious venous condition that occurs in other parts of the body.
Both these If a clot does not dissolve within a few weeks it can require clinical studies to establish safety and efficacy, permanently damage both the vein and the valves that andcould lead to new product launches from 2017. controlblood flow in limbs, creating the condition known aspost-thrombotic syndrome PTS.
An estimated 50% ofpatients with chronic deep vein thrombosis DVT may developPTS, which can impact quality of life and lead tolong-term disability.
An ongoing study in the US is evaluatingwhether PTS symptoms improve after treatmentwith EkoSonic.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Delivering our growth strategy 12 Strategic Report Product innovation Developing breakthrough technologies We are building a strong reputation for our commitment to innovation.
Its what drives ourpartnership with clinicians, researchers andothercompanies.
We start with the needs ofpatients and an in-depth knowledge of our customers: we build or acquire the requisite technologysolutions and then we deliver productsthatmake a real difference to specialistphysicians and their patients.
Whetheritsspotting opportunities toimproveourexisting products  needs,  fromour partners.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13 Strategic Report An in-depth Expanding our knowledge of Interventional our customers Medicine portfolio 2.
Bioresorbable bead For the use in non-malignant tumours such as uterine fibroidsor benign prostate hyperplasia where life expectancy is not threatened in the same way as primary liver cancer, our innovation team is developing a biodegradable bead product that will treat the tumour and then be absorbed by the body over time.
Advancing the treatment of severe blood clots The latest generation of our EkoSonic control unit is smaller insize to aid portability and convenience in the ICU.
It has a clearer, touch screen user interface for ease of use during 1.
The increased power and second catheter allows physicians to treat bilateral cases of pulmonary embolism with We are working on a radiopaque visible bead for the treatment one control unit instead of needing two control units previously.
of hypervascularised tumours that will help physicians moreprecisely identify bead location and potential areas ofundertreatment both during and after the procedure.
Innovation is a continuous process at BTG.
We are constantly looking for ways to develop our pipeline and deliver new treatment options to our customers and their patients.
Melanie Lee Chief Scientific Officer BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Delivering our growth strategy 14 Strategic Report Expanding ourbusiness: PneumRx Leading the interventional treatment of advanced emphysema with the RePneu Coil System In January 2015 BTG completed the acquisition of PneumRx, a growing interventional pulmonology business headquartered in Mountain View, California.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15 Strategic Report Acquisition of PneumRx Strategic fit Through its acquisition of PneumRx, BTG owns, Complements our Interventional Medicine business, manufacturesand distributes the RePneu Endobronchial providing access to the developing medical area of Coil, an implantable shape-memory Nitinol device that Interventional Pulmonology isdesigned to increase exercise capacity, lung function, Adds RePneu, a minimally invasive, clinically proven and quality of life in patients with advanced emphysema.
product that is used by a specialist physician base and TheCoil is designed to improve the lungs elasticity, holding addresses a market with high unmet needs and significant small airways open and preventing airway collapse during growth potential exhalation.
Treatment with the RePneu Coil has been Enhances our European commercial platform and provides shownin European clinical studies to improve quality a significant US opportunity oflifeforemphysema patients.
Provides a platform for further growth with annual sales potential over $250m Market opportunity for the interventional treatment of emphysema Emphysema is a progressive disease in which the natural architecture of the lungs is damaged and lung function PneumRx brings a clinically declines.
There are more than 10 million people in the US proven product that can make a andfive largest EU countries diagnosed with emphysema, real difference to the lives of people resulting in a significant economic burden on healthcare with advanced emphysema and systems from in-patient and out-patient care costs.
There is no cure, and the current standard of care involving drug and is a significant addition to our supplemental oxygen therapy becomes much less effective Interventional Medicine portfolio.
at relieving symptoms over time.
RePneu is sold in 11 European countries including Germany, Matt Gantz Switzerland, Italy and Spain.
A fully recruited US pivotal Head of Interventional Pulmonology clinical trial has the potential to lead to US approval in late2016.
