Strategic Report Core Strategies OPTIMISE CHANNELS Optimise all routes to market, both online and offline, owned and third-party, with a clear emphasis on enhancing retail productivity and service.
Burberry has been successful in shifting its operating 12 concessions were opened during the year, including model towards the retail channel.
As a result the Company in Japan and the Middle East.
Twenty-six concessions has broadened its focus on improving and optimising all were closed, reflecting the further planned elevation routes to market.
of the portfolio in China and other parts of Asia Pacific, including South Korea.
During the year this included the elevation of wholesale and third-party digital relationships as well as initiatives Driving retail productivity to enhance retail productivity.
Retail sales grew by 14% With the customer at the centre of all activities, Burberry underlying during the year, to reach 71% of Group revenue focused on improving sales productivity online and in up from 70% in 2013 14. stores.
Comparable sales growth was 9%, as product and customer service initiatives drove average selling Key focus areas during 2014 15: price and conversion, against ongoing weakness in consumer traffic in store.
Blurring physical and digital experiences As luxury consumers become increasingly mobile and Burberry continued to invest in customer insight and global, Burberry continued to invest in digital commerce.
analytics to better understand the core luxury consumer, Online and in-store innovations worked together to create helping to drive improved service and retail productivity.
a seamless experience wherever customers encountered Burberry introduced its customer value management the brand.
programme CVM, a loyalty and retention tool used globally Burberry.
com was the brands largest store in terms of to serve customers better.
The programme had been traffic and sales, servicing 44 countries in 11 languages.
successfully rolled out to over 300 stores worldwide.
To further improve the user experience, Burberry Ongoing investments were made in sales associate enhanced its mobile site and invested in search engine and store manager training, along with service initiatives and browser optimisation, data analytics, customer such as the Burberry Private Clients and Customer management tools and delivery options.
The roll-out of Collect-in-Store continued and was Merchandising activities were refined to provide available in around 200 stores worldwide across 24 customers with a clearer and more compelling countries, including China and Japan.
This accounted product assortment offering.
for over 20% of digital revenue.
Third-party digital partnerships Focused store investment To complement Burberry.
com, Burberry partnered with Burberry focused on strengthening the Groups store third-party digital retailers including existing wholesale network through openings in key locations, and the partners as well as Amazon and Tmall, to provide an optimisation of the existing portfolio through relocations, authentic, consistent brand experience and to enable renovations and some closures.
Burberry products to reach a wider customer audience.
Burberry opened 16 mainline stores and closed 17 Burberry was one of the first brands to launch a dedicated during the year, bringing the total number of stores fragrance presence on Amazons luxury beauty online to 214 globally at the year end.
Over half of the store store in the US, which was later rolled out in the UK, openings were in flagship markets, including Los Angeles France and Germany.
and Tokyo, with seven airport stores, predominantly in Burberry launched dedicated online stores on Tmall.
com Europe, capitalising on the opportunities in travel retail.
34 Strategic Report Core Strategies Unlock market opportunity Fully realise Burberrys opportunities among key consumer groups and geographic markets developed, young and newly opened.
Burberry aims to further evolve its footprint and positioning in campaigns to engage the luxury Japanese consumer.
both developed and younger markets.
Future opportunities Comparable sales growth of around 30% during the year for the brand in China and Japan are an important part of demonstrated the appeal of the global brand to the this, along with other areas of geographic focus including Japanese luxury customer.
the travel strategy and continued elevation of the business Burberry opened a flagship store in Osaka, three in the USA.
concessions in leading department stores, and relocated its store in Omotesando, Tokyo.
Burberry now has five Key focus areas during 2014 15: mainline stores and 13 concessions in Japan.
Further Engaging the Chinese luxury consumer mainline store and concession openings are planned Burberry continued to focus on improving engagement for the coming year as the Company continues to build with, and enhancing the service offering to, the Chinese direct operations.
However, the timing and availability of luxury consumer both while shopping in China and abroad.
brand and commercially appropriate retail space is likely Burberry achieved double-digit percentage revenue growth to impact the Companys targets for 2016 17. from the Chinese customer globally in retail, although this Burberry partnered with LINE, Japans leading social slowed somewhat during the second half of the year.
In platform to share the brand with a wider audience in Hong Kong there was a decrease in spend from Chinese Japan, offering Japanese subscribers access to the customers during the second half of the year, reflecting first live stream of a fashion show on the platform.
disruption in this high margin market.
Burberry continued to evolve and elevate its store Elevating Americas presence portfolio in China.
Closing a net of 10 stores in the year, The Americas remained a key focus area for Burberry as the portfolio currently consists of 68 stores.
A further it continued to strengthen and elevate the brand in both five net closures and a small reduction in average selling its retail and wholesale channels in this attractive luxury space were planned for 2015 16. market.
Revenue in the Americas grew by 16% underlying during the year.
Brand engagement included the Dreams of London event in Shanghai, which celebrated the opening of Burberry opened its Los Angeles flagship and Miami Design its largest store in Asia in Shanghais Kerry Centre, District stores, and renovated Post Street, San Francisco.
and an Art of the Trench event in Hong Kong.
Advancing travel retail To coincide with the key festivals of Lunar New Year With the increasing importance of the travelling luxury and Golden Week, Burberry launched festive campaigns, consumer, Burberry intensified its focus on the high-growth including an exclusive edit of the film From London travel retail channel.
with Love and bespoke product assortments in China, key tourist destinations around the world, and on Burberry continued to expand its travel retail footprint.
Key airport openings during the year included Hong Kong, Heathrow Terminals 5 and 2, Rome, Milan-Malpensa, Collect-in-Store was rolled out to selected stores in China Barcelona and Madrid.
and delivery times for orders made on Burberry.
com were reduced significantly to further enhance the service Marketing initiatives targeted travelling luxury consumers offering to consumers in that market.
before their journey, during travel and at destination, with events in key transport hubs and global tourist destinations.
Transforming Japan With the Japan licences expiring in 2015, further progress Building young markets was made on plans to expand the brands presence and Burberry continued to build its presence in early stage to introduce Burberrys global luxury collection in this growth markets.
key luxury market through directly operated stores, Burberry opened five new franchise stores including in concessions and digital, supported by marketing Turkey, Panama and Aruba, and launched Burberry.
