Strategic Report Burberry Impact BURBERRY IMPACT Burberry Impact is the Companys programme of activities that underpins its commitment to drive positive environmental and social change globally.
The Burberry Impact programme includes commitments that Burberrys Ethical Trading Programme drove improvements have been developed in partnership with the organisation in its supply chain through a number of engagement Forum for the Future and the tripartite Ethical Trading activities.
These included announced and unannounced Initiative and are informed by baseline assessments.
audits, monitoring, improvement programmes and Theprogramme is supported and monitored internally aconfidential worker hotline in local languages.
by a number of Committees including the Responsibility Number of training and engagement activities Working Group, which is chaired by the Chief Corporate Affairs Officer and includes senior executives representing 205 key business operations, and is supported externally bytheBurberry Impact Advisory Committee, which 2014 15 205 comprises external expert stakeholders.
2013 14 142 Burberry also endeavours to achieve sustainable change by 2012 13 384 collaborating with its peers in the luxury goods industry and with other stakeholders, including the UN Global Compact, Improvement programmes were designed to address through its membership of the Ethical Trading Initiative and specific challenges with individual factories, for example the Sustainable Apparel Coalition.
by working to reduce working hours and building human resources management systems.
For case Ethical trading studies and information on current projects see Burberry is committed to making meaningful and long-lasting www.
improvements to workers employment and workplace conditions to achieve both operational excellence and a Where access to grievance mechanisms was a particular sustainable and responsible supply chain.
This commitment challenge, worker hotlines have helped to improve is underpinned by Burberrys Ethical Trading Policy, which communication channels between workers and factory includes the Burberry Code of Conduct and the Human management.
Over 15,000 workers across 54 factories Rights, Migrant Worker and Homeworker Policy.
The Ethical were provided with access to a confidential NGOnonTrading Policy is in alignment with the United Nations governmental organisation run hotline during the year.
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Fundamental Conventions of the International Labour Organization and Burberry also deepened its focus into the Companys the Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code.
Burberry is proud supply chain to enable its activities to reach more workers.
to be an accredited UK Living Wage employer.
In partnership with the sourcing and product development teams, Burberry extended its ethical trading activities to The majority of Burberry products are made in Europe, with include key raw material suppliers and incorporated its Italy being the largest individual sourcing country, whilst the Beauty suppliers into the global Ethical Trading Programme, iconic Heritage trench coat is manufactured in England and the majority of which are located in France and Italy.
the Heritage cashmere scarf in Scotland.
S elected information denoted by this symbol has received limited assurance by Ernst & Young LLP.
See page 47 for further information.
44 Strategic Report Burberry Impact As the Ethical Trading Programme has evolved, the Leveraging these partnerships, the Supply Chain team has Company has focused on how it can make the most worked with its strategic partners to identify key Burberry meaningful, positive impacts on the lives of people Impact targets to focus on.
These range from energy throughout its supply chain rather than increasing the usereduction through to supplier ownership, which is a number of audits.
Auditing remains, however, an important programme to support suppliers in managing social and tool to help Burberry and its manufacturers identify areas environmental standards within their own supply chains.
that are in need of improvement.
As measured through the audit programme, this year Burberry recorded an overall Human Rights statement positive shift in supply chain ethical trading performance Burberry recognises its responsibility to respect human ofits strategic suppliers and their subcontractors, rights wherever it operates and has conducted a materiality representing 60% of the supply chain.
analysis to identify its principal human rights impacts.
TheCompany believes that these impacts arise in relation Number of audits and assessments to its own workforce, its supply chain and communities, and its customers.
Burberrys Human Rights Policy sets 541 outthe Companys commitments to respecting these stakeholders human rights.
The Policy is informed by theInternational Bill of Human Rights and reflects the 2014 15 541 UNGuiding Principles on Business and Human Rights 2013 14 713 framework to Protect, Respect and Remedy.
Responsibility 2012 13 455 for the Policy lies with Burberrys Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer.
Burberry has also focused on formalising the integration ofethical trading activities into its sourcing functions.
Burberry has an established global team who work to TheSupply Chain Impact Committee is responsible promote human rights and good labour practices in the fordelivering improvements in the supply chain with Burberry workplace as well as in the Companys supply thesupport of the Ethical Trading team.
The Sourcing chain as identified and prioritised through Human Rights teamhas also started to integrate ethical trading into Impact Assessments.
Burberry has established grievance performance objectives both at a team and individual level.
mechanisms, including hotlines in its supply chain where local labour laws are weak, absent or poorly enforced, Burberry believes that improving workers working aswell as globally for its own employees.
conditions is integral to its supply chain performance.
Toachieve this, Burberry continued to invest time andresources to sustain its long-standing strategic partnerships with its key suppliers, with the aim of ensuringtheir resilience and sustainability as they providethe Company with important technical knowledge, expertise and unique product capability.
45 Strategic Report Burberry Impact Environmental sustainability Burberry has a strong commitment to reducing its environmental impact globally and has an active programme dedicated toreducing the impact of its supply chain and internal operations.
All of the targets are based on the results of the 2012 independent baseline assessment of Burberrys environmental impacts arising from materials, energy, water, chemical inputs and waste measured in CO e. Focused on resource efficiency and mitigating climate change, all 15 environmental 2 targets are owned and monitored by members of the Senior Leadership Team.
2017 Targets Progress Product Raw materials Burberry continues to invest in Reduce the environmental impact of Burberrys four key raw materials: the design and quality of every Cotton product, and is committed to Leather dramatically reducing the PVC impact of its products.
Cashmere new target Chemical use in manufacturing Eliminate chemicals from use that have a negative impact on the environment, beyond legal limits Packaging 100% of point of sale packaging to be sustainably sourced where alternatives are available Process Internal Manufacturing Burberry is committed to Reduce the energy use from Burberrys two UK manufacturing sites by 25% ensuring its future resilience Suppliers byintegrating sustainability Work with key suppliers to assist them in reducing their energy use by decisions across the business upto20% and collaborating with suppliers.
Mills Work with key mills to assist them to reduce their water consumption by upto 20% Transport Reduce carbon emissions from the transport of Burberry products by 10% Distribution centres Reduce energy use in Burberrys five third party distribution centres by 10% Progress Ahead of plan On plan Behind plan When normalised by a relevant productivity factor.
46 Strategic Report Burberry Impact 2017 Targets Progress Property Energy use reduction Burberry continues to expand Reduce Burberry controlled store and office energy usage by up to 15% its global footprint in existing Sustainable consumables and new markets to enable 60% of office consumables to be sustainably sourced where available thegrowth of the business, Renewable energy andis committed to minimising All Burberry controlled stores and offices to be powered either by on site or the impact of this expansion.
green tariff renewable energy where available Build certifications All new builds will be sustainable build certified LEED silver, BREEAM very good or Greenmark silver Sustainable construction materials 30% of wood by spend is either recycled materials or sourced from certified supply chains Construction waste recycling 30% of construction waste to be recycled for global major projects LED lighting 75% of lighting is LED or energy efficient in new concept stores For those targets that are behind plan, action plans are in place to drive further progress.
For additional information onperformance against the above targets and related action plans see www.
Energy and global greenhouse gas emissions data Year to 31 March Emissions from: Current reporting year FY15 Comparison year FY14 Comparison year FY13 Combustion of fuel and operation 1,777,714 1,734,580 1,661,533 offacilities Scope 1 Kg CO2e Electricity, heat, steam and 40,285,055 35,404,754 42,131,756 coolingpurchased for own use Scope 2 Kg CO2e Total emissions Scope 1 & 2 42,062,769 37,139,334 43,793,289 Kg CO2e Intensity measurement Kg CO e 18 19 2 17 per 1,000 sales revenue Renewable energy produced 1,247,270 on site KWH Note: Burberry applies an operational control approach to defining its organisational boundaries.
Data is reported for sites where it is considered that Burberry has the ability to influence energy management.
Data is not reported for sites where Burberry has a physical presence, but does not influence the energy management forthose sites, such as a concession within a department store.
Overall, the emissions inventory reported equates to 94% of our sq.
We use the Greenhouse Gas Protocol to estimate emissions and apply conversion factors from DEFRA and IEA guidance.
All material sources of emissions are reported.
Refrigerant gases and fuels consumed in Company vehicles were deemed not material and are not reported.
Burberry have updated greenhouse gas data for 2012 13 and 2013 14 to account for improvements in data availability and estimation methods.
Further detail is within our basis of reporting.
External assurance and performance indicators Burberry appointed Ernst & Young LLP to provide limited external assurance over selected statements and 2014 15 performance data.
The statements and data that formed part of the review are denoted with a.
See the full independent assurance statement and Burberrys basis of reporting at www.
47 Strategic Report Strategic Report Performance The following pages set out the highlights of the Group financial performance during the year to 31 March 2015 and the outlook for the coming financial year.
The principal risks facing the Group during the year, including the nature and extent of these risks, are also set out in this section.
