Strategic Report Burberry Group Overview MARKET OVERVIEW Macroeconomic environment the best performing luxury market in real terms, with 10% Growth during 2014 was weaker than analysts expected, growth.
Local consumption helped to maintain momentum with the global economy growing 3.4%, in line with 2013. despite price increases, while increasing Chinese tourist The year was marked by geopolitical concerns over Russia flows also helped support growth.
South Korea also and the Middle East and renewed anxiety over the future of benefited from increasing Chinese tourist travel flows to the Eurozone.
Across the world, inflation remained low, driven the country, with growth of 4% at constant exchange rates.
by an oil price that more than halved over the course of the year.
Among major economies, the USA rebounded after Channels a slow start.
Annual GDP in the USA grew to 2.4% with Globally, digital commerce continued to increase in consumer confidence rising, helped by strong employment importance, growing 30% in the year at constant exchange growth and the drop in energy prices.
While this channel was dominated by the USA, the economy grew by 7.4%, a slight deceleration on 7.8% fastest growth rates were in Asia.
Key structural changes in 2013 as property prices and fixed investment slowed.
in digital commerce included mobile which was gaining Following a strong 2013, the Japanese economy fell back market share and shortened delivery times which were into recession in the second quarter, with consumer creating competition with physical stores.
The growth of consumption severely impacted by the sales tax increase.
digital, both for sales and communication, had encouraged The Eurozone area returned to growth despite increasing brands to increase their focus on their omni-channel political uncertainty across the region.
Airports were becoming an increasingly Europes largest economy, Germany, from 0.2% to 1.5% important luxury sales channel, growing 10% in the year over the year offset flat growth in France and ongoing and accounting for 5% of the luxury market globally.
Across key developing luxury markets this channel had always been key for fragrance and makegrowth was weak, most notably in Russia and Brazil.
up sales, improving infrastructure and the growth of global travel had increasingly led luxury brands to expand their Luxury sector product offering to include apparel and accessories.
Retail Markets remains the main growth driver for the industry, helping to Against this difficult global backdrop, analysts estimate offset ongoing rationalisation across the wholesale channel.
that luxury sector sales growth at retail value slowed slightly to 2% in 2014, following growth of 3% in 2013.
At Products constant exchange rates, the sector grew at closer to 5%, Considering demand across product categories, a slight slowdown on the previous year.
As with the wider accessories continued to outperform, growing at 4%, with economy, the key driver of overall sector growth during strong momentum from mens accessories.
Within apparel, the year was the USA, where the luxury market grew at 6% womens grew ahead of mens, which was impacted by at constant exchange rates, from 9% in 2013.
Local luxury slowing mens sales among Chinese consumers.
consumption continued to strengthen, while tourists, most notably from China, were becoming an increasingly Outlook important growth driver.
Hong Kong, one of the worlds Industry analysts forecast that the luxury sector will largest luxury markets, was severely impacted by the grow by low to mid-single digits in the medium term at disruptions in the latter part of 2014, which affected retail constant exchange rates, driven by American and Chinese sales and Chinese tourist flows.
Mainland China luxury consumers, although the growth of domestic consumption sales contracted in real terms, as government policies in China is expected to decelerate.
The outlook in Hong on gift giving continued to impact demand.
Long-term growth is supported the slowdown in mainland China, the travelling Chinese by favourable demographics, particularly the expansion of consumer continued to drive luxury growth in other the consuming classes in emerging markets and increasing regions, particularly to the rest of Asia and Europe.
It is also supported by the expected continuation of favourable socio-economic trends including Europe remained a more challenging luxury market, the growth of global travel and increasing digitisation.
growing 2% at constant exchange rates, compared with Note: 4% in 2013.
Tourist spend, a fundamental driver of sales References are to calendar years, unless otherwise stated.
Bain & Company and Fondazione Altagamma 2014 Luxury Goods in the region, slowed across most nationalities, particularly Worldwide Market Report October 2014. in relation to Russian and Japanese consumers.
Despite M ainland China excludes Hong Kong, Taiwan and Macau.
the wider economic difficulties in the country, Japan was 23 Strategic Report Core Strategies Burberry has focused on consistently delivering against its strategies.
During the year, these strategies have evolved to more accurately reflect the current shape of the business and the scope of the Companys future ambitions, and are set out on the following pages.
