Strategic Report Burberry Group Overview BUSINESS MODEL: A DISTINCTIVE GLOBAL LUXURY BRAND Founded in 1856, Burberry is a global luxury brand with a distinctive British identity.
Since then, the brand has built a reputation for design, innovation and craftsmanship.
With the invention of gabardine by Thomas Burberry more than 130 years ago, outerwear has been at the core of the business and remains so today best expressed through the iconic Burberry trench coat.
The Company designs, makes, sources and sells products connect the brand and its products with consumers.
Product design and development Burberry products are sold globally through its stores and are centred in Burberrys London headquarters.
com, as well as through third-party wholesale and other materials are bought from, and finished products customers, both offline and online.
In a few selected areas, manufactured at, both Company-owned facilities in the UK Burberry uses the product and distribution expertise of and through an external supplier network, predominantly licensing partners to develop the business.
These activities located in Europe.
Creative and marketing content and are executed by a global team of almost 11,000 employees.
programmes are developed internally to engage and Four key themes underpin the Companys strategic agenda, shaping and connecting its global activities.
These key themes are set out below.
Brand first Famous for product The business is led by the brand, with decisions taken Burberry is committed to the creation of authentic and in its best long-term interests.
distinctive products and continuous innovation in design and manufacturing.
Authentic British heritage with rich cultural and historical associations.
Globally recognised iconic products, including the British-made Heritage trench coat and cashmere scarf.
Craftsmanship, innovation, design and creativity are key characteristics.
Product divisions are Womens, Mens and Childrens apparel, Accessories, and Beauty which includes Broad global appeal across genders and generations.
Global engagement driven by innovative creative content and experiences, supported by digital, social and traditional media.
Customer-centric Productive and responsible The customer is central to the Companys activities.
More productive and efficient ways of working are a Burberry aims to be sector-leading in understanding, priority across the organisation, together with ensuring engaging and serving its customers, both online a culture of responsibility.
Committed to sustainable business practices.
A culture of continuous improvement in the design and Driving efficiency and productivity across the execution of customer-facing initiatives and services.
organisation through the effective use of technology Online and in-store innovations which work together and resources.
to create a seamless experience wherever customers A team-orientated approach, empowering a highly encounter the brand.
