Strategic Report Core Strategies BUILD OUR CULTURE Through the creation of this new strategy, Burberry is focusing on building its culture and ensuring its values are embedded globally.
The evolution of Burberrys core business strategies and Rewarding talent the success with which they are delivered are inextricably Burberry fostered a culture of recognition to support linked to Burberrys continued commitment to building the attraction, motivation and retention of employees.
Enhancements to the Burberry Long Service Awards were made which included benefits such as additional Key activities during 2014 15 included: annual leave.
Employee engagement Seasonal programmes continued to offer enhanced Cultural initiatives evolved to build stronger connections employee benefits.
between global teams, drive closer engagement with the brand, and to support the general well-being of employees.
Burberrys All Employee Freeshare Plan was extended to 34 countries, enabling all employees to share in the Connecting teams ongoing success of the business.
All employees were Burberry reinforced its connected culture through open also eligible for a bonus or incentive scheme.
Nurturing talent A fully open-plan environment was introduced at the Burberry was committed to identifying, developing and London headquarters and was being rolled out globally retaining high-potential talent.
to encourage greater mobility and collaboration.
Over 50 employees took part in the Leadership Council Chat Live global video broadcasts were launched on during the year, providing them with leadership training, the Companys internal communications platform.
Hosted senior executive mentoring and international networking by Christopher Bailey, together with teams leading key opportunities.
initiatives, the updates enabled real-time communication through an interactive question and answer format.
Burberry continued to support emerging creative talent, including through the Burberry Design Scholarship at the Ways of working and communication with internal Royal College of Art and an apprenticeship programme manufacturing and retail teams were enhanced to at the British Fashion Council.
further connect employees and improve productivity.
Over 200 placements were offered globally, including apprenticeships, short-term work experience and long-term internships.
At the end of October, Burberry was listed by LinkedIn as the 36th most sought-after employer globally, and tenth in the UK.
40 Strategic Report Core Strategies Social responsibility The Foundation continued to expand its bespoke Burberry believes that it is important to be a socially employability programme during the year, designed to responsible business, including by supporting diversity help disadvantaged young people develop key workplace and equal opportunities in the workplace, promoting fair skills, confidence and aspirations.
Over 100 young and sustainable employment practices internally and people participated in London, Castleford, New York, across its supply chain and investing in the communities Hong Kong, Shanghai, Beijing, Chengdu, Guangzhou, where its employees live and work.
With employees in 34 countries, representing over Burberry focused on ensuring that its supply chain 100different nationalities and covering an age span issustainable and responsible.
The Ethical Trading ofbetween 16 to 78 years, the Company remained Programme, explained further in the Burberry Impact committed to supporting diversity and equal opportunities.
section, continued to support labour rights in the As at 31 March 2015, of a global employee population supplychain.
of10,851, approximately 69% 7,457 were female and 31% 3,394 male, with women occupying 46 37% Environmental responsibility ofthe123 senior management roles.
Burberry remains committed to minimising its environmental impacts.
Burberry has set a number Consistent with efforts to promote fair and sustainable oftargets to achieve this, which are outlined in more employment practices, Burberry was proud to have detailin the Burberry Impact section and online at become the first luxury retailer and manufacturer to www.
achieve accreditation as a UK Living Wage employer.
Burberry continued to encourage employees to dedicate their time, skills and passion during working hours toimpactful community projects.
Activities included careerinspiration events, employability workshops and community revitalisation projects.
In total, this year 2,300 employees in 82 cities dedicated almost 10,000 hours.
Burberry continued to donate 1% of Group adjusted profit before tax to charitable causes around the world, totalling 4.6m in the year 2013 14: 4.6m, with the majority going to the Burberry Foundation UK registered charity number 1154468, created to help young people realise their full potential.
Since its launch in 2008, the Foundation has supported over 40 innovative youth charities around the world, directly and indirectly impacting the lives of over 150,000 young people.
41 Strategic Report Strategic Report BURBERRY IMPACT Burberrys Build our Culture strategy includes commitments to be a socially responsible business and to drive positive environmental and social change.
This is underpinned by a programme of activities set out on the following pages.
