Strategic report | Business model and strategy Business model and strategy For many years we have followed a well-established and successful business model and pursued a consistent and proven strategy in order to create value for our stakeholders.
By doing so we have delivered strong growth across our selected international markets as we have looked to develop both in existing and new geographies.
Our business model Strength and resilience through our scale, balance and diversity We have a geographically balanced and diversified business portfolio operating across 29 countries, serving six core fragmented market sectors, many of which are growing and resilient to challenging economic conditions.
This allows us to withstand shifts and changes in demand.
Foodservice Cleaning & hygiene Safety Grocery Retail Healthcare A one-stop-shop for non-food consumables We source We consolidate We deliver We source and procure branded, By applying our resources and Our delivery options include own brand and unbranded products consolidating a broad range of direct store delivery, cross-dock globally, working with both products into our extensive and warehouse replenishment multinational and local suppliers, warehousing infrastructure, we are programmes on a local, regional, to give our customers access to the able to offer our customers an efficient national and international basis best and most suitable products to one-stop-shop solution, thereby to get products to our customers meet their needs.
allowing them to focus on their core when and where they are needed.
Our sources of competitive advantage Global scale Strong financial discipline Relationships with both multinational and local suppliers Since 2004 we have delivered consistently good results with provide us with a very broad range of products.
Our extensive high returns on capital and operating cash flow conversion.
delivery networks mean we can distribute to customers on a local, regional, national and international basis, giving them Acquisition track record complete flexibility.
We have a strong track record of successfully integrating acquisitions, helping us to extend our geographic footprint while Operational focus at the same time enabling our acquired businesses to continue With a decentralised operational structure, our experienced to feel local.
management teams are able to focus on our customers needs while retaining full responsibility for the financial To find out how we are making progress on our strategic priorities performance of their businesses.
through our key performance indicators, see pages 14 and 15 06 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Business model and strategy Creating value for stakeholders Customer benefits Our customers benefit from a lower cost of doing business by reducing or eliminating many of the hidden costs of in-house procurement and distribution and reducing carbon emissions.
Our strategy Shareholder returns O rganic growth We seek to deliver good returns We are constantly looking to grow Bunzl organically, both by for our shareholders over time with sustained improvement in expanding and developing our business with existing customers profits and earnings which drive and by gaining new business with additional customers.
long term growth in Bunzls share price and year-on-year increases Read more on page 09 in dividends.
Acquisition growth Employee benefits We seek out businesses that satisfy key criteria, including having We provide our employees with good financial returns in resilient and growing markets, while at career development opportunities and meet their training needs the same time providing opportunities to extract further value as while providing opportunities for part of the Bunzl Group.
Read more on pages 10 and 11 Environmental awareness O perating model efficiencies Our continued focus on operational excellence allows us to reduce our We continually strive to make our businesses more efficient environmental impact by and environmentally friendly by investing in new IT systems consolidating our warehouse footprint and introducing more and warehouse facilities and implementing best practice sustainable products and operational procedures.
Read more on page 13 R ead more about our strategy on pages 09 to 13 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 07 08 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Business model and strategy Growing Bunzl organically, either by expanding and developing our business with existing customers or by gaining new business with additional customers, is an integral part of our strategy to enhance shareholder value.
organic growth Building relationships One of the greatest opportunities for organic sales growth comes from building long term relationships with existing customers.
By being both flexible and reliable and by providing excellent levels of service, we gain our customers trust and confidence to meet their future needs over a sustained period of time through a broad and effective product and service offering.
Acquiring new customers We are constantly striving to expand and gain market share by winning business with new customers.
Our well-established business model allows us to show potential customers that we can apply our resources and expertise to reduce or eliminate many of the hidden costs of in-house procurement and distribution or satisfy their requirements more cost-effectively than their current suppliers.
Expanding our offering Organic growth through Once we have established a good relationship with a development of customer particular customer, we endeavour to increase our level of business with that customer.
This can be achieved by relationships and maximisation expanding our offering to parts of their operations where of cross-selling opportunities.
we might not have previously been a recognised supplier or by increasing the type and variety of products that are available, whether branded or own brand.
We do this either by extending the range of products within a particular category or adding new categories of products to those already supplied, often by optimising cross-selling opportunities across other Bunzl businesses.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 09 Key acquisition parameters In considering potential acquisition opportunities, we only target those businesses that meet the specific parameters that fit our business model and growth strategy.
These include businesses: acquisition that sell business to business B2B : with a consolidated not-for-resale product offering: in resilient and growing markets: with a fragmented customer base: that operate in markets with scope for further consolidation and synergies: growth whose products represent a small percentage of total customer spend: that have opportunities for own label products: and Expanding and developing the Group through with attractive financial returns.
acquiring businesses is also a key component of our Acquisition types growth strategy.
Historically, approximately two There are two different types of acquisition that thirds of our year-on-year increase in earnings has we undertake depending on whether we are already present in the country or market sector been achieved through an ongoing programme of in which the target business is operating: focused and targeted acquisitions in both new and Anchor existing market sectors and geographies.
new geographies: or new market sectors.
Bolt-on existing geographies: or existing market sectors.
10 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Growth in existing countries R ead about our Unlike many industries that are characterised by a relatively small number KPIs on pages of large businesses, the markets in which 14 and 15 we compete are very fragmented.
As a result, there are numerous opportunities for us to develop through acquisitions in those countries where we already have a presence.
We do this either by extending our existing operations in a particular market sector or by acquiring a business in a sector in which we do not currently operate within that country.
Growth in new countries We are now a truly international business with operations in 29 countries but there are a number of potentially attractive countries where we do not yet have a presence.
In evaluating whether to enter a new country through acquisition, we consider a number of different criteria including a detailed analysis of our market sectors, the local macroeconomic indicators and the ease of doing business in, and the political risks and business practices associated with, Businesses acquired bring the particular country under review.
additional innovation and expertise to Bunzl.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 11 12 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Business model and strategy Enhanced competitive advantage by optimising operating synergies through best practice and purchasing scale.
model efficiencies Consolidating warehouses Global purchasing We are continually looking to refine As warehouse lease terms come to an With the annual cost of the goods we and develop our processes and end, we are often able to consolidate sell exceeding 4.9 billion, our global procedures to make our operations our warehouse footprint in a particular scale provides substantial purchasing area by closing a number of smaller synergies with our international more efficient.
By doing so, we are and less efficient facilities and suppliers that we are able to share able to gain a competitive advantage, relocating our operations into a single, with our customers in the form of larger and more efficient building.
by offering our customers more cost-effective solutions, while at the Sharing best practice IT systems As we have continued to expand Systems are an important part of same time improving our profitability.
internationally, we are increasingly our ability to serve our customers in making use of our collective the most cost-effective and efficient resources, experience and expertise manner and accordingly we are to share best practice across the continually improving and upgrading Group and collaborate between our our IT systems in order to increase different businesses.
functionality and enhance customer service.
Routing and safety systems Warehouse lighting By installing state-of-the-art routing and safety systems in our facilities and Recent improvements in lighting delivery vehicles, we are able to plan technology have meant we are our delivery routes to minimise the able to make significant savings in distances travelled and encourage electricity costs by installing energy safe and efficient driving practices, efficient and environmentally thereby reducing fuel and other friendly lighting systems.
