Board and Governance Directors Report Directors report The directors present their Annual Report and the audited Directors share interests consolidated financialstatements of the Company for the The interests of the directors holding office at 31 March year to 31 March 2015.
2015 in the shares of the Company are shown within the Directors Remuneration Report on page 96.
There were Strategic Report nochanges to the beneficial interests of the directors Burberry Group plc is required by the Companies Act 2006 between the period 31 March 2015 and 19 May 2015. to prepare a Strategic Report that includes a fair review ofthe Companys business, the development and the Directors insurance and indemnities performance of the Companys business during the year, The Company maintains directors and officers liability ofthe position of the Company at the end of the financial insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal year to 31 March 2015 and a description of the principal action brought against its directors.
In accordance with risks and uncertainties faced by the Company.
The section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, qualifying thirdStrategic Report can be found on pages 8 to 59.
The party indemnity provisions are in place for the directors Corporate Governance Report is set out on pages 66 inrespect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office, to80, is incorporated by reference and shall be deemed totheextent permitted by law.
Both the insurance and toform part of this report.
indemnities applied throughout the financial year ended 31March 2015 and through to the date of this report.
Revenue and profit Revenue from the continuing business during the period Share capital amounted to 2,523.2m 2014: 2,329.8m.
The profit for Details of the issued share capital, together with details theyear attributable to equity holders of the Company ofmovements in the issued share capital of Burberry was336.3m 2014: 322.5m.
Groupplc during the year are shown in note 22 which isincorporated by reference and deemed to be part Dividends ofthisreport.
The directors recommend that a final dividend of 25.5p perordinary share 2014: 23.20p in respect of the year to The Company has one class of ordinary share which 31March 2015 be paid on 31 July 2015 to those persons carriesno right to fixed income.
Each share carries the onthe Register of Members as at 3 July 2015. rightto one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Theordinary shares are listed on the Official List and An interim dividend of 9.70p per ordinary share was paid tradedon the London Stock Exchange.
As at 31 March toshareholders on 23 January 2015 2014: 8.80p.
This will 2015, the Company had 444,744,067 ordinary shares in make a total dividend of 35.2p per ordinary share in respect issue.
TheCompany does not hold any shares in treasury.
of the financial year to 31 March 2015.
The aggregate dividends paid and recommended in respect of the year In order to retain maximum flexibility, the Company to31 March 2015 total 155.2m 2014: 140.4m.
proposes to renew the authority granted by ordinary shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2014, to Directors repurchase up to just under 10% of its issued share capital.
The names and biographical details of the directors as at Further details are provided in the Notice of this years the date of this report are set out on pages 62 and 63 and Annual General Meeting.
are incorporated by reference into this report.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2014, shareholders At the 2015 Annual General Meeting, all of the current approved resolutions to allot shares up to an aggregate directors will offer themselves for election or re-election.
nominal value of 73,200 and to allot shares for cash other The Notice of this years Annual General Meeting sets out than pro rata to existing shareholders.
Resolutions will be why the Board believes the directors should be elected proposed at this years Annual General Meeting to renew orre-elected.
Details of the directors service agreements these authorities.
andletters of appointment are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 81 to 103.
104 Board and Governance Directors Report No person has any special rights of control over the Interests in own shares Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully Details of the Companys interests in its own shares paid.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of aresetout in note 22 to the financial statements.
holding or on the transfer of shares which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Political donations Association and prevailing legislation.
The directors are The Company made no political donations during the notaware of any agreements between holders of the yearin line with its policy 2014: nil.
In keeping with the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the Companys approach in prior years, shareholder approval transfer of securities or voting rights.
The directors have isbeing sought at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, nocurrent plans to issue shares other than in connection as a precautionary measure, for the Company and its with employee share schemes.
subsidiaries to make donations and or incur expenditure which may be construed as political by the wide definition Details of employee share schemes are set out in note of that term included in the relevant legislation.
The Burberry Group plc ESOP Trust has waived details are provided in the Notice of this years Annual alldividends payable by the Company in respect of General Meeting.
theordinary shares held by it.
In addition, the Burberry Group plc SIP Trust has waived all dividends payable Greenhouse Gas emissions bytheCompany in respect of the unappropriated ordinary The disclosures concerning the Companys greenhouse shares held by it.
The total dividends waived by the trusts gas emissions required by the Companies Act 2006 inthe year to 31 March 2015 were in aggregate 1.2m Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2014: 1.3m.
2013are included in the Burberry Impact section of theStrategic Report on page 47.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, the Company follows the UK Corporate Governance Code Employment policies and is governed by its Articles of Association, the Companies Diversity and inclusion Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles of Association The Group takes a very inclusive approach to diversity.
may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Asaglobal business, Burberry values people of all cultures, nationalities, races, religions and ethnicities, regardless Substantial shareholdings ofcharacteristics such as gender, gender identity and or As at 31 March 2015, the Company had been notified under expression, age, disability or sexual orientation.
Burberry Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the ispassionate about attracting, developing and rewarding following major interests in its issued ordinary share capital: the most talented and skilled individuals, regardless of background.
The Group encourages its employees to work Number of % of total across functions, geographies and cultures to enhance ordinary shares voting rights understanding and create a connected global community.
The Capital Group Companies, Inc 26,343,299 5.92 As the Group continues to grow globally, it is building on BlackRock, Inc. 22,207,161 5.00 itslong-term commitment to diversity and inclusion Schroders plc 21,666,352 4.99 embracing the cultures of all the countries where we do JP Morgan Chase & Co 21,578,580 4.99 business.
Burberry is committed to making the necessary FMR LLC 21,867,513 4.98 adjustments to support the employment of people with Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 21,664,800 4.97 disabilities and provide training and development to ensure Thornburg Investment Management 21,910,655 4.94 they have the opportunity to achieve their potential.
In a Massachusetts Financial ServicesCompany 20,073,645 4.61 situation where an employee becomes disabled during theiremployment, the Group will endeavour to assist the employee by offering additional training, adapting the job Between 31 March 2015 and 19 May 2015, the Company ifappropriate or by offering a transfer to another position.
was notifed that Blackrock, Inc. holds 22,866,982 shares, representing 5.14% of total voting rights.
105 Board and Governance Directors Report Health and safety Employee share ownership The Group has a health and safety policy approved by The Group encourages share ownership at all levels and theBoard.
Governance of the health and safety strategy is runs incentive schemes and share ownership schemes for maintained through a Global Health and Safety Committee the benefit of employees.
Further details of these schemes which is chaired by the Chief Corporate Affairs Officer are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages &General Counsel.
Health and safety is also considered 81 to 103. atthe Group Risk Committee and Audit Committee.
Eachregion has a local Committee which assists with the The Group again intends to grant free share awards implementation of the health and safety strategy.
Strategic orcash-based awards to all eligible employees during direction on health and safety matters is provided by 2015 16.
The Group also intends, where possible, to theDirector of Workplace Services and Health & Safety inviteemployees to take part in the Sharesave Scheme.
There have been a number ofinternal and external health and safety audits carried Further information regarding the Groups approach to outto provide assurance globally.
employee involvement and communications are provided inBuild our Culture on pages 40 and 41.
Further information regarding the Groups employment policies are provided in Build our Culture on pages 40 to 41.
Financial instruments The Groups financial risk management objectives Employee involvement andpolicies are set out within note 25 of the financial Employee communication statements.
Note 25 also details the Groups exposure The Group believes that employee communication toforeign exchange, share price, interest, credit, capital isimportant to enhance the Company culture and and liquidity risks.
This note is incorporated by reference connectivity, and to motivate and retain its employees.
and deemed to form part of this report.
Aglobal communications programme, incorporating various physical and digital methods and channels, Significant contracts change of control enablesall employees to connect and collaborate closely, Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the directors disclose and to understand the Companys key strategies, financial that in the event of a change of control, the Companys performance and other matters of interest and importance, borrowings under the Groups 300m Revolving Credit quickly and efficiently.
Facility dated 25 November 2014 could become repayable.
Social media platform Burberry World is the key digital Details of the service agreements of the executive channel used by the Company to communicate internally.
directorsare set out on page 88 of the Directors However, other methods and channels are also used, Remuneration Report.
including face-to-face briefings, open discussion forums with senior management, email and instant messaging.
The provisions of the Companys employee share Burberry Chat Live global video broadcasts are hosted by plansmay cause options and awards granted under Christopher Bailey and provide real-time communications suchplans tovest upon a change of control.
to highlight the Groups performance and its ongoing strategic initiatives.
The Company also uses videos anddigital web pages to communicate key initiatives, events and other brand messages, to enhance internal communication, employee connectivity and the Burberryculture.
106 Board and Governance Directors Report Independent auditors Annual General Meeting In accordance with section 418 2 of the Companies The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held Act2006, each of the Companys directors in office atthe offices of Nomura, 1 Angel Lane, London EC4R 3AB asatthe date of this report confirms that: commencing at 9.30am on Thursday, 16 July 2015.
TheNotice of this years Annual General Meeting will so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant beavailable to view on the Companys website at auditinformation of which the Companys auditors www.
areunaware: and he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought The directors consider that each of the proposed tohave taken as a director in order to make himself resolutions to be considered at the Annual General orherself aware of any relevant audit information and Meetingare in the best interests of the Company and its toestablish that the Companys auditors are aware shareholders and are most likely to promote the success of ofthat information.
the Company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
The directors unanimously recommend that shareholders The Groups auditors are  LLP.
vote in favour of each of the proposed resolutions, as the Aresolution to reappoint  LLP directors intend to do in respect of their own shareholdings.
asauditors to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Strategic Report from pages 8 to 59 and Directors Report from pages 104 to 107 have been approved by Note 7 of the financial statements states the auditors theBoard on 19 May 2015. feesboth for audit and non-audit work.
By order of the Board Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and Catherine Sukmonowski position are set out in the Group Financial Review on pages Company Secretary 50 to 55, along with details of the Groups cash flows.
Details of the Groups liquidity position and borrowing 19 May 2015 facilities are described in notes 18 and 21.
Financial risk management objectives, details of financial instruments Burberry Group plc and hedging activities, and exposures to credit risk and Registered Office: liquidity risk are described in note 25.
Horseferry House Horseferry Road The directors have reviewed the Groups forecasts and London projections.
These include the assumptions around the SW1P 2AW Groups products and markets, expenditure commitments, expected cash flows and borrowing facilities.
Taking Registered in England and Wales intoaccount reasonably possible changes in trading Registered number: 03458224 performance, and after making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and theCompany have adequate resources to continue inoperational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the directors consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing thefinancial statements.
107 Financial Statements 110 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 120 Analysis of Net Cash 111 I ndependent Auditors Report to the Members 121 Notes to the Financial Statements of Burberry Group plc 161 Five Year Summary 116 Group Income Statement 163 Independent Auditors Report to the Members 117 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income of Burberry Group plc 118 Group Balance Sheet 165 Company Balance Sheet 119 Group Statement of Changes in Equity 166 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 120 Group Statement of Cash Flows
