Directors report | Other statutory information Other statutory information Annual General Meeting Bunzl Group General Employee Power to issue and allot shares The Annual General Meeting will be held at Benefit Trust The directors are generally and The Park Suite, The Dorchester, Park Lane, unconditionally authorised under the Bunzl Employee Trustees Limited is trustee London W1K 1QA on Wednesday 20 April authorities granted at the 2015 Annual of the Bunzl Group General Employee 2016 at 11.00 am.
The Notice convening the General Meeting to allot shares or grant Benefit Trust the EBT which holds shares Annual General Meeting is set out in a rights to subscribe for or to convert any in respect of employee share options and separate letter from the Chairman to security into shares of the Company up awards that have not been exercised or shareholders which explains the items of to a maximum nominal amount of 35.87 vested.
The current position is that the EBT business which are not of a routine nature.
At the same meeting authority abstains from voting in respect of these was also granted to the directors to allot shares.
The trustee has agreed to waive the the Companys shares for cash, up to a Dividends right to dividend payments on shares held maximum nominal amount of approximately within the EBT.
Details of the shares so held An interim dividend of 11.75p was paid on 5.38 million, without regard to the preare set out in Note 16 to the consolidated 4 January 2016 in respect of 2015 and the emption provisions of the Companies Act financial statements.
directors recommend a final dividend of 2006.
No such shares were issued or allotted 26.25p, making a total for the year of 38.0p under these authorities in 2015, nor is there Rights and obligations attaching per share 2014: 35.5p.
Dividend details are any current intention to do so, other than to given in Note 17 to the consolidated financial to shares satisfy share options under the Companys statements.
Subject to approval by the Subject to the provisions of the Companies share option schemes and, if necessary, to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting Act 2006 and without prejudice to any rights satisfy the consideration payable for on 20 April 2016, the final dividend will be attached to any existing shares, the Company businesses to be acquired.
paid on 1 July 2016 to those shareholders may resolve by ordinary resolution to issue on the register at the close of business on shares with such rights and restrictions as These authorities are valid until the 20 May 2016. set out in such resolution or if there is no conclusion of the forthcoming Annual such resolution or so far as it does not make General Meeting.
The directors again Share Capital specific provision as the Board may decide.
propose to seek equivalent authorities The Company has a single class of share Subject to the provisions of the Companies at such Annual General Meeting.
capital which is divided into ordinary shares Act 2006 and of any resolution of the 1 of 32 p each which rank pari passu in Company passed pursuant thereto and 7 Restrictions on transfer of shares respect of participation and voting rights.
without prejudice to any rights attached to Dealings in the Companys ordinary shares The shares are in registered form, are fully existing shares, the Board is duly authorised by its directors, persons discharging paid up and are quoted on the London Stock to issue and allot, grant options over or managerial responsibilities, certain Exchange.
In addition, the Company operates otherwise dispose of the Companys shares employees of the Company and, in each case, a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt on such terms and conditions and at such their connected persons, are subject to the programme with Citibank N. A. under which times as it thinks fit.
If at any time the share Companys dealing code which adopts the the Companys shares are traded on the capital of the Company is divided into Model Code of the Listing Rules published over-the-counter OTC market in the form different classes of shares, the rights by the Financial Conduct Authority.
attached to any class may be varied or abrogated by special resolution passed at Certain restrictions, which are customary for Details of changes to the issued share capital a separate general meeting of such holders.
a listed company, apply to transfers of shares during the year are set out in Note 16 to the Subject to the rights attached to any existing in the Company.
The Board may refuse to consolidated financial statements.
shares, rights attached to shares will be register an instrument of transfer of any deemed to be varied by the reduction of share which is not a fully paid share and of a capital paid up on the shares and by the Substantial shareholdings certificated share at its discretion unless it is: allotment of further shares ranking in As at 31 December 2015 the directors had priority in respect of dividend or capital been notified by the following shareholders lodged, duly stamped or duly certified, at or which confer on the holders more that they were each interested in 3% or more the offices of the Companys registrar or favourable voting rights than the firstof the issued share capital of the Company.
such other place as the Board may specify mentioned shares, but will not otherwise and is accompanied by the certificate be deemed to be varied by the creation or As at 29 February 2016 no further for the shares to which it relates and issue of further shares.
notifications have been received since the such other evidence as the Board may year end.
reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: Date of Number of % of issued in respect of only one class of shares: and Shareholder notification shares share capital Massachusetts Financial in favour of not more than four transferees.
Services Company 07.10.14 33,452,090 10.0 Cascade Investment L. L. C. 15.10.15 23,503,182 7.0 Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated BlackRock, Inc. 30.11.15 17,189,833 5.1 share may be refused in the circumstances Invesco Limited 26.08.14 16,645,696 5.0 set out in the uncertificated securities rules, APG Asset Management N. V. 24.06.15 10,265,263 3.1 and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
82 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Directors report | Other statutory information In addition, no instrument of transfer for Biographical details of all the directors who Directors certificated shares shall be registered if the served throughout the year are set out on Directors may be elected by ordinary transferor has been served with a restriction pages 48 and 49.
Vanda Murray and Frank resolution at a duly convened general notice as defined in the Companys Articles van Zanten were appointed to the Board with meeting or appointed by the Board.
Under of Association the Articles after failure effect from 1 February 2015 and 1 February the Articles, the minimum number of to provide the Company with information 2016 respectively but all of the other directors shall be two and the maximum concerning certain interests in the directors served throughout the year.
In accordance with the Articles, Companys shares required to be provided Notwithstanding the retirement by rotation each director is required to retire at the under the Companies Act 2006, unless the provisions in the Articles, each of the Annual General Meeting held in the third transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant directors will retire and offer themselves calendar year after which he or she was to an arms length sale.
The Board has the for re-election at the forthcoming Annual appointed or last appointed and any director power to procure that uncertificated shares General Meeting in accordance with the who has held office with the Company, other are converted into certificated shares and UK Corporate Governance Code apart than employment or executive office, for a kept in certificated form for as long as the from Michael Roney who retires from the continuous period of nine years or more at Board requires.
Board at the conclusion of the Annual the date of the Annual General Meeting is General Meeting.
The Board The Company is not aware of any agreements may also appoint a person willing to act as a between shareholders that may result in Directors interests in ordinary shares are director during the year either to fill a any restriction of the transfer of shares or shown in Note 19 to the consolidated vacancy or as an additional director but so voting rights.
None of the directors that the total number of directors shall not at was materially interested in any contract of any time exceed 15.
However such appointee significance with the Company or any of its Restrictions on voting rights shall only hold office until the next Annual subsidiary undertakings during or at the end A member shall not be entitled to vote, General Meeting of the Company.
Information relating to the directors unless the Board otherwise decides, at any service agreements and their remuneration general meeting or class meeting in respect In addition to any power to remove a director for the year and details of the directors from office conferred by company law, the of any shares held by them if any call or other share options under the Companys share sums payable remain unpaid.
Currently, all Company may also by special resolution option schemes and awards under the remove a director from office before the issued shares are fully paid.
In addition, no Long Term Incentive Plan and Deferred member shall be entitled to vote if he has expiration of his or her period of office Annual Share Bonus Scheme are set out under the Articles.
been served with a restriction notice after in the Directors remuneration report on failure to provide the Company with pages 60 to 81.
The office of a director shall also be vacated information concerning certain interests in the Companys shares required to be pursuant to the Articles if the director: Powers of the directors provided under the Companies Act 2006.
Votes may be exercised in person or by proxy.
resigns by giving notice to the Company Subject to the Articles, the Companies or is asked to resign by all of the other The Articles currently provide a deadline for Act 2006 and any directions given by the submission of proxy forms of 48 hours before directors who are not less than three in Company by special resolution, the business number: or the relevant meeting, 24 hours before a of the Company is managed by the Board poll is taken if such poll is taken more than who may exercise all powers of the Company.
is or has been suffering from mental or 48 hours after it was demanded or during The Board may, by power of attorney or physical ill health and the Board resolves the meeting at which the poll was demanded otherwise, appoint any person or persons that his or her office be vacated: or if the poll is not taken straight away but to be the agent or agents of the Company is taken not more than 48 hours after is absent without permission from Board for such purposes and on such conditions meetings for six consecutive months and it was demanded.
the Board resolves that his or her office be vacated: or Purchase of own shares Directors indemnities becomes bankrupt or compounds with At the 2015 Annual General Meeting, Indemnities were in force throughout 2015 shareholders gave the Company authority to his or her creditors generally: or and remain in force as at the date of this purchase a maximum of 33,475,000 ordinary report under which the Company has agreed is prohibited by law from being a shares.
During the year ended 31 December to indemnify the directors and the Company director: or 2015 the Company did not purchase any of its Secretary, in addition to other senior own shares pursuant to this authority or the ceases to be a director by virtue of any executives who are directors of subsidiaries provisions of company law or is removed authority granted at the 2014 Annual General of the Company, to the extent permitted by Meeting and no shares have been purchased from office pursuant to the Articles.
law and the Articles in respect of all losses between 31 December 2015 and 29 February arising out of, or in connection with, the 2016.
The Company is therefore currently execution of their powers, duties and authorised to buy back 33,475,000 of its responsibilities as a director or officer own shares pursuant to the existing of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
shareholders authority which is due to expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The directors again propose to seek the equivalent authority at such Annual General Meeting.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 83 Directors report | Other statutory information Other statutory information continued Amendment of articles Significant agreements Strategic report and Any amendments to the Articles may be The Companys wholly owned subsidiary, Directors report made in accordance with the provisions of Bunzl Finance plc, has a number of bilateral Pages 1 to 47 inclusive consist of the the Companies Act 2006 by way of special loan facilities with a range of different Strategic report and pages 48 to 84 inclusive resolution of the Companys shareholders.
counterparties, all of which are guaranteed consist of the Directors report.
These by the Company, are in substantially the reports have been drawn up and presented same form and are prepayable at the option Environmental and in accordance with, and in reliance upon, of the lender in the event of a change of applicable English company law and any social responsibility control of the Company.
Similar change of liability of the directors in connection with The directors recognise that the Company is control provisions in relation to the Company these reports shall be subject to the part of a wider community and that it has a are included in the US dollar, sterling and limitations and restrictions provided by responsibility to act in a way that respects euro US private placement notes which have such law.
the environment and social and community been entered into by Bunzl Finance plc and issues.
Further information relating to the the Company and are also guaranteed by Under the Companies Act 2006, a safe Companys approach to these matters is set the Company.
harbour limits the liability of directors in out in the Corporate responsibility report on respect of statements in and omissions from pages 39 to 47.
Political donations a strategic report and a directors report.
Under English law, the directors would be During 2015 no contributions were made Employment policies liable to the Company, but not to any third for political purposes.
The employment policies of the Group have party, if the Strategic report or the Directors been developed to meet the needs of its report contain errors as a result of Disclosures required under UK different business areas and the locations recklessness or knowing misstatement or listing rule 9.8.
4 in which they operate worldwide, embodying dishonest concealment of a material fact, the principles of equal opportunity.
The Apart from the dividend waiver which has but would not otherwise be liable.
Group has standards of business conduct been issued in respect of shares held by the with which it expects all its employees Bunzl Group General Employee Benefit Trust The Strategic report and the Directors to comply.
Bunzl encourages involvement referred to in Note 16 to the consolidated report were approved by the Board on of its employees in the performance of financial statements on page 112, there are 29 February 2016. the business in which they are employed no disclosures required to be made under and aims to achieve a sense of shared UK Listing Rule 9.8.
On behalf of the Board commitment.
In addition to a regular magazine and the Companys intranet, Paul Hussey External auditors which provide a variety of information Secretary Each of the directors at the date of approval on activities and developments within the 29 February 2016 of this report confirms that: Group and incorporate half year and annual financial reports, announcements are so far as the director is aware, there is periodically circulated to give details of no relevant audit information of which the corporate and staff matters together with Companys auditors are unaware: and a number of subsidiary or business area publications dealing with activities in specific the director has taken all steps that he parts of the Group.
or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make the director aware of It is the Groups policy that disabled any relevant audit information and to applicants should be considered for establish that the Companys auditors employment and career development on are aware of that information.
the basis of their aptitudes and abilities.
Employees who become disabled during This confirmation is given and should be their working life will be retained in interpreted in accordance with the provisions employment wherever possible and given of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. help with rehabilitation and training.
Resolutions are to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of  LLP as auditors of the Company at a rate of remuneration to be determined by the directors.
84 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Financial statements Financial statements In this section 86 Consolidated income statement 87 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 88 Consolidated balance sheet 89 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 90 Consolidated cash flow statement 91 Notes 123 Company balance sheet 124 Company statement of changes in equity 125 N otes to the Company financial statements 133 S tatement of directors responsibilities 134 I ndependent auditors report to the members of Bunzl plc 140 Five year review 141 Shareholder information Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 85
