Strategic Report Core Strategies REALISE PRODUCT POTENTIAL Reinforce the Companys outerwear leadership while continuing to realise the brands potential across all apparel and accessory categories.
Burberrys focused attention on accessories in recent Accessories years has contributed to the growth of this product Heritage scarves drove growth in mens and womens category, which will remain an important future growth accessories.
The introduction of monogramming online driver.
The Company will also focus on underdeveloped for scarves attracted a very strong customer response.
product categories, maximising opportunities in all mens The monogrammed poncho, which featured in the A W14 product categories and the further development of Beauty.
Womenswear show finale, also generated strong consumer and media interest.
During the year, Burberry continued to lead in outerwear Growth in womens large leather goods was supported with strong customer demand for Heritage trench coats by an increased focus on key shapes and success in and scarves following the Heritage relaunch.
Burberry signature grain leather bags.
also reinforced its dominant position in soft accessories such as scarves, and continued to develop bags and small Beauty leather goods.
Combined, mainline sales of outerwear The linkage between Beauty and fashion continued and soft accessories grew by nearly 20% in the year.
to drive the vision for the Beauty business and was a key differentiator for the brand.
Beauty delivered 26% Key focus areas during 2014 15: underlying growth in the year.
Growth in fragrance Heritage over 95% of Beauty revenue was underpinned by the The relaunch of Burberrys British-made Heritage trench successful launch of My Burberry, product extensions coats and scarves included a simplified assortment of around Brit Rhythm and a strong operational supply chain.
coats, with standardised fits, colours and elevated The launch of My Burberry, inspired by the trench coat, features, while monogramming was introduced for supported the Heritage relaunch and the personalisation cashmere scarves.
The roll-out to over 300 stores was theme including the monogramming offer.
The fragrance supported by sales associate training.
Heritage trench launch was Burberrys most successful to date.
coats and scarves featured across key brand and marketing activities.
Burberry continued its development of make-up as it expanded its product portfolio.
The new Eye Statement Mens and Fresh Glow BB Cream ranges were launched Mens, an underpenetrated product category, increased alongside the core campaigns which featured key looks sales by 10% underlying.
Retail significantly outperformed and products.
wholesale, where repositioning continued in the USA in My Burberry was recognised externally with leading industry particular.
Mainline retail sales were driven by outerwear, awards including the Prix DOr at the FiFi Awards, and supported by core replenishment styles and tailoring.
Prix International du Parfum in Marie Claire.
