Strategic Report Core Strategies INSPIRE WITH THE BRAND Speak to consumers with one equally authentic and inspiring brand voice, wherever they encounter the brand.
As a young, old company Burberry has always looked Beauty, the Groups fifth product division, was an integral to the past while embracing innovation, celebrating anew feature of the Womenswear shows with the introduction the timeless and authentic products that embody the of exclusive runway looks and the latest nail collections brand.
This way of thinking underpins how Burberry available immediately following the show through the connects with its customers globally, whether through Runway Made To Order service.
This was evolved its runway shows, marketing innovations, campaign talent at the S S15 show where Burberry was the first brand or music, using digital and customer insight to enhance to sell Beauty products to consumers in the USA via customer experiences.
During the year, this spirit was embodied by the Heritage Flagship markets campaign which continued to elevate Burberrys BritishBurberry opened several new stores in flagship markets in made iconic products, the Heritage trench coat and the year, accompanied by city-wide events and extensive cashmere scarf.
marketing and social media campaigns.
The Shanghai flagship opening was marked by the Key focus areas during 2014 15: Dreams of London celebration, bringing the creativity Runway shows and heritage of the brand from London to Shanghai.
The runway shows take place four times a year in London Burberry partnered with WeChat to allow followers and are streamed live globally, connecting audiences globally to enhance their experience of the event through ever closer to the brand.
Burberry explored new ways to their mobile devices.
Media and online activity around enhance the experience through innovative collaborations.
the event drove brand awareness and engagement both in the region and globally.
A new YouTube functionality at the S S15 Womenswear show enabled audiences to move across multiple Burberry celebrated the opening of its new Los Angeles interlinking videos and pieces of content.
flagship on Rodeo Drive with the highlight being the London in Los Angeles event at the iconic Griffith Burberry partnered with LINE offering Japanese users Observatory.
Burberry launched on Snapchat as part access to the first-ever live stream on the platform, which of this event, and used the new live streaming service allowed them to watch Burberrys A W15 Womenswear Periscope to offer the first ever red carpet to runway runway show in real time.
A series of other activities in Burberry also partnered with Twitter to offer users the the city showcased the brand and Los Angeles including chance to capture pictures of the A W15 Womenswear Art of the Trench in Los Angeles, Burberrys social show, live from the runway, from anywhere in the world platform celebrating the trench coat, and an exclusive through Tweetcam.
Music remained central to the expression of the brand, Further progress was made with the Companys plans to with live performances at Burberry shows by British transform its operations in Japan, including the opening talent, including artists featured on the Burberry Acoustic of directly operated stores offering the global collection.
The live tracks from the runway shows In December, Burberry celebrated the opening of the are available to download on iTunes.
new standalone Beauty store in Seoul, South Korea.
Its first in Asia, the store is inspired by the first Burberry Beauty Box in Covent Garden, London, bringing together fashion, accessories and Beauty in a retail environment.
30 Strategic Report Core Strategies Marketing innovation Key partnerships also helped to strengthen the To engage consumers with the brand, Burberry developed brands presence in flagship markets.
Burberry was increasingly personalised and connected experiences the first British luxury brand to partner with the French across consumer touchpoints.
Burberry again finished the department store Printemps for its festive celebrations, year as one of the most followed luxury brands on social taking over the atrium, windows and faade of its Paris media, including over 16 million fans on Facebook, over flagship store with interactive displays and offering three million on Twitter and over two million on Instagram.
Heritage was a key theme developed throughout External recognition the year to celebrate Burberrys relaunch of its iconic Burberry continued to be recognised externally for both British-made trench coats and scarves, as well as a its creative and commercial leadership.
My Burberry Heritage Christopher Bailey was awarded Designer Of The Year My Burberry, the new fragrance for women, was at the British GQ Men Of The Year Awards.
introduced in September and was synchronised with the Heritage relaunch.
The campaign featured iconic Listed in Interbrand Top 100 Global Brands for the sixth British models Kate Moss and Cara Delevingne wearing consecutive year.
Recognised by Fast Company as the seventh most As part of the focus on personalisation, a new innovative brand in retail.
monogramming service for My Burberry bottles was Burberry was ranked the sixth most powerful brand introduced on Burberry.
com and in selected retail and globally in the annual Global 500 report published wholesale stores.
Customers were also able to interact by Brand Finance.
digitally with the campaign on billboards at selected sites from London to New York and across social media platforms.
Festive Burberry launched its global festive campaign From London with Love, featuring a film with Romeo Beckham.
The film resulted in record engagement levels for the brand across traditional and social media, with five million views across Facebook and YouTube at the end of the first week of launch and over nine million views on these platforms by Christmas 2014.
The global campaign was also viewed worldwide across outdoor advertising, cinema, and on Burberrys ten social media platforms.
