Performance review The Bahamas This year we delivered a total of 107 new LTE sites to increase mobile coverage throughout the islands and offer better speeds to help grow mobile data penetration.
Leon Williams, CEO, BTC Bahamas Preparation for mobile competition of what we do, and expanding our retail The Bahamas adversely impacted our revenue and EBITDA footprint to 59 service locations.
Revenue was down 2% BTC is also preparing a quad play offering with year-over-year while EBITDA declined by 5% the introduction of TV to drive new revenue driven mainly by decrease in prepaid cellular streams.
We began beta testing in Bimini last revenue as the business introduced a more December and in Long Island, Cat Island, competitive pricing strategy which impacted Inagua and Andros in February and March Average Revenue Per User ARPU.
We had positive consumer the prepaid cellular revenue decrease was response from all the islands.
IPTV will be offset, in part, by increases in fixed voice.
a key product in BTCs future customer Fixed line revenue was up by 9% year-overretention and growth strategies.
year, despite the international downward Additionally, we continue to innovate with trend.
The introduction of Home Phone Plus, the launch of the MyBTC application and an improved value proposition for fixed line other self-service products such as, six customers, offered local calling to the Family ways to pay, to satisfy consumer demand Islands with package bundles that provided and convenience.
the lowest rates for international calls to the United States and Canada.
Supported by a winning retention strategy, we had minimal CUSTOMER TESTIMONIAL churn and maintained market share of 81% amidst fierce competition.
B2B customer Broadband performance was flat year-overGlobal Connect has so far been the fastest, year.
Our direct marketing approach and most stable, reliable and easiest of all a new value proposition assisted in growing installations.
We have been using the the subscriber base by 12%.
Continued solution for more than three years and improvement in this area will be a key focus have seen immediate results in the speed for the business in the new fiscal year and of connection.
The difference between our we will continue to invest in upgrading our operations before Global Connect and network to facilitate faster data speeds.
after is like night and day.
There is an instant smile on our customers faces as Under our successful Upgrade Bahamas they experience how quickly applications programme, we have invested US$29 million are loaded now.
The solution has even in LTE.
Our 107 new LTE sites have resulted in generated a cost reduction on our increased data penetration and improved monthlybills.
The Upgrade Bahamas Clayton Rolle, IT Manager Infrastructure programme also included the revitalisation of at the Department of Information the BTC brand, general improvements to our Technology, Government of TheBahamas network, greater emphasis on customer service, the rebranding of our retail stores, vehicles and offices.
We have also added 22 new franchise retail stores to meet our growing customer needs, underpinning our Read more about our strategy on pages 7-9 strategy of placing our customers at the heart 32 Cable & Wireless Communications This has been a good year for BTC, but we The Bahamas have much more work to do.
We will continue Financial review to make improvements in our network to meet the needs of our customers and prepare for increased competition.
9% growth in broadband subscribers CWCs proportionate ownership of BTCs EBITDA for the year ended 31 March 2015 was 49%.
16% growth in fixed voice ARPU Our direct marketing approach grew the broadband subscriber base by 9% and attracted CUSTOMER TESTIMONIAL key investments in Managed Services.
Year Year ended ended 31 Mar 31 Mar % B2B customer 2015 2014 change Community development is also big on our The Myers Group of Companies, a fast food agenda, and for over 20 years, we have Subscribers 000s and fine dining restaurants group based 1 actively supported the advancement of Mobile 318 308 3% inThe Bahamas, saw immediate changes Bahamians through the development of Broadband 25 23 9% to their operations once they started several nation-building initiatives.
This year Fixed 99 103 -4% usingGlobal Connect.
We saw changes we invested over US$2 million in support of 2 ARPU US$ instantly: the internet service stayed up, culture, education, health, youth, sports and we had faster speed connection, there is no Mobile 61.3 66.1 -7% humanitarian efforts.
Major national events congestion and no need to be troubled Broadband 51.3 64.3 -20% such as the IAAF World Relays and the first when the power goes out, feeling that the Fixed 40.2 34.7 16% Bahamas Junkanoo Carnival are under the title service will drop those days are gone.
Our Revenue US$m 348 354 -2% banner of BTC.
entire day-to-day process has improved.
LFL revenue 348 354 -2% Inthe past, each store had its own network Social media continues to play a vital role in EBITDA US$m 122 128 -5% with internet and this was neither efficient our strategy and just over one-third of the Proportionate nor productive.
Now, we have our own countrys population or 101,000 fans the EBITDA 60 65 -8% private internet network that is not shared largest in The Bahamas are a part of our Margin % 35% 36% -1ppt with the entire neighbourhood.
All I can social media network.
1 Active subscribers are defined as those having George K. Sands, performed at revenue-generating activity in the previous 60 days.
Historic subscriber numbers have IT Manager for The Myers Group.
been restated to exclude subscribers with credit balances but no activity in the proceeding 60 days.
Read more about our strategy on pages 7-9 2 ARPU is the average revenue per user per month, excluding equipment sales.
