Board of Directors The Board has seen significant change within the year.
Perley McBride was appointed as Chief Financial Officer in June 2014, and we welcomed our four new Non-executive Directors Barbara Thoralfsson, Brendan Paddick, John Risley and Thad York who each bring extensive experience of the telecoms industry Sir Richard Lapthorne CBE, Chairman Board of Directors Reporting Committees Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Board of Directors Review and monitor financial results Review composition of and succession to the Board and Recommend and review the Chief Executive O cer and controls, business operations and recommend appointments.
Ongoing assessment of the overall balance and Review the design and policy of share Assist the Board in confirming that the performance of the Board.
Executive Committee Annual Report and Accounts are fair, Ensure the balance of the Board, and its Committees, are Review performance conditions and Role balanced and understandable.
in compliance with the Corporate Governance Code.
Members Meet weekly Implementing strategy and Four Executive Directors Review and approve internal audit, and Approve amendments to service objectives set by the Board Chief Operating O cer review and monitor independence and contracts.
Managing Performance performance of the external auditor.
Reporting Committees Acestior rovitatis exceaturiti Acestior rovitatis exceaturiti Acestior rovitatis exceaturiti bea et velliqu ametus platur Chief Executive Officer bea et velliqu ametus platur bea et velliqu ametus platur alignim quid que moluptat.
Occum, omnis as as sa Occum, omnis as as sa Occum, omnis as as sa diantiorum estiore serero diantiorum estiore serero diantiorum estiore serero temposa nisciur.
Executive Team Phil Bentley Attend to Group operational matters.
Meetings are held on a monthly basis.
Perley McBride Manage the performance of the Group.
John Reid Develop and execute the strategy of the Group.
John Maduri Put in place strong functions across the Group so as Paul Scott to ensure consistency in all our markets and highest Carlo Alloni standards are maintained.
Michele English Report to the Board on all relevant matters under, and Belinda Bradberry operate within, the Delegation of Authority Framework.
Niall Merry Agustin fide la Guardia Leon Williams Chris Dehring 44 Cable & Wireless Communications Sir Richard Lapthorne, cbe Phil Bentley R. Perley McBride Simon Ball Chairman, Chairman of the Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Joint Deputy Chairman, Senior Nomination Committee Independent Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee N A N R Sir Richard Lapthorne is Chairman of Phil Bentley was appointed Chief R. Perley McBride was appointed Simon Ball is a Non-executive the Company having been Chairman Executive Officer of the Company as Chief Financial Officer of the Director of the Company having of Cable and Wireless plc since on 1 January 2014.
Company in June 2014. previously served as a Non-executive January 2003: and is also Chairman Director of Cable and Wireless plc Between 2007 and 2013 Phil was Between December 2012 and May of the Nomination Committee.
2014 Perley served as Chief Financial the Managing Director of British Gas, Richard is also Chairman of the the UKs largest energy and services Officer at Leap Wireless International Simon is also the Joint Deputy which operated the Cricket Chairman, Senior Independent PwC Public Interest Body: and a business: and was on the Board of Non-executive Director of Sherritt Centrica Plc from November 2000 to Communications mobile brand.
Director, Chairman of the He was part of the executive team Remuneration Committee and a International, based in Toronto.
June 2013, having served as Group Finance Director from 2000 to 2004 that led the business through its member of the Audit and Nomination Between June 2009 and April 2010, acquisition by AT&T Inc. which Committees.
Simon became and Managing Director, Europe from he was Chairman of the McLaren 2004 to 2007. completed in March 2014.
Chairman of the Remuneration Group.
From 1996 to May 2003 Committee on 1 June 2012 having Richard was Chairman of Amersham Prior to that, he was Finance Director Prior to Leap Wireless, he served as previously been the Chairman of the International plc now GE Healthcare for Diageo Plcs spirits division and Executive Vice President of Finance Audit Committee.
having joined its Board as a NonGroup Treasurer.
He also served at the Weather Company between executive Director in 1989.
He was in several senior international 2010 and 2012.
Prior to that, he He is also a Non-executive Director Finance Director of British Aerospace management roles during a 15-year served in several senior financial of Allied Irish Bank plc, Non-executive plc from July 1992 and Vice Chairman career at BP Plc and lived and worked management roles at Frontier Director of Commonwealth Games from April 1998 until his retirement in China, Egypt, France and the USA.
Communications formerly Citizens England and Chairman of Anchura in 1999.
From March 2012 until Communications between 1999 and Group Ltd. Phil was previously a Non-executive October 2013 he served as Chairman 2010, and also between 1994 and Director and Chairman of the Audit Previously, Simon was Group Finance of the Foresight Group on UK 1997.
He also worked in the finance Committee of IMI Plc between 2012 Director for 3i Group plc until Manufacturing.
department at Sprint Corporation and 2014: and was a Non-executive November 2008: and was Nonearly in his career.
Director and Chairman of the Audit executive Director and Chairman of Richard was also a Trustee of Tommys Campaign until January Committee of Kingfisher Plc between Perley holds a Bachelor of Science the Audit Committee of Tribal Group 2002 and 2010. degree from Mount Allison University plc until May 2014.
He also held a 2014: Non-executive Chairman of New Look Group and Morse plc until in Canada and has an MBA from the series of senior finance and Phil holds a Masters degree from University of Houston.
operational roles at Dresdner November 2007 and February 2008 Oxford University: and received his respectively: and Her Majesty the Kleinwort Benson, served as Group MBA from INSEAD, Fontainebleau.
Finance Director for the Robert Queens Trustee at The Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew until his retirement in Fleming Group and was Director General, Finance for the Department September 2009. for Constitutional Affairs.
A Denotes membership of Audit Committee.
N Denotes membership of Nomination Committee.
R Denotes membership of Remuneration Committee.
Committee membership shown as at 31 March 2015.
Annual Report 2014 15 45 Board of Directors continued John Risley Mark Hamlin Brendan Paddick Alison Platt Joint Deputy Chairman, Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director N A N R N A N R Alison Platt was appointed as a John Risley was appointed as Mark Hamlin has been a NonBrendan Paddick was appointed as a Non-executive Director of the executive Director of the Company a Non-executive Director of the Non-executive Director of the Company on 1 June 2012 and is Company on 31 March 2015 and since his appointment on 1 January Company on 31 March 2015 and serves as the Joint Deputy Chairman 2012 and is a member of the Audit, serves as a member of the a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
and a member of the Nomination Nomination and Remuneration Nomination Committee.
Brendan founded the Columbus Alison is Chief Executive of Mark is a Chartered Clinical International group of companies in Countrywide plc, having been John is the founder and Director of Clearwater Seafoods Incorporated Psychologist.
He established a 2004: and served on the Board as appointed to the role on 1 September Management Consulting firm, with President and Chief Executive Officer 2014.
Previous to this Alison was and also President of Clearwater Fine Foods Incorporated.
John also served offices in Washington, Johannesburg from inception.
He was also the Chief a Managing Director at Bupa, and London, in 1990 and for the last Executive Officer of all Columbus responsible for International on the Board of the Columbus Group from 2004: Persona Communications 15 years has been the Chairman of operating subsidiaries.
She took the Organisation Resource Group, currently serves on the Board of up this post in October 2012 having from 2002 to 2004: and Cable Bahamas from 2005 to 2010.
In which includes companies focused on Clearwater Seafoods Incorporated.
previously held a number of senior property, software and consulting.
posts across Bupa including Chief addition, John was the founder of From 2005 to 2012, Brendan served Ocean Nutrition Canada and serves Operating Officer of its UK private Mark is a senior adviser to the boards on the Board of the Caribbean Cable hospitals business, Deputy Managing as a Director of numerous private and of global businesses in many areas, Television Cooperative and is a past public companies, including Director in its UK insurance business such as strategy, culture and Chair of the Board of the Caribbean and latterly Managing Director for its Clearwater Seafoods Limited.
corporate change programmes in Cable & Telecommunications businesses in the UK, Europe and John sits on the Board of a number of international markets.
Prior to founding North America.
Before joining Bupa, charitable organisations.
He is Chair those from the finance, aerospace, Columbus, Brendan was President Alison held a number of key positions of Futurpreneur Canada and co-Chair electricity generation, utilities, and Chief Executive Officer of in British Airways.
of the Capital Campaign for the airline, pharmaceutical, defence, and Persona, Inc. and Persona Alison was Chair of Opportunity Nature Conservancy.
His models of Communications Inc. from 1992 to engages in public policy debate: is transformation and change are used 2004.
Brendan was a member of Now, which seeks to accelerate change for women in the workplace, Chairman of the Atlantic Institute of by practitioners around the world to Industry Canadas National Broadband Market Studies: a member of both enable the successful implementation Task Force in 2001, a government from May 2009 until April 2013.
She was also Non-executive Director of the World Presidents Organization of strategy.
initiative to shape the countrys roll and The Chief Executives out of broadband access: and in the Foreign & Commonwealth Office Born in Johannesburg, he is involved between 2005 and 2010, and in the Organization: and is a Director of the 2006, he was appointed Honorary with a number of charities in Africa, Canadian Council of Chief Executives.
Consul for Canada to The Bahamas by 2011 New Year Honours she was some aimed at creating additional appointed a CMG for her services the Canadian Department of Foreign income for subsistence farmers and John is a graduate of Harvard Affairs and International Trade he to the Board of the FCO.
Universitys Presidents Program in their families, and others establishing was subsequently reappointed in life skills education centres for young Leadership.
Further achievements 2009 and 2012. include being named an Officer of people.
Mark is the President of Wedmore Opera, a communityBrendan graduated with a Bachelor the Order of Canada and being inducted into the Nova Scotia Junior based music performance charity of Commerce degree from Memorial in Somerset.
University of Newfoundland, where Achievement Business Hall of Fame in 1997.
He has also received numerous he also received his MBA.
He served as a Member of the Board of Regents awards, including Atlantic Canadian Entrepreneur of the Year and a of Memorial University for six years.
In 2013, he was named Memorial Canada Award for Business Excellence in Entrepreneurship.
Universitys Alumnus of the Year.
Brendan is also a graduate of the Advanced Management Program at Harvard University.
46 Cable & Wireless Communications Barbara Thoralfsson Ian Tyler Thad York Non-executive Director Non-executive Director, Non-executive Director Chairman of the Audit Committee A N R A N R N Barbara Thoralfsson was appointed Ian Tyler has been a Non-executive Thad York was appointed as a as a Non-executive Director of the Director of the Company since his Non-executive Director of the Company on 7 January 2015.
Company on 31 March 2015 and is also a member of the Audit, serves as a member of the On 1 June 2012, Ian was appointed Nomination and Remuneration Nomination Committee.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
is also a member of the Remuneration Thad is the President, General and Nomination Committees.
Manager, and Director of numerous Barbara has extensive experience in the telecoms industry having been geographically diverse and various Ian is a Chartered Accountant and personal and business entities CEO of NetCom ASA, Norways was the Chief Executive of Balfour second largest mobile network controlled by John C. Malone.
Beatty plc from January 2005 to operator, between 2001 and 2005: March 2013, having joined the Prior to his current roles, Thad held and a Non-executive Director of company in 1996 as Finance Director senior positions at Tandberg ASA, a leading global and then becoming Chief Operating Telecommunications Inc. TCI and supplier of video conferencing Officer in 2002.
TCI International, that ranged from systems, from 2006 until 2010.
Since operations to finance in TCIs cable 2009 Barbara has also served as a From 1991 to 1996, Ian held various TV business.
He started in the cable senior financial positions within Non-executive Director of Telenor television business as an Installer for ASA, a leading mobile operator in Hanson PLC.
Ian is a Non-executive TCI while attending college.
Chairman and Chairman of the Scandinavia, Eastern Europe and Asia, however, she is due to step down Nomination Committees of Bovis Thad graduated from the University Homes Group PLC and Cairn Energy of Wyoming with a degree in Finance, from this appointment in June 2015.
PLC: Non-executive Chairman and received his MBA from the She has been an Industrial Adviser and Chairman of the Nomination University of Denver.
to EQT Private Equity Partners since and Remuneration Committees of 2007: serves as a Non-executive Al Noor Hospitals Group Plc: and Director on the Boards of SCA AB, a Non-executive Director of BAE Hilti AG and ColArt Holdings Ltd: Systems plc.
and has been an owner of Fleming Industrier AS, investing in Ian is also Chairman of CRASH, the Scandinavian small cap companies, construction and property industry since 2006. charity for homeless people around the UK: and serves as a Crown Previously, Barbara was CEO of Representative for the Cabinet Office.
Midelfart & Co AS, from 1995 to 2000, after holding senior positions in sales and marketing from 1988 to 1995.
Barbara has also served as a Non-executive Director on the Boards of Electrolux AB, Orkla ASA, and Stokke AS: as Chairman of SATS AB from 2005 to 2006: and sat on the Advisory Council for SOS Childrens Villages.
Barbara has an MBA in Marketing and Finance from Columbia University in New York: and a BA in Psychology from Duke University in Durham, North Carolina.
