Leadership and governance DIRECTORS REPORT The directors of Cairn Energy PLC registered in Scotland with Company DIRECTORS Number SC226712 present their Annual Report and Accounts for the year The names and biographical details of the current directors of the Company are ended 31 December 2015 together with the audited consolidated financial given in the Board of directors section on pages 62 and 63.
The beneficial interests statements of the Group and Company for the year.
These will be laid before of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown below: the shareholders at the AGM to be held on 12 May 2016.
As at As at As at 31 December 2014 31 December 2015 14 March 2016 RESULTS AND DIVIDEND Simon Thomson 457,567 572,783 572,783 The Group made a loss after tax of US$515.5 million 2014 loss of US$381.1 million.
James Smith 2,688 62,853 62,853 The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for the year ended Ian Tyler 0 0 0 31 December 2015.
Todd Hunt 72,012 72,012 72,012 Subsequent events that have occurred after the balance sheet date as Iain McLaren 7,878 7,878 7,878 at 31 December 2015 are included in Section 6.5 of the Notes to the Jackie Sheppard 7,000 7,000 7,000 Financial Statements.
Alexander Berger 40,008 40,008 40,008 STRATEGIC REPORT Keith Lough 0 0 Details of the Groups strategy and business model during the year and the Peter Kallos 0 0 information that fulfils the requirements of the Strategic report can be found in the Strategic report section on pages 10 to 11 of this document, which are Keith Lough was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company on 14 May 2015. deemed to form part of this report by reference.
Peter Kallos was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company on 1 September 2015.
Details of Cairns offices and Cairns advisers are given at the end of this report.
Details of outstanding awards over ordinary shares in the Company held by the directors or any members of their families are set out in the Directors CHANGE OF CONTROL Remuneration report on pages 81 to 104.
All of the Companys share incentive plans contain provisions relating to a change of control and further details of these plans are provided in the Directors None of the directors has a material interest in any contract, other than a service Remuneration report on pages 81 to 104.
Generally, outstanding options and contract, with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Details of the awards will vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the directors service contracts are set out in the Directors Remuneration report satisfaction of performance conditions, if applicable, at that time.
On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination of his SHARE CAPITAL employment, the current Chief Executive is entitled to compensation pursuant The issued share capital of the Company is shown in Section 6.1 of the Notes to to his service contract.
Further details of the relevant provisions are set out in the the Financial Statements.
As at 14 March 2016, 576,343,551 ordinary shares Directors Remuneration report on page 89.
There are no agreements providing of 231 169 pence each have been issued, are fully paid up and are quoted on for compensation to the Chief Financial Officer or to employees on a change of the London Stock Exchange.
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are control and no such provision will be included in the contracts of other future set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
There are no special control appointees to the Board.
rights in relation to the Companys shares and the Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the Other than the Senior Secured Borrowing Base Facility Agreement entered into transfer of securities or on voting rights.
by the Company with BNP Paribas and other syndicated banks dated 18 July 2014 the Facility Agreement, there are no significant agreements to which the VOTING RIGHTS Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a change of The following paragraph details the position in relation to voting rights set out control of the Company.
In terms of clause 9.2 of the Facility Agreement, if there in the Companys Articles of Association.
However, the Company recognises is a change of control of the Company, any lender may cancel its commitment that best practice is now to hold a poll on all shareholder resolutions.
It is the and declare its participation in all outstanding utilisations, together with accrued Companys current practice, therefore, to hold a poll and it is committed to interest and all other amounts accrued immediately due and payable.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares, at a The Companys Corporate Governance statement is set out on pages 67 to 75 general meeting or class meeting, on a show of hands, every member present in and is deemed to form part of this report by reference.
person and every duly appointed proxy entitled to vote shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every share held by him her.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior member who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members in respect of the joint holding.
Under the Companies Act 2006, members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A corporation which is a 64 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information member of the Company may authorise one or more individuals to act as its The directors may, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason therefor, refuse to register a transfer of any share in certificated form unless the representative or representatives at any meeting of the Company, or at any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares.
A person so authorised relevant instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share, is duly stamped or adjudged or certified as not chargeable to stamp duty, is lodged shall be entitled to exercise the same powers on behalf of such corporation as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company.
at the transfer office or at such other place as the directors may determine, is accompanied by the relevant share certificate s and such other evidence as the RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer and is in favour of not more than four transferees jointly.
If the directors No member shall, unless the directors of the Company otherwise determine, be entitled in respect of any share held by him her to attend or vote at a general refuse to register a transfer, they shall, as soon as practicable and in any event within two months after the date on which the transfer was lodged with the meeting of the Company either in person or by proxy if any call or other sum presently payable by him her to the Company in respect of shares in the Company Company in the case of a share in certificated form or the date on which the operator instruction as defined in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations remains unpaid.
Further, if a member has been served with a notice by the Company under the Companies Act 2006 requesting information concerning 2001 was received by the Company in the case of a share in uncertificated form or in either case such longer or shorter period if any as the Listing Rules may interests in shares and has failed in relation to any shares to provide the Company, within 14 days of the notice, with such information, the directors of the Company from time to time permit or require, send to the transferee notice of the refusal.
may determine that such member shall not be entitled in respect of such shares to attend or vote either in person or by proxy at any general meeting or at any MAJOR INTERESTS IN SHARE CAPITAL As at 31 December 2015 and 10 March 2016 being the latest practicable date separate general or class meeting of the holders of that class of shares.
Proxy forms must be submitted not less than 48 hours or such shorter time as the Board may prior to the date of this report, the Company had received notification that shareholdings of 3% and over were as set out in the table below.
determine excluding, at the Boards discretion, any part of any day that is not a working day before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned As at As at meeting or, in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after it was demanded, 31 December % Share 10 March % Share not less than 24 hours or such shorter time as the Board may determine before 2015 Capital 2016 Capital the time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
MFS Investment Management 82,780,635 14.36 82,420,410 14.3 BlackRock 68,125,111 11.82 67,681,753 11.74 VARIATION OF RIGHTS Hotchkis & Wiley 41,425,120 7.19 39,209,325 6.8 Whenever the share capital of the Company is divided into different classes of Franklin Templeton 27,631,773 4.79 27,235,771 4.73 shares, all or any of the special rights attached to any class may, subject to statute Majedie Asset Management 23,726,623 4.12 25,031,312 4.34 and unless otherwise expressly provided by the rights attached to the shares of Aviva Investors 23,303,021 4.04 24,164,413 4.19 that class, be varied or abrogated either with the consent in writing of the holders Schroder Investment of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or Management 20,152,406 3.50 21,055,998 3.65 with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of Standard Life Investments 17,017,440 2.95 27,527,989 4.78 the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate general meeting, the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy at least POLITICAL DONATIONS one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class.
These provisions also No political donations were made and no political expenditure was incurred apply to the variation or abrogation of the special rights attached to some only during the year.
of the shares of any class as if the shares concerned and the remaining shares of such class formed separate classes.
The rights attached to any class of shares GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS shall, unless otherwise expressly provided by the terms of issue of such shares Details of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions can be found in the Strategic or the terms upon which such shares are for the time being held, be deemed report section on pages 1 to 61 of this document, which are deemed to form part not to be varied or abrogated by the creation or issue of further shares ranking of this report by reference.
pari passu with, or subsequent to, the first mentioned shares or by the purchase by the Company of its own shares.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company are TRANSFER OF SHARES detailed in Section 3.6 of the Financial Statements.
Subject to any procedures set out by the directors in accordance with the Articles of Association, all transfers of shares shall be effected by instrument in writing ACQUISITION OF OWN SHARES in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the directors of In 2013, the Company initiated a share buy-back programme with a view to the Company.
The instrument of transfer shall be executed by, or on behalf of, maximising shareholder value and optimising capital allocation.
The Board the transferor and except in the case of fully paid shares by, or on behalf of, considered that the share buy-back programme would maximise shareholder the transferee.
The transferor shall be deemed to remain the holder of the value by increasing the capital gain per share that would be expected in the event shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the register of a successful hydrocarbon discovery and that it would be in the best interests of members of the Company.
Therefore, the Company entered into an irrevocable and non-discretionary agreement with its brokers, Morgan Stanley and Jefferies, The directors may, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason to repurchase on the Companys behalf and within certain pre-set parameters up therefor, refuse to register a transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share to US$300m of ordinary shares in the Company for cancellation.
unless such share is listed on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and traded on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities.
The The Board decided to suspend the share buy-back programme as of 21 March directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in uncertificated form 2014 and therefore no further shares have been repurchased by the Company where the Company is entitled to refuse or is excepted from the requirement since that date.
under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 to register the transfer and they may refuse any such transfer in favour of more than four transferees.
The directors may also refuse to register any transfer of a share on which the Company has a lien.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 65 Leadership and governance DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose The Companys Articles of Association provide that directors can be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution, or by the Board.
The nomination with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment and replacement of directors.
Further details of the rules governing the appointment Directors Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and replacement of directors are set out in the Corporate Governance statement on pages 67 to 75 and in the Companys Articles of Association.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES of fraud and other irregularities.
As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision as The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the defined in Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 a Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provision.
The indemnity was in force throughout the last financial preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
year and is currently in force.
In May 2014, the Company entered into standalone deeds of indemnity with each of the directors, pursuant to which the directors Following careful review and consideration of the Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report have the benefit of an indemnity which is a Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provision.
The indemnities came into force upon execution of the deeds of and Accounts 2015 the Accounts, the directors consider that the Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information indemnity and are currently in force.
The Company also purchased and maintained throughout the financial year directors and officers liability necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
insurance in respect of itself and its directors.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Board of POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, UK legislation and any directions directors section on pages 62 and 63, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board.
The directors currently have powers both in relation to the issuing and buying IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the Group and Company: and back of the Companys shares and are seeking renewal of these powers at the forthcoming AGM.
the Strategic report section on pages 1 to 61 of this document includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary therein, the Companys Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS shareholders.
The directors of the Company who held office at 31 December 2015 confirm that, as far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts, the Companys auditors are unaware.
In making this confirmation, the directors have taken appropriate steps to make themselves aware of the relevant the Directors Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of this information.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each AGM 2016 financial year.
Under that law, the directors have prepared the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting The AGM of the Company will be held in the Castle Suite of The Caledonian, a Waldorf Astoria Hotel, Princes Street, Edinburgh EH1 2AB at 12 noon BST Standards IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as adopted by the European Union EU.
Under company law, the directors on Thursday 12 May 2016.
The resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are set out and fully explained in the Circular containing the Notice of AGM which has must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of been posted to shareholders together with this Annual Report and Accounts.
the profit or loss of the Group and Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: RECOMMENDATION The Board considers that all of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM are in select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and unanimously recommends that you vote in favour of all of the proposed resolutions, as they state whether applicable IFRSs issued by the IASB and adopted by the EU have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is By order of the Board inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
DUNCAN WOOD Company Secretary 14 March 2016 66 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
