O I L d O e F l i T v R e O r P v D a E l C u N e O A Y f L P r A E G o B R A m E T I T d O i s N A c A R o L Strategic report STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL DELIVERING VALUE Business model OUR STRATEGY Cairns strategy is to deliver value for shareholders from the discovery and development of hydrocarbons within a sustainable, self-funding business model.
MAINTAINING A SEEKING DELIVERING A BALANCED OPERATIONAL SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PORTFOLIO EXCELLENCE Grow the reserves and resources base to Deliver operational excellence in all activities Maintaining a self-funding business plan.
provide a basis for future growth.
and maintain licence to operate.
HOW WE DELIVERED IN 2015 HOW WE DELIVERED IN 2015 HOW WE DELIVERED IN 2015 Commenced appraisal programme offshore No lost time injuries and no reportable Seven year Reserve Based Lending bank Senegal with successful testing of SNE-2 injuries facility remains undrawn Participated in non-operated exploration Operated drilling programme commenced in Cash balance of US$603m at year end drilling offshore Western Sahara and in the Senegal with successful drilling and testing Forecast capex for two development UK and Norwegian North Sea of the SNE-2 appraisal well projects is under budget.
Free cash flow Progressed the Kraken and Catcher Completed one operated 3D seismic from 2017 developments in the UK to provide campaign offshore Senegal Continued to protect our position in India cash flow from 2017 Two minor spills to the environment, each of through international arbitration Matured prospects in Senegal for potential less than one litre in volume, occurred during future drilling the Senegal campaign Relinquished non-core assets in Morocco, Greenland and the UK Applied for licences in the Norwegian 2015 APA and 23rd Licensing Rounds Read more: 2015 Key Performance Indicators KPIs 20 on P20-23 10 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 v E T X e r C S y E L R a L n E S U N S d E C O d N E I e S v U e B l E o L p B A m N e I A n T t S U S E U L A V D D A.
2 Return and Appraise reinvest E U L A V E T A E R C. 1 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information 1 3 Produce Explore OUR BUSINESS MODEL Cairns business model is to create, add and realise value from 2 a balanced portfolio, offering material upside potential from exploration and appraisal activity, supported by established development and production assets with a strong balance sheet behind them.
Throughout this process, the portfolio is actively managed to ensure assets are delivering optimum value.
CREATE VALUE ADD VALUE REALISE VALUE Cairn seeks to create value from discovery Cairn looks to add value through optimising Cairn has a proven track record of realising and development of hydrocarbon resources.
existing assets, seeing hidden value in assets value for shareholders, reinvesting in the Opportunities are advanced from the existing that others may have overlooked and through business and returning cash to shareholders.
portfolio, from government licensing rounds asset swaps and exchanges.
Cairn is careful to maintain a strong balance and through acquisition.
sheet which can fund the Groups exploration and appraisal programmes, offering growth opportunities.
In 2015, following the success in Senegal and focus of the business on ensuring an appropriately balanced portfolio, Cairn moved towards an organisational structure based around the three groups of: Senegal: UK and Norway: and International.
This structure formally came into effect on 1 January 2016 and our operational review is based on these groupings.
For accounting purposes, the segmental reporting groupings noted in the 2015 accounts on pages 105 to 154 remain in the previous regional groups of: North-West Europe: Atlantic Margin: and Mediterranean.
Read more: Operational review 26 on P26-31 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 11 Develop Identify E U L A V E S I L A E R. 3 Strategic report BUILDING ON SUCCESS SENEGAL BUILDING ON SUCCESS 12 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information OPENING A NEW ATLANTIC MARGIN BASIN In less than three years, Cairn has taken over the Cairns exploration strategy is focused along the operatorship: drilled two exploration wells, both multiple play types formed from the break-up of resulting in oil discoveries: submitted an ambitious the supercontinent Pangaea.
Our exploration and robust block-wide evaluation work programme: approach is to take large acreage positions with acquired further seismic: commenced operations follow-on potential in the event of success.
Sensing on a further drilling programme: and been awarded the size and scale of the opportunity and the value a three year extension of the Production Sharing proposition, Cairns acreage position was created Contract PSC up to February 2019. along the underexplored coast of North West Africa, in the deeper water areas adjacent to the shelf edge, In March 2013, Cairn farmed-in to three blocks where a number of wells were drilled during the held by joint venture JV partners, FAR Limited 1960s and 1970s.
and PETROSEN, the Senegal national oil company.
ConocoPhillips subsequently farmed-in to the blocks Cairn has been in Senegal since 2013, and along three months later, broadening the JVs technical with its joint venture partners and a supportive capability, as an international major.
government, continues to bring momentum and pace to this investment and operation.
Senegal is an In 2014, Cairn and its JV partners drilled two exciting place to be, being relatively underexplored wells offshore Senegal, discovering oil in both and territory in which we saw hydrocarbon potential.
opening a new basin on the Atlantic Margin.
Cairns Oil and gas exploration in Senegal started in the operated exploration drilling programme targeted 1950s and only 35 offshore wells have been drilled various Mesozoic age passive margin play types at to date.
This compares to 128 wells drilled offshore a number of locations.
These were the first wells Ghana since the 1920s and 140 offshore Ivory drilled offshore Senegal in 20 years and the first ever Coast.
Cairn was the first to drill in the deepwater deep water wells.
The two consecutive discoveries offshore Senegal.
demonstrated an active petroleum system and world class source rocks in FAN-1, early on in the evaluation.
In November 2014, Cairn issued Notices of Discovery for FAN-1 and SNE-1 to the Government of Senegal on behalf of the JV.
Cairn estimated that the two discoveries and the identified prospects and leads within the licence area had gross mean risked resource base of more than a billion barrels.
Seeing significant further potential in the acreage, in May 2015, Cairn and its JV partners submitted a three year evaluation work plan to the Government of Senegal.
This was the first offshore evaluation programme of its nature in the country.
The plan included an initial programme of three firm and three optional exploration and appraisal wells, together with the acquisition of a further 3D seismic and a number of geo-scientific and engineering studies.
With the foundations laid for a multi-phase evaluation plan and focus on maximising value in Senegal and achieving commerciality, Cairn moved into a phase of extensive activity and investment.
Senegal is a great example of Cairns business model delivering.
We had a strong technical belief in the potential of this acreage, which was realised through the two basin opening discoveries made in 2014.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 13 Strategic report BUILDING ON SUCCESS CONTINUED This Dakar SENEGAL Legend Diourbel Contract area 3D Seismic Cairn Acquired 2015 CVM-1 3D Seismic Cairn Owned Discoveries Prospects and leads Cairn exploration wells Cairn appraisal wells Other wells Mbour DAKAR-MARINE-2 RUFISQUE-3 RUFISQUE-2 RUFISQUE OFFSHORE Kaolack Foundiougne SANGOMAR SANGOMAR Passi DEEP OFFSHORE OFFSHORE BETELGEUSE BETELGEUSE FAN-1 FIELD & ACHEMAR & ACHEMAR CANOPUS FAN-1 NORTH FAN Sokone DENEB SIRIUS ELECTRA FOMALHAUT BELLATRIX Gross mean risked resource base SNE-1 FIELD BEL-1 Toubakouta CENTRAL FAN of 1 billion barrels CDE SNE-2 GEMMA SNE-1 SNE-3 SOUTH FAN IZAR SOLEIL 0 km 5 km 10 km 20 km 14 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 MESOZOIC SHELF BREAK Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information EXPLORATION AND APPRAISAL PHASE SUPPORTING THE GOVERNMENTS PETROSEN is a vital partner to Cairn, both through the JV, and as regulator and advocate to the Ministry Cairn commenced operations in September 2015 OBJECTIVE OF DEVELOPING offshore Senegal with the start of an extensive ENERGY RESOURCES of Energy.
PETROSEN has an option to increase its equity position up to 18% on commencement 3D seismic survey using the Polarcus Adira vessel.
Cairns objective is to build a resource base that can The seismic activity, intended to help further define be developed to maximise the value which could be of development of the SNE field.
the full potential of the significant acreage position created for Senegal and improve energy security in the eastern point of the licence, covered an area for the country.
This supports the Government of The Government of Senegal announced its decision to join the Extractive Industries Transparency of approximately 2,400km and lasted three months.
Senegals objective of developing energy resources to address the imbalance between energy supply Initiative EITI, of which Cairn is a member, in 2012.
This voluntary initiative is a global standard to In October 2015, drilling restarted using the Ocean and demand.
Rig Athena, a 7th generation dual activity drillship ensure transparency of payments from natural resources.
Countries implementing the EITI must under contract from ConocoPhillips, to evaluate Senegal has a long history of stable democracy.
Cairns objectives of the Since gaining independence from France in 1960, disclose information on tax payments, licences, contracts, production and other key elements programme were to optimise our understanding Senegal has been successful in exercising political of the resource base by gathering further data: participation and peaceful leadership, providing around resource extraction.
and to do so as safely, more efficiently and at an ideal base for diversified economic growth.
a lower cost than the initial exploration phase.
Its US$15bn economy is one of the larger economies DAKAR AS A PLACE TO DO BUSINESS Senegals capital, Dakar, is compact with an in West Africa.
The countrys social and economic In November 2015, Cairn received a three-year development however, has been constrained by estimated population of more than one million people and is the hub for French-speaking West extension to the PSC.
The extension, until limited access to energy.
Its economy presently relies 6 February 2019, will give the joint venture on oil imports.
Finding a sustainable source of oil Africa.
Located on the Cap-Vert Peninsula on the Atlantic coast, Dakars position, on the western edge appropriate time to appraise the two discoveries and gas offshore Senegal would benefit the national and evaluate the further exploration potential economy, local communities, businesses and the of Africa, is an advantageous departure point for trans-Atlantic and European trade: a fact that has of the remaining area within the PSC.
Government of Senegal, providing valuable taxation revenues whilst also creating longer term national aided its growth into a major regional port.
At the beginning of 2016, the positive results of energy security and potential export revenues.
the first appraisal well offshore Senegal, SNE-2, Dakar is an excellent transport hub: as well as being one of the biggest ports in West Africa, with all were announced.
Successful flow testing from two Politics in Senegal takes place within the framework different reservoir sections, one at a constrained of a democratic republic, being part of one of the the assets necessary to accommodate the newest generation of ships, it has a well-positioned airport.
rate of 8,000 bopd from high quality lower most successful democratic transitions in Africa.
reservoir and the other at 1,000 bopd from a The President of Senegal is the head of state and the Dakar port, at the northern tip of our acreage, is being used by Cairn as the primary supply base relatively low quality upper reservoir unit, confirmed Prime Minister of Senegal, the head of government.
that both are able to produce at viable rates and thus for offshore support, vessel crew change and waste handling for the evaluation campaign.
Dakar airport make a material contribution to resource volumes.
Elected in 2012, President Macky Salls vision is to accelerate economic growth through attracting is used for crew changes for helicopters serving the operations offshore.
Cairn plans to have completed a minimum of three foreign investment, thereby reducing the countrys wells by the second half of 2016. dependence on fishing, agriculture and tourism.
Dakar has excellent diplomatic and consular President Macky Sall is a geoscientist and former Director General of national oil company, PETROSEN.
The USs largest embassy in West Africa is based there, as is a regional British The Government of Senegal established a petroleum embassy and embassies of most European countries.
The International Finance Corporation IFC and the code in 1998, which fixes the terms for exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in Senegal.
This World Bank are well represented in Senegal too.
code provides the framework for the PSC which Cairn, as Operator, is party to with the Government of Senegal.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 15 Strategic report BUILDING ON SUCCESS CONTINUED Picture: The Hunger Project by Johannes Od.
Cairn and the JV are committed to ensuring that its activities deliver positive, lasting social and economic benefits in Senegal.
Picture: The Great Entrepreneur British Council competition.
16 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information LONG-TERM LEGACY LANGUAGE TRAINING FOR KEY Cairn and the JV are committed to business activities STAKEHOLDERS AND STUDENTS that deliver positive, lasting social and economic Cairn approved a rolling programme of English benefits in Senegal.
language training for officers of the ministries and departments involved in the energy sector.
Through targeted social investment, we work to help Candidate selection was done by the ministry develop community assets and support educational departments and courses facilitated by the and enterprise opportunities.
We seek to work with British Council.
credible and effective local partners in programmes to maximise the value of our activities in the areas With the aim to provide future geology and where we operate.
engineering students with English language skills and other relevant business skills, English language Throughout 2015, we carried out a range of training and basic presentation skills classes were investments focused on developing the capacity given to 29 students of the Institute of Earth of institutions and businesses in Senegal, some of Sciences IST.
These were, again, facilitated by which support both our current and potential future the British Council.
operations and some the wider community.
Our stakeholder engagement programme featured MICROFINANCE PROJECT opportunities to encourage entrepreneurial spirit THE HUNGER PROJECT and assist local businesses to expand, highlights of We provided finance to The Hunger Project to which were: support a women-led microfinance programme in Senegal.
GREAT ENTREPRENEUR AND ECOBAG In our second year of operations in Senegal, we Senegal was the first country of intervention for supported the British Councils Great Entrepreneur The Hunger Project in Africa, where it has been competition: an initiative of the British Council aimed working since 1991.
The Hunger Project now has at encouraging young local entrepreneurship.
10 epicentres in Senegal that cumulatively serve a population of over 178,000 across 211 villages.
We also provided investment in ECOBAG, last years Through the epicentre strategy, approximately winner of the inaugural event.
15,000-25,000 people are brought together in a cluster of rural villages and giving these villages ECOBAG collects plastic waste from neighbourhoods more influence with local government and for conversion to recycled plastic pellets for sale better access to basic services, and increasing a on to producers of plastic products.
The project communitys ability to collectively utilise resources.
promotes waste recycling and a community rubbish collection system.
Our support enabled the purchase The microfinance project encompasses financial of improved equipment to grow the business and management training and seed funds for a micro promote HSE standards on site.
loans and savings facility for rural communities within the epicentres.
It supports women in building their leadership capacities and income-generating and business skills, and empowers them to play a stronger role in their community.
Picture: Cairn funds English language training, facilitated by the British Council.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 17
