Strategic report INDUSTRY OVERVIEW Dr Julian Fennema & Erkal Ersoy Heriot-Watt University Non-OPEC production remained resilient in the face of declining oil prices, with the largest contributor to THE INDUSTRY the overall gain of 1.3 mmbopd being the US, which added 0.92 mmbopd to 2014 production levels.
The steep drop in rig utilisation rates over 2015 suggests CONTEXT that this will go into reverse in 2016 as fewer wells are drilled and completed in response to the price IN WHICH CAIRN signals.
Elsewhere outside of OPEC, production remained broadly stable, with gains booked in the North Sea environment by both Norway and the OPERATES UK and production growth in the Russian Federation reaching record levels.
CAUTIOUS EXPLORATION PRICE ROUT CONTINUES Elsewhere in the big emerging markets, the AND APPRAISAL ACTIVITY The squeezing of margins and pressure on cash flows With supply outstripping demand to the order of slowdowns can be partially explained by the 2 million barrels per day, the downwards tumble of combination of energy prices and political issues.
that started in 2014 worsened in 2015.
As a result, only the most robust and strategic investments prices continued in 2015 and crude oil, which began For energy exporters such as the Russian Federation, the year at US$55 per barrel Brent, declined to Brazil, Nigeria and many Middle Eastern countries, were given the green light.
This meant aggressive reductions in capital expenditure across the board US$37 per barrel by December, the lowest level tumbling crude prices put pressure on government 3 since May 2004, with natural gas prices experiencing and private budgets.
Coupled with the sanctions leading to a US$147 billion fall in upstream capex.
imposed on Russia pushing it into a deep economic 2015 displayed a complex economic environment contraction, political uncertainty and possible with considerable uncertainty and volatility.
There The absence of an unambiguous sign when the impeachment of the president in Brazil, and elections was a consensus on lowering price expectations, market will rebalance is fuelling the consensus that in Nigeria, 2015 was a complex year for emerging which led to further portfolio management and there will be no rapid recovery in prices and that, markets generally.
Growth overall slowed to 4.0% capital discipline by all participants, especially the for company decision making, a transition to relative in these countries from the previous year rate of majors.
The one clear exception to this was the resource abundance has occurred.
The expectation 4.6%, with Latin America and the Commonwealth continued interest by Chinese NOCs in high-cost remains that the market will return to covering full of Independent States CIS both entering recession.
cycle marginal cost, albeit not in the most complex areas, but that this will take longer than envisaged The effect on the demand for oil and gas was Despite a greater than 30% decline in exploration 12 months ago.
mixed, where on the one side consumers were expenditure in 2015, discovered volumes declined taking advantage of relatively cheap energy, but by an estimated 25% and still saw a number of FALTERING DEMAND GROWTH on the other weak macroeconomic fundamentals significant discoveries.
Gas plays continued to The pace of world economic growth eased off into restrained demand growth.
The first effect dominate and represented approximately 75% 1 2015, falling from 3.4% in 2014 to 3.1% in 2015. dominated through the first three quarters of of discovered volume, the largest of these being Under the headline, there were highly divergent the year, but the second effect caught up by in Egypts Nile Delta basin and in deepwater off performances, with the advanced economies of the the end, reducing, but not eliminating, the Mauritania in the same basin as Cairn Energys 2 OECD continuing their slow but steady recovery growth to 1.7 mmbopd 1.8% over the year.
from the financial crisis, but the key driver of the fall in global performance being the slowdown in BUOYANT SUPPLY The shift from high to low-risk areas for exploration emerging markets.
On the other side of the market, the supply activity that started in 2014 picked up pace in 2015. continued to grow apace, rising by 2.6 mmbopd Activity in more speculative frontiers, such as the The largest of these, China, continued the structural above the 2014 level to 96.3 mmbopd.
In contrast Arctic, was deferred despite extensive acreage held transformation commenced in 2014, dampening to 2014, where growth was driven principally by by majors in the region.
This led to a move towards overall growth to 6.9% in 2015 7.3% in 2014. non-OPEC sources, OPEC contributed equally more mature basins, but this posed challenges for This can be attributed to a long-term adjustment to the 2015 expansion.
Following the decision some there too.
Decommissioning liabilities became away from energy-intensive sectors, such as steel in November 2014 not to cut production levels in a priority for North Sea operators given the current and cement, but also to short-term uncertainties order to maintain market share, OPEC has increased and short-term economic climate.
Further afield about the economic environment as illustrated supply by 1.2 mmbopd with almost all of this increase from the Canadian and UK markets, late 2015 saw by the turmoil on Chinese stock markets and the provided by the largest producers, Saudi Arabia RD Shell walk away from an Abu Dhabi sour gas 2 frequent use of trading halts.
The addition of Iranian oil production project, and Chevron suspend two development to the OPEC fold after the suspension of sanctions plans in the Gulf of Mexico.
is expected to provide the main source of OPEC growth in 2016, particularly if Iran seeks to regain LITTLE AND LARGE Mergers and acquisitions activity in 2015 was its spot as the second largest producer within the organisation.
Despite ample M&A opportunities, 2015 saw the lowest upstream M&A transaction value in the past five years as players chose to preserve precious cash and approve key strategic investments.
06 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information However, the year also saw the largest upstream The downturn of the crude price at the end of ABOUT acquisition in over five years: Royal Dutch Shells 2014 had already manifested itself in flattening off THE AUTHORS acquisition of BG Group accounted for 54% of of capital and operating costs for service sector 3 Dr Julian Fennema, Honorary Associate the 2015 total of $153 billion.
This total implies clients with little or no crude production, as the Professor at Heriot-Watt University.
a 17.3% fall in announced deal value from last year, upward pressure from high crude prices receded.
Erkal Ersoy, Associate Professor at but excluding RD Shells acquisition reveals the real This downturn was reinforced into 2015 as the Heriot-Watt University Centre for extent of the year-on-year fall in transaction activity upstream capital cost index dropped by 17% in Energy Economics Research and Policy.
Due to cost frictions, the operating cost index followed suit, but to a lesser extent, with Global deal volume fell by 38% from 1,467 in 2014 a decline of 7%.
to 910 in 2015 and this slowdown was observed in all regions and in upstream, midstream and Whilst the degree to which costs have fallen is less Heriot-Watt University is one of the downstream sectors as well as oilfield services.
than the fall in prices, it remains a welcome relief for UKs leading universities for business Operators in the North American market, particularly operators active in exploration and appraisal.
Due to and industry and has a reputation for the US, focused spending on unconventionals and, supply and demand interactions, service and drilling innovative education, enterprise, and in 2015, approximately 55% of US upstream deals rig rates have fallen in 2015 and indications are that leading-edge research.
Energy research were accounted for by this type of transaction, having these rates will remain low through 2016 as low is a core activity within Heriot-Watt exceeded the 50% mark in 2014 following a five-year crude prices are likely to persist.
University, and the Centre for Energy upward trend.
Despite this continuing trend, however, Economics Research and Policy CEERP reported deal value in the US shrunk considerably WHAT TO EXPECT IN 2016 is the latest evidence of the Universitys through 2015 while keeping its share of the global Oil price volatility has long been a key part of the commitment to research in energy, total stable near 37-38%.
oil and gas industry, but the uncertainty about low economics and policy.
CEERP is based prices at the end of 2014 has dissipated.
Excess within the Institute of Petroleum E & P vs OTHER SECTORS ON FTSE supply, and therefore a low price, is now more widely Engineering at Heriot-Watt University, Throughout 2015, the oil and gas sector continued expected over the medium term and companies are but forms a key point of support and to underperform against the stock market, as shown updating their portfolios for the new environment.
collaboration among the Universitys below.
Many of the other sectors in a composite Most players are making strategic decisions and Schools with affiliates from the School index reap windfalls due to falling energy prices and, keeping exploration active under strict capital of Energy, Geoscience, Infrastructure, in the short to medium-term, this trend will persist discipline as they reap the benefits of depressed costs and Society: School of Management and as the current price and medium term expectations for projects in the appraisal and development stages.
Languages: School of Life Sciences: and favour consumers of oil relative to producers.
the Energy Academy as well as honorary academics out with the University.
This industry overview provides an independent view of the industry Relative Price Performance IHS CERA Cost Indices context in which Cairn operates.
FTSE 100 1 IMF World Economic Outlook Update, January 2016.
2 IEA Oil Market Report, January 2016.
3 EY Global Oil and Gas Transactions Review 2015.
