Strategic report WORKING RESPONSIBLY CEOS INTRODUCTION DELIVERING VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS At all times, we are aware of the potential impacts Corporate Responsibility is key to our business, our work can have on the local communities where delivering and protecting value for all our stakeholders.
A key activity in Senegal this year, therefore, has been to build relationships and foster communications with key stakeholders such as the CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY fishing communities who may have been affected HELPS US DELIVER VALUE during our seismic activities.
We successfully At Cairn, we have a responsibility to deliver commenced our planned 3D seismic campaign in THE 3Rs value to our stakeholders through discovery and September following completion of a voluntary OUR BUSINESS development of hydrocarbons in a safe, responsible baseline environmental assessment review PRINCIPLES ARE and ethical manner.
Putting Corporate Responsibility and regulatory approval.
We maintained close BASED ON THESE CR at the forefront of what we do from early phase communications with fishing representatives exploration through to development and production and government and maritime agencies prior CORE VALUES provides value to our stakeholders throughout the to and during the campaign.
The seismic work oil and gas lifecycle.
was successfully completed in November despite high fishing activity.
We received a single claim for Our CR approach is based on our core values of fishing net damage, which was managed through RESPECT building respect, nurturing relationships and acting our established claim procedure.
responsibly, which we call the 3Rs.
We act with respect for We continued to work closely with the Senegal people, their communities, These values underpin our ten Business Principles authorities both centrally and regionally to maintain the environment, human rights see opposite which set out our goals and the our approvals for drilling, reviewing and refreshing and the law.
expected behaviours in the management of our our impact and safety risk work, which we shared business.
These principles are embedded in our proactively with national and local government decisions and actions, inform our strategy and we and community representatives.
The three-well hold ourselves accountable to them.
Our Business exploration and appraisal drilling programme began RESPONSIBILITY Principles and CR Policies are regularly updated, in October following multiple stakeholder meetings We behave fairly and ethically most recently in October 2015 to reflect an and presentation of a formal communication and and are accountable for our increasing focus on major accident prevention reporting plan.
This plan promotes understanding of our industry through regular performance and actions.
We believe in, and embodied in recent developments in Europe, including UK offshore safety regulations.
Our activity updates to the national regulator.
act on, our responsibility to Business Principles and CR policies are available on care for people, society and our website at www.
For the 2015 16 drilling programme, we engaged the environment.
our joint venture partner, ConocoPhillips, as well OUR PROGRESS IN 2015 activities delegate to undertake certain operations, including the contracting of the Ocean Rig Athena I am pleased to report that our CR performance has improved further in 2015.
We have ensured that our and certain related services on behalf of the joint RELATIONSHIPS venture.
We have worked throughout with our rigorous approach to CR has not been compromised We act honestly, transparently by the tough market conditions faced by our industry suppliers, contractors and partners including and with integrity to develop ConocoPhillips to carry out our activities safely and during the year.
strong, lasting relationships to reduce our environmental and social footprint.
SENEGAL In 2015, following our success in opening up a new As part of developing sustainable local benefits, I am very pleased that we are making progress with Atlantic Margin basin in Senegal the previous year, our focus was on preparing for and commencing our our Social Investment Programme in Senegal.
We aim to promote the development of local people and multi-well appraisal and exploration programme along with a further 3D seismic acquisition.
suppliers toward supporting the oil and gas industry 44 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information into the future.
We have continued to support capacity building initiatives identified in consultation Cairns Ten Business Principles with the regulating authorities as well as working with suppliers and academic institutions.
For more details, please see responsibility section at Overarching principle www.
We manage risk and seek to continually improve NOTABLE KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS I am happy to report that our safety KPIs have Core principle improved overall in 2015 for our operated assets We behave honestly, fairly and with integrity with no lost time injuries and no recordable injuries.
In mid-January 2016, our Senegal shore base personnel and contractors reached 900 days without a lost time injury.
We had no oil spills to the environment over 2010-2014: however, we experienced one very minor oil spill incident in 2015: oil drop-out from the flare of less than one litre during drill stem testing on the SNE-2 appraisal well.
In addition, we had one very minor chemical spill of less than one litre of waste Behaving Behaving Behaving hydraulic oil which went to surface drain at the shore responsibly responsibly towards responsibly base during tank cleaning.
to people the environment to society NON-OPERATED ACTIVITIES We develop the potential We take a precautionary We seek to make a positive We continue to have a significant non-operated of our people approach and avoid, social impact in every area portfolio and we play a proactive role in engaging wherever possible, in which we work We foster a workplace that with our partners on CR requirements.
In particular, negative impacts on respects personal dignity We respect the rights we are working closely with our partners on the the environment and and rights, is nonand acknowledge the biodiversity Catcher and Kraken developments in the UK North discriminatory and aspirations and concerns Sea to support delivery of first oil in 2017.
We also provides fair rewards We seek to minimise our of the communities in continue to participate in non-operated wells in the use of resources which we work We provide a healthy, Norwegian and UK sectors.
We pre-qualified as safe and secure working We will prevent, or where an operator in the Norwegian sector in 2015 and environment that is not practical, subsequently were awarded an operated licence.
minimise discharges to air, water and land IMPROVING OUR MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS In 2015, we revised and updated our Corporate Responsibility Management System CRMS to better integrate it within the overall business management system.
We have aligned our CRMS and will introduce further improvements and We will continue to uphold and support the with the Cairn Operating Standards COS manual training for business travellers.
ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact which sets out the standards by which our business https: www.
org what-is-gc processes must be carried out.
Both the revised In 2016, as operator, we will be progressing the mission principles and we will remain a Participating CRMS and COS documentation went live in January appraisal and exploration programme offshore Company of the Extractive Industries Transparency 2016, but have been in operation practically during Senegal that commenced last year.
We believe that these two initiatives 2015.
In addition, we also completed a significant to learn from and apply our experiences towards provide a valuable platform for promoting standards revision of our crisis and emergency arrangements increasing local participation through developing for ethical behaviour for our business and for those including training and exercises.
skills critical to working in the oil and gas sector.
we interact with during the execution of our activities.
This also improves awareness, serving to promote Other developments in 2015 included improving effective engagement with key stakeholders.
CR is and will remain a key focus at Cairn to help us our external engagement on issues material to We intend to follow-up with stakeholders in deliver value for all of our stakeholders and protect the business, which has been helpful in confirming Senegal to test the quality and effectiveness of our licence to operate.
our understanding of the issues of importance our CR plans as the project in Senegal develops.
We will maintain our focus on monitoring the LOOKING FORWARD geo-political situation of our non-operated assets, During 2016, we will continue to prioritise the health, including offshore Western Sahara, and will work safety and wellbeing of people while promoting safe closely with the operators to ensure we operate behaviours of our contractors.
We remain committed in accordance with our Business Principles and SIMON THOMSON to protecting the environment in the areas in which CR policies.
Good governance will also continue with 14 March 2016 our commitment to meeting all of our tax and our We will also investigate how we, as a business, other obligations in a transparent manner.
We will can more effectively measure and demonstrate monitor the security situation across the business the value of our activities to stakeholders.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 45 Strategic report WORKING RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED CREATING VALUE THROUGH THE OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION LIFECYCLE Cairn looks to create, add and realise social and economic value for stakeholders through the oil DELIVERING SOCIAL and gas exploration and production life cycle.
These include a broad group of stakeholders within the countries where we operate such as governments, AND ECONOMIC VALUE communities, employees and local businesses.
This value can be measured in financial terms, TO STAKEHOLDERS CREATING VALUE ADDING VALUE 1.
APPRAISE Cairn uses an extensive screening We use sophisticated seismic and If exploration drilling is successful, process, including social, safety and geological survey techniques to appraisal drilling is then conducted to environmental factors, to identify determine whether viable oil and gas establish the size and characteristics prospective areas for oil and gas.
reservoirs may exist and identify of the discovery and provide technical potential well locations for exploration information to optimise the method for drilling conducted using specialist recovery of the oil and gas.
Recent examples In 2015, Cairn participated in both the 2015 During 2015, Cairn successfully completed We commenced appraisal drilling offshore APA and 23rd Licensing Rounds in Norway.
Senegal in 2015 with SNE-2 being completed at the turn of the year.
The SNE-3 appraisal well has We were also involved, as non-operator, in since been completed and the BEL-1 exploration exploration drilling in the UK and Norwegian and appraisal well has commenced.
Drilling offshore Western Sahara was completed in March 2015, encountering non-commercial volumes of hydrocarbons.
How we create value and contribute value Local employment and supplier opportunities Local employment and supplier opportunities Local fees and taxes Infrastructure development Generating and sharing of geological and Social investment Licence payment environmental data Local fees and taxes Due diligence expenses fide-risking state oil company and partner fide-risking state oil company and partner investment investment Value contributed in Senegal in 2015 Detailed marine mammal observations shared Local employment at Dakar office and port with local authorities Local contractor development Limited local employment Institutional capacity building Licence fees fide-risking state oil company and partner Social Investment in education, enterprise investment development and micro-finance projects Local fees and taxes fide-risking state oil and partner company investment 46 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Value created Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information for example, through payment of taxes, fide-risking may sometimes generate adverse impacts such as The oil and gas business is, by nature, long-term and state oil company investment through exploration the generation of wastes but we manage the risks we identify, create and realise value at the different and appraisal and trading with local enterprises: it associated with our business responsibly and stages of the oil and gas life-cycle as outlined below.
can also be measured in social terms through local continually look at ways to minimise and mitigate employment, building skills and knowledge and against potential negative impacts and to maximise aiding the development of local businesses and the social and economic benefits to create value infrastructure.
We recognise that our operations where we operate.
RETURN AND RE-INVEST If appraisal wells show technically and During this phase, which can last This phase occurs when an area has not commercially viable quantities of oil and many decades, oil and gas is produced.
shown commercial hydrocarbon reserves gas, a development plan is prepared and Regular reviews are made of social and or when hydrocarbons can no longer submitted to the relevant authorities for environmental performance.
be extracted safely or economically.
approval, prior to the development and We will end operations and restore sites construction of production facilities.
in a manner that protects people and This includes a rigorous assessment the environment.
of all the potential risks and a longterm assessment of environmental and social impacts.
We are participating as non-operator in two We had no operated production at the end In 2015, a non-operated well in St Laurent, development projects, the Kraken and Catcher of 2015.
We anticipate production from our France was decommissioned and the site restored.
fields, in the UK North Sea.
non-operated Catcher and Kraken developments fields from 2017.
We have a 10% residual interest in Cairn India Limited which is in the production phase.
Local employment and supplier opportunities Local employment and supplier opportunities Local employment and supplier opportunities Infrastructure development Infrastructure development Local fees and taxes Social investment Social investment Local fees and taxes Local fees and taxes Production royalties Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 47 Strategic report WORKING RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED PEOPLE company values of respect, relationships and responsibility, thereby ensuring staff at all levels are GOOD PEOPLE aligned in their understanding of how our business undertakings both internally and externally should be conducted to best deliver objectives.
ARE KEY TO HIGH Recognising staff for their efforts is also an important PERFORMANCE element of employee engagement.
Our Cairn Adding Value Award scheme CAVA flourished in 2015 with awards made to a variety of nominees for wideORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE ORGANISATIONAL EFFECTIVENESS AUDIT ranging reasons over the year.
The CAVA scheme, Cairn recognises that its people provide the foundation In order to provide assurances that the new which is overseen personally by the CEO, is intended for its success and we place great emphasis on organisational structure was operating effectively, the to reward outstanding achievements and behaviours, attracting, engaging and retaining the right blend business, through its independent internal auditors, recognising those who accomplish an extraordinary of talent across the business.
We strive to provide an conducted a review in Q3 2015, which examined key achievement out with their normal responsibilities.
open, stimulating and rewarding work environment governance, oversight and communication processes In 2015, recipients included staff who developed to encourage high levels of staff engagement and and controls under the new structure.
The review processes, systems or solutions which resulted in drive strong performance at every level across the concluded that the business was effectively structured significant cost savings: those who went out of their organisation.
Our Company values of respect, following the 2014 reorganisation, with only a very way to go above and beyond that expected of their relationships and responsibility are at the very small number of low to medium risk development role: and those who delivered exceptional results in heart of this.
areas identified, which are now being addressed.
In 2014, Cairn undertook a review of the Groups ENGAGEMENT The Company Social Committee remains an active organisation to ensure that it was appropriately Employee engagement remained a key focus area part of Cairn and gives staff opportunities to mix resourced for the future activity levels and work in 2015 and was particularly important given with their colleagues from across the organisation, programme.
As a result, by the end of 2014, we the organisational changes from the year before, helping to foster positive working relationships and had effected a 40% head count reduction across coupled with the uncertainties faced by the industry a collaborative work environment.
employees and contractors whilst retaining core as a result of the oil price.
The industry has been heavily EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING impacted in 2015 by the continuing low oil price, We recognise that communication is key to ensuring Having undertaken a review of our private health with consequent reduction in workforces being that our people are informed and engaged from both insurance scheme for UK-based staff following seen across the sector.
Following our actions a strategic and operational perspective.
As such, feedback from staff, the Company transferred to in 2014, these market conditions did not impact we continued to communicate through regular team a new supplier with effect from 1 April, with a view Cairn staff levels in 2015 and we have remained and staff meetings as well as updates from senior to providing an enhanced level of cover.
As part of properly resourced with the right skills to enable management.
We also introduced the new step of this transfer, the Company added two new benefits: us to deliver our planned work programme.
offering staff the opportunity to pose questions dental cover and annual health assessments.
anonymously in advance of town hall staff meetings Feedback on the new provider has been excellent With the new organisational structure from 1 January to ensure that areas of particular interest or concern with 73% of the UK-based staff taking advantage of 2015, the focus naturally shifted to further engaging could be addressed by the CEO or CFO, as appropriate.
the optional health-assessments by the end of 2015. staff within the organisation and ensuring that we In addition, our executive directors host regular coffee remained best placed from a resource and capability and chat sessions with small groups of staff from across perspective to deliver our 2015 16 business objectives.
the business to facilitate conversations on strategy, operations and the working environment.
SUCCESSION PLANNING Having a structured but flexible approach to Cairn has a performance management process succession planning is critical for ensuring successful which is designed to reward, recognise and drive continuity of the business in the event of a change positive individual, team and organisational either planned or unplanned in management and performance and behaviour.
The process was leadership or other key positions.
Owing to the 2014 streamlined and implemented in 2014 and continued reorganisation, it was essential that a revised to embed across the business in 2015.
The alignment succession plan be developed for the business.
of individual objectives to team goals and Company KPIs are core to the process, which is further Following a thorough analysis of the organisations supported through monthly 1-1 meetings between talent pool, the Board was presented with a revised staff and their line manager.
This enables employees succession plan which provided a clear understanding and managers to be engaged, give and receive of our skills base across the business: identified which feedback, regularly discuss progress being made key roles have potential successors: and similarly against objectives, ensure that efforts are continuing where there are gaps and risks associated from a to focus in the right areas and provide a means succession perspective.
Targeted plans were then by which to discuss in depth each employees prepared to confidently address the key gaps identified development and future career aspirations in the and recruitment efforts throughout the remainder of Company.
The performance management process the year resulted in successfully filling roles which were is also intended to reinforce the importance of deemed most critical and unable to be filled internally.
the Companys high performing behaviours and 48 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information In addition, Cairn launched a Health and Well-Being featured talks from Jim McColl OBE and the Scottish Our People Management Policy manual has a section dedicated to diversity, which lays out the Intranet site to encourage healthy lifestyles.
As well academic historian, Sir Tom Devine, both of which as providing information on health and well-being were particularly well received and attended by staff.
Companys overall position on equality and diversity and how this is implemented with respect to areas themes, various initiatives were rolled out, including healthy eating advice, a Mindfulness Lunch and OFFICE ENVIRONMENT AND SECURITY such as recruitment and selection, training and development, and remuneration and benefits.
Learn session and a summer walking group.
In 2015, we undertook an office refurbishment in Edinburgh.
The office space was reconfigured on a The section also includes policies specific to disability, religion and belief and the treatment of LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT regionally-focused basis to help support the delivery In periods of industry downturn and a low oil price of the Groups work programmes, with an emphasis those employed on a part-time basis.
We continue to capture data on the gender, nationality and environment, training and development budgets on creating an open, collaborative environment can be impacted.
Cairn recognises the value of allowing ease of communication across regions and disability of our appointed staff through our voluntary equal opportunities form.
While it remains developing our people and our training budget functions.
To further enhance our commitment to was unaffected and staff were encouraged health and safety, new HSE Safety billboards were an area of continued focus, we are proud that our workforce now comprises 16 different nationalities to continue to learn and develop.
created and placed in focal points across our offices as a reminder to all staff that health and safety is at and is made up of 48% women.
Currently, 25% of management roles are held by women and, since Our geoscientists continued their professional the forefront of all that we do.
development through various field trips to help May 2015, women represent 20% of the Companys appointed Management Team increasing from 9%.
understanding of different geologies in basins similar The Company, in conjunction with Police Scotland, to those we are working on.
With staff from across delivered a series of security workshops in the Our practice continues to be to engage with the local talent in our international offices and we seek, the regions and the function attending, this also Edinburgh office.
The sessions were aimed at raising provided an opportunity for teambuilding.
staff awareness in the current environment and wherever practicable, to fill our local resource needs with nationals of the country of operation.
included the roll-out of new Cairn-specific office In November, we launched the first group cohort security handbooks.
The sessions, which were At year end 2015: of our Management Bootcamp programme: a offered to all staff and contractors, were well seven-module tailored management development received by all those who attended.
48% of Cairn staff were women 73 of 151 employees : programme for managers across the business.
This will continue throughout 2016 to enable all DIVERSITY 7.3% of Cairn staff worked part-time 11 employees : our managers to attend and aims to support staff in The Company continues to be committed to equality further developing and refining their management and diversity and recognises that a diverse workforce 86% of women returned to work following maternity adoption leave six of seven skills to best deliver results through people.
is fundamental to our business and essential for the delivery of our objectives.
We understand the employees and 100% of men returned following adoption paternity leave: Lunch and Learn seminars continue to be popular importance of a diverse workforce in broadening our with staff and we had another varied and skill base, bringing different approaches, perspectives 16 different nationalities were employed at Cairn: comprehensive programme during 2015.
The and ideas, challenging norms and encouraging programme included a mix of internal and external creativity, all of which support the business in 3.3% of the workforce had a disability successfully achieving its goals.
five employees : speakers, focusing on topics that ranged from the oil and gas specific, health and well-being, management, average age at Cairn was 43: and general interest.
This years programme also 25% of management roles were held by women 12 of 48 managers : and one of the nine members of the Board was a woman 11%.
Following the launch of the Health and Well-Being Intranet site and the creation of the summer walking group, 13 of us from the Edinburgh office, including the executive directors, Simon Thomson and James Smith, took part in the 26.2 mile Pentland Push in aid of St Columbas Hospice.
This was a fantastic event for a wonderful charity, with the added benefits of improving the fitness of the team and building relationships with people from across a variety of departments in an environment that was somewhat different to an office!
Quote from team member Staff in Stavanger CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 49 Strategic report WORKING RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED MAPPING CR PRIORITIES WE CONTINUALLY IDENTIFY CR PRIORITIES TO GUIDE OUR CR ACTIVITIES AS THE BUSINESS DEVELOPS HOW WE IDENTIFY OUR KEY CR PRIORITIES Our CR priorities reflect the topics that matter most to our business and our stakeholders.
The MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT process by which we identify these priorities is METHODOLOGY known as a materiality assessment process in which CR issues are plotted in a matrix showing their significance in broad classifications of high, Cairn Risk Register medium or low see diagram on page 51.
We improved our approach at the end of 2015 by conducting focused interviews with a cross section Cairn Risk Aggregation of Risks Cairn Stakeholder of stakeholders.
This included representatives Criteria into CR issues Importance from: investors and finance organisations: business reference to GRI G4 Applied Criteria Applied partners and peers: contractors and suppliers: communities: employees: industry organisations and agencies: non-governmental organisations: Cairn Rating of and academia.
We invited several regulators and CR Issues according Cairn Assessment of government representatives but none felt it was to Probability and Stakeholder Position appropriate to participate.
More detail on the Impact comments made by stakeholders and our responses to these is available on our website at www.
Cairn Perception Those receiving a high rating are regarded as Cairn CR of Stakeholder CR material and are discussed in this report and Issue Ratings Issue Ratings focus attention for setting our CR objectives.
Insignificant High Insignificant High Initial Materiality Matrix Low High Internal Cairn External Stakeholder Peer Review Engagement Interviews Adjusted Final Our CR Materiality Methodology is based on the Materiality Matrix AccountAbility APS model an internationally recognised Low High framework developed by AccountAbility and helps us conform to the latest Global Reporting Initiative GRI sustainability reporting guidelines, known as G4, which Cairn adopted successfully in 2014.
Our resulting materiality matrix is shown on the next page 50 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information 2015 Year end materiality matrix l Non-operated JV and international investments Transparency l l Sustainable project funding l Political uncertainty host governments l Supply chain and contractors Security of people and operations l Workplace health and safety l Preventing major accidents l Operational and project performance l Operational and process safety l Preventing major spills l l Net social and economic benefit l New technologies Corporate governance l and approaches l Complying with Cairns Business Principles on Cap Boujdour l Workforce planning l Succession planning l Equality and diversity Climate change l l Human rights l Business ethics Operational environmental footprint l l Resource use l Biodiversity l Product stewardship Insignificant Low Medium Significant High Importance to Cairns stakeholders UNDERSTANDING THE MATRIX The importance to stakeholders uses a number The importance to Cairn is plotted on the vertical of criteria with increasing impact.
In this way axis of the materiality matrix.
The importance to Preventing Major Accidents has a low probability stakeholders is plotted on the horizontal axis.
but high impact when using Cairns risk criteria, The importance to Cairn reflects the probability giving a significant rating, however it is classified and impact of a topic in line with our risk as a high against the stakeholder concern criteria assessment criteria.
therefore when plotted in the matrix it is a High material issue.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 51 Risk weighted importance to Cairn Insignificant Low Medium Significant High Strategic report WORKING RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED MAPPING CR PRIORITIES CONTINUED A brief description of how things have changed in 2015 is set out in the table of movements below.
MOVEMENTS IN MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT FROM END 2014 TO END 2015 IMPORTANCE IMPORTANCE TO TO CAIRN STAKEHOLDERS PREVENTING We have increased the materiality assessment for the p prevention of major accidents including major spills as we MAJOR ACCIDENTS increase the level of operations through our exploration and appraisal programme offshore Senegal.
PREVENTING MAJOR SPILLS p COMPLIANCE WITH Our engagement activity indicated that the management p of human rights was significant to stakeholders.
OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES ON CAP BOUJDOUR Initial drilling operations in Cap Boujdour concluded in early 2015, but we will continue to monitor the situation in anticipation of potential future activities.
NON-OPERATED The importance of these issues to Cairn has increased, p reflecting the importance of delivery of development projects in JOINT VENTURES the North Sea and the continuing financial capability of industry AND INTERNATIONAL companies through a depressed period for the industry.
INVESTMENTS SUSTAINABLE PROJECT FUNDING CLIMATE CHANGE The importance of climate change has increased in recognition p of the Paris agreement made at the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC Conference of the Parties COP 21 at the end of 2015 and the importance of emissions management and controls to any future production.
WORKFORCE p The importance of these issues to Cairn has decreased as the organisation has adjusted to the rationalisation that occurred in 2014.
Matters relating to the workforce and succession planning do, however, remain in focus in anticipation of the SUCCESSION PLANNING potential organisational requirements associated with the progress of the Senegal project.
TRANSPARENCY The issue of tax transparency was regarded generally less p important to stakeholders as it is being managed.
We continue to regard the issue to be of high importance to the business.
POLITICAL UNCERTAINTY Political uncertainty affecting our business activities p was of medium significance to stakeholders.
NET SOCIAL AND The net social and economic benefit of our activities was p significant to stakeholders.
ECONOMIC BENEFIT 52 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information STAKEHOLDER GROUP Contractors Communities & Suppliers Peers Employees Government Industry & Regulator Organisations Academia NGOs SEVEN MATERIAL ISSUES Seven issues were identified to be of high Supply chain Non-operated importance to both our stakeholders and to Cairn and these are described on the following and contractors joint ventures and pages.
Further information on how we identify, Read more on page 54 assess and manage these CR topics as well as international investments the majority of those identified as medium, Read more on page 60 is also available on the Cairn website at Preventing www.
major accidents Sustainable Read more on page 55 project funding Read more on page 60 Preventing major spills Transparency Read more on page 56 Read more on page 61 Operational environmental footprint Read more on page 58 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 53 Strategic report WORKING RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED MAPPING CR PRIORITIES CONTINUED CR priorities SUPPLY CHAIN AND CONTRACTORS Over 58% of hours worked on Cairns business were For example, training in heavy lifting was provided ZERO LOST TIME INJURIES for shore base workers in Senegal.
As such, in 2015, we placed a particular We had no lost time or recordable injuries in Senegal emphasis on selecting the right service providers, and across the Group in 2015.
This is due to the hard In 2015, we engaged our partner ConocoPhillips communicating expectations, ensuring effective work of each of our contractors, personnel, project policies and management processes, monitoring as well activities delegate in respect of the drilling HSE advisers and line managers associated with the programme offshore Senegal.
This arrangement performance and sharing lessons learned.
High vigilance was maintained throughout delegated offshore drilling management and key the preparation, drilling and testing of the SNE-2 supporting services to ConocoPhillips whilst Cairn We have a rigorous selection process to assess the well and during the 3D seismic campaign.
In 2016, suitability of contractors, which includes assessing retained onshore services and all operator duties.
the focus on health and safety will continue in The teams across the two businesses have worked their ability to conduct operations in line with our Senegal and across the Companys portfolio.
Following appointment, contractors HSE or closely to ensure alignment of contracting standards, including anti-bribery and corruption requirements.
CR systems are linked to our CRMS using a bridging document.
This lays out responsibilities and clarifies Longer-term contracts, such as with our logistics agent, have been set up to promote commitment areas of potential uncertainty.
It may also identify areas of collaboration and or capacity building that to training, infrastructure development and participation of local contractors, thereby could enhance a contractors HSE performance, ensuring that standards required by Cairn are met.
increasing value creation in Senegal.
Case study PROMOTING LOCAL SUPPLY CHAIN PARTICIPATION IN OUR ACTIVITIES In Senegal, Cairn provided safe lifting training to We recognise the importance of shore base workers in Dakar in 2014 and 2015. developing local contractors to By the end of 2015, Cairn had provided lifting support our activities wherever we training to 48 Senegalese workers.
Sourcing skilled, local contractors provided through the international training in areas where there is a limited or organisation, North Sea Lifting.
no developed oil and gas industry, however, can be challenging.
Potential future operations require human resource with the correct skills.
English remains a In 2015, we continued to contract local supply universal language within the oil and gas industry, base logistics providers in Senegal.
Shore base therefore a key focus of our Senegalese social operations involve the lifting of many heavy investment programme in 2015 was developing and often unusually shaped loads, therefore English language skills among young people particular attention was given to the heavy in academic institutions.
This programme lifting capabilities of our contractors.
We aim was initiated in October and at present 29 to conform to international standards of lifting students from the Earth Sciences Institute practices wherever we operate.
To meet both of the University of Dakar are participating in Company objectives of safe operations and a tailored English language course for the oil promoting local participation, Cairn often and gas industry, delivered on Cairns behalf provides contractors with specific training.
54 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information CR priorities PREVENTING MAJOR ACCIDENTS KEEPING PEOPLE AND THE ENVIRONMENT SAFE Prevention of any accident remains a key This year, we worked with our joint venture Lost Time Injury Frequency LTIF partner ConocoPhillips to design and execute priority for Cairn and the wider oil and gas Lost time injuries per million hours worked industry.
It is recognised as a material CR topic the drilling programme offshore Senegal.
Together, we have implemented a process which requires significant ongoing vigilance 4.0 and attention.
We apply rigorous procedures of regular project reviews consistent with 3.67 both companies requirements.
to identify, assess and manage potential risks and impacts in line with the As Low As 3.0 2.52 The wells drilled offshore Senegal were Reasonably Practicable ALARP principle.
designed to include various well engineering 2.0 and control barriers.
All well designs have On 19 July 2015, the UK Health and Safety Executive introduced the Offshore been assured by Cairns Head of Well Engineering and Construction and the Installations Offshore Safety Directive 1.0 0.65 0.48 Safety Case etc.
Regulations 2015 UK SCR Principal Drilling Engineer who verify that 0.45 0.43 0.36 0.00 0 0.00 the designs comply with defined standards 2015 to conform to the EU Offshore Safety 0 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Directive, aimed at reducing the risks of major based on industry best practice.
accident hazards to the health and safety of Cairn total for employees and contractors the workforce and increasing the protection In Senegal, our 2015 drilling programme IOGP benchmark built on the successful programme of 2014, of the marine environment and coastal economies against pollution.
These regulations incorporating the lessons learned.
The well risk assessments, major accident safety look to ensure improved response mechanisms in the event of such an incident.
We have studies and emergency oil spill response plans were all reviewed and updated by updated our CRMS to include new provisions of the regulations within our policies and Cairn and examined again by the Senegalese regulators.
An operational readiness audit standards.
These changes to our CRMS Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR will be applied throughout all our activities, of the shorebase was also conducted before Total recordable injuries per million hours worked resumption of drilling operations in 2015. not just to the UK offshore sector.
8.0 7.34 An independent expert rig acceptance Our drilling operations, both operated and non-operated, remain a key focus of our drive audit was conducted including assessment of 6.0 critical equipment and systems before drilling to prevent major accidents.
We implement 5.04 our Project Delivery Process PDP to assure, commenced.
All contingency plans, equipment and trained staff were also in place prior to at regular intervals throughout a project, that 3.88 4.0 critical requirements for CR performance starting the first well in 2015. have been met in a timely manner to prevent 1.76 1.74 2.0 1.6 major accident hazards.
1.54 0.00 0 0.00 0 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Cairn total for employees and contractors IOGP benchmark Notes: 1 IOGP is the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers.
We have included overall IOGP benchmark figures average of onshore and offshore for employees and contractors.
IOGP benchmark figures are not yet available for 2015.
2 Cairn TRIR and LTIF statistics can be higher than the IOGP benchmark after only one incident, or a small number of incidents, because our exploration activities often last for only a short time period, so there are relatively few hours worked compared with on-going production and other long-term operations.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 55 Strategic report WORKING RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED MAPPING CR PRIORITIES CONTINUED CR priorities PREVENTING MAJOR SPILLS PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT The prevention of major hydrocarbon spills and Oil Spill Contingency Plan Our Senegal plan preparation for response in the unlikely event of was developed using IOGP practices and through a major spill event remain of critical importance consultation with a number of stakeholders to Cairn and our stakeholders.
including government departments, local response organisations and subject experts.
During the year, we continued to prioritise the Preparedness training and emergency integrity of the wells drilled offshore Senegal and to exercises were held with our partners adopt industry good practice in assessing the risk of ConocoPhillips and PETROSEN during 2015. oil spills and in oil spill response planning.
Steps taken These helped to embed roles and responsibilities to prevent major spills include: and rehearsed application of the oil spill plans and designing wells to a level that exceeds emergency response plans in our field locations.
requirements for the expected characteristics of the geological formations to be encountered: We continue to track the latest developments maintaining the appropriate barriers during and improvements in spill prevention and control drilling activities to ensure our well control to ensure we implement those which will enhance standards and procedures are met: and our already high standards.
applying the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers IOGP Joint Industry Project In 2015, a minor spill of waste hydraulic oil 1 litre JIP s new and revised guidance on oil spill risk to surface drain occurred, arising from failure to assessment and response planning.
This includes follow procedure during tank cleaning at the a structured and detailed analysis of oil spill shorebase.
A second minor spill of oil drop-out risk, development of potential spill scenarios, 1 litre also occurred, from the flare during testing likelihood and consequence analysis, detailed of the SNE-2 well.
modelling and development of a credible response capability.
Total spills to the environment number We have ensured that in the unlikely event of a large 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 oil spill, we are able to provide an effective oil spill response.
We continue to apply good practice for Oil 0 0 0 0 1 all our drilling programmes: Fuel 1 0 0 0 0 Planning applying the IOGP JIPs approach to Chemical 0 1 0 0 1 oil spill risk assessment and response planning.
Surface response capability maintaining Waste 0 0 0 0 0 tiered oil spill response capability including Other 2 0 0 0 0 Associate Membership of Oil Spill Response Limited OSRL for access to established Tier 3 oil spill response equipment.
We also enhanced our Total spills to the environment barrels Tier 2 capability in Senegal through membership of Western and Central Africa Aerial Surveillance 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 and Dispersant Spraying Services WACAF.
Oil 0 0 0 0 0.002 OSRL membership also gave us access to highly experienced consultants who assisted in the Fuel 0.06 0 0 0 0 development of the oil spill response plans and Chemical 0 2.20 0 0 0.006 who could assist in the event of a spill.
Waste 0 0 0 0 0 Subsea cap and secure capability Cairn maintained access to the Subsea Well Incident Other 9.44 0 0 0 0 System which includes the Capping Stack System, the Subsea Incident Response Toolkit and the Global Dispersant Stockpile, all of which are managed by OSRL.
Oil spill response exercise 56 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Case study CONTINUING TO BUILD CAPACITY FOR OIL SPILL PLANNING AND RESPONSE was issued in September and training and gas industry association for environmental and When Cairn started drilling social issues IPIECA.
Its mission is to strengthen exercises were rolled out through the remainder operations offshore Senegal in of 2015 and this will continue in 2016.
The CERT national capacity to combat oil pollution in 22 2014 there had been relatively countries in West and Central Africa with the manual also bridged with the specific Senegal little previous exploration drilling Emergency Response Plan developed by establishment of local partnerships between carried out.
the oil industry and the authorities.
The overall ConocoPhillips, as well activities delegate, and the Oil Spill Contingency Plan, and allowed Cairn objective of the three-day workshop was to Working with the authorities in Senegal, assist in developing a legal framework on the use to draw on the extensive in-house ConocoPhillips oil spill planning and response capability was Crisis Management Support Team based in of dispersants.
Cairn contributed by running an developed in-country.
This year, we have built interactive case study session to examine the Houston and their international network of on this programme to further bolster capacity in emergency experts within the ConocoPhillips most suitable treatments and implications of this area, while at the same time strengthening using dispersants and by participating in a Global Incident Management Assist Team.
desk-based scenario simulation on the third day.
In 2015, we held a number of exercises including In 2015, we were invited to support a jointly in-field deployment of mechanical oil spill boom As part of the new operational arrangements sponsored International Maritime Organisation in place within Cairn, an extensive review of and an oil spill emergency exercise involving both IMO Global Initiative West and Central ConocoPhillips and Cairn teams and contractors.
our internal crisis and emergency arrangements Africa GI-WACAF National Workshop on the was conducted in Q3 for all aspects of Group development of the national policy for the use activities.
A comprehensive new Crisis and of dispersants, held in Senegal.
GI-WACAF is a Emergency Response Team CERT manual partnership between IMO and the global oil and CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 57 Tonnes CO e per 1,000 hours worked 2 Strategic report WORKING RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED MAPPING CR PRIORITIES CONTINUED CR priorities involved formal discussions with the regulators, review by National Technical Committee members OPERATIONAL and a programme of consultations with regional and district authorities in Fatick, Bassoul, Foundiougne, ENVIRONMENTAL Toubacouta, Djirnda and Dionewar.
Around 80% of the local council representatives attended FOOTPRINT each meeting.
CR plans, which include environmental requirements and compliance registers, are put in place for all our operational programmes and these have been adhered to with no issue of non-conformance or Oil and gas activities can potentially impact the emergency and oil spill preparedness, changes non-compliance during 2015. environment including impairing air quality, water in terms of operational approach and increased quality, marine resources and the disposal of waste.
knowledge of oil characteristics: Environmental performance metrics are gathered on a monthly basis throughout any operational activity.
Managing our environmental performance is changes to critical safety elements associated very important.
Comprehensive contractual and with the rig, vessels and aviation: and These are collated and analysed and reported to the Board, SLT and MT for more details, please see regulatory environmental obligations are placed a voluntary assessment of environmental impacts on our operations.
for the proposed 3D seismic campaign offshore www.
Senegal including implications for the fishing Prior to exploration and appraisal drilling in Senegal community and local artisan fishermen.
GREENHOUSE GASES Greenhouse Gases GHGs form a part of our in 2015, we reviewed impacts of planned changes to the previous programme in rig, vessels, aviation The impact of changes in the drilling programme operational environmental footprint.
We monitor and manage the GHGs emitted during our activities and overall approach.
This included assessing and in 2015 were submitted as an addendum to the mitigating risks arising in the following areas: Environmental and Social Impact Assessment and disclose them in accordance with industry requirements and standards.
In 2015, we updated environmental and social impacts of operational approved and submitted to the regulatory authorities equipment, locations and increased local in 2014.
The development and submittal of the our methodology for calculating Scope 2 emissions in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2 environmental and social knowledge: addendum was a voluntary initiative by Cairn and guidance, issued in January 2015.
We disclose on an operational control basis which means we report emissions from those assets which are operated by Total and normalised GHG emissions scopes 1, 2 and 3 us and not those controlled by our partners.
With no operated production facilities, our direct GHG emissions occur primarily from the combustion of 88 200,000 100 fuel on rigs and vessels during the drilling of wells or acquisition of seismic.
150,000 75 The graph shown indicates that our GHG emissions over the last five years are heavily dependent on the 42 41 100,000 50 36 level of operational activity in any given year due to the absence of any steady production.
This makes 9 it difficult to identify baseline information and 50,000 25 set meaningful targets for total GHG reduction over time.
We have therefore chosen to adopt 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 0 0 a methodology for calculating GHG emissions Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 intensity with reference to the number of hours Tonnes CO e per 1,000 hours worked all scopes GHG 2 location worked, as this provides a direct relationship with based Notes: the levels of activity and provides a mechanism for We calculate our GHG emissions in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
engaging with our contractors on energy efficiency.
1 For calculating Scope 1 direct GHG emissions we use emission factors from the API Compendium 2009.
The quantity of GHG emissions from our activities 2 In 2015 we updated our methodology for calculating Scope 2 GHG emissions in line with the new Greenhouse Gas Protocol has reduced in 2015 from 2014 due to reduced Scope 2 Guidance that was published in January 2015.
As a result we now report Scope 2 emissions in two ways: according to a location-based method and a market-based method.
For the location-based method we use emission factors from the IEA levels of operational activity.
GHG intensity levels International Energy Agency Report CO emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights 2013 Edition.
These are grid average 2 in 2015 are similar to those achieved in 2014. emission factors for each country.
For district heating and cooling we use location-based emission factors from DEFRA 2015.
For the market-based method we use emission factors, where available, in the following order of preference: At the end of 2015, the UN Intergovernmental Panel a. Supplier-specific emission factor obtained from Cairn offices electricity suppliers.
on Climate Change IPCC Conference of the Parties b.
Residual mix emission factors obtained from the RE-DISS II document European Residual Mixes 2014, last updated in June 2015.
The resulting agreement c. Location-based emission factors.
These are the same IEA and DEFRA emission factors that we use for calculating required countries to work within their action plans to location-based emissions.
limit global greenhouse emissions and review these We have provided location-based Scope 2 figures in this report.
Our market-based Scope 2 figures, and further details about every five years from 2020.
While we will assess the our GHG emissions data and calculations, are available on our website.
3 For calculating Scope 3 business travel GHG emissions we use the DEFRA methodology, including its recommendation to implications of the agreement to our business more include an uplift for the influence of radiative forcing in air travel emissions.
We updated to DEFRA 2015 emission factors fully in 2016, we expect that emissions management this year see http: www.
and controls will become increasingly important to any future production.
58 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Tonnes CO e 2 166,266 289 746 1,589 280 1,350 25,030 420 2,793 59,465 402 3,127 24,990 351 2,606 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Case study ADDRESSING CONCERNS REGARDING SEISMIC ACTIVITIES OFFSHORE SENEGAL management measures, also collected data on of fishing activity encountered was higher than We completed a 3D seismic campaign encountered marine mammals and bird life.
anticipated, particularly closer to the coast, we offshore Senegal within the Rufisque, This environmental data will be shared with the completed the campaign with four boats and Sangomar and Sangomar Deep blocks, Senegalese government authorities to add to a support vessel.
Communication was facilitated where there are significant marine their national information resource.
by French and Wolof speaking Fisheries Liaison resources in the area important to Officers on board the vessels.
Channels of Communication were set up with fishing organisations and maritime authorities.
A procedure for potential claims was promoted To address stakeholder concerns, a number Ahead of operations, information flyers were to receive and address potential complaints as of activities were undertaken to consult with produced to ensure that the local fishing well as provide an ongoing means for asking local representatives: communities understood how seismic projects further questions.
We received a single claim for are undertaken.
We provided information relating a damaged fishing net and this was addressed Submissions were made to national and regional to the essential actions to be taken by any fishing using the claim procedure.
authorities to explain the scope of the operations.
vessels encountering the seismic operations, An Environmental Assessment Report was including a diagram showing the safe working compiled to identify environmental sensitivities distances around the 8km x 1km streamer spread in the area and formulate management measures layout.
Throughout seismic operations, radio to ensure our operations had a minimal impact on announcements were made providing information marine life.
To monitor implementation of these on where our operations would be in the coming measures, the seismic vessel included a Marine days.
We initially deployed two boats and Mammal Observer who, along with advising a support vessel to warn and guide fishermen and reporting on compliance to environmental out of the path of the seismic vessel.
As the level WATER, WASTEWATER AND WASTE Water use in our 2015 activities was not regarded as a significant or material issue due to the nature of our offshore activities and abundance of local supply.
Wastewater discharges and waste disposals consisted of typical vessel sanitary discharges and discharge and disposal of drilling wastes.
Cairn again used low impact water based drilling fluids in the 2015 drilling campaign and these were discharged in line with good industry practice.
Waste management in Senegal received particular attention in order to ensure a Duty of Care was maintained in line with European practice.
This includes not only the application of a waste management hierarchy avoid, reuse, recycle, recover, dispose but also requires prevention of escape of waste: appropriate handling, treatment and disposal: and handling such waste by fit and proper persons.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 59 Strategic report WORKING RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED MAPPING CR PRIORITIES CONTINUED CR priorities CR priorities NON-OPERATED SUSTAINABLE JOINT VENTURES PROJECT AND INTERNATIONAL FUNDING INVESTMENTS HSE PERFORMANCE OF APPLYING OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES Cairns business model is to create, add and realise shareholder value from a balanced OPERATING PARTNERS Prior to any new venture, whether operated or For some of our assets, operational activities non-operated, we undertake an extensive due portfolio, with material upside potential from exploration and appraisal activity supported by may be carried out by partner organisations.
diligence management process to understand HSE performance of these assets will therefore any risks associated with the project including any established development and production assets and a strong balance sheet.
We believe that be dependent on the quality and competence of challenges to our Business Principles.
In our 2014 our partners and so we undertake a rigorous due Annual Report, we reported extensively on the CR performance is integral to promoting cost-effective operational performance and diligence process to ensure confidence in their venture operated by Kosmos in Cap Boujdour.
integrity and HSE track record.
We also regularly No operational activity has been carried out managing societal and reputational risks that may impact on our licence to operate and our assess the HSE performance of our operating in Cap Boujdour since conclusion of the CB-1 partners through partner review committees.
exploration well in March 2015, however we ability to access funding for future projects.
Cairn believes that good HSE management is continued to track developments and work with cost-effective and should remain a key focus our partner in this area during the course of the Cairns exploration inventory is underpinned and balanced by development assets in the of the industry even when facing difficult year.
Cairn and the operator, Kosmos, continue market conditions.
to believe that responsible resource exploration UK and Norway, the free cash flow from which will be used in part to fund future exploration and, if successful, development in Western We have continued to work in collaboration Sahara can occur in parallel with the UN-led programmes.
Many of these assets are nonoperated ventures.
Our emphasis is on the safe with partners EnQuest and Premier Oil on discussion on the regions future.
development assets, Kraken and Catcher.
This delivery of these projects within budget and schedule and this is reflected in the standards includes our obligations and duties under the new UK SCR 2015.
We continue to scrutinise governing our core business processes set out in the new Cairn Operating Standards Manual non-operated activities including understanding the HSE risks associated with the projects to and our CRMS.
ensure robust mitigation plans are implemented through the design, construction, commissioning It is important to Cairn that our operations and those of our partners are robust and carried out and operational phases.
These requirements are reflected in the new Cairn Operating Standards responsibly.
We have sought to demonstrate our commitment through: Manual and CRMS.
upholding and supporting the ten principles of the Global Compact: We have also continued to ensure our see to obligations were met for non-operated joint seeking to apply the IFC Environmental and Social Performance Standards: venture wells in Norway.
There is a requirement that non-operating partners must assess HSE participating in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative: and arrangements of the block operator prior to approval of activities by the Norwegian regulator.
applying a robust Corporate Responsibility Management System.
This necessitates all non-operating parties assure and are responsible for planned activities.
In line with our pre-qualification as an operator in Norway, procedures have been updated in the UK and Norway region and have strengthened links with the Cairn Group CRMS.
We will look to renew our external environmental management system audit under OSPAR Oslo Paris Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the North East Atlantic in 2016.
60 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information CR priorities Participating Company in the EITI in September 2013, Norway joined EITI in 2009, Senegal in 2013 TRANSPARENCY and the UK joined the EITI in October 2014.
No other countries in which Cairn operates have joined.
We are actively participating in EITI working groups in Senegal.
As in previous years, we have disclosed our payments to governments in the table below.
These disclosures include both payments to governments included in our EITI reporting, 2 such as corporate income tax, licence fees and WHT suffered, and additional payments made including VAT and payroll taxes and social security costs.
We operate in areas around the world, which PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTS often have unique social and political challenges.
We advocate transparency of tax contributions and As Cairn operates in various territories with diverse To manage this and protect our reputation, we have other payments to government and support two tax obligations and requirements, we are committed developed a robust Code of Business Ethics.
Cairns transparency initiatives, namely the European to ensuring that in every territory we comply fully Code of Business Ethics sets out the standards of Union Accounting Directive and the EITI.
with local tax rules and regulations.
Cairns Tax Policy conduct we expect from our employees.
Doing does not permit any artificial tax planning and, business in a corrupt or unethical way has serious The EU Accounting Directive applies to Cairn as in managing its tax affairs, the Group must align consequences for society and those involved.
Our a listed extractive company and requires parent any planning with genuine commercial activity.
Group Code of Business Ethics and Anti-Bribery companies to disclose certain payments to and Corruption ABC System not only guide our governments on a country-by-country basis.
As at 31 December 2015, Cairn has a 10%, holding own behaviour but also clarify our expectations In 2015, the UK government brought forward in Cairn India Limited.
The retroactive tax claim made of partners and suppliers.
implementation of these accounting requirements by the Indian Tax Department is addressed in the and Cairn has worked diligently to conform to these Financial Review on pages 32 to 35.
Before entering into a business relationship, we regulations.
Our submission to Companies House undertake a process of information gathering and will be made in the first half of 2016 and a copy will SUSTAINABLE SOCIAL INVESTMENT risk identification, with the option to undertake be available from that time on our website.
We seek to make a positive social impact in every further third party checks if any concerns arise.
First and foremost we To assist with the risk assessment process, we use The EITI is an international initiative that is contribute to community and social development in various due diligence tools which enable us to voluntarily entered into by governments in order the countries in which we operate through our core identify potential red flags and establish whether to promote openness in respect of the management business activities such as energy and infrastructure, these issues are manageable and if any residual of revenues from natural resources.
We became a as well as through payment of taxes, employment risks lie within our risk appetite statement.
We opportunities, skills development and trade with local acknowledge that at times this will mean there may enterprises.
Cairn also adds to benefits generated be challenges to secure new acreage in line with our by our operations through focused and appropriate 1 Total Payments to Governments business plan whilst living up to our standards and social investment.
We have set criteria for social US$000 responsibilities.
Third party due diligence checks investment activities which aim to ensure that 2014 2015 were conducted on a number of suppliers and longer-term projects are sustainable with plans in Licence, rental and business partners in 2015. place from the outset to continue without Cairns entry fees 1,475 1,033 contributions, typically beyond an initial three year ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION period.
Our projects are also developed through a Infrastructure Cairn has a zero-tolerance approach to bribery process of community engagement, consultation and improvements 1,995 0 participation, using a transparent decision making and corruption.
Corporate Income Tax 66,000 51,865 process to ensure any payments made are aligned with our Business Principles and comply with our In 2015, ABC continued to be strengthened WHT withheld on throughout Cairn.
A series of refresher training payments to group ABC Management System.
sessions were presented to staff in Edinburgh, companies 4,029 333 Stavanger and Senegal.
This training will be followed VAT 9,285 6,257 up in 2016 with the roll-out to all staff and key Customs Duty 1,058 309 contractors of an ABC e-learning training module to all staff and key contractors.
As activities continue Training allowances 987 607 This Strategic report has been approved in Senegal, contractor ABC procedures will continue PAYE and NI 16,069 18,009 by the Board and is signed on their to be implemented.
WHT withheld on payments to third parties 28,051 10,095 Other 5,460 1,388 SIMON THOMSON Notes: Chief Executive 1 We disclose gross payments for assets that we operate and net payments for our non-operated assets.
Negative figures reflect 14 March 2016 refunds received.
The figures above represent a net of payments and refunds.
We are reporting a greater number of payment categories this year.
Data in this format is only available since 2014.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 61
