Our Strategic Imperatives Delivery of our goals is built upon six strategic imperatives.
Drive to Fixed-mobile Video and mobile convergence content leadership leadership Grow our Build a leading Make the B2B and B2G wholesale integration a For more information on our strategic business network success imperatives see pages 14-15 We anticipate that our capital expenditure, Measuring success Executive leadership changes as a proportion of revenue, will be higher We set out last year a series of goals by which On 23 June 2014 Perley McBride joined than the historical average in the coming our performance would be judged.
In a year CWC as Chief Financial Officer CFO.
financial year, as we deliver year two of of transformation, we have made progress in Previously Perley served as CFO at Leap Project Marlin and commence the first year these goals: Wireless International from December 2012 of our integration with Columbus.
Grow top line revenue Revenue grew 2% years financial performance bears out our running and is already making a strong like-for-like at the Group level and delivered underlying belief that increased investment contribution to the business.
the first year-on-year growth since demerger.
and improved service will generate future On 31 December 2014 Jorge Nicolau revenue and earnings growth.
Maintain cost efficiency and EBITDA stood down as CEO of our Panama business growth Our operating costs fell US$15 having worked for Cable & Wireless Panama million or 2% year-on-year while EBITDA for over 15 years.
Jorge made an enormous From triple play to quad play grew by 7%.
Our operating costs to revenue contribution to our business having ratio fell by two percentage points to 41%, successfully retained and grown market share although this remains above our long-term despite the entrance of two additional mobile ambition for the Company.
He retired with our thanks and transformation of our systems and processes best wishes.
He was succeeded by Agustin fide is a priority to drive further efficiencies.
la Guardia who was appointed on 1 January 3.
Make the Company a Great Place to Work 2015.
Agustin joined us from Motta Our employee Net Promoter Score eNPS, International SA where he was Commercial as surveyed by the Great Place to Work Executive Vice President of the commercial, Institute, had a baseline of 15%.
Over wholesale, distribution and retail operations 2,520 team members participated.
We will of the Motta Group.
He is passionate about be prioritising investment in our people as our customers and our people and is already Columbus, through its Flow brand the leading part of creating our new culture.
provider of triple play services in each of its markets propels CWC into the retail quad play 4.
Deliver unparalleled customer service In a year of transformation, with the business.
We saw customer loyalty as measured by acquisition of Columbus, we are forming Net Promoter Score NPS grow by six points a new Company, with a new leadership and over the year.
NPS also grew across every a new culture, putting our customers at the product segment as our investments and heart of our business.
John Reid, President of focus began to improve customer experience.
our Caribbean Consumer Business, joins from Columbus to lead our retail businesses.
Increase returns on capital With the has over 26 years of telecoms experience ongoing progress being made on Project and has been with Columbus for more than Marlin and following the acquisition of ten years.
He brings significant industry Columbus, we would expect to see increased knowledge and a strong TV expertise to returns on capital.
Annual Report 2014 15 11 Chief Executive Officers strategic review continued Our investment plan Consistent with our US$442 million invested in Project Marlin vision and strategy, 2014 15 saw an uplift in 165% our capital expenditure Data traffic increased by 165% across all LIME markets in 2014. from US$251 million to US$442 million, as we 1 00% delivered the first year Our mobile networks in all 13 LIME markets of Project Marlin.
upgraded to deliver HSPA service.
5 3% Eight out of 15 HSPA networks were judged best-in-class For more information on Investment see performance based on network KPIs.
pages 10-11 John Maduri, President of our Business I have now visited all the markets which Phil Bentley, Solutions Division ex Rogers Wireless, Telus we operate in and have met the vast Chief Executive joins from Columbus to lead our B2B B2G majority of our team members, who are businesses in the Caribbean and Latin America without exception, energetic, warm and Officer a key area of growth for us.
continued As a result of these appointments, Martin Our business has undergone an enormous Roos and Laurie Bowen left the business on amount of change over the past year.
Both Martin and Laurie have yet, despite this, our team members have been instrumental in helping set CWC on its demonstrated the highest level of transformational journey and our success this commitment to our customers and to the year.
They leave with my sincere thanks and Company, and for that I say a heartfelt thank best wishes.
you on behalf of all our shareholders.
Our success is a function of all their hard work.
Further additions to our Executive Team include: Paul Scott, President Networks and Phil Bentley Wholesale, and Michele English, Executive Chief Executive Officer Vice President EVP Human Resources and Integration: the Executive Team is completed by Carlo Alloni, EVP and Group Chief Technical Information Officer CTIO : Belinda Bradberry, Group General Counsel: Niall Merry, Senior Vice President SVP Commercial: Chris Dehring, SVP Government Relations and Regulatory Affairs: Agustin fide la Guardia, SVP and CEO Panama and Leon Williams, SVP and CEO Bahamas Telecommunications Company BTC.
Finally, I would like to join our Chairman by thanking Nick Cooper for his tremendous contribution to our business.
Nick was instrumental in the formation of CWC as a standalone entity, the smooth transition of our operational hub to Miami, and business transformation to the Caribbean and Latin America focused operation.
Nick has served with distinction and we wish him well with the next phase of his career.
12 Cable & Wireless Communications Our market opportunities to New York We began to execute USA FTN Bermuda a performance USA improvement plan and Bahamas deliver our strategy to Mexico Turks & Calcos seize the opportunities Dominican Republic St. Thomas Tortola Puerto Rico Cayman Islands St. Martin Anguilla we have identified in our Antigua Belize Haiti St. Croix Montserrat Honduras Jamaica St. Kitts & Nevis Guadeloupe Dominica industry and the Martinique St. Lucia Aruba St. Vincent Guatemala Barbados Bonarie markets we serve.
El Salvador Grenada Curacao Nicaragua Trinidad & Tobago Venezuela Costa Rica to Forteleza, Brazil Guyana Panama Suriname French Gulana Colombia Subsea bre network O-Net carrier networks Terrestrial bre routes Branching units Ecuador 1.
Fixed-mobile convergence With the acquisition of Columbus we Global demand for data products Our ownership of mobile and fixed are the leading telecommunications continues to grow.
Data usage networks, meshed with the provider in 10 out of 16 mobile whether fixed or mobile is lower Companys backhaul and international markets, 16 out of 18 broadband in our markets than in developed connectivity capabilities, is a strategic markets, 17 out of 18 markets where countries but is forecast to rise advantage which can enable us to we provide fixed line services and 7 significantly.
We have a good provide customers with the best out of the 10 markets where we offer opportunity to increase data network quality experience.
Our ambition is to be the leader penetration, usage by customers and in every service, in every market.
monetisation in the markets which we serve through improved services, better packages and new applications.
Synergies and efficiencies Latin Americas B2B telecoms The new business is uniquely placed The acquisition of Columbus presents market represents a sizable growth to serve the large, growing and the opportunity to capture synergies opportunity.
We have opportunities increasingly complex needs of carrier arising as a result of capital and to extend our relationships with operators and large multinational operational overlaps and improve existing customers as well as corporations requiring wholesale efficiency by simplifying our processes increasing our current market access to international bandwidth and upgrading our systems.
The acquisitions of within the Caribbean and Latin Columbus and Sonitel provide America region.
greater opportunities to capture this growth based on our expanded scale and capabilities.
Annual Report 2014 15 13 Chief Executive Officers strategic review continued Our six strategic imperatives in detail 1.
Video and leadership convergence content leadership Mobile devices are becoming ever Our customers want seamless access Video content is at the heart of more important to enriching to high-quality communications customers entertainment and home customers digital experience.
We want services as they move between communications needs.
Both the to attain leadership in this important devices and locations.
That can only type of content linear, non-linear, service in every market.
We will be achieved by delivering services streamed, exclusive and its delivery prioritise investments in data services over both fixed and mobile networks.
traditional TV, mobile tablet, online and excel in the areas our customers We have a strategic advantage as our are changing with consumers most value.
We will strive to provide competitors generally only operate viewing habits.
With the acquisition the best network performance in each either mobile or fixed networks.
The of Columbus, we are now a major market and be transparent in our acquisition of Columbus will allow us video player with market leadership pricing, while also delivering the latest to accelerate the shift to a single in seven markets today.
We will invest smartphones and an improved Internet Protocol standard, improving to expand our footprint as well as customer experience in store, on the our services, particularly fixed line and developing the content and formats phone and online.
We will encourage broadband, and delivering our our customers value to increase data uptake by enabling our customers customers the always on services customer relevance and loyalty.
We will to freely access Over-The-Top OTT they desire.
Programming viewing continue to innovate in our set-top services and by supporting Net at home via the mobile phone and boxes, encouraging more video on Neutrality, meaning they will be free downloading video content onto demand and cloud storage uptake.
to use unhindered any Internet-based mobile devices will be enabled by the service so long as it is legal.
acquisition of Columbus, as will the replacement of older copper networks with modern optical fibres.
Goals Goals Goals Our goal is to grow mobile revenue We want to provide the best value voice We want to lead our markets in the by providing the best customer and data propositions in our markets, delivery of the unique and compelling experience and becoming the first leveraging our unique network assets content that our customers value, choice for data services.
to deliver an unparalleled and seamless whether TV video, or apps, wherever experience regardless of content, our customers are and in the form device or location.
How we measure success How we measure success How we measure success We will use the Net Promoter Score to Improving our services will encourage We will measure progress in our measure whether we are the mobile customers to buy more from us.
share of the video market and in leader as judged by our customers.
Converging our networks will also the numbers of our customers Success will also be measured through reduce the cost per unit of delivering downloading content onto their growth in mobile data penetration in data services to our customers.
our markets and usage by customers on our networks.
Associated risks Associated risks Associated risks Risk from competitor activity Risk of service disruption Risk from competitor activity Risk of service disruption Regulatory risk Technology risk Technology risk Key synergies risk Key supplier risk Technology risk Key supplier risk For more information on risk For more information on risk For more information on risk see pages 18-21 see pages 18-21 see pages 18-21 14 Cable & Wireless Communications Our six strategic imperatives in detail 4.
Make the B2G business wholesale network integration a success B2B is a fast growing segment in the Backhaul fibre-optic networks, both telecoms world.
Customers are looking sub-sea and terrestrial, are the core The integration of CWC and Columbus to telecoms and increasingly IT products means of transferring ever larger offers an opportunity to fundamentally to transform their operations and amounts of data traffic as customers address our cost base by improving improve delivery to their own customers.
Regardless of the point our efficiency throughout the In government, there are significant of origin mobile, broadband, B2B or organisation.
We will create a new opportunities to transform delivery of B2G usage backhaul networks business representing best-in-class public services through technology in ultimately carry all traffic to their working practices, processes, areas such as health and education.
The destinations, which are increasingly technology and assets across all acquisitions of Columbus and Sonitel have international as the Internet breaks geographies to improve business broadened both the range of solutions down geographic barriers.
We will drive further we offer moving up the stack to more geographically extensive network success by creating a new culture IT-based services as well as the number touching 42 countries throughout and values for the Company of markets we serve.
In B2B and B2G we our region provides us with a to motivate and engage our team have a significantly greater footprint in competitive advantage in the delivery members to create a high Latin America markets with presence in of data services for our consumer, performance team culture.
eight Latin America markets and two business and government customers.
This It also enables us to serve the needs increased geographic exposure enables of the regions large wholesale and us to take advantage of the opportunities enterprise customers who need presented in these fast-growing markets.
access to large amounts of quality Our strategy is to manage B2B and B2G as bandwidth throughout the region.
a single business with customer-centric solutions for target segments, offering reliable, and cost-effective services of both core connectivity, as well as, increasingly, Managed Services.
Goals Goals Goals We want to drive growth from B2B We want to create the regions leading We want to build a new company, and B2G services by managing our integrated wholesale networks to provide successfully integrating CWC and customers complex networks and the lowest cost and best experience to Columbus, creating a new applications so that they can focus our existing B2B and B2G markets as performance culture, delivering on serving their customers.
well as to serve large international synergies and a new operating model wholesale and enterprise customers.
to the benefit of the whole Group.
How we measure success How we measure success How we measure success By increasing our in-house capabilities Through integrated network and service We will undertake regular surveys and expertise, we will increase the capabilities, we will improve the of our employees to understand the recurring revenue and upselling experience to customers as measured by success of our initiatives to create a opportunity from our customers.
We the Net Promoter Score.
We will target new culture.
Ultimate success will be will use the Net Promoter Score to increased sales and data volume uptake seen in the delivery of synergies from measure customer satisfaction.
by our customers, as well as ensuring the acquisition of Columbus and a our geographical reach measured by reduction in our joint operating costs.
kilometres of fibre laid, better serves the needs of our regional customers.
Associated risks Associated risks Associated risk Risk from competitor activity Risk from competitor activity Risk from business integration Risk to business development Technology risk For more information on risk For more information on risk For more information on risk see pages 18-21 see pages 18-21 see pages 18-21 Annual Report 2014 15 15
