Independent Directors report The last 12 months has seen a period of exceptional change for CWC, On completion of the transaction, John Risley, Brendan Paddick and which has required very close oversight by the Board, both at formal Thad York joined the Board on 31 March 2015.
The introduction of Board and Board Committee meetings and in numerous additional John, Brendan and Thad brings welcome additional expertise and discussions throughout the year.
insights into each of the Columbus businesses, the region in which we operate and the industry generally.
As with the previously referenced Alongside the continued exercising of appropriate corporate personnel changes, it will bring further change to the dynamics of the governance for the business, two issues have dominated the Board Board which, as it focuses on the newly enlarged business, will require agenda the ongoing transformation of the Companys operating the Board to demonstrate continued flexibility and adaptability to model, and specifically the transfer of its operational hub from London support the new Cable & Wireless Executive Team effectively.
to Miami: and the acquisition of Columbus International Inc. which completed on 31 March 2015.
Turning now to the four questions posed annually as part of the Companys approach to measuring effective corporate governance.
Consistent with plans outlined by Phil Bentley at last years AGM, the Companys operational hub in Miami is now largely established, 1.
What is the quality of the relationship between the Chairman creating a new base for our Executive Team, and providing a range of and the Executive Directors?
key support services and expertise including Finance, Legal, Treasury With the appointment of both a new CEO and CFO over the past and HR to our front line operations.
With more than 170 people now in 18 months, the establishment of new relationships between Executive post, close to our businesses and more importantly our customers, and Non-executive Board members has been a key feature of this is already having a significant positive impact on our operational 2014 15.
Combined with the relocation of the Group Executive hub effectiveness.
to Miami, whilst the Chairman and the majority of Non-executives As Miami and the new operating model has become more fully were predominantly based in the UK, this has created challenges in established, there has been a substantial scaling down in the size of the establishing close working practices.
To address these, the Board is team in London, and a significant amount of change in personnel at every holding more meetings in the region than previously, extending those level, including among the Independent Directors and senior executives.
visits to incorporate meetings with the wider local management To enhance our focus on operational issues, Barbara Thoralfsson teams, and the Chairman and CEO have revisited some of their joined the Board in January 2015.
With her experience as CEO of processes to help embed a healthy and productive relationship.
Nick Netcom ASA and as a Non-executive Director of Telenor SA, Barbara Coopers presence throughout the year has helped the Chairman to has already brought much welcomed additional industry expertise and maintain the Companys existing corporate routines and compliance insight to the Board discussions.
The Independent Directors have been structures, despite the significant changes in personnel.
delighted with the appointment of Perley McBride as CFO to replace Tim Pennington, who left the Group in June 2014.
How open are the Executive Directors with the Board?
Cooper, Corporate Services Director since the creation of CWC, stood The nature of the operating model and transaction agenda has down from the Board on 31 March 2015.
Nick has offered essential necessitated close contact between the Executive Directors and continuity at Executive Director level since the departures of Tony the Board on a collective and an individual basis throughout the year.
Rice and Tim Pennington and the Independent Directors would like The Independent Directors have particularly appreciated the CFOs to record explicitly their appreciation for the role he has played.
communication style around the refinancing of the enlarged business following the acquisition of Columbus and the manner in which the The shift in the geographic centre of gravity of the Group and the CEO dealt with regulatory and stakeholder considerations in our changes in personnel, while executed for the long-term benefit of the markets.
business, have naturally given rise to a raised operational risk profile during the transition period.
The management of these risks has been 3.
What is the visibility of the checks and balances between the a key area of focus for both the Independent Directors and executive Executive Directors?
management in terms of establishing essential relationships and Maintaining the right checks and balances through a period of such overseeing the detailed execution of the new operating model.
significant senior management and operational change has provided Turning to the acquisition of Columbus, this has brought yet more challenges.
The previous CEO CFO team had worked together for challenge to an already busy agenda, but represents a potentially a number of years, and their check and balance routines were well transformational event for CWC.
Detailed work on the transaction established.
Our new CEO and CFO bring different cultural and began in the summer of 2014 and has continued intensively since industry experience, and the refining of checks and balances through that time, requiring each of the Independent Directors to address the the year has required changes in approach by the Chairman, specific operational, capital markets and regulatory risks attaching to Executives and the Independent Directors, who in turn have relied the transaction.
Specifically, Mark Hamlin has performed a vital role on Nick Cooper to provide continuity through that process.
during the process by spending a substantial amount of time meeting with senior executives from Columbus who were earmarked for the 4.
Have questions asked by the Independent Directors in Board senior team and providing insights to the Board as a whole as to their and Committee meetings been appropriately addressed?
capabilities and suitability to lead elements of the combined business The Independent Directors are satisfied that questions have been post acquisition.
Mark has also agreed to serve as a member of answered in a considered and effective manner throughout the year a newly formed Integration Committee which has been set up to ended 31 March 2015 and are satisfied that the corporate governance oversee the integration of the two businesses and the synergy controls of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc are effective.
Our people will be the key determinant of the success of the merger and Marks support during the integration Simon Ball process is of great comfort to the Board and vital for the success Senior Independent Director of the project as a whole.
