Directors and corporate governance report Committed to Good Governance Dear Shareholder, This has been a transformational year for Cable & Wireless Communications.
Our Miami operational hub is now established, with our main central services having relocated.
The London Headquarters is maintained, but has also moved location to a smaller office in central London.
We have also sold our Monaco business and acquired both Columbus International Inc. and Grupo Sonitel, S. A. during the year, both of which have strengthened our focus on the Caribbean and Latin America region.
The Board has changed significantly since January 2014.
Phil Bentley Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE joined us in January 2014 as Chief Executive Officer, and having been Chairman with us for over a year now has proved himself to be a talented and energetic CEO who has achieved a huge amount since his arrival.
Perley McBride joined the Board in June 2014 as Chief Financial Officer, and has brought with him a wealth of experience.
In January 2015, Barbara Thoralfsson joined as an additional Non-executive Director.
Barbara brings extensive experience of the telecoms industry which will enable her to make a valuable contribution to the Board, and as a Cuban American who grew up in Miami, she also has a strong connection with our target region.
As a result of the acquisition of Columbus International Inc. which completed on 31 March 2015, John Risley, Brendan Paddick and Thad York also joined the Board as Non-executive Directors.
Each brings many years of experience in the telecoms industry within the Caribbean and Latin America region.
We welcome each of the new Directors to the Board, and look forward to working with them, and the experience and insight they bring with them.
Each Director, including existing Directors will be put forward for election or re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Finally, Nick Cooper, who has served as Corporate Services Director since demerger in 2010 and provided valuable continuity for the Company during a period of unprecedented change, stepped down from the Board on 31 March 2015.
The core purpose of the Board is to set the Groups strategy to deliver sustainable, profitable growth over the long term for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Our strategy to deliver this growth is founded on the belief that we must grow our customer lifetime value by delivering a best-in-class customer experience.
This cannot be achieved without the right people, processes and infrastructure to take advantage of opportunities and manage risks.
During 2014 15, we launched Project Marlin, a significant capital investment programme to help achieve our strategic imperatives.
The progress to date on each of our strategic imperatives along with Project Marlin is provided in detail in pages 8 to 35.
In addition to this, we also announced the acquisition of Columbus 48 Cable & Wireless Communications during the year.
This is a transformational transaction for the Compliance with the UK Company, and will create an enlarged Group with greater regional Corporate Governance Code presence, scale and scope with assets and capabilities that the Board believes will reinforce and accelerate the realisation across each of This report sets out how the Company applied the principles of the UK CWCs six areas of strategic focus, as described in the Strategy Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code and the extent to which section in this report.
The acquisition will also strengthen the the Company complied with the provisions of the Code in the year to management team with highly skilled, experienced and 31 March 2015.
Throughout the year the Group has applied the main entrepreneurial personalities focused on customer experience principles of the Code as described in pages 48 to 54 except for excellence and shareholder value creation.
provision C. 3.7 in respect of putting the external audit contract out We have continued our engagement with major shareholders and to tender at least every ten years.
An explanation in respect of this governance bodies throughout the year.
The main instances of this provision is given in the Audit Committee report on page 60. were in respect of both the Directors remuneration policy earlier in The Board believes that this Annual Report and Accounts, taken as the year and the acquisition of Columbus.
The discussions on both a whole, reflects a fair, balanced and understandable review of the occasions were highly constructive and we will continue to engage Company, and presents a comprehensive and impartial view of the with shareholders regarding key issues in the future.
Further information on this requirement can be are given in respect of both the Directors remuneration policy and found on page 54 of the Corporate Governance Report.
The Board the acquisition within the Directors remuneration report and Strategic also believes that the report provides the information necessary for report respectively.
shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model As part of our ongoing commitment to good corporate governance and strategy.
We believe that the disclosure on the Groups strategy a full evaluation of the Board commenced in January 2015.
The and business model set out on pages 2 to 41, and the key performance evaluation was facilitated by Independent Audit, and the process indicators that we use to measure both financial and non-financial consisted of one to one interviews with the Board, senior performance and to set performance-related remuneration for senior management team and external advisors.
Conclusions and executives, meet this requirement.
The Code is available on the recommendations will be discussed at a forthcoming Board meeting Financial Reporting Councils website www.
and findings of this evaluation will be reported on in the 2015 16 The acquisition of Columbus Annual Report and Accounts.
Following completion of the acquisition of Columbus, the Takeover Panel considers that the Directors from time to time and their close Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE relatives will be deemed to be acting in concert with the Principal 19 May 2015 Vendors and the Ultimate Controllers in each case, as defined and further described in the circular to shareholders dated 19 November 2014.
This has required CWC to put in place various arrangements which include regulating the holding of shares by Directors and ensuring the continued independence of the Company in accordance with the Listing Rules, which are summarised in more detail below on pages 55 to 56.
Board membership, balance and independence Biographies of the current Directors, including details of their Committee memberships, are shown on pages 45 to 47.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, two Executive Directors, and eight Non-executive Directors.
Having reviewed the position of each Director individually, the Board considers five out of eight Non-executive Directors Simon Ball, Mark Hamlin, Alison Platt, Barbara Thoralfsson and Ian Tyler to be independent in both character and judgement.
The remaining three Non-executive Directors Brendan Paddick, John Risley and Thad York are considered nonindependent as they have been nominated to the Board by the Principal Vendors of Columbus.
Collectively, the Non-executive Directors contribute to an effective Board with a strong mix of skills and business experience, including recent financial, strategic, operational and retail experience, gained in a variety of geographic areas.
As they all occupy or have occupied senior positions each contributes significant weight to Board decisions.
The Non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a three-year term with an expectation that they will continue for a further three-year term.
Mark Hamlins initial three-year term came to an end on 31 December 2014.
The Board considered his reappointment for a further threeyear period.
The reappointment of Simon Ball for a further one-year Annual Report 2014 15 49 Directors and corporate governance report continued Committed to Good Governance period was also considered in February 2015.
Simon has been Specific Role of Individual Members of the Board and the Company Secretary a Director of the Company since demerger in March 2010, and prior Director Responsible for: to this served as a Non-executive Director of Cable and Wireless plc Clare Underwood ensuring that good quality corporate from 1 May 2006.
3 governance is embedded and followed Company Secretary Having reviewed both Marks and Simons contributions to the Board, within the Company, along with the the Board considered their knowledge and skills to be invaluable to the implementation of efficient company Company.
The Board considered both Directors to be independent in administration: character and judgement, and as such, the Board approved their acting as a confidential sounding board to re-appointment.
the Chairman and other Directors: providing advice in relation to Board The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-executive deliberations and decision making: and Directors, which set out the time commitment expected of them, ensuring compliance with developments and the service contracts for Executive Directors, are available for in legislation, regulation and governance.
inspection by shareholders at our registered office during normal business hours and at our Annual General Meeting AGM.
1 The commitment of the Chairman as a Non-executive Director of Sherritt International, a company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange, and as Chairman of All Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary as the PwC Public Interest Body are noted on page 45.
The Board considers that these well as appropriate training and briefings on matters including appointments are not a constraint on his agreed time commitment to the Company.
corporate responsibility and sustainability, ethics, health & safety, 2 The commitment of the Senior Independent Director as a Non-executive Director of Allied Irish Bank plc, and of Commonwealth Games England, and as a Chairman governance matters and specific aspects and implications of the of Anchura Group Limited are noted on page 45.
The Board considers that these acquisition of Columbus.
Additionally, any Director may take appointments are not a constraint on his agreed time commitment to the Company.
independent professional advice on any matter at the Companys 3 During the year both Belinda Bradberry and Nick Cooper acted as joint Company expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Secretary with Clare Underwood, and since 11 May 2015 Clare has been the sole Company Secretary.
Specific Role of Individual Members of the Board and the Company Secretary Director Responsible for: Role of the Board The Board is responsible for the Groups corporate governance system Sir Richard overall operation and governance of 1 and is committed to maintaining high governance standards.
In order Lapthorne, CBE the Board: to progress the objectives of the Group, the Board meets on a regular providing leadership of the Board to Chairman basis and is responsible for organising and directing the Company and ensure that the Board satisfies its duties the Group in a manner that promotes the success of the Company and and responsibilities: is consistent with good corporate governance practice.
To enable the setting of the agenda for the Board: Board to function effectively, full and timely access to all relevant ensuring that the Board receives clear, information is given to the Board.
timely and accurate information: facilitating the contribution of the The key policies and practices of the Company and the Group are set Directors: and out in this report as well as in the reports of the Audit Committee on ensuring that the Company maintains pages 60 to 65, the Remuneration Committee on pages 68 to 88 effective communication with and the Nomination Committee on pages 66 to 67.
Furthermore, shareholders and other stakeholders our independent Non-executive Directors have prepared a report shared responsibility with the Senior describing corporate governance and behaviours of the Board on page Independent Director.
59 and details of significant shareholdings and rights, obligations, powers and procedures under the Companys Articles of Association Phil Bentley developing the strategy for the Articles are set out in the statutory information on pages 56 to Chief Executive Officer recommendation to the Board: and 58.
Together, these reports provide shareholders with an insight into leadership of the business and managing how our Board and senior management seek to manage the business it within the authorities delegated by to create and deliver long-term success for the Group.
2 Formal minutes recording decisions of all Board and Committee Simon Ball meeting shareholders on request and meetings are prepared and circulated to each Director as appropriate.
Senior Independent acting as the designated point of contact If a Director objects to a particular proposal, this is recorded in the for shareholders to raise any concerns Director minutes of the relevant meeting.
During the period under review there where contact through the normal were no such objections.
channels of the Chairman or Executive Directors is inappropriate.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board which bringing to the attention of the Board the includes: matters raised by major shareholders: and Strategy and management: ensuring that the Company maintains Approval of long-term objectives and strategy, extension of Group effective communication with activities into new business or geographic areas, any decision to cease shareholders and other stakeholders to operate any material part of the Groups business, review of Group shared responsibility with the Chairman.
performance and the approval of annual budget 50 Cable & Wireless Communications Corporate governance: Details of Directors attendance at scheduled Board meetings are Annual formal reviews of its own performance, a review of Group shown in the table below: corporate governance arrangements, receiving reports on the views Members Meetings attended of shareholders and determining the independence of Non-executive Directors Chairman Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE 7 8 Financial reporting: Chief Executive Officer Approval of announcements of interim and final results, Annual Report and Accounts, approval of dividend policy and approval of significant Phil Bentley 8 8 changes in accounting policies and practices Executive Directors 1 Nick Cooper 8 8 Board membership and other appointments: 2 Perley McBride 7 7 Changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board, Non-executive Directors membership and chairmanship of Board Committees, ensuring Simon Ball 7 8 adequate succession planning, appointment of the Senior Independent Mark Hamlin 8 8 Director and the appointment or removal of the Company Secretary 3 Brendan Paddick 0 0 Remuneration: Alison Platt 7 8 Determining the remuneration policy for the Directors and other 3 John Risley 0 0 senior executives and the introduction of new share incentive plans or 4 Barbara Thoralfsson 1 2 major changes to existing plans to be put to shareholders for approval Ian Tyler 8 8 Delegation of authority: 3 Thad York 0 0 The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the 1 Nick Cooper stepped down from the Board on 31 March 2015.
Chief Executive Officer and receiving reports from Board Committees 2 Perley McBride was appointed to the Board with effect from 26 June 2014. on their activities 3 Brendan Paddick, John Risley and Thad York were appointed to the Board with effect from 31 March 2015.
Contracts expenditure: 4 Barbara Thoralfsson was appointed to the Board with effect from 7 January 2015, and Approval of all significant contracts and expenditure and all was unable to attend a scheduled meeting as a result of a prior engagement which was in place before joining the Company.
investments or disposals in shares in which the Group holds an interest The frequency of meetings increased in the latter part of 2014 due to the oversight required by the Board for the acquisition of Columbus.
As a result some meetings were Internal controls: arranged at short notice and not all Directors were able to attend.
Receiving reports on and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risk and control processes to support its strategy and objectives and assessing these annually Board Committees The reports of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the Audit, Nomination are set out on pages 60 to 65, 66 to 67 and 68 to 88 respectively.
and Remuneration Committees, each with clearly defined terms of reference.
Each Committee reviews their terms of reference annually Integration Committee to ensure that they remain appropriate and effective.
An Integration Committee was established as part of the acquisition of Full details on matters reserved for the Board and the terms of Columbus International Inc.
This is not a committee of the Board, but reference of its Committees can be found on our website at one which oversees the whole integration process, and provides www.
regular updates to the Board on the progress, and aspects of the integration of the two businesses.
Board meetings The members of the Integration Committee are Sir Richard Lapthorne, The Board meets regularly and there were eight meetings during the Phil Bentley, Mark Hamlin, Brendan Paddick, John Risley and Thad York.
There are a number of informal meetings held throughout the year and as part of the annual corporate governance programme, the One of the complexities involved in the acquisition of Columbus is the Independent Directors meet once a year to discuss any relevant strategic imperative of integrating a talented group of executives governance matters.
The Non-executive Directors also meet with the from both Columbus and CWC, and creating a unified team with Chairman present and with the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer a shared culture, which is key to the success of the acquisition as a present.
This balance of formal and informal meetings throughout the whole.
It was agreed by the Board that as Mark Hamlin has unique year creates an environment that encourages challenge, the sharing of capabilities and experience in this area having led similar projects for information, innovative thinking and open communication.
multinational companies in complex environments over many years, together with his acquired experience of CWC and its culture and history, he is uniquely qualified to support CWC on the integration project.
In order to provide this support Mark has agreed to act as Alternate Chair of the Integration Committee.
Annual Report 2014 15 51 Directors and corporate governance report continued Committed to Good Governance Improving Board effectiveness Continuing development Directors Induction Re-election On appointment, the induction of new Board members is undertaken The Company complies with the Code, which specifies that all by the Company Secretary at the request of the Chairman, who Directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual retains responsibility for the induction process.
The induction re-election by shareholders.
The Board is satisfied that each Director includes the provision of information about the Company, details of continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to their procedures, governance issues, Directors responsibilities, the role role.
All Directors will stand for election or re-election at the 2015 of the Board, the matters reserved for its decision, and the terms of AGM.
As explained below on page 55, a dual voting procedure in reference of the principal Board Committees.
The programme also respect of the election or re-election of the independent Directors includes meetings with senior management and key advisers, and will be implemented at this years AGM.
meetings with major shareholders are arranged on request.
Directors interests Professional development The remuneration of the Directors and interests of the Directors The ongoing training and development programme for the and their connected persons in the shares of Cable & Wireless Directors includes Communications Plc, along with details of their share awards, are contained in the Directors remuneration report set out on Regular visits to the overseas business units to meet the local pages 68 to 88. teams.
During the year, this included three overseas Board visits to Barbados, Jamaica and Miami enabling the Board to meet with Directors conflicts of interest local senior management and to obtain an enhanced and more The Articles include provisions covering Directors conflicts and allow in-depth knowledge of the business operations the Board to authorise a matter that would otherwise involve a Director Governance updates from external advisers or via the Company breaching his duty to avoid conflicts.
The Company has procedures in Secretarys report place to deal with a situation where a Director has a conflict of interest, including the disclosure by Directors of any such conflicts and the During the year, presentations given to the Board included: imposition of limits or conditions by the Board when considering and Corporate governance aspects arising from the acquisition of authorising any conflict, if they think this is appropriate.
No Director had Columbus, including the concert party, financing and banking a material interest in any significant contract with the Company or any implications of its subsidiaries during the year.
For further information, refer to note 5.6 of the consolidated financial statements.
Deep-dive presentations from both the Barbados and Jamaican business units regarding their business, political and economic Directors indemnities environment, trading and performances, along with onsite visits The Company has granted indemnities in favour of its Directors to stores and technology sites against personal financial exposure that they may incur in the course In-depth training sessions on both TV and B2B aspects of the of their professional duties as Directors of the Company and or any businesses subsidiaries as applicable.
These indemnities are qualifying thirdparty indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act In addition, individual training requirements are agreed and arranged 2006 the 2006 Act.
They were granted on appointment of the with Directors, as required.
Directors and are still in force.
Officers of wholly owned subsidiary companies within the Group have also been granted indemnities.
Performance evaluation In accordance with the Code, an external evaluation of the Board takes Powers of Directors place at least every three years.
Independent Audit Limited, which has The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation and no other connection with the Company or Group, were engaged to the Articles.
As provided in the Articles, the Directors may exercise undertake an externally facilitated Board evaluation during this all the Companys powers provided that the Articles or applicable financial year.
legislation do not stipulate that any such powers must be exercised The first stage of the review involved Independent Audit engaging by the members.
The Directors have been authorised to issue and with the Chairman and the Company Secretary to set the scope allot ordinary shares, pursuant to Article 12.
The powers under and context for the evaluation.
Interviews were conducted with all Article 12 are referred to shareholders at the AGM for renewal.
members of the Board, senior management and external advisers by two partners from Independent Audit.
All interviews were held Appointment and replacement of Directors on an individual, anonymous basis addressing the performance and The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are effectiveness of the Board, Board Committees, Chairman and contained in the Articles, including the rules for who is eligible to be individual performance of the Directors.
The anonymity of all elected as a Director and the procedure to be followed to nominate respondents was ensured throughout the process in order to promote such persons.
the open and frank exchange of views.
The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an ordinary The results will be discussed at a Board meeting in June 2015, and will resolution of the members or by a resolution of the Directors, be reported on in the 2015 16 Annual Report and Accounts.
provided that, in the latter instance, a Director appointed in this way retires and stands for election at the first AGM following his appointment.
52 Cable & Wireless Communications The Companys members may remove a Director by passing an The Group operates a risk management process under which the ordinary resolution for which special notice has been given.
Any regional businesses identify the key risks to their plans, their likelihood Director will automatically cease to be a Director if: i they resign: and impact and the actions being taken to manage those risks and the ii they offer to resign and the other Directors accept that offer: effectiveness of steps taken to mitigate them.
The risk register is iii all the other Directors being at least three require it: iv they presented to the Audit Committee on a rolling 12-month basis.
The are suffering from mental ill health and the Directors require them to principal risks identified by the Group are set out on pages 18 to 21. cease to be a Director: v they have missed Directors meetings for The Executive Directors report to the Board, on behalf of a continuous period of six months without permission and the other management, significant changes in the Groups businesses and the Directors resolve that they shall cease to be a Director: vi a external environment in which it operates.
In addition, they provide bankruptcy order is made against them, or they make an arrangement the Board with monthly financial information, which includes key risk or composition with their creditors: vii they are prohibited from and performance indicators.
The Groups key internal control and being a Director by law: or viii they cease to be a Director under monitoring procedures include the following: legislation or are removed from office under the Articles.
Financial reporting: each year, an annual budget is agreed and Shareholder engagement and communication approved by the Board.
At each Executive Team meeting and As part of our commitment to regular dialogue, meetings have been each Board meeting, actual results are reviewed and reported held between the Executive Directors and shareholders to discuss any against budget and, when appropriate, revised forecasts.
Senior issues they wished to raise during the year.
The Chairman and the management within our businesses are required on a quarterly Senior Independent Director are responsible for ensuring that the basis to certify compliance with the Groups financial reporting Company maintains effective communication with shareholders and requirements other stakeholders.
The Company intends to continue this practice.
Investment appraisal: the Group has clearly defined policies for Ahead of the 2014 AGM, and to take into account the new capital expenditure.
These include annual budgets, detailed requirement to approve a Remuneration Policy and framework, Simon appraisal and approval processes Ball sent letters to the Companys top 20 shareholders at the time to Monitoring systems: internal controls are monitored through a offer meetings to discuss the proposed Remuneration Policy.
Meetings programme of internal audits.
The Internal Audit function reports and further discussions were then held with shareholders who had to the Audit Committee on its examination and evaluation of the requested it, where the proposals were explained in detail.
Feedback effectiveness and adequacy of systems of internal control.
Any was taken from shareholders, reported back to the Board, and improvements required are identified, management actions appropriate amendments were made to the Remuneration Policy and assigned and implementation timescales agreed: progress against framework ahead of the AGM.
these actions is monitored on a monthly basis and reported to the Audit Committee AGM The AGM will be held at 11.00am on Tuesday 21 July 2015 at the Financial and non-financial controls: the Group has dedicated Hilton Hotel Paddington, 146 Praed Street, London W2 1EE.
Details resource to embed processes and controls across the businesses.
of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are given in the Notice It operates a number of self-assessment exercises, which include of Meeting, a copy of which can be downloaded at www.
com quarterly and annual processes to certify compliance with key investor-relations.
The AGM provides the Board with an opportunity financial and non-financial controls via the Business Assurance to spend time with our private shareholders.
The Board will be Checklist BAC.
The BAC requires management to assess and available for shareholders to speak to before the meeting.
The certify the effectiveness of its fundamental controls over all aspects Chairman and Chairs of each of the Committees will be available to of its operations.
The Group is committed to a process of continual answer shareholders questions during the meeting.
improvement in the effectiveness and efficiency of the internal control environment Dividends Whistle-blowing: the Group operates an Ethics Helpline which is The Directors recommend a final dividend of US2.67 cents per administered by an independent third party and is available to all ordinary share payable on 7 August 2015 to ordinary shareholders employees on the register at the close of business on 29 May 2015.
This final dividend, together with the interim dividend of US1.33 cents per share Effectiveness of internal control paid by the Company on 9 January 2015, makes a total dividend The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems payment to shareholders of the Company of US4 cents per ordinary in operation during the financial year in accordance with the revised share for the year ended 31 March 2015.
These systems included financial, operational and compliance controls, along with risk management.
The processes as Internal Controls set out above have been in place for the year under review and up to Internal control, risk management and financial reporting the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Where appropriate, The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and necessary action has been or is being taken to remedy any failings and for reviewing its effectiveness on a continual basis.
The Groups system weaknesses identified as significant during this review.
of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide The responsibility for internal control procedures within our reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement subsidiaries rests with the senior management of those operations.
The concept of reasonable assurance recognises that the cost We monitor our investments and exert our influence through Board of control procedures should not exceed the expected benefits.
Annual Report 2014 15 53 Directors and corporate governance report continued Committed to Good Governance During the year, several aspects of the business have been reviewed through which the Board seeks to present a balanced and clear and actions taken to help strengthen our system of control, assessment of the Groups activities, position and prospects.
These have included: Groups results for the financial year are shown in the consolidated income statement on page 92.
Code of Conduct and Anti Bribery Policy both of which have been reviewed and updated in light of the restructuring of the Group.
In accordance with section 414C 11 of the 2006 Act, the Board has These have been communicated to all employees, and training has chosen to set out in the Strategic report those matters required to be been refreshed disclosed in the Directors report which it considers to be of strategic importance to the Company, as follows: Establishment of a Miami operational hub our Miami operational hub has now been established and departments such as accounting, Likely future developments of the Company throughout the legal, treasury and procurement having been relocated has helped Strategic report to streamline the division of responsibilities to allow markets to Greenhouse gas emissions page 41 focus on serving customers Research and development activities throughout the Strategic Fair, balanced and understandable requirements report The Board has responsibility for ensuring compliance of this Annual Employee communication page 41 Report and Accounts with all elements of regulatory and governance best practice.
One of the key governance requirements is that the Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and The relevant information required to be disclosed by Listing Rule understandable.
The Directors confirm that they consider the Annual 9.8.
4R can be located as set out below: Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Listing rule Description of Listing Rule Reference in Report shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and 9.8.
4 1 A statement of any interest Note 4.1 of strategy.
The following processes were adopted to assist the Board capitalised by the Group during the financial with reaching this conclusion: 1 the year statements Early preparation by management of a checklist of all reporting 9.8.
4 4 Details of any long-term incentive Directors components of the Annual Report and Accounts, and how the requirements have been met.
This is adopted by the Disclosure scheme as described in LR 9.4.
2R 2 remuneration Committee and used in reviewing the Annual Report and Accounts report before submission to the Audit Committee 9.8.
4 7 Details of any allotments of shares Note 4.10 of Full review and verification of the Annual Report and Accounts by by the company for cash not the financial 2 the Disclosure Committee, key stakeholders within the Company, previously specifically authorised statements the external auditor, and legal advisers to ensure consistency and by shareholders accuracy in presentation 9.8.
4 10 Details of any contract of Directors and Agree the main areas of focus both for the Company and investors significance with the company in corporate 3 when drafting the Annual Report and Accounts to ensure all aspects which a director has a material governance report are thoroughly considered, and key messages are communicated in interest: or a contract between a consistent, fair and balanced manner the company and a controlling shareholder A full presentation by the Disclosure Committee to the Audit Committee on a biannual basis detailing how the Company has 9.8.
4 12 Details of any arrangement under Notes 4.12 of reported on the business, and what considerations have been given which a shareholder has waived or the financial to the reporting requirements 4 agreed to waive any dividends statements The final draft of the Annual Report and Accounts is reviewed in 9.8.
4 13 Details of where a shareholder has Notes 4.12 of detail by the Audit Committee before it is submitted to the Board agreed to waive future dividends the financial for consideration and final approval 5 statements Auditor 9.8.
2AR Directors and So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit 2 a corporate 3 information as defined in Section 418 3 of the 2006 Act of which governance report the auditor, KPMG LLP, is unaware and the Directors have taken all reasonable steps to ascertain any relevant audit information and 1 Please refer to page 132 of the financial statements.
2 The company issued 252,812,284 new ordinary shares Placing Shares of US5 cents ensure the auditor is aware of such information.
each in the capital of the Company on 7 November 2014.
These were placed by Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch acting as lead manager and bookrunner at a price Other information of 45 pence per Placing Share.
The Placing Shares issued represented 10%.
less one share of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company prior to placing.
Please refer Directors report and matters set out in the Strategic report to page 139 of the financial statements.
The Directors report comprises pages 48 to 58 inclusive of the 3 Please refer to pages 55 and 56. corporate governance section and the other information in this report 4 The Cable & Wireless Communication Share Ownership Trust the Trust waived its rights to dividends held in the Trust, with the exception of those held by Directors under that is relevant to, and which is incorporated by reference into, the the deferred annual bonus plan.
Please refer to page 142 of the financial statements.
Pages 2 to 41 inclusive consist of a Strategic report, 5 See previous footnote.
54 Cable & Wireless Communications The acquisition of Columbus Maximum interest Percentage of issued Following completion of the acquisition and owing to the voting Waiver in CWC shares share capital of CWC arrangements between the Company and the Principal Vendors Waiver in respect of CWC 10,000,000 0.23 as defined and further described in the circular to shareholders dated Shares acquired by Directors in 19 November 2014, which, subject to certain limited exceptions, proportion to the amount that require all voting rights on the consideration shares issued to the they would otherwise have Principal Vendors to be exercised and all votes cast in line with the received through the dividend recommendation of the Board for an initial period, the Takeover Panel reinvestment plan considers that the Directors from time to time and their close relatives will be deemed to be acting in concert with the Principal Total 1,663,089,975 38.34 Vendors and the Ultimate Controllers as defined and further described in the circular to shareholders dated 19 November 2014 The Consideration Shares were issued on completion of the acquisition together, the Concert Party.
The Concert Party holds on 31 March 2015.
Since that date no further shares have been approximately 36% of CWCs share capital excluding treasury shares.
acquired by any member of the Concert Party under the terms of the Whitewash.
When any person acquires an interest in shares which taken together with shares in which persons acting in concert with him are interested Listing rules controlling shareholder carry 30% or more of the voting rights of a company which is subject In addition, CWC is required to enter into relationship agreements with to the City Code and the Listing Rules certain requirements are the Principal Vendors and all existing and any new Directors to ensure triggered, including: that its controlling shareholders comply with the provisions of the The requirement under Rule 9 of the City Code to make a Listing Rules which are intended to ensure the independence of the mandatory offer to all the other shareholders to buy their shares Company from its controlling shareholders.
These agreements which both on initially acquiring the interest and where their shareholding were entered into on 31 March 2015 include the necessary subsequently increases independent undertakings.
This includes: The requirements under the Listing Rules designed to ensure the Any transactions and arrangements between the Company and the independence of the company from any person who exercises or controlling shareholder will be conducted at arms length and on controls on their own or together with any person with whom they normal commercial terms are acting in concert, 30% or more of the votes able to be cast on Neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will take all or substantially all matters at a general meeting the controlling any action that would have the effect of preventing CWC from shareholders.
complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules Takeover Panel Rule 9 Neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will On 5 December 2014, the Companys independent shareholders propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution which is approved a waiver of obligations arising under Rule 9.1 of the City intended, or appears to be intended, to circumvent the Listing Rules Code the Whitewash.
The effect of the Whitewash was to waive the With effect from the 2016 AGM, CWC is also required to have in obligation which would normally oblige a member of the Concert place procedures to allow dual voting on the election or re-election Party to make a mandatory offer to all other shareholders to acquire of the independent Directors, approval being required from both the their shares following the acquisition of certain shares in the Company.
shareholders as a whole and the independent shareholders being the The Whitewash permits up to the following numbers of interests in shareholders other than the controlling shareholders, and to include shares to be held by the Concert Party without a mandatory offer additional information in the notice of meeting in relation to the obligation under Rule 9. independent Directors.
As part of the Companys commitment to good corporate governance, the Board has decided to implement Maximum interest Percentage of issued such dual voting arrangements at, and from, this years AGM.
Waiver in CWC shares share capital of CWC CWC will report on compliance with the relationship agreements in Waiver in respect of the issue 1,575,708,553 36.32 next years Annual Report and Accounts.
of consideration shares Waiver in respect of existing 12,381,422 0.29 Put Option Deeds award under the Performance As explained in the circular to shareholders dated 19 November 2014, Share Plan as part of the acquisition the Company entered into lock-up and put option agreements Put Option Deeds with the Principal Vendors in Waiver in respect of further 50,000,000 1.15 respect of the consideration shares issued on completion which, awards under the CWC Share among other matters : Plans Enable each Principal Vendor to either i require the Company to Waiver in respect of CWC 15,000,000 0.35 purchase for cash up to a certain number of its consideration shares Shares acquired by Directors to each year from 2016 to 2019 inclusive for the notional issue price meet shareholding requirements of US$0.734917 cents per share: or ii sell up to that number of consideration shares each year from 2016 to 2019 in the market Annual Report 2014 15 55 Directors and corporate governance report continued Committed to Good Governance subject to orderly market arrangements with CWC.
Specific the Company to make political donations and incur political shareholder authority for such purchases was obtained at the expenditure for a period of four years ending on the earlier of the general meeting held on 5 December 2014 2018 AGM or 24 July 2018.
During the year, the Company did not exercise its authority granted to it at the 2014 AGM to make political Grant a right to the Principal Vendors to nominate one director donations within the European Union.
In aggregate, the sum of US$0 each to the Board, subject to recommendation by the Nomination US$0 restated for 2013 14 was made to non-EU political parties by Committee.
The initial three nominations were agreed at completion non-EU subsidiary companies during the year.
being, John Risley, Thad York and Brendan Paddick Restrict the ability of the Principal Vendors to otherwise sell the Employee communication and disability consideration shares during the period covered by the options The Group communicates with employees in many ways, including regular briefings by management, newsletters, emails, Team Talk Live!
At the general meeting held on 5 December 2014, shareholders events, webcasts and intranet sites.
These communications help to granted authority to the Directors to allot, in addition to any other achieve a common awareness among employees of the financial and authority conferred on the Directors, including at last years AGM, operational performance of the Group.
As described in the Corporate shares up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to US$100,000,000 responsibility and sustainability section Focus on our People on representing 2,000,000,000 CWC shares of US$0.05 each.
This page 40, this year we have increased our employee engagement authority is to enable the Company to allot new shares if required to across the Group by implementing Team Talk Live!
events, measuring fund its payment obligations under any options exercised under the employee engagement through the Great Place to Work surveys and Put Option Deeds.
The current intention of the Directors is to cancel engaging on cultural and employee related impacts arising from the all shares bought back following the exercise of a put under a Put acquisition of Columbus.
Option Deed to minimise any dilution to shareholders.
This authority expires on 5 December 2019.
Also, as described in that section, our employment policies comply with local requirements and relevant statutes.
In particular, full and fair Political donations and expenditure consideration with regard to employment and training is given to The Company does not make and has no intention of making applicants with disabilities and career development is encouraged on donations to what are generally regarded as political parties within the the basis of aptitude and ability.
It is Group policy to retain employees European Union.
As a precautionary measure and in light of the wide who become disabled while in its service and to provide specialist definitions of European Union political organisations for the purposes training where appropriate.
of the 2006 Act, a resolution was passed at the 2014 AGM permitting Share Information Companys shareholders As at 31 March 2015 and the date of this report, the Company had been notified of the following substantial holdings of voting rights in the issued share capital of the Company in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: As at 31 March 2015 As at 19 May 2015 No.
of % of Nature of ordinary shares voting rights holding ordinary shares voting rights holding 1 CVBI Holdings Barbados Inc 788,549,081 18.18% Direct 788,549,081 18.18% Direct Columbus Holding LLC 575,096,759 13.26% Direct 575,096,759 13.26% Direct Orbis Holdings Limited 394,716,275 9.10% Indirect 390,365,353 9.00% Indirect Contract for Quantum Partners LP 113,183,156 4.07% Difference N A below 3% N A Gamco Investors, Inc 165,409,680 3.70% Direct 165,409,680 3.70% Direct Invesco Asset Management Ltd 139,872,700 3.22% Indirect 171,330,454 3.94% Indirect Brendan Paddick 136,077,710 3.14% Direct 136,077,710 3.14% Direct 1 The combined shareholding of CVBI Holdings Barbados Inc and Clearwater Holdings Barbados Limited, both ultimately controlled by John Risley, is 846,355,136 19.51%.
Share capital The called-up share capital of the Company, together with details of to the Principal Vendors as consideration in connection with the shares allotted during the year, are shown in note 4.10 to the Company acquisition of Columbus.
In addition, at the general meeting held on 5 December 2014, 252,812,284 new ordinary shares were issued on 7 November 2014 shareholders granted specific authority to the Directors to allot pursuant to a placing exercise led by Deutsche Bank AG, London new ordinary shares in connection with the rollover or satisfaction Branch, as lead manager and bookrunner, in order to help fund of awards under Columbus share schemes and or other the acquisition of Columbus International Inc.
Subsequently, on arrangements considered desirable to incentivise persons holding 31 March 2015, 1,557,529,605 new ordinary shares were issued awards under those schemes up to an aggregate nominal amount 56 Cable & Wireless Communications of US$6,500,000.
As at 19 May 2015 no shares had been issued assets.
No dividend carries a right to interest from the Company.
If dividends remain unclaimed for 12 years they are forfeited by the shareholder and revert to the Company.
Details of the Relationship Agreements which were entered into on 31 March 2015 between the Company and members of the Concert Partly paid shares: The Company has a lien on all partly paid shares Party arising from the acquisition of Columbus International Inc. can and dividends, which has priority over claims of others to such shares be found on pages 55 and 56. covering any money owed to the Company for the shares.
The Directors may sell all or any of such shares where: i the money owed Further details on the share capital of the Company are set out in by the shareholder is payable immediately: ii the Directors have note 4.10 to the Company financial statements on page 140 and are given notice demanding payment, stating the amount due and that incorporated into this report by reference.
the shares will be sold on non-payment: and iii the money has not been paid within 14 clear days of the service of the notice.
Existing authority to purchase own shares and treasury shares At the 2014 AGM, the Company was authorised by shareholders to The Directors may make calls on shareholders to pay any money which purchase up to 252 million of its own ordinary shares, representing has not yet been paid to the Company for their shares.
If a call is approximately 10% of its issued share capital excluding shares held unpaid, the shareholder will be liable to pay interest and all expenses in treasury as at 9 June 2014.
The Company did not exercise such incurred by the Company as a result of non-payment if the call authority during the year and the total number of shares held in remains unpaid for 14 clear days after the date of a notice.
In addition, treasury as at 31 March 2015 is 137,488,873. failure to comply with any such notice may result in forfeiture of any share which is the subject of the notice, including any unpaid dividends.
At the general meeting held on 5 December 2014, shareholders granted specific authority to the Directors to purchase up to The Directors may decline to register the transfer of any shares that 1,557,529,605 CWC shares being the consideration shares issued are not fully paid, provided that such refusal does not prevent dealings by the Company in connection with the acquisition of Columbus under from taking place on an open and proper basis.
Sanctions: Unless the Directors decide otherwise, a shareholder shall The Board does not intend to seek shareholder approval at the not be entitled to vote at any general meeting of the Company or at forthcoming AGM on 21 July 2015 to make additional market any separate general meeting of the holders of any class of shares in purchases of its issued share capital.
the Company or exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to general meetings if the shareholder has not paid all Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes amounts relating to those shares which are due at the time of the The Trustees of The Cable & Wireless Communications Share meeting, or if the shareholder is given a notice following a failure by Ownership Trust the Trust exercise the voting rights on shares held that shareholder or someone who appears to be interested in the in the employee trust in accordance with their fiduciary duties as shares to comply with a notice under section 793 of the 2006 Act.
Trustees, which include the duty to act in the best interests of the Further, if a shareholder holding 0.25% or more of the issued shares of beneficiaries of the Trust.
a class excluding treasury shares or interested person is in default of a section 793 notice, the Directors may also state in the notice that: i Rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares the payment of any dividend shall be withheld: ii the shareholder shall The following section summarises the rights and obligations in the not be entitled to elect to receive shares in place of dividends Companys Articles relating to the ordinary shares of the Company.
withheld: and iii the transfer of the shares held by such shareholder The full Articles can be found on the Companys website shall be restricted.
Certificated shares: The Company can sell any certificated shares at Amendment of Articles: The Articles may be amended by a special the best price reasonably obtainable at the time of the sale if: i in a resolution of the shareholders passed at a general meeting of the period of 12 years at least three dividends have become payable and Company.
no dividends have been claimed: ii the Company has published a notice after the 12-year period stating that it intends to sell the Voting: Each share other than those held in treasury allows the holder shares: and iii during the 12-year period and for three months after to have one vote at general meetings of the Company on votes taken the notice, the Company has not heard from the shareholder or any on a poll.
Proxy appointment and voting instructions must be received person entitled to sell the shares.
by the registrars at least 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of a general meeting or 24 hours before a poll if not taken on The Directors may decline registration of certificated shares if: i a the same day as the meeting in each case subject to the Directors share transfer form is used to transfer more than one class of shares: discretion to specify that the time periods exclude any part of a day ii transfers are in favour of more than four joint holders: or iii the that is not a working day.
share transfer form is not delivered to the office, or such other place decided on by the Directors, accompanied by the share certificate Dividends: The Companys shareholders can declare dividends by relating to the shares being transferred unless the transfer is by a passing an ordinary resolution, but the payment cannot exceed the person to whom the Company was not required to, and did not, send a amount recommended by the Directors.
The Directors may also pay certificate and any other evidence reasonably asked for by the interim dividends without shareholder approval if they consider that Directors to show entitlement to transfer the shares.
the financial position of the Company justifies it.
The Directors may operate dividend reinvestment plans or, subject to shareholder Uncertificated shares: The Directors may decline registration of approval, operate scrip schemes or pay dividends by distributing uncertificated shares if the transfer is in favour of more than four joint Annual Report 2014 15 57 Directors and corporate governance report continued Committed to Good Governance holders or otherwise in accordance with the Uncertificated Securities In the event of a change of control, these clauses may require Regulations 2001. consideration to determine their impact on the Group.
At present, risks arising from a change of control are not considered to be Interests in shares: Except where express rights are given, the significant.
The Group will take appropriate action to mitigate any risks Company will only recognise a current and absolute right to whole arising from these events should they occur.
The fact that any share, or any part of a share, may not be provisions in relation to Directors service contracts are explained in owned outright by the registered owner is not of any concern to the the Directors remuneration report on page 73 and 74.
US Holders: The Directors may require a shareholder or other person Going concern appearing to be interested in shares, to disclose information relating to The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to the ownership of such shares or to show that such shares are not held affect its future development, performance and position are set out by a US Holder defined in the Articles as being: i persons resident in in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 41 including the Group Financial the US who hold shares in the Company and ii persons who appear to performance review on pages 22 to 27.
The financial position of the the Directors to fall within sub-paragraph i of the definition of a US Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are Holder.
The Directors may require a US Holder to sell their shares to described in the financial statements on pages 93 to 97.
Further, notes someone who is not a US Holder, failing which, the Company may 4.7, 4.10 and 4.11 to the consolidated financial statements include the effect a sale of such shares on the US Holders behalf.
Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial Disputes: Any disputes between a shareholder and the Company and instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit and or the Directors arising out of or in connection with the Articles shall liquidity risk.
be exclusively and finally resolved under the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce, as amended from time to time, The Directors believe that the Groups geographic spread, robust in accordance with the Articles.
monitoring and forecasting processes leave it well placed to manage its business risks in the current economic conditions.
In addition, the Change of control Groups forecasts and projections, taking into account possible The Group has a number of contracts that are subject to change of changes in trading performance which could be reasonably control clauses.
These primarily relate to financing facilities, bonds, anticipated, indicate that the Group is able to operate within the level licences and operating agreements.
of its current available facilities.
A formal process for monitoring compliance with debt covenants is also in place.
Further information Under the Groups US$570 million revolving credit facility agreement, on debt can be found in note 4.3 to the consolidated financial on a change of control the lenders are not obliged to fund any further statements.
sums and, if the majority lenders require, on not less than 10 days notice, the facility can be cancelled and all outstanding loans, together After reviewing budgets and other longer-term plans and making with related charges, become immediately due and payable.
enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable Under the terms of the 2017 US$390 million secured term loan and future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in the 2017 US$300 million unsecured term loan, any lender may preparing the financial statements.
require, on not less than 10 days notice, the repayment of any outstanding loans, together with related charges, whereupon such By order of the Board outstanding amounts become immediately due and payable.
Clare Underwood Under the terms of the US$400 million 8.75% 2020 senior secured Company Secretary notes and the US$1.25 billion 7.375% senior unsecured noted 19 May 2015 together, the Notes, if a change of control event occurs, each holder of the Notes will have a right to require the repurchase of all or any part of their Notes at a redemption price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Notes purchased, together with accrued but unpaid interest.
A number of the Groups operating licences and shareholders agreements include change of control clauses which may be triggered by the sale of all or a controlling stake in a business, or certain types of restructuring.
