Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 62 Board members During 2015, the Board comprised Non-Executive Directors of ten directors, made up of the Chairman, Chief Executive and four other Executive and four independent Non-Executive Directors.
We have a talented and substantial team in place to support our continued growth.
As the Group continually grows and diversifies, we regularly review the Board composition to ensure it meets the needs Martin Bolland Gillian Sheldon of the business.
Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent Director Date appointed to Board: 2008 Date appointed to Board: 2012 Key skills and experience: Key skills and experience: Chartered Accountant: Substantial experience of BA from Cambridge: advising boards across a wide Previously senior operational range of complex situations and positions within Lonrho Group transactions: Worked for seven and founding partner at Alchemy years at NM Rothschild & Sons.
Other current appointments: Other current appointments: Senior banker at Credit Suisse: Senior Adviser to Alchemy Trustee of BBC Children in Need.
Female 3 Male 7 Partners: Chairman of MXC Committee memberships: Capital Advisory Board.
Audit and Risk: Nomination: Committee memberships: Remuneration.
L Le en ng gt th o h of t f te en nu ur re a e as B s Bo oa ar rd D d Di ir re ec ct to or rs s Executive Directors 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Martin 2 years 6 years Bolland Andy 3 years 2 years Parker Nick 1 year Greatorex Maggi Andy Parker Nick Greatorex 7 years Bell Chief Executive Group Finance Director Joined Capita: 2001 from 1 March 2015 Vic 5 years Joined Capita: 2006 Gysin Board responsibilities: Managing and developing Capitas business Board responsibilities: Overall Dawn to achieve the Companys strategic 2 years control and responsibility for all Marriott-Sims objectives.
financial aspects of the businesss strategy.
Gillian Additional Group responsibilities: 3 years Sheldon Group charitable approach.
Additional Group responsibilities: Property: Environment: Health Previous experience in Capita: Paul 6 years and safety: Legal and commercial Deputy Chief Executive June Bowtell relationships: Trustee of the Capita 2013March 2014 : Joint Chief Pension and Life Assurance Scheme: Andrew Operating Officer 20112013 1 year Supplier relationships.
Williams overseeing non-financial services operations: Divisional Director for Previous experience in Capita: John 3 months Capitas ICT, Health and Business Executive Director for Life & Cresswell Services Division: Senior Divisional Pensions, Insurance & Benefits Finance Director.
Services: Commercial director Key on major bids and contract Other current appointments: None.
Chairman CEO Executive Director Non-Executive Director implementations.
Capita role pre-Board Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 63 Board members continued Non-Executive Directors continued Paul Bowtell Andrew Williams John Cresswell Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Date appointed to Board: 2010 Date appointed to Board: 2015 Date appointed to Board: 2015 Key skills and experience: Chartered Key skills and experience: Key skills and experience: Accountant: Extensive experience Chartered Engineer: Chief Chartered Accountant: Substantial across the UK retail sector: Significant Executive of a FTSE 250 board level and commercial financial and commercial knowledge: company, and a number of senior experience: Extensive knowledge Previously on the Board of Tui Travel management positions within the and experience of the TMT Sector.
PLC as Chief Financial Officer and organisation prior to appointment.
Other current appointments: also on the Board of First Choice Other current appointments: Chief None.
Holidays PLC and SThree PLC.
Other Executive of Halma plc since 2005.
Committee memberships: senior positions held with British Gas, Committee memberships: Audit and Risk: Nomination: WHSmith and Forte.
Audit and Risk: Nomination: Remuneration Chairman.
Chief Financial Officer of Gala Independent: Yes.
Coral Group and will be the CFO of Ladbrokes Coral Plc following the merger in 2016.
Committee memberships: Audit and Risk Chair : Nomination: Remuneration.
Executive Directors continued Retired in the year Maggi Bell Vic Gysin Dawn Marriott-Sims Carolyn Fairbairn Business Joint Chief Operating Officer Joint Chief Operating Officer Non-Executive Director Development Director COO COO Joined Capita: 1999 Joined Capita: 2002 Joined Capita: 2000 Retired from the Board 27 October 2015 Board responsibilities: Head of Board responsibilities: Shares Board responsibilities: Shares Date appointed to board: Group sales and marketing, driving joint responsibility for Capitas joint responsibility for Capitas May 2014 forward business development operating divisions.
Additional Group responsibilities: Additional Group responsibilities: Additional Group responsibilities: Joint responsibility for clients Joint responsibility for clients and Committee memberships: Community, third sector and and employees.
employees: Group IT, Group HR Nomination: Remuneration SME engagement.
Previous experience in Capita: Previous experience in Capita: Executive director for Insurance Previous experience in Capita: and Investor Services and Executive director of Workplace Gordon Hurst Divisional director, Corporate Integrated Services Divisions: Services Division: Managing director Group Finance Director Services and Business Services Successful implementation of Capitas Resourcing and Learning divisions: Management of Capitas Retired from the Board and delivery of a number of & Development businesses.
Other external appointments: Joined Capita: 1988 Other current appointments: None.
Non-Executive director for the Date appointed to Board: Institute of Collaborative Working.
