Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 39 Divisional performance 2015 2015 highlights In 2015, we were appointed as backup Asset Services We have continued to drive good loan servicer and derivatives support 2015 financial summary revenue and profit growth in the division, provider on a book of 29 loans and interest 2015 2014 supported by creating services that bring rate swaps secured on a portfolio of UK Underlying revenue 403.9m 332.5m together the capability clients need from onshore windfarms.
We expect to retire Underlying across our business and the wider Group.
our role as back up servicer and assume 100.3m 81.9m operating profit the role of portfolio servicer in 2016.
Underlying During the year we made additional The client intends to use the portfolio as 24.8% 24.6% operating margin provisions for Arch Cru and Connaught part of a strategy to originate new loans Capex 23.2m 22.3m claims, details of which are in note 25, secured on renewable energy assets page 139. and we are helping them to set up this origination facility.
This contract marks Overview We continue to be the highest rated a diversification of our loan servicing Asset services includes shareholder independent loan servicer in Europe by book which has traditionally focused on solutions, fund solutions, mortgage and Standard & Poors and Fitch.
The business Commercial Real Estate: and is being banking solutions, treasury and specialist also retained its market leading position in delivered by a multi-jurisdictional team financial services to corporate and private both shareholder services, assisting more from across our business.
Capitas clients and sponsors than 50% of all UK IPOs during 2015 and collectively entrust it to administer and as the leading independent authorised Business development highlights support more than 300bn of assets Corporate Director provider.
We help our During 2015, we started supporting across funds, mortgages, shares and clients deliver returns to their stakeholders the real estate market.
By combining the local government treasury.
through the support and involvement of relevant capability from Asset Services our growing professional services team.
with Capitas wider local government, Our clients typically operate in or in health and property businesses we have association with regulated markets.
The In August we successfully went live with been able to develop services that can ongoing regulatory oversight and capital the transfer to Capita of The Co-operative compete head to head with the major requirements are presenting both us and Bank residential mortgage administration real estate players in the market.
Our our clients with opportunities to positively operation, welcoming 750 new members combined service proposition enables change business models and enter of staff to our team.
Combined with our us to variously: source debt and equity new markets.
2015 acquisitions of Western Mortgage investment: be the authorised fund Services and Vertex Financial Services, manager: act as director or trustee of the We are benefiting from an additional we are in a strong position to take asset holding structure: originate, design, number of significant market drivers: advantage of the opportunities in a project manage a development: value and the intent that the capital markets market where challenger and traditional recycle assets through their investment participate more fully in helping ensure banks and building societies hold 1.3 and operating life cycles.
accelerated economic growth in Europe trillion of residential mortgages on their Our debt and banking business was the deleveraging of the bank balance balance sheets.
Source: Council for engaged by a European bank to take over sheets in Europe Mortgage Lenders the servicing of their legacy banking assets the ongoing disintermediation of the in the Republic of Ireland.
Our team will Following the Government s decision to banking sector in the UK assume the role of loan servicer in 2016 pool 89 existing local authority pension for a portfolio of 4bn of loans on behalf the aging population, in Europe in funds into six wealth funds each with of the bank.
In 2015, our debt solutions particular, and the associated expected assets over 25bn we are providing business also launched in the Netherlands, growth in pensions and savings support and input into the running of an servicing a private equity clients portfolio the growing understanding of Real Authorised Contractual Scheme for the of non-performing loans acquired from Assets market segmentation Real 33 Boroughs of London.
We have deployed a local Estate, Healthcare & Social infrastructure, was in December 2015 with further funds asset management team in Amsterdam Infrastructure, Aviation & Shipping all of scheduled in 2016. supported by back office operating which Capita has representation in infrastructure in Ireland.
This is an an emerging trend of pension funds In addition, the Alternative Investment excellent example of cross-jurisdictional and insurers diversifying into investment Fund Managers Directive has helped us deployment to meet the needs of our in credit products and illiquid and esoteric develop our service propositions to the international clients.
We expect to grow assets for which they require holistic Private Equity, Hedge Fund and other our presence in the Netherlands and management services that Capita is in alternative asset industries.
We see this elsewhere in Europe as banks continue a strong position to provide.
emphasis on regulatory change continuing to shrink their balance sheets by selling and potentially accelerating through 2016 non-core assets.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 40 Investing in resources and delivery infrastructure to support growth continued Financial services: this sector is a We have undertaken a number of Customer Management significant route to growth.
Our lateinitiatives to strengthen our operational 2015 financial summary stage debt collection agency, Akinika, capability and reduce our cost base.
We 2015 2014 has a strong track record in retail have transferred responsibility for our IT Underlying revenue 590.6m 587.1m banking and is looking to expand its infrastructure to our ITES division and Underlying footprint across the sector.
In addition, recruitment, and learning & development 59.1m 60.7m operating profit we see good momentum in our early requirements to our Workplace Services Underlying stage conversations with a number of division.
This will enable our division to 10.0% 10.3% operating margin lenders around our customer experience benefit from Capitas expertise and scale Capex 30.3m 10.2m transformation proposition.
proposition complements Capitas wider remediation services.
Business development highlights Overview We have invested in a series of The business helps its clients grow by 2015 highlights proprietary and partner capabilities supporting them with voice and digital Capita has continued to consolidate to deliver on our transformational contact centre services, including customer its strong share in the outsourced UK commitments.
Now used by our John acquisition, customer services, order customer management market and our Lewis operation, for example, our Exceler8 fulfilment, customer growth and collections.
transformational deals notably O2, TV toolset is designed to drive service Licensing, Npower and Dixons Carphone experience, contact centre engagement The division operates across four are performing well.
primary sectors: We also deploy tools to improve Telecoms: clients are under increasing The customer management market is customer experience and cost-topressure to deliver compelling digital relatively under-penetrated in terms of serve.
For example, we have deployed experiences, while offering cost-effective outsourcing 14% and clients continue a proprietary digital tool to capture voice based solutions.
The scope of the to see outsourcing as an important voice-of-customer feedback, which is outsourcing opportunity has increased partnering opportunity to enable them then gamified on our agent desktop to from service into sales retentions, to meet the challenges of cost pressure, enable our agents to compete around notably as a result of changing EU channel shift and increasingly demanding quality and consistency of positive legislation.
Recipient-led porting will customer expectations.
In our Thames Water enable customers to move more easily contract, this has significantly contributed between providers, thus focusing clients In 2015, we successfully acquired The to an improvement in customer attention on the quality and timeliness Voice Group to strengthen our capability satisfaction scores.
around end-customer acquisition and cross In our O2 operation, we have replaced Retail: the shift to shopping online up-sell.
The business has performed in entirely the webchat and IVR platforms has increased the volume of customer line with our expectations and has a strong and enhanced the functionality of both.
contact across channels, partly as a result pipeline for growth in 2016.
Already, Voice We have also invested in new functionality of customers querying the status of their has successfully won two pieces of work in O2s portal application.
As a result, we order or delivery.
Increasingly, the contact from the divisions client base.
have seen a significant shift away from centre is becoming a revenue channel for voice into self-serve, whether online or retail clients, rather than simply a costvia interactive voice response IVR.
Utilities: clients are under increasing regulatory scrutiny to demonstrate positive momentum in service proposition, complaints management and billing accuracy.
This challenge is compounded by the introduction of SMART meters, which is creating an opportunity to change the engagement between a utility firm and its customers.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 41 Investing in resources and delivery infrastructure to support growth continued 2015 highlights Business development highlights Capita Europe The key development in 2015 was the In Poland we expanded our market 2015 financial summary acquisition of avocis, a leading provider research services for healthcare clients 2015 2014 of customer contact management services in 2015 and now offer quantitative Underlying revenue 178.5m 19.7m in Germany, Switzerland and Austria.
and qualitative market research, using Underlying avocis has a strong position in the German extensive panels of physicians, specialists 19.8m 2.3m operating profit speaking regions of Europe serving similar and pharmacies.
Underlying sectors to Capitas UK-based customer 11.1% 11.7% In the field of patient management operating margin management business, with high-quality, we collaborated with one of the largest Capex 3.0m 0.3m long-term clients particularly in telecoms clinical research organisations in the world and utilities.
Together with our tricontes and won a large contract to supervise June 2014 and Scholand & Beiling patients all over Europe and South Overview January 2015 acquisitions, allied to UK America.
We see a large potential for the Capita provides multilingual customer expertise gained in the relevant markets, future and will strengthen our partnerships management, back office administration this places Capita in a strong position in this area.
and BPO services from its European to develop opportunities in the region operations in Germany, Switzerland, We collaborated with a leading including multi-channel solutions and Austria and Poland primarily to the software and services company to offer models for digital transformation.
telecommunications, utilities, financial Visual IVR to our customers.
We can now services, retail and healthcare markets.
expand the IVR experience by providing In June we formed Capita Europe, a new visually guided menus on websites or division combining our acquired operations The division operates across five key smartphones.
Visual IVR allows users with our nearshore administrative vertical sectors: telecoms, utilities, financial to see each menu in the call flow visually operations in Poland, under a single services, retail and healthcare.
These and easily select menu options by touch European management team.
sectors are under similar competitive and instead of listening to a list of options over regulatory pressures we are seeing in our the phone and interacting with their voice.
It also secured a contract to act as an UK customer management business.
Our We also extended our support portfolio exclusive service partner for implementing clients are demanding more cost-effective by adding live chat to our services.
a pioneering social media project for one ways to run their customer operations and A positive online customer experience of its key clients.
back office services and to simultaneously is essential for businesses.
We can now deliver a higher quality, higher value service provide 24 7 multi-channel employees In December we were successful for their internal and external customers.
that will perform a quality online support in winning a new five year customer leading to happier customers and management contract for a client in increased conversions.
the telecoms sector, valued at 62m.
To ensure the highest level of competence regarding the use of social media tools, we are developing employees to become Capita social media ambassadors.
This not only includes a newly developed recruitment program, but also a thorough training in the use of the necessary tools software that are required to get the best out of platforms like Facebook or Twitter.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 42 Investing in resources and delivery infrastructure to support growth continued 2015 highlights Following a strategic review, disposals Insurance & Benefits Services In the year we launched a multiwere made of several specialist non- 2015 financial summary employer pension scheme, Atlas Master core businesses within the medical and 2015 2014 Trust, and a pioneering data analytics insurance sectors.
See page 117 for further Underlying revenue 614.8m 728.7m service, Optimise, which has already details.
In insurance, we have moved Underlying saved clients around 17m by matching away from niche insurance broking 54.7m 61.2m operating profit benefits plans more accurately to the and re-focused the business to deliver Underlying employee demographic.
BPO services to our General Insurance 8.9% 8.4% operating margin clients including our Capita Managing Capex 36.8m 45.8m Working with The Pensions Regulator, Agency business.
the business helped ensure that some six million workers have now been Business development highlights Overview automatically enrolled into a workplace Capita India developed a robotic The division provides a broad range pension.
It continues to deploy innovative process automation tool, Fusion, which of business processing and specialist new technologies to replace ageing legacy is helping some of our clients in the life solutions to regulated markets including systems for our life and pensions clients to and pensions and customer management life & pensions, insurance, employee enable them to provide a multi-channel sectors to automate simple systems benefits and telecoms, as well as managing service to their customers.
medical health and travel and events for all Capita Employee Benefits utilises types of organisations.
It operates across a Similarly, in a year of record flooding our customer analytics to better understand number of geographical regions, including insurance business continues to drive clients employees and how they interact the UK, Ireland, the Isle of Man, mainland growth with a new contract with Flood with benefits.
Its pioneering data analytics Europe, the Middle East and India.
Re and the establishment of a new Lloyds proposition Optimise has saved just syndicate, Probitas 1492.
10 of our clients more than 17m by Capita is the largest Business Process designing a benefits plan that matches Outsourcer BPO and professional Supporting our clients to make necessary the employee demographic.
services provider to the UK life and changes required by pension reforms pensions industry.
We also operate the The Pensions Regulator website, which introduced in April 2015 was a key focus largest UK-owned employee benefits is supported by Capita for hosting, design for our life and pensions business, both in consultancy, providing services for over and content management, has been the UK and India.
We conducted a review 1,200 clients and more than four million independently rated as the top performing of the IT platforms on which we deliver company employees and pension scheme site in the UK Central Government Sector.
our life and pensions administration members, delivering transformational, capability.
This review led to assets with consultancy and administration services, a total net value of 76.7m being fully underpinned by market leading, cloudwritten down.
In our employee benefits based technology.
business, significant investment was made to upgrade the proprietary pension The business delivers services for the administration system to reflect the commercial, Lloyds and London markets radical pension changes introduced in and also provides insurance products for a the 2014 Budget.
variety of niche markets, delivering market solutions, back office insurance services, In the travel & events market we are syndicate management and turnkey seeing customer needs rapidly evolving services through an in-house Lloyds beyond transactional travel and meeting managing agency.
bookings to services that use insight and behavioural analytics to really add value to their spend, an area where Capita has considerable expertise.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 43 Investing in resources and delivery infrastructure to support growth continued Under our DCC Smart Meter Business development highlights Integrated Services Communication Licence contract we As part of the support services contract 2015 financial summary have designed and built a smart metering we are delivering for NHS England, we 2015 2014 billing system for the Energy industry, that have established a user panel, made up Underlying revenue 452.8m 434.3m operates on the SAP platform and which of a diverse group of users, who help us Underlying can be used to support a complex charging design the new service by sharing their 51.2m 64.5m operating profit methodology for many years to come.
views and experiences, and by giving us Underlying their feedback on future services.
We 11.3% 14.9% operating margin As part of the electronic monitoring offer our panel members a variety of Capex 27.4m 11.9m contract we are working with the ways to get involved in service design, Ministry of Justice to develop a number such as through surveys, polls and phone of innovations, including biometric interviews, workshops and testing early Overview fingerprint technology, to ensure the versions of new services.
The division brings together a number of correct subjects are identified and tagged.
ParkingEyes automatic number plate major public sector contracts, providing The business is also delivering an alcohol recognition ANPR based management services to both central government monitoring service in South London with system is being used by clients to provide departments and the NHS including: the aim of reducing drink-related crime remote enforcement, management Ministry of Defence, Department of and the number of offenders in custody information and alerting systems.
The Work & Pensions, Ministry of Justice, because of it.
We continue to run the technology, which is adaptable across Department for Energy and Climate service on the original platform as delays market sectors, is designed to ensure that Change, Health & Safety Executive, to the availability of the new GPS tags car parks are used by individuals with a Transport for London and NHS England.
from a third-party is preventing the new legitimate right to use them.
ParkingEyes service from being introduced as planned.
services are currently used by a number 2015 highlights of private and public sector clients In September 2015, Capita took on The DWP personal independence including Aldi, Morrisons, and a number responsibility for the delivery of NHS payments PIP programme continues of NHS Trusts.
Englands primary care support services.
to be a critical and challenging contract, Through this 400m contract with Capita, We acquired Constructionline in however, as the latest National Audit NHS Englands vision is to create modern, January following a competitive sale Office NAO report evidences, we have easy to use administrative and business process by the Department for Business, made significant improvements that support services, which are consistent Innovation & Skills, for whom Capita had continue to enable DWP to make robust across England, which help lower the successfully operated the service under award decisions, and we are on track with administrative burden on primary care a concession agreement since 1998. our recruitment and retention of resources and achieve 40% savings by investing In its first year under Capita ownership, required to meet forecasted demand.
in new technology, processes and Constructionline has performed strongly We are currently undergoing a contract operational improvements.
in line with expectations, growing its renegotiation aiming to reach a sustainable substantial base of registered suppliers commercial position that provides value Working with the MoD Defence and supporting an ever increasing number for money.
Infrastructure Organisation DIO we have of main contractors.
A new leadership developed a strategy to reduce the size team has been put in place to drive further of the military estate, making it a smaller, growth and enhance Constructionlines cheaper and better estate, including position in the procurement the driving of efficient, cross-functional services sector.
management of PFI and housing contracts.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 44 Investing in resources and delivery infrastructure to support growth continued 2015 highlights their independence has seen Capita Local Government, Health We have signed a strategic partnership working with a number of clients and a & Property agreement with Central London technology partner to develop a new high- 2015 financial summary Community Health NHS Trust, the first tech monitoring service in homes that 2015 2014 of its type in the NHS.
The partnership not only allows bespoke monitoring but Underlying revenue 680.3m 645.1m will see Capita deliver a range of collects valuable data, which in turn can Underlying services in back and mid office and will be analysed to plan personalised future 81.3m 71.3m operating profit bring significant savings to the Trust.
Underlying Capita will also generate value through 12.0% 11.1% operating margin the redevelopment of sites, enabling Business development highlights Capex 15.3m 9.2m investment to deliver an improved Capita Property & Infrastructure has environment for patients.
Through the developed a 10 year partnership with partnership, Capita will provide business Genesis Housing Association, a 33,000 Overview intelligence and analytics to the Trust home property business based in London, This division brings together our using a range of tools developed to inform to support the development of 1,000 units local government, health partners, effective decision making for clinicians each year for the next decade.
In a groundproperty infrastructure, enforcement & and supporting decisions to ensure the breaking partnership that points the way procurement businesses.
Capita provides best use of resources.
The focus of the for the future of housing associations, a wide range of property and related partnership on improved use of the estate Capita provides all professional services services, operates strategic partnerships, and workforce solutions will assist the for the acquisition, development and and delivers back office, middle office Trust to address the key opportunities for delivery of new homes.
The partnership and customer services across local efficiency set out in the Carter Review.
has already saved 20% against historic government, health, defence and the cost management fees, has secured two private sector.
In local government our strategy has major development sites in London and moved from delivering efficiencies promoted the development of close to Capita works with local government in a produced mainly by streamlining and 1,000 new plots from within the clients number of strategic partnerships, including economies of scale, to one where a existing asset base.
in Europes largest local authority, demand for increased transparency and Meanwhile, the Barnet insight and Birmingham, as well as those in Sheffield, evolving digital channels now drive key analytics team continues to lead the way Barnet, North Tyneside, Blackburn, Salford areas for improvement and enhanced driving intelligence-led decision-making and Southampton.
In Staffordshire our customer satisfaction.
These include: using joint venture, Entrust, provides education forecasting of customer demand and a targeted social marketing programme support services within the region and effective real time management, to treble the number of volunteer foster beyond.
In addition to partnerships and monitoring and control has created parents, increasing the number of children joint ventures, Capita is also the largest significant and sustainable efficiencies.
placed with families and creating a social provider of discreet administration, IT, In areas such as council tax and business isolation index to allow commissioners finance & accountancy, HR and customerrates, collections in year have resulted to identify people at risk of being facing services to local government, in an additional 50m for our clients.
including the collection of 6bn in Our approach has provided the business revenue from two million households Capita has developed a new health and intelligence for ongoing business or businesses.
social care platform with insight capability, process re-engineering and continuous including iCompare.
The platform provides improvement for our clients.
Capita works with the health sector, clinicians and managers with accurate, providing services from consultancy real time information to help them The rapidly increasing pressure on the to patient-orientated design and make effective decisions over the use of adult social care budget means local infrastructure, performance service and resources, comparing their performance authorities need to deal with immediate technology, and has formed long-term with other similar organisations and demand overload and prevent future strategic health partnerships with Sussex reducing variation of performance.
demand from growing at current rates, Community NHS Trust and Central while maintaining or improving quality of London Community Health Trust.
This has resulted in a number of new areas of activity for Capita.
Innovative use We also employ 4,000 staff in one of the of our core capabilities has allowed the UKs top five multidisciplinary property development of immediate interventions, consultancies, covering architecture, such as backlog maintenance for care and environment & planning, running package reviews and deprivation of engineering and building projects, property liberty requests, where local authorities and facilities management and helping our are seeing an unprecedented volume of clients buy and get the maximum benefit enquiries.
Moreover the financial and from their commercial real estate.
social benefit of enabling people to stay in their homes for longer and maintain Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 45 Investing in resources and delivery infrastructure to support growth continued We also signed new contracts with During the year we have developed a IT Enterprise Services Northumbria Police and Gloucestershire number of new cloud services: 2015 financial summary Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust while 2015 2014 Unified communications in the cloud: our service integration and management developed in collaboration with CISCO Underlying revenue 575.5m 581.4m SIAM contract with DVSA went live and hosted in Capitas secure, UK data Underlying this year.
This contract is set to deliver 54.9m 46.4m centres, this delivers powerful, enterprise operating profit efficiency savings and modern platforms services such as instant messaging, Underlying that support their digital transformation 9.5% 8.0% voice, video, conferencing and presence operating margin aims.
Capita manages all third-party on desktop phones, PCs, tablets and Capex 43.5m 23.1m suppliers, which enables DVSA to have smartphones.
With predictable, utility one accountable partner to support them.
pricing and UK hosting, this enables clients We have built an IT environment that to reduce costs, transform the way they Overview delivers better services for their people work and guarantee data security and Capita IT Enterprise Services is a Cloud, and customers.
sovereignty all without the need for IT services & specialist solutions provider, significant capital expenditure.
delivering transformational IT solutions We continue to focus on securing business for more than 3,800 clients.
Digital : a highly on all key public sector procurement infrastructure services comprise of resilient, multi-channel contact centre frameworks such as PSN, G-Cloud and utility-based private cloud platforms, platform hosted in Capitas UK data RM1058, together with SWAN in Scotland infrastructure services, managed centres.
Built with Avaya, this integrated and ICT services for education helping networks, unified communications and cloud platform offers a suite of services to drive down the cost of procurement.
collaboration, digital workplace services such as intelligent automated contact, For a number of local authorities, central and applications management.
workforce optimisation and process government agencies and health trusts, automation with enterprise wide we have been proven to deliver 25-30% The division serves a wide range of reporting.
Innovative customer experience savings through transformational IT.
sectors: Local & central government, applications enhance contact centre health, education, financial services, operations with call queuing and routing, Cost pressures across local government emergency services, energy & utilities, call recording, speech recognition and resulted in reduced requirements from justice & defence, transport & travel, built open menu IVR.
However environment, third sector, manufacturing Digital workplace services: a suite of new opportunities identified in public and retail & leisure.
secure cloud services built specifically sector networking and a growing demand for UK enterprises with security and for new models of bundled service 2015 highlights regulatory compliance requirements.
support are expected to offset the more In a highly competitive market, we were This combined platform brings together subdued managed services performance able to secure substantial new wins, strategic investments in leading going forwards.
supported by the capabilities of the technologies from VMware for virtual strategic acquisitions that were completed.
desktop services, AirWatch for enterprise Business development highlights In addition, we were able to address a mobility management, Syncplicity As a founding member of the PSN small number of contracts that were for secure file sharing and Microsoft Governing Body, we are widely recognised under-performing and to grow or extend Office365 for collaboration.
This service as a pioneer in the development of public our relationship with a number of key combines innovative technology platforms sector networks, shared services and clients across all sectors.
Networking, with Capitas business transformation and multi-agency safeguarding hubs.
We cloud, storage and security solutions all ITIL service management expertise.
For currently support more than 50 public performed strongly.
our clients, it enables more efficient ways services networks across the UK for of working, increased productivity and clients such as Essex County Council Wins this year include a 20m framework security and reduced cost.
To agreement with Norfolk County Council, further grow our secure IT infrastructure where we will deliver a wide range of capability, Capita acquired Electranet, a connectivity and collaboration services secure IT network provider, which supports for the council, including the management high profile government and private sector of wide and local area networks, Wi-Fi, clients that require secure and effective unified communications and contactnetworking and communication solutions.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 46 Investing in resources and delivery infrastructure to support growth continued Our talent search and pipelining business Business development highlights Workplace Services has had another successful year, securing During 2015, we developed online 2015 financial summary and delivering retained contracts with continuing professional development 2015 2014 Avanade, BBC and Nuffield Health, and training for teachers and school governors Underlying revenue 609.9m 556.7m delivering services across 127 businesses, covering essential topics in conjunction Underlying 90% of which are private sector.
with our digital learning business.
75.7m 67.2m operating profit Meanwhile, we continue to offer school Underlying We have developed a proprietary new staff courses to support induction, 12.4% 12.1% operating margin candidate vetting and monitoring system refresher and professional training.
The Capex 11.7m 20.5m VOLTi3, cutting-edge technology to future courses are CPD-certified and are reviewed proof our business and position us at the every term to reflect legislative changes or forefront of our industry.
topical issues enabling staff and governors Overview to remain up to date and confident in their This division caters to the needs of our And weve won major new contracts with knowledge, raise standards and enhance clients throughout the whole employment McDonalds, AXA Global and PA Consulting, school performance.
life-cycle, from pre-employment screening, Alstom payroll & Heineken UK, extended Working with Capitas local government search and selection, to temporary existing agreements with EE, BP and Dixons arm we now have a joined up service to staffing, learning and development, Carphone and secured contracts in brand support local authority customers with payroll administration and HR advice.
overflow and project work generated through the introduction of the Care 2015 highlights We saw some weakness in hiring in central Act and have supported delivery of the The business has secured new and extended and local government in the run-up to Personal Independence Payments PIP contracts, with an increase in scope, in both the general election earlier in the year, contract by recruiting social care assessors.
local government and the nuclear industry but this eased following the election and and won its first recruitment processing an increased regulatory and legislative contract in financial services, with William burden around reporting requirements on & Glyns.
recruitment agencies relating to their supply of limited company contractors.
Our supply Our Network Rail and central government teacher staffing business also experienced framework contracts continued to enjoy softer market conditions towards the end significant growth in 2015, and further of 2015. wins to deliver permanent recruitment solutions across the Civil Service Resourcing Government intervention in NHS framework, including an exclusive contract procurement of locum staff through with the Foreign and Commonwealth Office Monitor since October 2015 has had an have underpinned our public sector growth.
impact on trading levels and margins in our healthcare recruitment businesses.
The impact of these new rules has not been fully understood yet by NHS customers or suppliers.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 47 Investing in resources and delivery infrastructure to support growth continued 2015 highlights Business development highlights Digital & Software Solutions During the year the business made a Capita has brought together two 2015 financial summary number of tactical acquisitions, including: of the most innovative mobile solutions 2015 2014 in the UK utility market to create a next Sigma Seven, a provider of specialist Underlying revenue 568.0m 486.8m generation mobile working solution for geospatial software that allows users Underlying our clients.
Through the acquisition of 142.0m 120.8m anywhere to access company files, operating profit AMT-SYBEX, Capita had Fieldreach, a organise their work, plan tasks and record Underlying mobile work management system which 25.0% 24.8% data directly on to high quality digital operating margin allows organisations to change their digital maps.
This helps organisations get the Capex 12.4m 8.0m processes themselves, in a very flexible most from their data, map and enterprise way.
With the further acquisition of Sigma systems, enabling field and office staff Seven, we have added high precision to work together more efficiently.
By integrating Sigma Sevens clients include UK utility Capita is a leading supplier of software, these products, we are now able to companies such as Scottish Power, UK digital, document and secure technologyoffer our customers a fully independent Power Networks, Wales & West Utilities enabled solutions and services to private mobile worker solution with both highly and Southern Water.
accurate GIS mapping and flexible digital Isys Group, with its proprietary processes.
For the first time ever, this Capita supplies specialist software and workforce management software, gives our customers a one-stop shop wider solutions to the education, local specialising in all aspects of time and solution for example, one worker with a government, justice & emergency services, attendance systems, workforce scheduling, mobile device performing work associated financial services, health, utilities & central HR systems and employee screening.
with a particular piece of equipment government markets, and to clients in the Business intelligence company, Barrachd, asset, updating disparate key data stores UK, North America and Europe.
develops bespoke analytics software throughout the organisation, whether solutions that help customers detect, gather map-based or work-based, automating The business offers a broad range and track business critical information, their business, improving data quality and of services that include: gamification, helping them to identify problems and solve timeliness, delivering greater efficiencies digital transformation and development, issues.
It is also one of IBMs leading business and ultimately improving the service they secure software and technologies, local analytics partners in the UK.
government and education software, Using innovative sensor monitoring mobile and big data solutions, geospatial The business also successfully implemented equipment, designed by Capitas housing solutions, business management its new proprietary control room system, management team and integrating with software, travel management solutions, ControlWorks, to South Wales Police, its core housing management system, our translation and interpreting, IT professional in addition to transforming the control client Two Castles Housing Association will consultancy and cyber security services rooms of the London Fire Brigade through be able to capture and analyse household and IT resourcing.
the deployment of the Vision product.
data such as air quality, temperature The business is also developing a new and humidity.
The project is one of the version of its market-leading schools first of its kind for the sector and will software, SIMS, due for release in 2017, and help tackle overheating and fuel poverty, further investment has been made in two as well as helping to provide services to other emergency services applications, vulnerable residents.
MLS, our library software business, has been working closely with our IT solutions Capita launched Pay360, a new simple business to deliver the roll-out of their and flexible customer payment service, library software to all the primary and allowing any size of organisation to take post-primary C2K schools in Northern card payments how and where they choose.
Ireland and collaborating to deliver a more The service is aimed at smallto mediumintegrated solution between public and sized enterprises.
In 2015 we secured the first Capita SIMS contract with an international customer, the Bahamas government.
This was done in conjunction with our partner in the region EDU365.
