Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 34 Investing in resources and delivery infrastructure to support growth Although Capita is a diverse business we Maintaining and developing our resources have a common set of four values which and infrastructure are embedded right across the Group.
In 2015, we took the essence of our existing From single services to transformational partnerships, 10 values and distilled them into a set of four, making them easier to understand we are able to draw upon the knowledge and resources and embed in business practices.
Our from across the Group to deliver compelling solutions updated values are: open, ingenious, collaborative and effective.
These values, in a cost-effective way.
and their associated behaviours, shape who we are as an organisation and The breadth of our capability is A dedicated and skilled workforce underpin the success of our business.
fundamental to our major sales Having the right people, with the right propositions, allowing us to draw on a skills, is critical to our ability to deliver Welcoming transferring employees range of assets and ensure we have the a high quality of services to our clients.
Over 70% of our employees have right resources in place to create bespoke transferred into Capita under TUPE solutions, tailored to our clients needs.
Capita employs more than 75,000 people.
Transfer of Undertakings, Protection Our employees are key to our success and of Employment regulations or through Our strategy of controlled and profitable we want to attract, develop and retain acquisition.
In 2015, we welcomed growth has allowed us to invest and the very best people to deliver better 8,500 employees into Capita, with new develop a highly refined set of assets and outcomes for our clients.
We want to have colleagues joining in the UK, Germany, resources that underpin this offering.
motivated people working for us and aim Austria and Switzerland.
We have a tried to inspire and develop them and provide and tested approach to managing large them with a workplace that is supportive, scale employee transfers and smoothly safe and enjoyable.
integrating new joiners into the business.
In 2015 we launched the Welcome to Capita employee website, enhancing the induction experience for our new employees.
This website gives new Our values, and their employees an insight into the breadth of services that Capita deliver, our values associated behaviours, and the opportunities available for shape who we are as an new employees.
organisation and underpin the success of our business.
Alastair, Partnership Director Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 35 Investing in resources and delivery infrastructure to support growth continued Diversity and inclusion Development and training Collaborative working Having a diverse workforce provides Our ability to deliver for our clients rests We have a straightforward, flat us with a range of different skills on ensuring that we have the right people, management structure, promoting and expertise.
In turn, this means our with the right skills in the right places.
We knowledge sharing and encouraging employees are open to gaining insight want our people to grow and develop their entrepreneurship.
We are constantly into our clients specific needs and helps careers within Capita and offer training in a looking for opportunities where we can improve our own market competitiveness.
number of different formats including class work collaboratively, bringing learning We also want our teams to reflect the room training, on the job, online training, and expertise from a variety of disciplines communities in which we work and we aim coaching and group instruction.
We together to generate new and innovative to employ local people wherever possible.
also have an apprenticeship programme ideas.
We have developed a number of where employees can achieve a vocational internal tools to encourage collaboration We have an equality and diversity policy qualification.
In 2015, we invested 19m across the Group.
to ensure that we do not discriminate in training across the Group, up from at any stage through our recruitment 17m in 2014.
By investing in our people Reward and recognition and management processes.
We have a we contribute to both their development We want to retain the best talent across speak up policy and encourage employees and our overall performance as a business.
our business and recognise that rewarding to raise any issues so they can be dealt our people for their individual performance with swiftly.
Developing future leaders and contribution to our success is key With support from our performance to this.
We offer remuneration packages In our 2015 annual employee survey, management system we are able to and local performance schemes that are 85% of our employees felt that Capita identify talented employees who have the competitive within their markets.
Senior is committed to valuing diversity in the potential to be one of our future leaders.
directors are eligible for an annual bonus work place, with 91% feeling valued and In 2015 there has been a big focus on subject to the financial performance of respected by their colleagues.
To embed developing our internal talent, including the business.
We also offer our employees our diversity policy, all our employees actively reassigning managers to different the opportunity to take part in our share are required to complete online diversity areas of the business so they can share ownership plan.
awareness training every three years.
We their skills and innovation.
In addition, monitor compliance on a monthly basis.
closely aligned to our four values, we Managing health and safety have defined and communicated a clear The health, safety and wellbeing of our Human rights set of Capita leadership standards across employees is of paramount importance We are committed to respecting the the Group.
We have detailed succession across all our operations worldwide.
We human rights of our employees and those plans in place to ensure we maintain stable have an established Group-wide health within the communities in which we leadership.
In 2015, our retention rate for and safety management system and our work, in the UK and internationally.
We senior business managers across the Group Group health and safety team work with published our first human rights policy, was 98%.
managers to identify hazards and assess which applies to all our operations, in risks in each particular site and implement 2014.
We support the principles set out In 2013, we launched our Lead the Way tailored procedures where needed.
This in the articles of the United Nations two-year graduate programme.
Due includes assessing any new contracts Universal Declaration of Human to the success of the programme we and acquisitions.
Rights, and the International Labour have continued to increase the number Organisations ILO Core Labour Principles.
of placements every year, with 48 We continue to monitor our health employees starting on the programme and safety performance and in 2015 With the introduction of the new UK in 2015.
The scheme is open to new our accident rate was 1.48 per 1,000 Modern Slavery Act in 2015 we have applicants and existing employees who employees 2014: 1.49, showing a 35% developed a new policy detailing our have graduated within the previous five reduction in reportable accidents from approach and commitment to support years.
The programme gives each graduate our baseline in 2004. the elimination of modern slavery.
The placements within different areas of the policy can be found on our website at business so that they have the opportunity As most of our employees are office-based www.
to shape their career path within Capita.
our main focus is on slips, trips and falls They are also given the opportunity and workstation assessments.
Where to work towards an MSc in leadership some of the incidences occur in some and management or other specific of our slightly higher risk businesses, for professional qualification.
example, where we have lone, mobile workers, we will continue to look to introduce additional measures and training to try to reduce the incidence rate in this business and ensure our employees are safe at work.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 36 Investing in resources and delivery infrastructure to support growth continued Employee engagement who are supporters and advocates of the Policies We know that increased employee organisation and contribute to a positive Our corporate values, business principles, engagement is good for productivity and work and customer environment.
4.00 ethical code of business conduct and employee retention.
We engage with our is the maximum possible rating.
Group policies collectively set out how employees in a number of ways, including we do business, engage with clients, and our employee intranet, email, videos and The results this year generally showed a manage our relationships with customers, face-to-face conversations with managers.
positive increase, with scores improving suppliers and third parties.
for 34 of the 58 questions, showing We also invite our employees to complete enhanced staff perceptions.
Some of the Our policies are communicated in a our annual employee survey.
The survey key improvements were linked to local number of ways including through our is structured around our values and manager communication, increased employee intranet, and apply to all our helps us track our progress, benchmark transparency in the reasons why employees, wherever they are based.
As performance, identify areas of good decisions were being made and senior the Group is growing internationally we practice and highlight areas where we manager approachability.
continually review and adapt our policies need to improve.
In 2015, 52% of our for suitability and effectiveness and employees responded to our employee The survey also highlighted areas where ensure that we comply with, or exceed, survey, up from 48% in 2014 with 72% of we need to work harder, including the the legal and regulatory requirements respondents saying that they felt Capita way different businesses across Capita of the countries in which we operate.
This is something that we identified us as a good employer with are looking to address, particularly given We have zero tolerance of bribery and an employer of choice score 2.91 classified the pace at which the business is growing.
corruption and our values represent as an employer with a high level of We use the survey results to shape our high standards of business conduct and motivated and involved employees, strategy for the future.
All Capita business units and Group functions complete regular antibribery and corruption risk assessments, identifying and mitigating any risks.
In 2015 all senior management were provided with anti-bribery and corruption training.
In addition, all members of staff must complete financial crime training.
Multi-service delivery centres UK, Ireland and Northern Europe Channel Islands 7 centres 80 centres Following the acquisition of avocis and Scholand and Beiling, in 2015 we brought together a number of our European The majority of our 75,000 employees are based in our operations outside of the UK, Ireland and Channel Islands 80 multi-service business centres across the UK, Ireland and into one single division, Capita Europe.
Our sites in Germany, the Channel Islands.
These sites deliver the full life cycle Switzerland, Austria and Poland now employ over 7,500 of services from front end customer management to back people, delivering a range of customer management, office administration for all our clients.
back office and professional services.
India 5 centres South Africa 1 centre Dubai 1 centre Our five multi-service business centres Our delivery centre in Cape Town, Our delivery centre in Dubai in Mumbai, Pune and Bengaluru employ South Africa, secured new clients and predominantly supports our Life and a total of 6,700 staff.
The sites support a created over 700 new jobs during 2015, Pensions administration business, as well number of our UK clients with customer providing customer management as providing coverage for other Capita management, finance & accounting, services that continue to support our businesses in the region.
analytics, application development and growth in the UK.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 37 Investing in resources and delivery infrastructure to support growth continued Our infrastructure Our technology Our processes Our delivery network consists of Effective and robust IT infrastructure is Our track record of large scale staff 94 multi-service centres in the UK, Ireland, key to supporting our current operations and service transfers and transformation Northern Europe, India, South Africa and future growth.
As a fast-growing programmes means we have well refined and Dubai.
These are complemented by organisation, we are making ever-increasing processes to welcome staff, integrate over 500 business sites, predominantly demands on the systems that support operations and improve services.
The in the UK and Ireland, with smaller this.
We are constantly investing in and breadth and scale of Capitas operations satellite offices in global locations evolving the software and technology and infrastructure allow us to streamline supporting specific businesses and that supports our services, the Groups administration, standardising processes financial jurisdictions.
operations, our internal reporting and the and capitalising on economies of scale transformation of our clients services.
Our network of multi-service centres means we are able to leverage a mixture During 2015, we upgraded the majority We are able to deploy a number of of service delivery options to offer our of divisions to Microsoft Office 365. different teams and processes to ensure clients maximum flexibility, quality Migrating to the new platform has allowed new operations are successfully integrated and cost effectiveness through onshore, Capita to enhance Group-wide internal into the Group: near-shore and offshore locations.
We communications and collaboration and communications and engagement to also leverage our own experience as a reduce operational costs.
welcome new employees and help them large organisation to rationalise property settle into the Group and associated back office functions The year also saw the completion of an standardised Group-wide operational where appropriate.
18-month programme to re-platform and financial reporting procedures SAP to Capitas state-of-the-art private IT infrastructure and processes For some clients, a long-term defined cloud data centres.
The upgrade has contract and cost profile is important provided a modern and resilient home for shared multi-service delivery centres to support their long-term strategy.
For systems that are used by the majority of and a Group-wide property team others, who face more seasonal changes our employees to manage HR and finance HR processes such as payroll, pensions in demand, a blended delivery model processes.
Ensuring that we are deploying and recruitment with greater flexibility is required.
Our the most efficient technology internally, other Group-wide standardised delivery network can flex and adapt to means we are able to deliver greater processes such as health and safety, support both approaches, allowing clients returns to our investors and further risk, finance and procurement.
to benefit from our scalable infrastructure cost savings to our clients.
Alongside our efficient operating and We are also increasing our investment in financial structure, these robust processes and development of software and smart allow us to contain central overheads and technologies that support our clients remain competitive.
We share the benefits needs, such as customer relationship: case of our scale with our clients, creating and work-flow management systems, data efficient operating models for them analytics and robotic process automation.
and supporting their long-term aims.
These technologies help clients provide consistent interactions for their customers, a joined up digital proposition and improvement in back office processes.
In 2015, we continued our strategy of internal innovation, acquisition of complementary organisations and forming strategic technology partnerships to add capability in this area and support our overall offering.
See acquisitions table on page 31.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 38 Investing in resources and delivery infrastructure to support growth continued We use an external online Corporate Diversity in our supply chain Our suppliers Responsibility CR performance We aim to work with a diverse range of With a diverse supply chain of some assessment tool and benchmarking suppliers, and we actively encourage SMEs, 39,000 organisations and spend of around platform to help us manage our strategic voluntary and community organisations 1.8bn a year, we recognise that good suppliers, suppliers with a material and social enterprises to be part of our procurement practices have a direct supply chain risk or those with whom supply chain.
Currently 76% of our supplier influence on our business and need to we spend over 1m.
This is to assess base are SMEs.
Where possible we support ensure that we work with suppliers who their environmental performance, labour the communities in which we work by meet the highest ethical standards and practices, including human rights, and using local suppliers.
comply with our responsible sourcing fair business practices.
We are able to use our scale to compliance with the Modern Slavery Act For further information, see our not only procure goods and services costwill be introduced in 2016. performance measures on page 59. effectively and share these benefits with our clients, but also to influence the social Using this tool and managing our supply and environmental performance of our chain effectively allows us to further suppliers.
In 2015, we conducted a review identify any risks across our supply chain of procurement across the Group to ensure and take action to mitigate these risks.
We that we improve our sourcing capability assess the risks based on the amount we and maximise the return on expenditure.
spend with the supplier, what they supply and where in the world they operate.
Our strategic suppliers are managed by Where we have acquired a new business our central procurement team.
We also our procurement team undertake a risk have divisional procurement teams who assessment of the businesss suppliers as provide support and management of part of the due diligence process before procurement activity at a local level, and they migrate to our supply chain.
ensure that our procurement strategies and policies are implemented.
This model allows us to develop our strategic supplier relationships, manage growth in the supply chain, embed diversity in our supply chain and ensure we are procuring with the right suppliers.
Currently 76% of our supplier base are SMEs.
Where possible we support the communities in which we work by using local suppliers.
