Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 48 Rigorous controls and reporting In recognition of the valid interests Effective controls and risk management of these stakeholders, Capitas primary focus is on the successful operation of A key element in Capitas business model is the approach its business through robust performance taken to support and control growth.
Clear policies, tracking and risk management.
In this way we can deliver to both our shareholders procedures and robust systems are embedded across and stakeholders.
finance, operations, governance and risk management, Central to this is ensuring all levels of led by a strong management team.
management understand and execute their responsibility for the performance Managing our business Adapting our transparent structures to a of their business, appropriate risk Capitas flat management structure, growing business management and the identification robust processes, and strong governance Capita has maintained its pace of growth and actioning of market opportunities.
procedures promote accountability across across new business sectors, jurisdictions the business.
and regulatory footprints, all within the Our focus in 2015 has been to embed the Boards risk appetite.
We recognise that risk management framework introduced Monthly Operating Board MOB we remain under ongoing scrutiny by in 2014 in operational management as it reviews are the formal process through a number of significant stakeholders.
is clear that effective risk management which financial and operational These include, but are not limited to, our is owned and directed by business reporting is managed across the public and private sector clients, several management, not just imposed upon it.
More informal collaboration UK and overseas regulatory authorities is also encouraged through day-to-day and, due to the presence we have in reporting, team working mechanisms and key contracts, oversight at times by incentive structures.
This straightforward reporting structure and culture of collaboration promotes knowledge sharing, encourages entrepreneurship and ensures robust service delivery for Capitas clients.
A straightforward reporting structure and culture of openness and collaboration ensures robust service delivery for Capitas clients.
Tom, Business Development Director Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 49 Rigorous controls and reporting continued Management and governance structure Corporate Performance Risk and Leadership and Business Reporting Governance and Management Development and Review Nomination Committee MOB Review Capita Board Acquisitions & Group Board 5 Executive and Major Bids Remuneration Executive Directors 5 Non-Executive Gateway Black Hat Committee & Directors process & sign-off Divisional Directors & including Chairman Audit and Risk SMTs representatives Committee Central Acquisition Executive Level Executive Board team Risk Committee Group & Executive Directors Central Business Senior Corporate & Development team Business Development & Divisional Qualification due Executive Directors diligence & process Divisional Risk, Divisional Senior Receiving Division Pre-MOB Compliance and Audit Management Teams & Business Unit Divisional reviews & Risk Committees SMTs SMTs Due diligence & review Business Unit Divisional Business Business Unit Risk Committees Unit SMTs reviews Policy, process & oversight Application of strategy Robust qualification Consistent & timely Risk Business planning Sensible capital allocation Performance reporting Compliance Performance tracking Reward risk ratio Early issues against plan Internal audit Business appetite Highlight & resolution Capital management Deliverability Resource review & planning Robust cash collection Against projects plan Profitable growth Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 50 Rigorous controls and reporting continued Business management Risk management As stated, our Risk Management Framework Capitas overall Group business strategy Capitas continued growth, history and facilitates business management to identify and model is based on the Boards ongoing innovation, as well as moves into and manage their risks.
This is undertaken strategic direction and risk appetite, new sectors and locations evidence that in reference to 22 risk categories and the together with the input of divisional it is not a risk averse business.
Key risks appetite thresholds, both agreed by the managers who remain close to their are, however, identified and managed Board annually.
The reporting emanating markets and best understand the through comparison to the Groups stated from this is, in the first instance, for local challenges and opportunities within risk appetite see below : where there is risk governance to assess and challenge.
A similar approach is adopted for sufficient gap between our residual risk These consolidate and feed up to Executive acquisitions, where potential targets are level and our appetite, we identify and act Risk Committees one for each COO who identified either divisionally, to bolster on opportunities arising, thus making for further assess the level of residual risk in specific propositions, or by the Executive profitable growth.
Board as part of a more strategic direction for the business overall.
The allocation A key feature of Capitas growth has been During 2015, we also introduced a set of investment capital both internally and its ever changing size and complexity.
of corporate risks which are higher level externally is carefully considered to ensure Each new sector and jurisdiction brings articulations of key risks which the Board sensible returns and achieve real value for new considerations and the overall risk can track.
There are 12 in all, eight which the business.
environment, within which we operate, are recognised as risks which can hamper continues to develop.
During 2015, we profitable growth and four which, if Every year, individual divisions develop have noted the following significant crystallising to a significant degree, could their own business plans and strategy.
external risk factors: have an immediate, material detrimental These are then reviewed and challenged impact on the profit level and or share As in 2014, the likely impact of EU by the Board before being consolidated price of Capita.
Given these are defined Data Protection Regulation upon firms into the Capita-wide plan.
and agreed by the Board, we have used such as Capita which are large scale data them to populate our Principal risks on processors.
We note that there has been Having set the strategic direction for the page 52. an extended period of debate in Brussels business, the Board monitors the ongoing on this important regulation and await achievement of these underlying goals.
Our risk appetite its finalisation.
This is primarily the responsibility of the Risk appetite, as defined in our risk Further public and political concern joint chief operating officers COOs to management framework, is the degree of on cyber risks, which is the activity of whom the Divisional Executive Directors risk the Company is prepared to accept in those who seek to use unauthorised access report on a regular basis: the joint COOs the pursuit of its objectives before specific to systems and records to perpetrate in turn report to the Board.
action is deemed necessary to reduce it.
A number of In determining the degree of risk appetite, high-profile cases continue to evidence Performance management Capita reconciles two thresholds: this increased risk which we recognise but Divisional performance is collated and a risk tolerance: defined as the bearable also widen to include the security of all discussed at pre-MOB meetings, chaired level of variation Capita is willing to accept forms of commercial and personal data by the divisional Executive Director and is around specific objectives entrusted to us.
then provided by the individual divisional a risk critical limit concern: defined as Changes in international tax regimes Executive Directors to the Executive Board.
the maximum risk Capita can bear and which necessarily lead to changes for Reporting business operations through remain effective in delivering its strategy.
our clients across the world and whose this process allows the executive team to tax policies which we may administer fully understand financial performance Capita has established the tolerance and although not design or advise upon.
and projected outturns, key business critical limit concern risk appetite to help opportunities and risks on a month-bythe business to understand the relative month basis.
significance of any of the business risks faced and better prioritise risk monitoring and control activities.
Specifically, risk appetite helps determine the degree of control that needs to be applied to a particular area of risk.
To focus risk reporting, emphasis is clearly given to the reporting of risks that are categorised at uncomfortable or critical limit to ensure appropriate action is being taken.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 51 Rigorous controls and reporting continued Control functions Divisional risk and compliance teams A bids and acquisitions team in Group risk The Group Risk & Compliance Director support their divisional and business unit & compliance maintains oversight over has access to all members of the management with their risk management the businesses bid pipelines to monitor Board Executive and Non-Executive ownership and responsibilities under key risk indicators, such as changes to the Directors and supports their ongoing the risk management framework.
The regulatory footprint of the business and training plan.
He also has regular divisional risk and compliance teams are: non-core activity, maintains effective meetings with Executive and Divisional challenge through risk-based oversight owned by the businesses within which Directors throughout the year, ensuring and support of bids and acquisitions they sit, but have escalation routes to the the appropriate management of risks and continues to promote disciplined Group Risk & Compliance Director for Capita by: standards of due diligence and integration.
structured and resourced depending the development and maintenance of on the complexity regulatory footprint Tackling cyber risks appropriate risk management policies and of the operations.
Information security attacks are no longer frameworks on behalf of the Board rare events.
The evolution of the cyber the provision, through oversight The Audit and Risk Committee approves threat landscape presents material risk and effective challenge, of an ongoing both Group internal audit and Group risk to all of Capitas business operations.
assessment of risk across the Groups & compliances annual plans and in turn is The cost of executing a cyber attack is entities and informative reporting to provided with regular updates on progress rapidly falling and attackers are more Group governance throughout the year, with regular reports opportunistic in nature.
Cyber attacks on findings, issues, risk incidents and strategic leadership and advice to the are becoming more sophisticated themes for their attention.
business on compliance and risk, reflecting and increasingly successful at evading the Groups agreed risk appetite traditional  security Managing our bids and acquisitions supporting business development controls.
During 2016, cyber threat We continue to maintain a disciplined bids, acquisitions, service and assessment workshops will be run for approach to assessing our bid and strategy development Capita management teams to help them acquisition targets.
These structured better understand and mitigate cyber ensuring honest, open and effective assessments consider the pricing and risk risk.
The workshops will help managers relationships with all of our regulators.
Multidisciplinary teams identify, quantify, and ultimately are involved from finance to property, address high impact cyber risk on their The Group internal audit function has operations to tax and external advice business operations, with mitigation and free and full access to all activities, sought where appropriate.
records, properties and employees compliance assist businesses with this due throughout the Group.
diligence and are standing invitees to the key decision-making meetings.
The Group Internal Audit Director has access to and regular meetings with The measure of the effectiveness of this the Chairman of the Audit and Risk work is the extent to which the outputs Committee and members of the Board.
have led us to not proceed on deals.
This The remit of the Group internal audit means we are confident we can translate function includes: our bid pipeline into profitable and reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness sustainable business.
The issues that have of the Groups governance, processes, arisen in 2015 which have, in some cases, controls and risk management strategies led to us not proceeding include: providing the Board, the Audit and Risk tax issues identified in target company Committee and all levels of management levels of residual operational with an objective opinion based on the risks arising results of its reviews and managements contractual terms which we believe awareness and responsiveness to risk are contrary to our best interests.
delivery of the Group internal audit plan as approved by the Audit and Risk Committee reporting regularly to the Audit and Risk Committee and the Executive Risk Committees on significant issues, risks and themes and management progress on addressing them.
l a C n o o m i t p a l r i e a n p c O e Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 52 Rigorous controls and reporting continued Principal risk categories Corporate risks to the objectives of Capita plc We operate a total of 22 risk categories within the risk management framework which are kept under regular review.
In accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the 2014 revised Code, the Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Board has now defined 12 corporate risks which represent the principal risks to the objectives of Capita plc our top down risks.
Our risk governance process maps the output of the 22 categories bottom up risks against these corporate risks and thus ensures these are monitored on an ongoing basis across all levels of the business.
Current principal risk categories 1 Significant failures in internal Current assessment systems of control of principal risks 2 Lack of corporate financial stability 3 Failures in information security controls 4 Legal Regulatory Risk 5 Adverse financial business performance 6 Failure to innovate 7 Increased internal business complexity 8 Adverse changes in national, 3 international political landscape 7 6 9 Operational issues leading to reputational risk 9 1 10 Operational IT risk 11 11 Failure to effectively manage Groups 8 talent and human resources 10 12 12 W eaknesses in acquisition and contracting life cycle 4 2 Residual risk rating Critical Uncomfortable 5 Tolerance 1 Significant failures in internal systems of control Potential impacts on Capita How are we managing the risk?
2015 changes Operational, financial and regulatory Operation of risk management framework Continued roll-out of risk management risk events framework across all Capita businesses, Operational frameworks, where including new acquisitions Consequent client loss appropriate, for key processes Strengthening of local risk governance Consequent regulatory or legal action Three Lines of Defence control functions and oversight of internal audit actions Consequent redress and Comprehensive internal audit programme Refresh of risk event incident remediation costs Whistleblowing policy reporting process 2 Lack of corporate financial stability Potential impacts on Capita How are we managing the risk?
2015 changes Inability to economically fund Ongoing monitoring of cash flow Continued diversification of secure ongoing business funding sources for growth Strong treasury function Further financial demands Investment in Group financial systems Comprehensive tax policy from creditors and management Consideration of formal credit rating work Inability to pay suppliers, staff to open up new funding as required F i n a n c i c a l i g a e t n d a r t R S e p o r t i n g Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 53 Rigorous controls and reporting continued 3 Failures in information security controls Potential impacts on Capita How are we managing the risk?
2015 changes Significant financial penalties Detailed information security policies Increased Executive level information and practical standards security governance Loss of licence Dedicated Group security function Investment into formal Infosec network Restrictions on trade across local businesses Threat assessment reviews undertaken Reputational damage Refreshed training for staff Incident management process New social media use guidelines and training 4 Legal regulatory risk Potential impacts on Capita How are we managing the risk?
2015 changes Significant financial penalties Risk and compliance teams across Work to understand and manage wider Group and business level regulatory risk in non-FS regulated sectors Loss of licence for example utilities Co-ordination of regulatory Restrictions on trade Introduction of Conduct Risk Framework Executive risk governance focus Reputational damage to facilitate and track key conduct risks on regulated businesses Non-UK expansion requiring further Group legal and commercial teams investment into systems knowledge Whistleblowing policy Strengthening of commercial teams and training on standards 5 Adverse financial business performance Potential impacts on Capita How are we managing the risk?
2015 changes Poor return on capital Strong monitoring of performance Group Finance Director focus on ROCE through MOB process Adverse share price impact Initiatives on organic sales and innovation Cash conversion discipline applied to sustain growth Funding issues through management targets Monitoring of ROCE and cash conversion at Divisional and Group Board 6 Failure to innovate Potential impacts on Capita How are we managing the risk?
2015 changes Competitor gains Innovation programme in digitalisation Further service development and sales since 2014 on digital transformation Degradation of markets Other development of products Incubator initiatives Client attraction retention issues and services to meet changing Refresh of corporate values market needs emphasising innovation Divisional management cross-working to support innovation M&A strand on identifying and acquiring innovative capability 7 Increased internal business complexity Potential impacts on Capita How are we managing the risk?
2015 changes Diseconomies of scale Ongoing review of internal Divisional reorganisation to reflect market organisation, matching divisional Insensitive talent retention and Further investment in talent and structures to most appropriate reward processes identification of next generation go-to-market approach of leadership System complexities CIO initiative on internal Systems refresh focusing on internal Opportunity cost in sales and communications and system enablers communications efficiency effectiveness organisational efficiencies Group services focus on facilitating Cost differentials across not frustrating operational businesses similar businesses Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 54 Rigorous controls and reporting continued 8 Adverse changes in national, international political landscape Potential impacts on Capita How are we managing the risk?
2015 changes Threats to contract market Continued diversification between Increased political, economic, social environment regardless of public and private sectors and technological tracking by Exec service success Risk Committees Active tracking of key UK, EU and other policy changes Continued focus on public sector and trade association relations 9 Operational issues leading to reputational risk Potential impacts on Capita How are we managing the risk?
2015 changes Poor investor view Maintenance of Group PR team Further investment in strength of PR teams reflecting growth of Capita Market degradation Commitment, through corporate values, to openness and Use of incident reporting processes Client attraction retention issues encouragement of escalation to support timely escalation of significant issues Proactive communications to investor community Active relationships with client PR teams 10 Operational IT risk Potential impacts on Capita How are we managing the risk?
2015 changes Operational losses CIO IT risk register Significant investment in strengthening Divisional CIO teams to drive local Uncompetitive propositions Executive governance of IT business IT needs Security risks Control failings Greater control and oversight of efficacy IT issues actively tracked in RMF of IT spend by Group CIO 11 Failure to effectively manage Groups talent and human resources Potential impacts on Capita How are we managing the risk?
2015 changes Opportunity cost Group Head of Talent and team Talent strategy approved by Board separate from Group HR Costly turnover Investment in new talent Employee survey to gauge management systems Contract issues staff concerns Introduction of consistent and formalised Key person risk Comprehensive benefits programme approach to succession planning Inability to replicate past to reflect diverse staff population Pilot of high potential mentoring scheme corporate growth Regular review of staff turnover and Leadership induction introduced other metrics Investment in Investor in Young People accreditation 12 Weaknesses in acquisition and contracting life cycle Potential impacts on Capita How are we managing the risk?
2015 changes Unplanned losses Proven due diligence process Consolidation of sales leads through Group business development to Senior management distraction Operation of Black Hat approvals facilitate consistency process for all bids, acquisitions Contract degradation Alignment of due diligence risk reporting Strong due diligence and acquisition Client issues with risk management framework.
policies under regular review Employment of dedicated teams for due diligence in key risk areas Use of outside expertise as required Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 55 Rigorous controls and reporting continued Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Our assessment of the Groups prospects 2014 revised Code, the Directors have is based on its current position, its assessed the viability of the Group over prospects as underpinned by the business the three-year period to 31 December planning and forecasting processes taking 2018 taking into account the Groups into account Group strategy and risk current position and the potential appetite and management.
We have also impact of the principal risks set out conducted stress testing and sensitivity in the strategic report above.
Based on analysis of the impact of various severe this assessment, the Directors have a but plausible potential scenarios involving reasonable expectation that the Group the threats posed by these principal risks will continue in operation and meet its in order to test the resilience of the Group liabilities as they fall due over the period taking into account the efficacy of possible to 31 December 2018. mitigating actions.
These have included but not limited to scenarios in respect of The Directors believe this period to be information security and regulatory risks, appropriate as it is supported by our the efficacy of systems and controls and strategic, business and budgetary planning wider economic impact on Group funding.
Within the overall Group strategic plan, detailed divisional business plans In all cases the stress testing looked at and budgets are prepared annually for a immediate cash flow impacts as well 12-month period and, in addition, financial as longer-term impacts on revenue and models and projections are prepared for sales growth and business attrition.
A period of three years has Directors considered mitigating factors been chosen because, although forecasts that could be employed when reviewing are prepared for longer periods, there is these scenarios and the effectiveness of inevitably more uncertainty associated the actions at their disposal, which were with a longer time frame and the Directors applied to the models.
The main action have a reasonable confidence over this identified was a postponement or halting time horizon.
The period chosen also aligns of the Groups acquisition programme.
with the long-term incentive plan LTIP performance element of the Directors remuneration policy which is based on performance periods of three years.
As noted on page 52, the Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The principal risks and actions to mitigate them are discussed above.
Our risk management and robust processes are also set out on pages 48 to 54.
