Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 77 Committees Committees terms of reference Membership of the committees The terms of reference of the Nomination, Membership of the Companys standing committees at the end of the year is Remuneration and Audit and Risk shown below: Committees were reviewed during the year.
The terms of reference are Martin Gillian John Paul Bolland Sheldon Cresswell Bowtell summarised in the table below and, along with the matters reserved for the Board, Nomination C x x x x are displayed in full in the investor centre Audit and Risk x x C x at www.
Reviews composition of the Board.
Recommends appointment of new Andrew Williams was appointed as a member to the Nomination, Audit and Risk Directors.
Considers succession plans and Remuneration Committees at appointment on 1 January 2015.
John Cresswell for Chairman and Executive positions.
was appointed to the Nomination, Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees on Monitors corporate governance issues.
17 November 2015 and as Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 1 December 2015.
The Group diversity statement is reviewed and recommended by this committee.
Frequency of committee meetings and attendance During 2015, the Nomination Committee met three times, the Remuneration Audit and Risk Committee Committee met five times and the Audit and Risk Committee met seven times.
Reviews accounting policies and the Attendance of the Board Directors at committee meetings is shown in the contents of financial reports.
Monitors the following table: internal control environment.
Considers the adequacy and scope of the external Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination and internal audit programme.
Oversees Committee Committee Committee the relationship with our external Auditor.
Scheduled meetings 7 5 3 Monitors risk profile and obtains assurance Martin Bolland 1 3 that principal risks have been properly Gillian Sheldon 7 5 3 identified and appropriately managed.
Paul Bowtell 7 5 3 1 Remuneration Committee Andrew Williams 7 5 3 Sets the policy for Executive Directors 1 John Cresswell 1 2 1 and senior executives remuneration.
1 Carolyn Fairbairn 5 3 2 Approves individual remuneration awards.
Agrees changes to senior executive 1 C arolyn Fairbairn retired from the Board on 27 October 2015, Martin Bolland assumed the position of Chair of the Remuneration Committee from 28 October to 30 November 2015.
John Cresswell was appointed to the incentive plans.
Board on 17 November and assumed Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 1 December 2015.
Due to the nature of the acquisition and bid strategy, consideration of meeting times has to include flexibility to hold meetings outside of this timetable and meetings of this nature tend to be held by telephone.
Any Directors absence from meetings of the Audit and Risk, Remuneration or Nomination Committees was previously agreed with the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive or the Chair of the relevant committee.
