Directors report DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Annual The powers of the Directors are determined DIVIDENDS Report, and the audited consolidated by UK legislation and the Companys The Directors have proposed the financial statements for the year ended Articles of Association together with any following dividends: 31 December 2015. specic authorities that shareholders may Interim Dividend paid on 0.5p per approve from time to time.
STRATEGIC REPORT 25 September 2015 ordinary share The rules governing the appointment and The Groups 2015 Strategic Report, which Proposed Final Dividend to 1p per replacement of Directors are contained in includes a review of the Groups business be paid on 21 June 2016 ordinary share the Companys Articles and UK legislation.
during the financial year, the Groups In compliance with the 2014UK Corporate position at year-end and a description of Total proposed 1.5p per Governance Code, at the 2016 Annual dividend for 2015 ordinary share the principal risks and uncertainties facing General Meeting all the Directors will the Group, comprises the following sections retire from office and will offer themselves The Capco Scrip Dividend Scheme was of the Annual Report: for election or re-election.
approved at the 2012 AGM and was offered Page to shareholders in respect of the 2014 final COMPENSATION FOR LOSS Chairmans statement 6 dividend and the 2015 interimdividend.
OF OFFICE It is intended that the Scrip Dividend be Chief Executives review 8 The Company does not have any offered to shareholders in respect of the agreements with any Executive Director Business model and strategy 12 proposed final dividend for 2015, subject or employee that would provide to SARB approval.
Key performance indicators 13 compensation for loss of office or The proposed final dividend will be paid Principal risks and 14 employment resulting from a takeover on 21 June 2016 to shareholders whose uncertainties except that provisions of the Company names are on the register at 27 May 2016. share schemes may cause share options Operating review 18 and awards to vest on a takeover.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE Financial review 40 Details of the Companys issued ordinary DIRECTORS CONFLICTS Corporate responsibility 46 share capital, including details of OF INTEREST which includes information movements in the issued share capital The Company has procedures in place on the Groups greenhouse during the year, authorities to issue or for managing conicts of interest.
Should gas emissions repurchase shares and details of shares a Director become aware that they, or a repurchased by the Company during the connected party, have an interest in an DIRECTORS year, of which there were none, are shown existing or proposed transaction with the The Directors of the Company who held in note 31 to the financial statements on Group, they should notify the Company office during the year and up to the date page 130.
Each share carries the right to one Secretary before the next meeting or at of signing the financial statements were vote at general meetings of the Company.
Directors have a continuing as follows: obligation to update any changes to There are no specic restrictions on the Chairman: these conicts.
transfer of shares beyond those standard I. C. Durant provisions set out in the Articles of DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES Association.
No shareholder holds shares Executive Directors: AND INSURANCE carrying special rights with regard to I. D. Hawksworth In accordance with the Companys Articles, control of the Company.
Details of S. Das the Company has indemnified the significant shareholdings are set out G. J. Yardley Directors to the full extent allowed by law.
The Company maintains Directors and Non-executive Directors: USE OF FINANCIAL Officers liability insurance which is I. J. Henderson reviewed annually.
INSTRUMENTS G. J. Gordon Information on risk management objectives J. G. Murphy Appointed 1 March 2015 ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION and policies, including hedging policies, D. Pinsent Changes to the Articles of Association must and exposure of the Company in relation H. E. Staunton be approved by shareholders in accordance to the use of financial instruments, can be A. D. Strang with the Companies Act 2006. found in note 28 on pages 124 to 129.
A. J. M. Huntley Retired 1 May 2015 EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING Biographies of each Director can be found PERIOD on pages54 and 55 and details of each Details of events after the reporting period Directors interests in the Companys can be found in note 42 on page 139. shares are set out on page 139.
88 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shares held at time of last Per cent held at time of last Holder notication notication Nature of holding Date of last notication BlackRock, Inc. 109,345,046 12.98% Indirect Interest 17 Feb 2016 Coronation Asset Management Pty Limited 92,500,726 11.07% Direct Interest 30 Oct 2014 Gordon Family Interests 92,083,204 10.96% Direct Interest 3 March 2015 Norges Bank 59,455,413 7.07% Direct Interest 24 April 2015 Old Mutual plc 42,330,851 5.03% Indirect Interest 15 Dec 2015 Public Investment Corporation Limited 52,536,104 6.25% Direct Interest 5 June 2015 The Company encourages the continuous CHANGE OF CONTROL GOING CONCERN development and training of its employees As set out on page 45, the Directors have a PROVISIONS and the provision of equal opportunities reasonable expectation that the Company There are a number of agreements which for the training and career development and the Group have adequate resources take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of all employees.
to meet both on going and future of control of the Company.
The agreements commitments for the foreseeable future.
that would be considered significant are the Information relating to employees is given Accordingly, they continue to adopt the former and current Covent Garden in note 7 on page 109.
The Group provides going concern basis in preparing the facilities, the Covent Garden 150 million retirement benets for the majority of its Annual Report and Accounts.
notes issued pursuant to a US Private employees.
Details of the Group pension Placement, the Empress State 118.5 million arrangements are set out in note 41 on DISCLOSURE TO AUDITORS term and revolving facility and the Lillie pages 137 to 139.
So far as the Directors are aware, there is Square development joint venture.
no relevant audit information of which the Further information on Group employees auditors are unaware and each Director has can be found on pages 48 and49.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS taken all steps that he or she ought to have The significant holdings of voting rights in THE ENVIRONMENT taken as a Director in order to make himself the share capital of the Company notied Details of the Groups corporate or herself aware of any relevant audit and disclosed in accordance with Disclosure responsibility policy and its aims and information and to establish that the and Transparency Rule 5, as at 22 February activities are described on the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
2016, are shown in the table above.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS An overview of the Groups CR activity EMPLOYEES The auditors,  LLP, is on pages 46 to 53.
The Group employees are employed by C&C have indicated their willingness to continue Management Services Limited, Olympia The Group recognises the importance in office and a resolution seeking to Management Services Limited and Olympia of minimising the adverse impact of its reappoint them will be proposed at the Limited.
The Groups employees are kept operations on the environment and the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
informed of its activities and financial management of energy consumption performance through head office briengs and waste recycling.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING at key points during the year and the The 2016 Annual General Meeting of the The Company strives to improve its circulation of corporate announcements Company will be held from 11.30 am on environmental performance.
The and other relevant information to staff 6 May 2016 at Four Seasons Hotel London at environmental management system which are supplemented by updates on Canary Wharf.
The Notice of the Meeting, is regularly reviewed to ensure that the the intranet.
together with an explanation of the Company maintains its commitment Certain of the Groups employees are business to be dealt with at the Meeting, to environmental matters.
eligible to participate in annual bonus is included as a separate document sent to arrangements.
These arrangements, which shareholders who have elected to receive OVERSEAS BRANCH REGISTER may include awards under the Groups hard copies of shareholder information and For the purposes of its listing on the Performance Share Plan, help to develop is also available on the Companys website.
Johannesburg Stock Exchange, the employees interest in the Companys Company maintains an overseas branch By Order of y the Board.
Full details of the register in South Africa.
Performance Share Plan are contained LISTING RULES DISCLOSURES in note 40 to the accounts on pages The information required to be disclosed 134 to 136. pursuant to LR 9.8.
4R can be found in the The Company operates a non-discriminatory following locations: employment policy and full and fair R. E. Pavey Page consideration is given to applications for Secretary employment from disabled applicants where Interest capitalised 110 24 February 2016 they have the appropriate skills and abilities, Non-pre-emptive issue 130 and to the continued employment of staff of equity who become disabled.
Interests in significant contracts 139 www.
