Board of Directors Executive Directors IAN HAWKSWORTH Chief Executive Age 50 Ian leads Capco, shaping strategy and driving performance.
He has over 30 years experience inglobal real estate investment, development, asset and corporate management, having been a senior director of both Hongkong Land and Liberty International.
Ian is a Chartered Surveyor and a member of leading international industry bodies.
2 SOUMEN DAS Managing Director & Chief Financial OfcerAge 39 Soumenleadsthe Capco finance functionand has investment responsibility forCovent Garden.
Soumen is an experienced corporate nancier and formerly anexecutive director of UBS specialising in real estate.
He joined Capco from Liberty International, having coordinated the demerger of the companies in 2010.
GARY YARDLEY ManagingDirector & Chief Investment OfcerAge 50 Garyleads Capcos real estate investment, overseeing significant real estate transactions, and is responsible for the investment performance ofEarls Court.
Gary is a Chartered Surveyor with over 30 years experience in UK real estate.
He is a former CIO of Liberty International and former partner of King Sturge.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP KEY 1 Audit Committee 2 Nomination Committee 3 Remuneration Committee 54 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chairman and Non-executive Directors IAN DURANT Chairman Age 57 External appointments Ian is responsible for the leadership of the Board, ensuring Greene King plc Non-executive Director its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
Ian is a Chartered Greggs plc Chairman Accountant with a background in international financial Home Retail Group plc Chairman and commercial management.
Ians career includes of Audit and Risk Committee leadership roles with the retail division of Hanson, and Jardine Matheson, Hongkong Land, Dairy Farm International, Thistle Hotels, Sea Containers and Liberty International.
2 IAN HENDERSON CBE Independent Non-executive Deputy Chairman and External appointments Dolphin Square Foundation Chairman Senior Independent Non-executive Director Age 72 The Natural History Museum Formerly Chief Executive of Land Securities Group PLC, Ian, Chairman of Property Advisory Group a Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, has The Royal Albert Hall been widely involved in property industry matters, including being a past President of the British Property Federation.
1 2 3 GRAEME GORDON Non-executive Director Age 52 External appointments Graeme was a Non-executive Director of Liberty Creative Investments Limited International for 14 years before joining the Board of Capco Mymarket Limited in 2010.
He is the son of Sir Donald Gordon, the founder of Liberty International, and represents the Gordon Family Interests on the Board.
GERRY MURPHY Independent Non-executive Director Age 63 External appointments A former Deloitte LLP partner with direct industry Dixons Carphone plc Non-executive experience in consumer business, retail and technology, Director media and telecommunications.
Gerry was a member of the Department of Health Board Deloitte Board for a number of years and is aDirector of Non-executive member Dixons Carphone plc andthe Department of Health.
1 2 3 DEMETRA PINSENT Independent Non-executive Director Age 41 External appointments A former partner of McKinsey & Co, Demetra was leader of Charlotte Tilbury Beauty Limited McKinseys European Apparel, Fashion and Luxury Goods Practice for five years and has also acted as an adviser to emerging British luxury businesses.
Demetra is currently CEO of Charlotte Tilbury Beauty.
2 HENRY STAUNTON Independent Non-executive Director Age 67 External appointments Henry was appointed to the Board in June 2010 and became WH Smith PLC Chairman Chairman of the Audit Committee shortly after in July Brighthouse Group PLC Chairman 2010.
Previously Finance Director of Granada and ITV, Phoenix Group Holdings Chairman Chairman of Ashtead Group and Vice Chairman of Legal & General.
1 2 3 ANDREW STRANG Independent Non-executive Director Age 63 External appointments Andrew was Managing Director of Threadneedle Property AEW UK Member of Investment and Investments Limited for 17 years until January 2008.
He Governance Committees was Executive Chairman of Hermes Real Estate Investment Intu Properties plc Non-executive Management until 2011.
Director Norges Bank Investment Management 1 2 3 Real Estate Advisory Board member www.
