Directors and Officers Geoff Cooper Non-Executive Chairman Geoff joined the Board and became Chairman of the Group in April 2014.
Geoff has over 20 years experience of serving on boards of UK public companies, in particular as Chief Executive of Travis Perkins plc from March 2005 until December 2013.
Geoff is also a director of Dunelm Group plc, where he has been Non-Executive Chairman since 2004 and an adviser to Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP.
He is a chartered management accountant and had a career in management consultancy before joining Gateway subsequently Somerfield plc as Finance Director in 1990.
In 1994, he became Finance Director of UniChem plc, subsequently Alliance UniChem plc which later became part of Alliance Boots plc, where he was appointed Deputy Chief Executive in 2001.
Other Current Commitments: Non-Executive Chairman of Dunelm Group plc and Bourne Leisure Holdings Ltd. Non-Executive Director of Informa plc.
Adviser to Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP.
Richard Hayes Chief Executive Officer Richard was appointed Managing Director in 2008 subsequently renamed Chief Executive Officer in 2010, prior to which he held the positions of Finance Director and Commercial Director of the Group.
He was appointed to the Board of Card Factory plc on 30 April 2014.
During his time at the Company, Richard has been actively involved in, and since 2008 has overseen, the Group growing from a 40-store discount chain to a vertically integrated value retailer with over 750 stores and two transactional websites.
Richard led the 2010 MBO funded by Charterhouse and has overseen the continued growth under Charterhouses ownership.
Before he joined the Group in 2003, Richard spent 19 years at RBS working mainly in the Corporate Division.
Darren Bryant Chief Financial Officer Darren was appointed Group Finance Director in June 2009 subsequently renamed Chief Financial Officer in 2010 having previously been a Partner at PwC LLP.
Darren spent over 17 years at PwC, principally in the London Corporate Finance division, where he advised on a wide range of private company, private equity and public company transactions.
He also spent two years on secondment at The Panel on Takeovers & Mergers in the late 1990s where he regulated a large number of public company transactions.
Darren is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and holds a First Class MEng degree in Electrical & Electronic Engineering with Business Studies from Imperial College, London University.
Octavia Morley Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Octavia joined the Board as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in April 2014.
Octavia is currently the Chief Executive of Oka Direct Limited and has eight years experience of serving on boards of UK public companies.
She has served on the board of John Menzies plc as a Non-Executive Director since 2006.
Octavia was previously the Managing Director of Crew Clothing Co. Limited.
She also served as Chief Executive Officer, and latterly as Chairman of LighterLife UK Limited until December 2009 and has also held positions as Commercial Director of Woolworths plc between 2003 and 2005 and as Managing Director of e-commerce at Asda Stores Limited and as Buying and Merchandising Director at Laura Ashley plc.
Other Current Commitments: Chief Executive of Oka Direct Limited and NonExecutive Director of John Menzies plc.
30 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S David Stead Independent Non-Executive Director David Stead joined the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director in April 2014.
He has over 15 years experience as a director of companies in the UK retail sector.
David has held the role of Finance Director of Dunelm Group plc since September 2003.
Prior to this, David served as Finance Director for Boots The Chemists and Boots Healthcare International between 1991 and 2003.
David is a chartered accountant, having spent the early part of his career with KPMG, and currently leads the Finance and HR departments for Dunelm Group plc.
Other Current Commitments: Finance Director of Dunelm Group plc.
Paul McCrudden Independent Non-Executive Director Paul joined the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director in December 2014.
Paul is currently EMEA Head of Content Marketing at Twitter and prior to that was Head of Social Media at advertising agency AMV BBDO.
In his earlier career Paul was Account Director at Imagination a creative brand agency and a Consultant in New Technologies at Accenture.
Other Current Commitments: EMEA Head of Content Marketing at Twitter.
Chairman of the board of trustees of Hoipolloi, a film and theatre production company funded by the Arts Council England.
Shiv Sibal Company Secretary Shiv joined the Company as General Counsel and Company Secretary in May 2014.
Shiv is an experienced corporate finance lawyer with more than 12 years experience in the legal sector.
Prior to joining the Company, Shiv was a corporate partner with Bond Dickinson focused on supporting public companies with IPOs, equity fundraisings, mergers and acquisitions, governance and their continuing regulatory obligations.
Prior to joining, Shiv also spent more than eight years working for Pinsent Masons having trained at Nabarro.
Other Current Commitments: Director of the White Rose Academies Trust.
Graeme Coulthard was a Non-Executive Director of Card Factory plc during the financial period and up until 3 February 2015.
Board Committees Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee David Stead Chairman Octavia Morley Chairman Geoff Cooper Chairman Octavia Morley Geoff Cooper Octavia Morley Paul McCrudden David Stead David Stead Paul McCrudden Paul McCrudden Geoff Cooper was a member of the Audit and Risk Committee during the year and until 24 February 2015.
Paul McCrudden joined the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees on 1 December 2014.
C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd Ac d Acc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 31 31
