Market Overview The revenue generated from the physical store network represents c95% of Group revenue and can be analysed into three principal areas: single cards, non-card items and Christmas box cards.
The Groups online offering not included in the figures below is currently principally focused on the complementary personalised gifts segment where limited reliable market data is available.
SHARE OF FY15 ESTIMATED TOTAL UK ESTIMATED CARD 1 2 REVENUE MARKET VALUE FACTORY VALUE SHARE SINGLE GREETING CARDS 57.9% 1.3 billion c 17% NON-CARD ITEMS 39.9% 1-2 billion Less than 10% CHRISTMAS BOX CARDS 2.2% 0.1 billion Less than 10% TOTAL 100.0% 2.4-3.4 billion 1.
Source: OC&C for calendar year 2013 SINGLE CARDS Single cards comprise individual cards for everyday occasions eg birthdays, anniversaries, weddings, thank you, get well soon, good luck, congratulations, sympathy and new baby cards and seasonal occasions eg Christmas, Mothers Day, Fathers Day, Valentines Day and Easter.
Within the singles segment, approximately 3% by volume relates to personalised physical cards sold online, with an element of personalisation as part of the purchase eg to add the recipients name or a photograph.
NON-CARD Non-card refers to a wide variety of adjacent product categories that customers have a high propensity to purchase on the same occasions as greeting cards, including: gift dressings eg gift wrap, gift bags, gift boxes, gift tags, bows and ribbons : small gifts eg soft toys, ceramics, glassware, candles, picture frames, homewares : party products eg balloons, banners, badges and candles : and other non-card products eg calendars, diaries, stamps.
CHRISTMAS BOX CARDS Christmas box cards are boxes of multiple cards purchased at Christmas, typically sent to a wider group of relatives, friends and colleagues and are often associated with a charity.
2 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS There is an ingrained culture of sending greeting cards in the UK, with estimates suggesting an average of approximately 30 cards sent per adult each year, of which approximately 20 are single cards.
Card purchasing is occasion-driven, focused around key events eg birthdays, anniversaries and seasons such as Christmas.
A persons age and stage of life are major drivers of their propensity to purchase greeting cards, with purchasing levels significantly higher in older consumers and those with families.
Market research suggests that card purchasing behaviour is broadly stable within generations which, with both a growing and ageing UK population, is expected to help support future card purchasing levels in the UK.
The overall card market has proved to be robust and resilient throughout the past decade with low annual growth in value.
Volumes in the larger, core singles market have been broadly flat during this period, with only a very slight shift to personalised single cards purchased online, notwithstanding very significant television advertising spend by the major players in this established market niche.
The small Christmas box cards segment of the market has declined over recent years and this is thought to be due, in part, to significant increases in stamp prices over the period and lower levels of emotional attachment to Christmas box cards compared to other greeting cards.
This small segment is expected to continue to decline in the medium term.
The greeting cards market is highly fragmented, with a wide range of retailers selling greeting cards, including: SPECIALIST CHAINS: destination locations for greeting cards eg Card Factory, Clintons, Hallmark, Paperchase and Cards Galore : GROCERS: primarily capture convenience and distressed purchases eg ASDA, Tesco and Sainsburys : and OTHERS: including generalists eg WH Smith and M&S, online operators eg Moonpig, Funky Pigeon, stationers, discount chains eg Poundland, Home Bargains and Wilkinsons, the Post Office and hundreds of small independent retailers.
Other sector participants can compete on either price or quality but not both as highlighted by various extensive pieces of market research undertaken by the Group.
This competitive advantage is highlighted by the following consumer research from OC&C which demonstrates the scale of differentiation in Card Factorys clear and distinctive value proposition.
CONSUMER PERCEPTION 5.0 Card Factory 4.5 Home Bargains 99p Stores Poundland B&M Bargains 4.0 Wilkinson Cards Galore 3.5 Supermarkets Funkypigeon.
com Hallmark 3.0 Clintons M&S John Lewis Paperchase WH Smith 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 5.0 Quality Stronger Perception of Quality Source: OC&C March 2015 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 3 Stronger Perception of Low Price Price
