Our Four Pillar Strategy LIKE-FOR-LIKE NEW STORE SALES GROWTH ROLL OUT The Group has a strong track record of consistently The Group intends to expand its store portfolio delivering like-for-like growth and increases in organically from its existing store estate to up to 1,200 average basket value ABV.
The Boards strategy stores in total a figure supported by external analysis is to continue this track record, whilst maintaining undertaken by OC&C, including up to approximately the core value proposition, by: 100 new stores in the Republic of Ireland.
The Board intends to continue rolling out new stores at a similar continuing to improve overall product quality rate to the Groups historical rate of organic store and range for both card and non-card products openings of c50 net new stores per annum.
developed by its established design team: Aberdeen Aberdeen further developing the Groups in-store merchandising and pricing architecture to increase the number of items sold per basket Aberdeen Aberdeen and or to encourage customers to trade up to Existing Card Existing Card higher priced items: and Factory Sites - 764 Factory Sites - 764 Edinburgh Glasgow Glasgow leveraging the ongoing investment in electronic Edinburgh Glasgow Glasgow point of sale EPOS to provide more granular Newcastle sales data for analysis of customer purchasing trends, thereby assisting in increasing items sold L Leed eedss per basket, for example through identifying and Belfast Belfast Manchester Manchester Liverpool Liverpool stocking non-card products that are more likely Newcastle Nottingha Nottingham m to be purchased alongside greeting cards.
Norwich Norwich Birmingha Birmingham m The Group also expects to benefit from ongoing 124 Cardiff Cardiff revenue growth as recent store openings continue to Bristo Bristoll L Leed eedss London London grow their share of the local market in line with the Southampto Southampton n Belfast Belfast Manchester Manchester typical store maturity curve of four to six years.
At 124 Liverpool Liverpool Plymout Plymouth h the point of maturity, annual sales in individual stores are typically 30% to 40% higher than in the first year Nottingha Nottingham m post-opening.
Target locations for all of these new stores have already been identified and these locations, Norwich Norwich Like-for-Iike definition Birmingha Birmingham m together with other potential locations, are kept The Group defines Iike-for-Iike sales as the year-onunder regular review.
Although these new year growth in sales for Card Factory stores which 124 opportunities are expected to have, on average, have been opened for a full year, calculated on a Cardiff Cardiff lower sales potential than the average of the calendar week basis.
As such, this reported Iike-forGroups existing store locations, primarily due to Bristo Bristoll Iike sales figure excludes sales: London London the new stores typically being in lower footfall relating to Card Factory stores that have not yet locations than the average of the Groups existing Southampto Southampton n been open for a full 52 weeks: stores, the Directors believe these new stores will 124 from the Card Factory transactional website, nevertheless enhance EBITDA and will continue the Plymout Plymouth h www.
co. uk: trend of delivering a strong return on capital.
made via the separately branded personalised Management undertakes a formalised appraisal card and gift website, Getting Personal, process for new location opportunities which www.
co. uk: includes an assessment of potential store sales and by Printcraft, the Groups printing division, to profitability, the results of which are stored in a external third-party customers: and database of new store opportunities which is from stores closed for all or part of the relevant continually updated and refreshed.
period or the prior year comparable period.
8 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BUSINESS ONLINE EFFICIENCIES DEVELOPMENT Card Factory has a long-established culture of strong The Groups online operations are currently cost control and a consistent track record of delivering focused on Getting Personal, acquired in 2011. best-in-class margins.
The Board will continue to Sales of personalised gifts represent the vast pursue business efficiency initiatives to further majority of the revenue generated from its website improve the business and its competitive position.
The Group intends to maintain and, where possible, enhance its gross margins through continuous improvement in the supply chain process.
In particular, the Group intends to continue to diversify its range of suppliers to reduce reliance on key suppliers and further develop direct sourcing relationships with manufacturers.
Similarly, the Group aims to protect and, where possible, enhance operating margins through the continued strong control of operating costs, including the management of overall employee costs, negotiation of improved rental terms upon the expiry and renewal of existing leases, and tight control over other costs and expenses.
As the Group continues to grow Iike-for-like sales The Directors believe there are opportunities to and proceed with its new store roll out, the further grow the Groups sales in this complementary business will continue to leverage the growing segment through further product development economies of scale when negotiating contracts eg changes to existing product ranges and new with suppliers and manufacturers.
product ranges and improved marketing.
Over the past five years, in anticipation of planned While the personalised online segment of the long-term growth, the Group has invested heavily greeting cards market remains small, according to in its infrastructure, including: OC&C representing just 6% of the total greeting cards market, by value, and 3%, by volume, in 2013, a new EPOS system to provide more granular the segment is projected by OC&C to grow at a sales data: CAGR of 10% per annum, by value, during the period to 2020. expansion of Printcraft as part of a 10 year capital expenditure plan following its relocation to larger The Directors believe that the Group is well premises in 2011: placed to capture a greater share of this growing segment of the market.
the relocation of Getting Personals personalised gift production facility to Printcraft in 2013: and The Group also offers a selection of nonpersonalised cards, dressings and gifts investment in the Central Distribution Centre and on the Card Factory transactional website Group Head Office completed in 2013. www.
The Directors plan to grow the offering from its current relatively small base, The Group will continue to leverage the benefits of albeit it is expected that this will remain a relatively these recent significant investments over the small proportion of total Group sales.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 9
