Directors Report The Directors present their report together with STRATEGIC REPORT the audited financial statements for the year ended The Strategic Report, which was approved by the Board 31 January 2015. on 24 March 2015 and is set out in on pages 2 to 29, contains a fair review of the Groups business, a INTRODUCTION description of the principal risks and uncertainties This section of the Annual Report includes additional facing the Group and an indication of the likely future information required to be disclosed under the developments in the business of the Group.
Companies Act 2006 Companies Act, the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 Code or the UK The review is intended to be a balanced and Corporate Governance Code, the Disclosure and comprehensive analysis of the development and Transparency Rules the DTRs and the Listing Rules performance of the Groups business during the financial the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
year and the position of the Groups business at the end of that year.
The report includes, to the extent necessary Some of the information we are required to include in for an understanding of the development, performance the Directors Report is included in other sections of or position of the Groups business, analysis using this Annual Report and is referred to below.
Where financial key performance indicators.
reference is made to these other sections, they are incorporated into this report by reference.
As the Company is now a quoted company, the Strategic Report also includes, to the extent necessary INCORPORATION, LISTING AND STRUCTURE for an understanding of the development, performance The Company was incorporated and registered in or position of the Groups business, the main trends England and Wales on 17 April 2014 under the and factors likely to affect the future development Companies Act as a private limited company with performance and position of the Groups business.
registration number 9002747 and with the name It also includes information about environmental CF Listco Limited.
matters, the Groups employees and social and community issues.
On 30 April 2014, the Company acquired, the entire issued share capital of CF Topco Limited, which holds This Directors Report should be read in conjunction through certain wholly owned intermediate holding with the Strategic Report, which also contains details companies the Groups operating companies, to of the principal activities of the Group during the year.
become the ultimate holding company of the Group.
When taken together, the Strategic Report and this Directors Report constitute the management report On 30 April 2014, the Company was re-registered as a for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
public limited company and changed its name to Card Factory plc.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The consolidated profit for the Group for the year after On 20 May 2014, the entire issued ordinary share capital taxation was 33.2m 2014: 18.4m.
The results are of the Company was unconditionally admitted to the discussed in greater detail in the Chief Financial premium listing segment of the Official List of the Officers review on pages 16 to 19.
Financial Conduct Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange plcs main market for listed As noted in the Prospectus issued to prospective securities the IPO.
Shareholders in connection with the IPO, the Directors intended, subject to sufficient distributable reserves The liability of the members of the Company is limited.
being available, that the first dividend for the Company The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom and would be a full year dividend not pro-rated payable in its registered office is at Century House, Brunel Road, relation to this year.
Wakefield 41 Industrial Estate, Wakefield, West Yorkshire WF2 0XG.
The telephone number of the With this in mind, the Board is recommending a total Companys registered office is 44 1924 839150. dividend of 6.8p per share for the year ended 31 January 2015.
This dividend comprises an interim dividend which the Directors are declaring of 2.3p per share together with a final dividend which the Directors are recommending of 4.5p per share.
The final dividend will, subject to shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting on 27 May 2015, be paid alongside the interim dividend on 5 June 2015 to shareholders on the register on 1 May 2015.
POST YEAR END EVENTS There were no significant post year end events.
68 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S SHARE CAPITAL, SHAREHOLDERS AND exceptions including, but not limited to, the operation of RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFERS OF SHARES the any share schemes, not to issue, lend, mortgage, The Company has only one class of shares, ordinary assign, charge, offer, sell or contract to sell, or otherwise shares of 1p each.
dispose of any ordinary shares in the Company for a period of 180 days following the completion of the IPO Further details of the Companys share capital, including without the prior written consent of the Underwriters: changes in the issued share capital in the year under ii the Charterhouse Funds and certain other individual review are set out in note 19 to the financial statements pre-IPO shareholders agreed not to dispose of any which form part of this report on page 96.
There have ordinary shares in the Company for a period of 180 days been no further changes in the Companys share capital following the completion of the IPO without the prior between the end of the financial year under review and written consent of the Underwriters: and iii each of the the date of the approval of this report.
Directors and each member of the senior management team agreed not to dispose of any ordinary shares for a Details of awards outstanding under share-based period of 365 days following the completion of the IPO incentive schemes are given in note 25 to the financial without the prior written consent of the Underwriters.
All statements which form part of this report on page 102. of the above arrangements are subject to certain Details of the share-based incentive schemes in place customary exceptions.
are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 65.
SHAREHOLDER AND VOTING RIGHTS All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
On a share capital of the Company are contained within the show of hands at a general meeting every member Companys Articles of Association Articles which were present in person shall have one vote and on a poll, adopted on 17 April 2014. every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
No shareholder The Articles do not contain any restrictions on the holds ordinary shares carrying special rights relating to transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than the control of the Company.
the usual restrictions applicable where any amount is unpaid on a share.
Certain restrictions are also imposed A relationship agreement Relationship Agreement by laws and regulations such as insider trading and was entered into on 15 May 2014 between the Company marketing requirements relating to close periods and and the Charterhouse Funds that governed and requirements of the Listing Rules whereby Directors regulated the relationship between the Charterhouse and certain employees of the Company require Funds and the Company following the completion of approval of the Company in order to deal in the the IPO.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Companys shares.
Agreement was to ensure that the Company was capable at all times of carrying on its business On 15 May 2014, the Company, the Directors, the independently of the Charterhouse Funds.
The Charterhouse Funds being CCP IX LP No.
1, CCP IX LP Relationship Agreement has been terminated pursuant No.
2 and CCP IX Co-investment LP, certain other to its terms as a result of the Charterhouse Funds and members of the Groups senior management team and any members of their group ceasing to own in certain other individual pre-IPO shareholders and each aggregate an interest, direct or indirect, of at least 20% of UBS Limited, Nomura International plc, Morgan or more of the issued ordinary shares in the Company.
Stanley Securities Limited and Investec Bank plc the Until its termination, the Board believes that the Underwriters entered into the Underwriting Agreement Company and, so far as the Company is aware, the the Underwriting Agreement in accordance with which: Charterhouse Funds complied with the Independence i the Company agreed that, subject to certain provisions in the Relationship Agreement.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS At 24 March 2015 the following had notified the Company of a disclosable interest in 3% or more of the nominal value of the Companys ordinary shares: Number of Percentage of Shareholder ordinary shares share capital Invesco Asset Management Ltd 62,599,533 18.4 1 Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP 60,609,953 17.8 Artemis Investment Management LLP 41,422,745 12.2 Stuart Middleton 22,544,344 6.6 Richard Hayes 14,555,976 4.3 1.
This interest is held in the Charterhouse Funds being CCP IX LP No.
2 and CCP IX Co-investment LP.
Graeme Coulthard, who was a Non-Executive Director of Card Factory plc until 3 February 2015, is a partner at Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69 Directors Report continued CHANGE OF CONTROL HEALTH AND SAFETY There are no agreements between the Company and its An overview of health and safety is provided in the Directors or employees providing for additional Corporate Social Responsibility Report on page 28. compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, redundancy or otherwise GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 26 to 28 sets out the greenhouse gas emissions disclosures The only significant agreement to which the Company required by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report is a party that takes effect, alters or terminates upon a and Directors Report Regulations 2013. change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, and the effect thereof, is the Companys committed POLITICAL DONATIONS bank facility dated 17 April 2014 which contains a The Group has not made any political donations in the provision such that, in the event of a change of control past and does not intend to make any in the future.
the facility will be cancelled and all outstanding amounts, together with accrued interest, will become TREASURY AND RISK MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL repayable on the date falling 30 days following written INSTRUMENTS notice being given by the lenders that the facility has The Groups approach to treasury and financial risk been cancelled.
management is explained in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on page 23.
In that section, TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES beginning on page 20, there is also a list of the principal The only material transactions with related parties risks and uncertainties that affect or are likely to affect during the year were: the Group.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flow, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are the Relationship Agreement referred to earlier in this described in the Chief Financial Officers review on report entered into between the Company and the pages 18 and 19.
Charterhouse Funds: the Underwriting Agreement referred to earlier in TAX this report entered into between the Company and The Group pays corporation tax on its operations in the the Principal Shareholder: and United Kingdom and does not operate in any tax those transactions detailed in note 28 on page 103 of havens, or use any tax avoidance schemes.
the Annual Report and Accounts.
GOING CONCERN DIRECTORS Taking into account current and anticipated trading The Directors of the Company and their biographies performance, current and anticipated levels of are set out on pages 30 and 31.
Details of changes to borrowings and the availability of borrowing facilities the Board during the period are set out in the and exposures to and management of the financial risks Corporate Governance Report on page 34.
Details of detailed in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 25, the how Directors are appointed and or removed are set Board is of the opinion that, at the time of approval of out in the Corporate Governance Report on page40.
these financial statements, there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to POWERS OF DIRECTORS continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Specific powers of the Directors in relation to shares future.
Accordingly, the financial statements continue to and the Companys Articles of Association are referred be prepared on a going concern basis.
to in the Corporate Governance report on page 40.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION AND APPOINTMENT DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES AND INSURANCE OF AUDITORS Information relating to Directors indemnities and the So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Directors and Officers liability insurance the Company information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware has purchased is set out in the Corporate Governance and the Directors have taken all the steps which they ought Report on page 40. to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the EMPLOYEES Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Information relating to employees of the Group is set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 28 and 29.
Share incentive schemes in which employees participate are described in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 53 and in note 25 to the financial statements on page 102.
70 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed the effectiveness, performance, independence and objectivity of the existing external Auditors, KPMG LLP, for the year ended 31 January 2015 and concluded that the external Auditors were in all respects effective.
KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as Auditors.
Accordingly, and in accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act, resolutions to re-appoint KPMG LLP as Auditor and to authorise the Directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company.
INFORMATION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The reports and financial statements contained in this Annual Report and Accounts contain certain forwardlooking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations, and businesses of Card Factory plc.
These statements and forecasts involve risk, uncertainty and assumptions because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 10.00am on Wednesday 27 May 2015 at the offices of Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ.
Aformal notice of meeting, explanatory circular and a form of proxy will accompany this report and accounts.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS This statement is set out on page 72.
APPROVAL OF THE ANNUAL REPORT The Strategic Report and the Corporate Governance Report were approved by the Board on 24 March 2015.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Shiv Sibal Company Secretary 24 March 2015 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71
