Our business model in action Support services National Offender Management Service How we apply our centralised operating platform Living our Values Building long-term partnerships with High standards of corporate governance customers, partners and suppliers Strong risk management First-class supply chain management Embedding sustainability into everything we do In January 2015, Carillion was awarded sector to engage with and train prisoners two contracts by the UK National Offender to carry out some of these services in Management Service to provide facilities order to create for them apathway to future management services for public sector employment, potentially with Carillion or prisons in two geographical areas the first with other businesses in our sector.
for London and the East of England and the second for South West, South Central, Kent Our success in winning these contracts and Sussex.
In total, these contracts involve reflects our ability to understand the needs the provision of services to 54 prisons, of our customers and to use all our skills approximately half the total number operated and resources to design and deliver fully by the National Offender Management Service.
integrated service solutions, tailored to their needs, combined with our strong These contracts were successfully mobilised focus on quality, value for money and on 1 June 2015 and together are worth creating positive outcomes for the approximately 200 million over an initial communities in which we operate and for five-year period, which can be increased to the environment.
All of this means we can seven years through two one-year extensions, work closely with the National Offender subject to satisfactory performance.
Management Service to support its objectives of providing efficient, highUnder these contracts Carillion is providing quality services in public prisons in awide range of facilities management ways that benefit all its stakeholders.
services, involving nearly 150 service lines, including mechanical and electrical engineering maintenance, building fabric maintenance, energy management and environmental services, waste management, escort services for contractors coming into prisons, grounds maintenance and landscaping, cleaning services and minor building works.
We are also using our sector-leading experience as the largest trainer of apprentices in our Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 22 Strategic report Public Private Partnership projects Midland Metropolitan Hospital How we apply our centralised operating platform Living our Values B uilding long-term partnerships with High standards of corporate governance customers, partners and suppliers Strong risk management First-class supply chain management Embedding sustainability into everything we do In August 2015, aCarillion joint venture, The new Midland Metropolitan Hospital The Hospital Company Sandwell Limited, will be astate-of-the-art facility with over 680 was selected as the preferred bidder by the beds and 13 operating theatre suites that will Sandwell and West Birmingham Hospitals support the Trust in delivering significant NHS Trust to finance, design, build and improvements in healthcare services for the maintain the new Midland Metropolitan people of Sandwell and West Birmingham.
Hospital under a30-year concession It has been designed to meet the best contract using the UK Governments PF2 international standards to make it truly procurement model.
Financial close on this patient focused and to support the efficient project was achieved in December 2015 and delivery of high-quality clinical services.
construction work is now underway on site, It has also been designed to the highest with completion scheduled for late 2018. standards of sustainability, with anumber of innovative design features, including afully Carillion will invest 13 million of equity in enclosed Winter Garden, car parking within the project, as well as building the hospital at the hospital building on the ground and first acapital cost of 297 million and delivering floors to create asecure environment for facilities management and life-cycle patients and staff, and full separation of maintenance services that are expected to clinical activities and journeys from the generate approximately 140 million of public and non-clinical activities.
revenue over the concession period.
As aleading provider of training and PPP projects draw upon all our resources and apprenticeships, we are also using this skills in order to create integrated solutions project as another opportunity to provide for public sector buildings and infrastructure training and apprenticeships for local people that offer value for money by delivering high as well as maximising the use of local standards of design and efficiency at the suppliers, to the benefit of the local economy.
Carillion has delivered over 60 Public Private Partnership projects, including more than 20 healthcare projects, making us aglobal leader in the PPP market.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 23 Our business model in action continued Middle East construction services Dubai World Trade Centre How we apply our centralised operating platform Living our Values Building long-term partnerships with High standards of corporate governance customers, partners and suppliers Strong risk management First-class supply chain management Embedding sustainability into everything we do In October 2015, the Dubai World Trade The DTCD is amajor development located Centre awarded Carillion the main contract between the current Dubai International to deliver afurther phase of the Dubai Trade Convention Centre and Emirates Towers Centre District DTCD, worth 125 million.
in the heart of the Citys Central Business District.
The vision for the DTCD is to create Carillion has operated in the United Arab the worlds leading destination for all major Emirates UAE through its Joint Venture with exhibitions, conferences and events, with the Al Futtaim Group for around 50 years, the whole development designed and built during which time we have established to best-in-class quality standards.
For amarket-leading reputation, with an example, this latest phase, like the first one, outstanding track record of delivering iconic includes international office accommodation 1 buildings throughout the UAE and this latest that has achieved LEED Gold Certification contract award reflects and enhances from the US Green Building Council an that reputation.
industry benchmark for green building performance covering design, construction, At the time of this contract award, we were operation and maintenance.
nearing the successful completion of the first phase of the DTCD development, the The news that we had been awarded this contract for which was awarded in March latest phase of the DTCD development was 2014.
Winning the contract for the next announced during avisit by the then UK phase of this development is just one Minister for Trade, Lord Livingston, to of many examples across the Group of our highlight Carillions success as aleading success in winning repeat work with example of how British expertise is playing long-term customers, for whom integrated akey role in the development and growth solutions that meet high standards of quality, of Dubais infrastructure.
reliability, Health & Safety and sustainability Note are paramount.
1 L EED Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design, is agreen building certification programme that recognises best-in-class building strategies and practices.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 24 Strategic report Construction services excluding the Middle East Liverpool Football Club How we apply our centralised operating platform Living our Values B uilding long-term partnerships with High standards of corporate governance customers, partners and suppliers Strong risk management First-class supply chain management Embedding sustainability into everything we do In December 2014, Carillion signed community, required for the successful acontract with Liverpool Football Club LFC delivery of the contract.
For example, we to expand the main stand at the Clubs world are using an innovative programme and famous Anfield Stadium, together with construction techniques to manage the associated improvement works, on which work in order to minimise its effects on the construction began on site early in 2015.
Clubs activities by keeping the main stand The contract will add around 8,500 seats to fully operational for every football fixture the main stand, increasing its capacity to throughout the contract.
Prior to every over 20,000 and making it one of the largest game, our match-day liaison team meet with single stands in Europe with best-in-class the Clubs safety team, stadium management hospitality facilities, and increase the overall and the Liverpool City Council Licensing capacity of Anfield to some 54,000.
The Authority to inspect the existing stand work is scheduled for completion during the and access routes, to ensure that all the 2016 2017 football season.
match-day safety requirements are in place.
A match-day Inspection Plan has been From the outset, building astrong and developed in partnership with LFC and the trusted partnership with LFC has been at the City Council, which has to be complete heart of delivering this contract successfully.
before the stand can be formally handed This is essential to deliver the high standards over to LFC for use on match days.
of operational efficiency, Health & Safety and engagement, both with LFC and the local A key element of the contract was to lift into place a650 tonne, 140 metre long roof truss with pinpoint accuracy, which was televised as well as being watched live on Twitter and by local people from the surrounding streets.
The lift was overseen by an independent panel of safety experts, which reviewed and confirmed the engineering procedures used.
Two important pieces of club history, the Shankly Gates and the Hillsborough Memorial, have been safely stored and will be re-integrated respectfully into the new building.
Minimising the impact of the contract on the local community, with whom engagement and communication are key priorities, is also an essential part of this contract.
We have also held local job fairs and we are committed to provide placements for at least 50 apprentices for local people.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 25
