Market overview We have established strong market positions in our chosen markets.
The focus of our operating activities continues to be targeted towards our long-established markets of UK, Middle East and North Africa and Canada.
Within these markets our operations benefit from our ability to provide integrated solutions to address the needs of our customers, our exposure to abroad mix of blue-chip and Government customers and our expertise across awide range of economic sectors.
This section of our Annual Report aims to provide an overview of the key markets and the main activity drivers in relation to our operating units.
The charts below set out an analysis of Groups revenue and order book by operating segment.
Revenue Order book secure orders plus probable orders 4.6bn 17.4bn 2014: 4.1bn 2014: 18.6bn Support services 55% Support services 73% Public Private Public Private Partnership projects 4% Partnership projects 7% Middle East construction Middle East construction services 13% services 5% Construction services Construction services excluding the Middle East 28% excluding the Middle East 15% Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 12 Strategic report growing demand from both the public and private sectors for Support services innovative, cost-effective or value-adding solutions, including multi-service contracts.
The UKs infrastructure services market is estimated to be worth around 23 billion per annum.
Long-term prospects for this market remain positive, with expected growth of around 6 per cent per annum over the coming years, underpinned by the following factors: Increased demand driven by the need to extend and upgrade utility networks, e. g. expected investment of 2 billion in broadband services over the next five years and 25 billion of investment in electricity power transmission and distribution over the next seven years Increased investment in renewing and upgrading highways from 2.9 billion to 4.1 billion per annum by 2020, under the UK Governments Roads Investment Strategy and Planned investment by Network Rail of 35 billion in renewing and upgrading the UKs rail network over the period to 2021.
We are aleading international support services company with abroad Canada Support Services range of skills and capabilities.
We maintain and operate buildings Our support services business in Canada is focused on the property and andinfrastructure, notably for large property estates and for transport facilities management services market, which is estimated to be worth and utility networks.
We provide services to central government 14 billion per annum, the remote site accommodation services market, departments, local authorities, operators of utilities and transport which is estimated to be worth 3 billion per annum, and the infrastructure networks and blue-chip companies in the private sector.
services market, which is estimated to be worth 23 billion per annum.
Reflecting its exposure to natural resources, growth in Gross Domestic The table below sets out asummary of our support services target Product for Canada reduced from 2.4 per cent in 2014 to around 1 per cent market sectors by geography.
in 2015, but is forecast to improve to 1.6 per cent in 2016.
The majority of Middle East our services that are targeted at the natural resources markets support the and North operation of existing assets, as opposed to new greenfield investments, UK Canada Africa and consequently we consider these markets to be less sensitive to Property and facilities management changes in oil and other commodity prices.
Although there is inevitably Corporate some uncertainty over the potential impacts of oil and commodity prices Defence remaining at their current low levels for amuch longer period, we expect the Health following factors to help underpin our support services activities in Canada: Home affairs and justice Our property and facilities management activities are expected Local Government to benefit from pressures on the public sector to reduce costs, an Natural resources increase in the range of services outsourced by both the public and Infrastructure services private sectors and an increase in facilities management services Airports arising from the growing Public Private Partnerships market Electricity transmission and distribution Our accommodation services business is expected to benefit from Highways maintenance continued investment in the development of remote assets and Natural resources infrastructure and the consequent need to support workers engaged on existing operations undertaken by oil and mining companies and Oil and gas Our infrastructure services activities are expected to benefit from Rail Canadas programme to upgrade its power transmission and distribution Telecommunications networks, estimated to be worth over 50 billion, the opportunity to Accommodation services expand our highways maintenance activities into new territories and our Remote construction and development ability to enable customers in the natural resources sectors to reduce Natural resources costs through the provision of integrated service solutions.
UK Support Services Middle East and North Africa Support Services We are one of the largest support services businesses in the UK with Our Middle East and North Africa support services business is focused on asignificant proportion of our revenue and order book generated from the property and facilities management services market, which is estimated central and local government customers.
Consequently our workto be worth 4 billion per annum, and on the infrastructure services winning performance during the first half of 2015 was impacted by the market, which is estimated to be worth 2 billion per annum.
The Middle slow-down in Government-related contract awards ahead of the UK East economies have benefited from relatively healthy growth rates in General Election in May 2015, with this market returning to more normal recent years, however, the regions exposure to hydrocarbons and the fall levels during the second half of the year.
Gross Domestic Product for the in the oil price over the past year or so, is expected to result in aslow-down UK grew by 2.2 per cent in 2015 and it is currently forecast to grow by in growth in 2016.
However, our support services operations in the Middle asimilar amount during 2016, which should continue to support growth East are undertaken in support of operating and maintaining existing inour UK markets.
Our UK support services activities are focused on facilities, rather than new investment in oil industry facilities, and therefore twomain markets, property and facilities management services and we believe they are less sensitive to the effects of aprolonged low oil price.
The UK property and facilities management Although there is inevitably some uncertainty over the potential impacts services market is estimated to be worth 45 billion per annum and is of the oil price remaining at current low levels for amuch longer period, generally considered to be arelatively mature market.
Nevertheless, we expect the following factors to underpin the future prospects for our webelieve that this market will continue to offer opportunities for support services business in the Middle East and North Africa region: growthdue to: Our property and facilities management activities are expected to public sector organisations continuing to move towards a benefit from opportunities to extend our activities beyond the UAE, commissioning role, rather than adelivery role, leading to the due to growth in the number, size and complexity of buildings across outsourcing of awider range of services to the private sector the Gulf region, as individual countries continue to invest in the the need for Local Authorities and Government departments to reduce diversification of their economies away from oil and costs, while maintaining or improving service quality, leading toan increase in the outsourcing of services to the private sector and Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13 Market overview continued Our infrastructure services operations are expected to benefit from As yet, we have no PPP projects in the Middle East and North Africa.
growing opportunities arising across the Gulf region from the adoption However, anumber of Gulf States continue to explore opportunities of planned highways maintenance regimes, increased investment in for using private finance models to deliver buildings and infrastructure.
rail and scope to develop our oil and gas sector services to support Given planned investment is growing across most of our Middle East the operation and maintenance of existing facilities.
markets, particularly in social infrastructure, we are seeking to use our leadership in PPP projects to differentiate our offering and help mitigate The estimated sizes of our target support services markets are the effects of aprolonged low oil price.
For example, we have recently summarised in the table below, for each of our geographies, together signed aMemorandum of Understanding with the Oman Investment with the total size of each market.
Fund to develop PPP opportunities.
We are also continuing to use the leadership position we have developed in the Gulf through working with Middle East and UK Export Finance to offer customers an attractive source of project UK Canada North Africa funding.
This also differentiates our offering and should help us to Annual value Infra FM Infra FM Accom Infra FM mitigate the effects of aprolonged low oil price.
Total market bn 23 45 23 14 3 2 4 Target market bn 7 25 13 7 1 0.5 2 Middle East construction services Note: Infra Infrastructure FM Facilities Management Accom Accommodation Public Private Partnership PPP projects We offer aselective, sector-leading construction capability in our chosen markets in the Middle East, focused on large, higher valueadded contracts for customers with whom we have, or can build, long-term relationships.
The table below summarises our target market sectors in the Middle East.
United Kingdom We are one of the worlds leading companies in delivering PPP projects, Arab of Saudi for which we use our sector-leading expertise in arranging project Emirates Oman Qatar Arabia finance, combined with our construction and support services Building construction capabilities, to deliver awide range of asset-based services for public Defence sector customers.
The table below summarises our PPP target market Education sectors for each of our geographies.
Health Middle East High rise residential and North UK Canada Africa Mixed use PPP target sectors Leisure Health Infrastructure construction Education Airports Highways Rail Oil and gas In the UK, the PPP market continues to offer asteady flow of new project Our Middle East construction activities serve both the building and the opportunities, which is expected to remain at asimilar level to that over infrastructure markets.
Construction activity across anumber of Middle recent years.
Future projects are expected to be focused in the health, East territories has remained healthy over recent years, as countries transport and education sectors, where we have strong track records, continue to diversify their economies to reduce their reliance on the oil and the capital value of these projects is estimated to be worth in the market.
We expect activity in certain markets to continue to be driven by region of 6 billion over the next five years.
specific factors, such as the 2022 football world cup in Qatar and Expo 2020 in Dubai, although we remain cautious about the potential impacts Canada continues to have amajor PPP investment programme, which has ofthe prolonged low oil price on our revenue and margins.
As mentioned acapital investment value estimated to be worth around CA$60 billion above, we are already seeking to use our leadership positions in PPP over the next 10 to 15 years.
Our target markets, which are estimated to be projects and in UK Export Finance, to mitigate the potential effects of the worth around CA$20 billion over this period, are primarily in Ontario and low oil price on our activity levels in the Middle East.
Over the longer term, British Columbia.
However, we are also beginning to see agrowing pipeline other factors expected to underpin future volumes include thefollowing: of new potential PPP opportunities in other Provinces.
We expect our building activities to benefit from increased demand for hotel and leisure facilities driven by the growth in tourism and increased investment in social infrastructure to support population and economic growth and We expect our infrastructure activities to benefit from increased investment in roads and railways and the need for further investment in airport facilities, to support the expected growth in tourism.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 14 Strategic report The estimated sizes of our target Middle East markets of building and The UK construction market continues to recover, as indicated by the infrastructure are summarised in the table below, together with the total January 2016 construction purchasing managers' index of 55.0, which size of each market.
has remained above the neutral 50.0 threshold for 21 consecutive months.
Volumes are expected to continue recovering, with the Middle East Euroconstruct forecast suggesting that the UK non-residential market construction services isexpected to grow at five to six per cent per annum, within which the Annual value Building Infrastructure fastest growing sectors are expected to be commercial, office and Total market bn 12 11 education buildings.
UK infrastructure volumes are also expected Target market bn 4 1 togrow, driven by planned investment in avariety of infrastructure projects, notably roads and railways, including High Speed 2.
In Construction services excluding the Canada, the market remains very competitive, which is why we have tightened our selectivity criteria there in order to focus increasingly Middle East onconstruction work secured through PPP projects.
Factors expected to underpin future volumes for our construction activities in the UK andCanada include the following: Our UK building business expects to benefit from demand for new high-specification commercial buildings, institutional investment in new property developments and selective public sector investment in our target market sectors, for example, there is 23 billion of planned investment in school buildings over the next five years Our UK infrastructure business expects to benefit from planned investment of 61 billion in road and rail under the National Infrastructure Plan.
In addition, we expect significant opportunities to arise from High Speed Rail 2, Crossrail 2 and the expected investment of 110 billion by the electricity supply industry over the next 10 years and In Canada, we expect current levels of demand to be underpinned by investment in buildings and infrastructure by Federal and Provincial government.
This business segment includes our construction activities in the UK and Canada.
In both countries, we offer aselective, sector-leading The sizes of our target markets in the UK and Canada are summarised construction capability, focused on large, higher value-added contracts in the table below, together with the total size of each market.
for customers with whom we have, or can build, long-term relationships.
Our construction capability is also key to our ability to offer fully UK Canada integrated solutions for PPP projects in both the UK and Canada.
Annual value Building Infrastructure Building Infrastructure Furthermore, in Canada, we are focusing our construction activities on Total market bn 39 18 9 35 PPP projects and moving away from traditional construction.
The table Target market bn 18 9 3 1 below summarises our target market sectors for construction services in the UK and Canada.
UK Canada Building construction Commercial and offices Defence Education Health High rise residential Infrastructure construction Airports Electricity transmission and distribution Highways Rail Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15
