Governance Report of the Directors Results and dividends Background The consolidated income statement is set out on page 80.
Profit The Directors of the Company are required to produce a Directors before tax was 155.1 million 2014: 142.6 million.
report on an annual basis under the Companies Act.
The Directors are also required under the Companies Act to publish a Strategic report A 2015 interim dividend of 5.7 pence per ordinary share 2014: 5.6 for the Group and the Company.
The Directors Strategic report must pence was paid in November 2015.
It is proposed to pay a final dividend i contain a fair review of the Companys business and a description of 12.55 pence per ordinary share 2014: 12.15 pence on 10 June 2016 to of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and ii shareholders on the register at the close of business on 13 May 2016. be a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the development and The payment of these 2015 interim and final dividends amounts to performance of Companys business during the financial year and the 78.5 million 2014: 76.4 million.
position of the Companys business at the end of that year, consistent with the size and complexity of its business.
A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered allowing shareholders a convenient means of reinvesting their dividends in This section of the Annual Report sets out the information required the Company by buying further shares.
If required, a DRIP application to be disclosed by the Company and the Group in the Directors report.
form is available from the share registrar, Equiniti see page 130 for Certain matters that would otherwise be disclosed in this Directors contact details.
report have been reported elsewhere in this Annual Report and consequently this Directors report should be read in conjunction The Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare with the Strategic report on pages 1 to 40 which includes our 2015 dividends in accordance with the rights of the members, but no Sustainability review on pages 18 to 21 and the Corporate Governance dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
report for 2015 on pages 41 to 49, which are incorporated by reference into this Directors report.
Carillion has a progressive dividend policy that aims to increase its dividend broadly in line with the growth in underlying earnings per The Strategic report and this Directors report together with other share, subject to the investment needs of the business.
Further details sections of this Annual Report incorporated by reference, when taken in relation to our dividend policy are provided on page 37. as a whole, form the Management report as required for the purposes of Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
The Management report Acquisitions and disposals for 2015 has been prepared and presented in accordance with and In May 2015, Carillion plc acquired 100 per cent of the share capital in reliance upon applicable English company law and the liabilities of the Outland Group, a leading Canadian provider of remote site of the Directors in connection with this report shall be subject to the accommodation and associated services operating across a wide limitations and restrictions provided under such law.
range of growth sectors including mining, utilities, forestry, gas and oil.
Further details of this acquisition can be found on page 33.
Overview of the information required A summary of the information required to be disclosed in the Directors In 2015, we sold equity investments in three projects for cash proceeds report together with the relevant report and page reference is set out in of approximately 54 million, which represented an average discount rate the table below: of some seven per cent and generated a pre-tax profit of 37.7 million.
Page Disclosure Reported in reference Post balance sheet events Acquisitions and disposals Directors report 73 There have been no material events since the balance sheet date Amendment of Articles of Association Directors report 75 of 31 December 2015 and the date of this report.
Annual General Meeting Directors report 75 Appointment of Directors Directors report 73 Appointment of Directors Disclosure of information to Auditors Directors report 75 There are currently seven Directors on the Board of Carillion plc.
Authority to allot shares Directors report 74 Unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution of the Company, the Directors shall not be less than four nor more than 16 in number.
Change of control Directors report 75 Community and charitable giving Strategic report 20 Shareholders may by ordinary resolution elect any person who is Conflicts of interest Directors report 74 willing to act to be a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition Directors Corporate 42,43 to the existing Board.
The Company may also by special resolution Governance report remove any Director before the expiration of his or her period of office Directors indemnity Directors report 74 and may by ordinary resolution appoint another person who is willing Directors responsibilities Responsibility statement 76 to act to be a Director in his or her place.
Employee involvement Strategic report 20 Employees with disabilities Strategic report 20 The Board may appoint any person who is willing to act to be a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board.
Any Going concern Performance and 40 Director so appointed shall retire at the next Annual General Meeting financial review and shall then be eligible for reappointment.
Greenhouse gas emissions Strategic report 21 Political donations Directors report 75 In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Post balance sheet events Directors report 73 Code, all Directors will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual Purchase of own shares Directors report 74 General Meeting on 4 May 2016.
Powers of the Directors Directors report 74 Restrictions on transfer of shares Directors report 75 The Companys Articles of Association do not have a shareholding Results and dividends Directors report 73 qualification for Directors.
However, the Companys Remuneration Policy requires, to provide alignment with shareholders interests and Rights and obligations attaching Directors report 74 to promote ownership, that each of the Executive Directors hold the net to shares number of shares acquired through the Leadership Equity Award Plan Risk management Strategic report 26-31 and the Deferred Bonus Plan until the value of their total shareholding Share capital Directors report 74 is equal to annual salary.
Substantial share interests Directors report 75 Voting and restrictions on voting Directors report 74 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 73 Report of the Directors continued Directors Details of shares issued during the year and outstanding options are Details of the Directors of the Company are set out on pages 42 to 43 given in notes 23 and 25 on pages 106 and 107 to the consolidated and changes in the membership of the Board are summarised on financial statements which form part of this report.
Details of the page 46 of the Corporate Governance report.
Details of Directors share incentives in place are provided on pages 61 to 63 of the remuneration are provided in the Remuneration report on pages 57 to 72.
The interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of the Company are shown on page 63 of the Remuneration report which also Rights and obligations attaching to shares includes information on the Companys contracts of service with its The Companys shares when issued are credited as fully paid and free from Directors on page 71. all liens, equities, charges, encumbrances and rights.
All shares benefit from the same rights in relation to voting, dividends and any return of capital Powers of the Directors and are subject to the same restrictions as set out in the Companys Subject to the Companys Articles and any directions given by the Articles.
Except in relation to dividends which have been declared and Company in general meeting by special resolution, the business of the rights in relation to the liquidation of the Company, the shareholders have Company is managed by the Board which may exercise all the powers no rights to share in the profits of the Company.
The Companys shares of the Company, whether relating to the management of the business are not redeemable, however, the Company may repurchase any of the of the Company or not.
shares on or off market, subject to compliance with the Companies Act and requirements of the Listings Rules.
No shareholder holds any shares Directors responsibilities that carry any special rights in relation to the control of the Company.
The Directors responsibilities for the financial statements included within this Annual Report and the Directors confirmations required Authority to allot shares under the FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules are set out on As at 31 December 2015, the Company had the following authority to page 76. allot shares and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company: Conflicts of interest The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider a u p to a nominal amount of 71,709,104 such amount to be and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an reduced by the nominal amount allotted or granted under interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the paragraph b below in excess of an equivalent sum : and Company.
The Board has in place procedures to deal with Directors b comprising equity securities up to a nominal amount of conflicts of interest arising under Section 175 of Companies Act 2006 143,418,209 such amount to be reduced by any allotments or and these procedures are considered to be effective.
grants made under paragraph a above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue.
Directors indemnity Under the Companys Articles of Association, to the extent permitted by Purchase of own shares the Companies Acts, the Company indemnifies any Director, Secretary or As at 31 December 2015, the Company had authority from shareholders other officer of the Company against any liability and may purchase and for the purchase of 43,025,462 of its own shares.
Such authority will maintain insurance against any such liability.
The Board understands that also be sought from shareholders at the Companys Annual General the provision of such indemnification is in keeping with current market Meeting on 4 May 2016.
To date, this authority has never been used.
practice and believes that it is in the best interests of the Group to provide such indemnities in order to attract and retain high-calibre Directors and Voting and restrictions on voting officers.
The Company purchased and maintained Directors and On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder Officers liability insurance throughout 2015. of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote and, on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares Share capital present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote, shall have one vote The Company has only one class of share with one vote for every share.
for every ordinary share held.
As at 3 March 2016, the issued share capital of the Company comprised of 215,127,314 divided into 430,254,629 ordinary shares of 50 pence The notice of Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines for exercising each.
The ISIN number of the shares is GB0007365546.
voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be put to the Annual General Meeting.
All proxy votes are On 12 December 2014, Carillion Finance Jersey Limited, a whollycounted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each owned subsidiary of the Company incorporated in Jersey, issued resolution are announced and published on the Companys website 170 million of convertible bonds, which are guaranteed by the after the meeting.
The bonds are a senior and unsecured obligation of Carillion Finance Jersey Limited and the Company and are subject to a negative No member shall, unless the Board otherwise decides, be entitled pledge.
These bonds carry a coupon of 2.50 per cent per annum in respect of any share held by him or her to attend or vote either payable semi-annually and based on the conversion price of 3.9856 personally or by proxy at any general meeting of the Company or upon will convert into 42,653,553 ordinary shares of the Company.
Upon a poll or to exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation conversion of the bonds, the Company may elect to settle its obligations to general meetings or polls unless all calls or other sums presently by way of delivery of ordinary shares, payment of a cash alternative payable by him or her in respect of that share have been paid.
amount or a combination of the two.
Unless previously redeemed, converted or purchased and cancelled, the bonds will be redeemed The Company is not aware of any agreement between the holders at par on or around 19 December 2019. of its shares which may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 74 Governance Restrictions on transfer of shares Disclosure of information to auditors There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the The Directors of Carillion plc confirm that at the date of this Report Company other than in relation to certain restrictions that are imposed of the Directors and as far as they are individually aware, there is no from time to time by laws and regulations for example insider trading relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and each laws.
In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Director has taken all reasonable steps to ascertain any relevant audit Authority, Directors and certain officers and employees of the Group information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of require the approval of the Company to deal in ordinary shares of this information.
Annual General Meeting The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon on 4 May 2016 that restrict the transfer of its shares.
at Austin Court, 80 Cambridge Street, Birmingham B1 2NP.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting accompanies this Annual Report Substantial share interests and Accounts.
As at 3 March 2016, the Company had received formal notification of the following holdings in its shares under the Disclosure and Transparency Included in the AGM business is the proposal to renew the authority Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
It should be noted that these for the Company to purchase its own shares.
As at 31 December 2015, holdings may have changed since the Company was notified, however, the Company had authority from shareholders for the purchase of notification of any change is not required until the next notifiable 43,025,462 of its own shares.
Global Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions data Number % of issued The disclosures in respect of CO2 emissions, as required to be reported of shares share capital held under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Standard Life Investments Holdings Ltd 42,466,075 9.87 Regulations 2013, can be found in the Sustainability section of the BlackRock, Inc. 30,894,690 7.2 Strategic report on page 21.
Templeton Global Advisors Limited 24,031,003 5.6 Kiltearn Partners LLP 21,542,444 5.0 Approved by order of the Board.
Brewin Dolphin Limited 21,541,472 5.0 Letko, Brosseau and Associates Inc. 17,289,003 4.02 Change of control A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon a change Richard Tapp of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as loan Secretary agreements and share incentive plans.
3 March 2016 Carillions main credit facilities, including the 790 million Syndicated Multicurrency Revolving Credit Facility, contain a provision such that in the event of a change of control any lender may, within a 30-day consultation period and if it so requires, notify the Company that it wishes to cancel its commitment.
Any such cancellation of commitment and the repayment of any outstanding borrowings will occur on the date falling three days after the expiry of the consultation period.
Following the occurrence of a change of control, the Company must make an offer to the holders of its private placement notes to prepay the amounts outstanding together with accrued interest.
The holders of the Groups 170 million of convertible bonds have the right to require the Group to redeem each bond at its principal amount, together with accrued and unpaid interest.
Political donations The Company and its subsidiaries made no political donations during the period under review 2014: nil.
Amendment of Articles of Association The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 75 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the Strategic report, the Directors report, the Directors Remuneration AnnualReport and financial statements Report and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in Each of the Directors of Carillion plc, whose names and functions accordance with applicable law and regulations.
are set out on pages 42 and 43, confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set theDirectors are required to prepare the Group financial statements of accounting standards and contained in this 2015 Annual Report and inaccordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and Accounts, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial haveelected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in position and profit of the Company and the undertakings included accordance with the UK Financial Reporting Standard 101, Reduced in the consolidation taken as a whole: Disclosure Framework.
the Strategic report and the Directors report, included in this 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, include a fair review of the development Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial and performance of the business and the position of the Company statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent they face: and Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide the information necessary select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: for shareholders to assess the Companys financial position, make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: performance, business model and strategy.
for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Approved by order of the Board for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company Richard Adam FCA will continue in business.
Group Finance Director 3 March 2016 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors report, Directors Remuneration report and Corporate Governance statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 76
