Chief Executives strategic overview continued Sustainability We use the global standard 'Net Promoter Score' NPS to measure customer satisfaction, which tells us what our customers think about our service and enables us to benchmark our performance against 33.8m other organisations.
NPS ranges from -100 to 100 and in 2015 we Contribution to profit in 2015 achieved an NPS of 36 2014: 37.
This was avery good score, especially as we successfully mobilised an unprecedented volume of Sustainability remains acore strategic commitment, as it has done since new contracts in 2015, given that all new contracts take time to reach Carillion was launched as an independent company and listed on the full efficiency.
We therefore believe our NPS score indicates that we London Stock Exchange in 1999.
We believe that being arecognised leader are a leader in customer service in the sectors in which we operate.
in sustainability through striving to embed sustainability into everything Furthermore, with the introduction of anew assurance mechanism we do, differentiates us from our competitors.
It helps us to build trusted and enhanced customer feedback arrangements, supported by our relationships and makes us amore efficient and successful business and refreshed governance model, we believe we are on track to achieve thereby more attractive to all our stakeholders.
We calculate that our our future targets of 42 in 2016 and 44 in 2017. sustainability strategy contributed around 33.8 million of profit to the Group in 2015.
To reduce costs and improve Our 2020 Sustainability Strategy aims to achieve six Positive Outcomes, namely, building asuccessful business, leading the way in our sector, cutting efficiency to support margins.
carbon, protecting the environment, supporting sustainable communities and providing better prospects for our people.
To monitor and measure our performance and progress we have  Key Performance Indicators for each of our Positive Outcomes, supported by abalanced set 5.3% of objectives across economic, environmental and social responsibility.
1 Group underlying operation margin An overview of how we are becoming amore sustainable business is set out on pages 18 to 21 of this strategic overview.
In addition, we publish an We continually run programmes in all our business units and across extensive annual sustainability report in April of each year.
all our supply chain activities and central functions to reduce costs and improve efficiency, which reflects our relentless focus on cost We use external benchmarking to assess our performance and leadership management and efficiency.
These programmes play afundamental in sustainability and to learn from others.
Our leadership was again role in enabling us to offer customers high-quality services that are exemplified in 2015 with Carillion retaining PwCs Building Public Trust also competitive.
The success of these programmes continues to Award for Sustainability Reporting for an unprecedented third consecutive be demonstrated by our ability to win contracts consistent with our year.
We were also one of only two UK Industrial Sector companies that selective approach, despite the fact that trading conditions in several were awarded aClimate A-grade within the CDP formerly the Carbon of our markets remain challenging.
Disclosure Project index for cutting carbon achieving ascore of 98A for disclosure and performance in tackling climate change.
We also continue 1 Although the Group's underlying operating margin reduced in 2015 to to benchmark our performance through initiatives such as Business in 5.3 per cent 2014: 5.6 per cent, this represented agood performance, the Community's BITCs Corporate Responsibility Index, where we given current market conditions, with the reduction due to two main maintained our position among the most responsible companies, by factors: the operating margin in Construction services excluding the securing a4-Star 97 per cent rating.
We also secured aplace in the Times Middle East is trending back to amore normal level in line with our list of Top 50 Employers for Women and aDiversity Champion Award, long-standing guidance, as the temporary benefits from rescaling our through our investments in diversity and inclusion.
Carillion has also been UK construction activities have now largely ended: and the operating re-accredited as amember of the FTSE4Good Index, which measures the margin in Middle East construction services also reduced as expected performance of companies that meet globally recognised standards of and as indicated at the half year.
Importantly, we maintained the corporate responsibility.
operating margin in support services at 5.8 per cent, despite higher than normal contract mobilisation costs following an especially successful We also continue to invest extensively in external partnerships with work-winning performance in 2014. organisations such as BITC, and I chair its Community Impact Leadership team.
After eight years of supporting disadvantaged groups under the Key performance indicator national Ready for Work scheme, we provided our 1,000th work placement during 2015 and helped our 400th person to secure employment.
together with our schools engagement programmes and industry-leading apprenticeship programme, exemplifies the investment we are making to create askilled workforce of the future, which is essential to building asustainable and profitable business.
104% Profit to cash conversion Key performance indicator Strong cash management continues to be central to our strategy and 3.
business model and delivering profit that is fully cash-backed remains akey measure of our performance.
Since rescaling our UK construction business, aprogramme we announced in 2010 and completed in 2013, in order to ensure this business remained aligned to the size of its 36 markets, we have returned to amore normal cash flow profile in line Net Promoter Score with our expectations.
Consequently, in 2015 we have again delivered astrong operating cash flow performance with underlying cash flow Providing agreat customer experience lies at the heart of our business 1 from operations representing 104 per cent of underlying profit from and underpins the strong relationships we have developed with 1 operations 2014: 119 per cent.
customers across all our markets.
1 T he underlying results are based on the definitions set out in the key financial highlights on page 1.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 10 Strategic report Work-winning Over recent years there has been a growing trend among some of In 2015, we won new orders and probable orders worth 3.7 billion our customers towards awarding more framework contracts.
In 2015, 2014: 5.1 billion, while maintaining our selective approach to choosing we were awarded several multi-year frameworks with a potential the contracts for which we bid in order to support margins and achieve revenue value of over 2.0 billion, which was an exceptionally strong the cash flows we expect from contracts.
Although we do not include the value of frameworks performance, given that the UK General Election in May was within our order book or probable orders, we expect them to generate accompanied by the usual hiatus in major public sector contract substantial revenue in addition to that from orders and probable orders, awards, and we had fewer bids reaching contract award stage in the which also supports our expectation that we will make further progress firsthalf of 2015, compared with the corresponding period in 2014. in 2016.
Consequently, the total value of new orders and probable orders won inthe first half of the year reduced to 1.0 billion 2014: 3.2 billion, Furthermore, we saw the value of our pipeline of contract opportunities however the pace of work-winning picked up in the second half of the increase to over 41 billion, which includes only specific contracts that year during which we won some 2.7 billion of new orders and have passed our initial selectivity criteria and which we are either probable orders 2014: 1.9 billion.
already bidding or which we expect to come to market.
At 31 December 2015, we had total orders plus probable orders worth Prospects 17.4 billion 2014: 18.6 billion, which in absolute terms remained very Looking forward, we expect to continue benefiting from our successful strong in relation to the Groups annual revenue.
Consequently, revenue strategy and integrated business model.
Although trading conditions 1 visibility for 2016 also remained strong at 84 per cent 2014: 85 per remain challenging in several of our markets, we continue to see signs cent, which, with the exception of 2014, is as high as it has ever been of some improvement, especially in the UK, and we have a strong order at a year end.
book plus probable orders worth 17.4 billion.
This also continues to give us good revenue visibility, which was 84 per cent for 2016 at 31 December 2015.
Order book plus probable orders In addition, we have our strong pipeline of contract opportunities worth 2015 2014 over 41 billion, which is spread across all our geographies and most bn bn of our market sectors, on which further details can be found in Market Support services 12.7 14.1 overview on pages 12 to 15.
Public Private Partnership As always, there are a number of risks and uncertainties that may projects 1.2 1.2 affect our ability to take advantage of these opportunities.
Details 17.4bn Middle East of our principal risks and uncertainties are set out on pages 28 to 31, 2014: 18.6bn construction together with a description of the Groups rigorous risk management services 0.8 0.9 processes and the specific measures we are taking in order to manage Construction and mitigate our principal risks.
The prolonged low oil price clearly services excluding has the potential to adversely affect some of our customers investment the Middle East 2.7 2.4 programmes, notably in the Middle East.
Although Middle East construction generates only around 10 per cent of our operating profit, to help mitigate the potential impact of the low price, we will continue 1 Revenue visibility to work with customers on opportunities to utilise UK Export Finance and Public Private Partnership projects.
It is also worth noting that in respect of the forthcoming referendum on the UKs membership of the 84% European Union, Carillion has no operations on mainland Europe as 2014: 85% we have pursued our consistent strategy of focusing on the UK, Canada and the Middle East and North Africa.
Therefore, although we draw upon the European labour markets and we source some materials from Potential value of framework agreements won Europe, we do not regard the decision on the UKs membership of the European Union to be one of our top ten principal risks.
2bn Given the strength of the Groups order book, our pipeline of contract 2014: 2bn opportunities and operating cash flow, which enables us to continue investing to support our strategy for growth, we believe the overall outlook remains positive and that the Group continues to be well Pipeline of contract opportunities positioned to make further progress in 2016.
2015 2014 Key performance indicators for 2016 bn bn In order to support our strategy and targets for growth, the Board will Support services 12.1 11.1 continue to monitor the business metrics set out on pages 4 to 5 and Public Private report on the following key performance indicators for 2016, as these Partnership continue to be relevant to the Groups development and success.
To develop and attract excellent people to create a vibrant, diverse 41.4bn Middle East and flexible workforce: 2014: 39.2bn construction 2.
To be a recognised leader in Health & Safety and Sustainability: services 16.0 15.4 3.
To reduce costs and improve efficiency to support margins: and services excluding 5.
the Middle East 10.9 10.2 1 B ased on expected revenue and secure and probable orders, which exclude variable work, frameworks and re-bids.
Richard Howson Group Chief Executive 3 March 2016 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11
