22 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE DO BUSINESS How We Do Business As a leading energy and services company with more EXPLORE MORE ABOUT HOW WE DO BUSINESS than 200 years of experience, we are well positioned AT CENTRICA.
to satisfy the changing needs of our customers.
To deliver this purpose, we must continue to improve and evolve how we do business.
We are building stronger relationships with key stakeholders that help us become a better corporate citizen and an employer of choice, with the capabilities necessary for delivering an excellent service in a safe and responsible way.
We are also making an important contribution to address big issues in society related to energy: from energy pricing and vulnerability to energy security and climate change.
By improving how we do business, we will better adapt to the challenges and opportunities that arise in the rapidly-changing world of energy and build trustworthiness in our business and sector.
Not only will this secure our long-term sustainable growth, st it will define us as a 21 century energy and services company acting for, and on behalf of, our current and future customers.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 23 Strengthening relationships for a better energy future Quality relationships with key stakeholders help evolve how we do business and determines our long-term success.
PRIORITISING SAFETY DEVELOPING SKILLS Meanwhile, service levels for business customers were lower than planned Ensuring the safety of our people, We must secure skills that satisfy our following issues relating to the migration customers and communities is our top customers changing needs while helping to new customer service systems.
Focus on safety also makes us our people fulfil their potential.
however, beginning to see improvements a stronger, more productive business for During 2015, British Gas invested that are expected to continue in 2016. meeting our customers needs.
24.5million in training 9,000 engineers In North America, Direct Energy increased All our engineers undergo training to reduce and1,200 apprentices.
We additionally overall training per person from 10 hours safety risks in customer homes.
Despite improved the skills of over 20 apprentices in 2014, to 12 hours on average each this, 46 incidents such as trips and falls inexploration, production and power month.
Furthermore, new call centre occurred compared with 29 in 2014.
In alongside 70 people on the graduate advisers underwent training to increase 2016, we will re-focus our approach to programme.
Following a successful pilot, call-handling efficiency.
customer safety and introduce improved Direct Energy will train 100 new technicians working practices that reduce risk for in 2016 through our partnership with a local Over time, these investments should help our customers.
reduce complaints and improve satisfaction.
ii Our net promoter score NPS which Our lost time injury frequency rate for In order to retain and reward our skilled measures satisfaction, increased in British employees increased from 0.28 per workforce, we are determined to provide fair iii i Gas to 4 from -4 in 2014.
Direct Energy 200,000 hours worked in 2014 to 0.34. remuneration.
That is why in 2015, we made NPS declined from 38 in 2014, to 37.
Ourtotal recordable injury frequency rate the commitment to pay at least the Living also rose to 1.10 per 200,000 hours worked Wage to our people located in the UK.
IMPROVING CUSTOMER SERVICE To create sustainable business success and Across exploration and production, we value in society, it is vital we have a strong Customers are at the heart of our business received three Improvement Notices from moral compass underpinning all of our and we recognise the need to strengthen the UK Health and Safety Executive and relationships and activities.
our relationship with them by improving experienced one significant process safety our service.
Our Business Principles set out the ethical event in Canada, which led to a contractor standards we expect and in 2016, we will British Gas is investing an additional being disabled following exposure to liquid evolve our approach to ethics to ensure 50million between 2015 and 2017 nitrogen while filling a storage tank.
This we obtain the highest levels of conduct to deliver a better service for residential was up from one Improvement Notice and and compliance.
consumers which will enhance customer zero significant process safety events in service systems, increase resourcing by 2014.
Eight high potential events that could We also work with suppliers to uphold around 10% and deliver extra training to have resulted in a serious incident also ethical, social and environmental standards call centre advisers.
More than 350 advisers occurred in 2015.
Process safety therefore in the products and services we buy.
This have already been recruited, while training remains a major focus and we have reduces risk while increasing transparency and rose 24% towards our aim of 30% more created a three-year improvement plan reliability in our supply chain.
In 2015, 46 training days by the end of 2016 compared that will strengthen employee leadership potentially higher risk suppliers completed to 2013.
This brings the average monthly and capability alongside enhancing asset assessment on these issues, resulting in training hours per person to 14, up from management and assurance processes.
an average supplier risk score of 54 low 11 in 2014. risk.
This is better than the multi-industry average of 42 medium risk and marks an improvement from 51 low risk in 2014.
British Gas invested Where suppliers receive a medium or high risk rating, we collaborate to raise standards 24.5million in training by creating corrective action plans.
9,000 engineers and i Unit has been updated from 100,000 hours worked to 1,200 apprentices.
better align with industry standards.
2014 performance has been restated to align with the updated unit.
ii British Gas and Direct Energy NPS is not comparable due to different methodologies.
iii Restated due to changes in methodology which nowfocuses on experiences at the end of key customerjourneys.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 24 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE DO BUSINESS Supporting changing customer needs Energy can be complex but we are making it easier to understand and control, while ensuring support for those most in need.
THE ISSUE AND OUR ROLE Every household receives energy bills but We offer competitively priced tariffs to We also recognise our role to help not enough people understand their costs win and retain customers while providing government support vulnerable people or how to reduce them.
At the same time, innovative products and services that satisfy with their energy needs.
We are working changing and challenging financial their changing needs.
This gives customers across sectors and have formed strategic circumstances mean some people greater understanding and control over partnerships that deliver invaluable debt struggleto pay for their energy.
energy, helping them use less of what we advice and financial support for those sell and lower their energybills.
OUR PROGRESS for more informed choices that can reduce Providing competitive prices Helping those who need support bills.
As a result, we are prioritising the We regularly review our energy prices to Over 3,000 customers in North America were roll-out to our vulnerable customers.
In the UK supported through our Neighbor-to-Neighbor since November 2014, wholesale gas prices bill assistance programme in Texas, while Using smart meter data, Direct Energy was have reduced by 41% but as most of our 1.9 million vulnerable customer households able to launch North Americas first online energy is bought in advance to help protect were helped in the UK.
energy insights dashboard, Direct Your customers from pricing volatility, our cost of Energy.
Similar to British Gas my energy Our mandatory contributions in the UK gas has reduced by 24%.
Wholesale energy tool, energy use is shown by categories included one-off payments of 140 to over costs make up 40% of the average British such as appliance and compares it to 650,000 vulnerable customers as part of Gas residential dual fuel bill and was offset similar households, highlighting where the Warm Home Discount scheme.
Through to some extent by other rising external savings might be made.
the delivery of energy efficiency products via costs, such as distribution charges ECO, those most in need will also save an Hive is also a powerful tool for giving greater alongside social and environmental taxes.
estimated 400 million on their energy bills.
Over 300,000 smart British Gas was, however, able to reduce 11.6 million in mandatory contributions thermostats have been sold in the UK to household gas prices three times since for customers and non-customers were control heating and hot water remotely, with the start of 2015 and was the only major additionally made to the independent 58% of Hive users saying it has helped save supplier to do so.
The average residential charity, the British Gas Energy Trust.
This money on their energy bills.
Hive is now dual fuel bill was cut by 14%, bringing the assisted over 24,500 people with household available in the Republic of Ireland while average daily charge for energy to around debt advice and grants as well as funding a new family of products including smart 3.14.
Our post-tax profit margin for our debt advisers at organisations like Shelter, plugs, lights and sensors, are being UK residential customers was 5.6% in 2015.
British Gas strategic charity partner.
introduced throughout 2016, enabling more To help reduce bills, we continued to of the home to be controlled via an app.
Through partnership with National Energy advocate for a more cost-effective UK Action, we also developed targeted fuel We have also sold nearly 200,000 smart energy policy.
This included engagement poverty strategies for communities across thermostats in North America, helping with government on our Energy Choices the UK.
Direct Energy customers save up to 20% report, which outlines alternative pathways on their energy bills.
by prioritising lower cost technologies, Overall, we spent more than 220 million setting cost-effective carbon targets while supporting those most in need during 2015, To further develop our leadership maintaining support for vulnerable people.
mainly through mandatory government capabilities in cutting-edge products, we programmes in the UK.
acquired AlertMe, an energy management Investing for smarter energy use and services company and have With the most customers in the UK, British established a global Connected Home Gas is leading the mandatory smart meter 1.9 million vulnerable business in which we will invest 500 million roll-out, having installed 2.5 million in over the next five years.
Panoramic Power homes and businesses since 2009.
This customer households were also acquired to lead the future is around 70% of all smart meters installed were helped in the UK.
i development of wireless sensors that in the UK.
Smart meters enable accurate identify ways businesses can reduce billing and help customers explore their operating costs.
energy use and costs in real-time, allowing i Based on Department of Energy & Climate Change quarterly statistics, September 2015.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 25 Securing energy to fuel society The world of energy is changing and we must adapt to it by sourcing and optimising energy supplies that satisfy the changing needs of our customers.
THE ISSUE AND OUR ROLE Energy is an enabler of societys progress Gas remains an important part of our We will continue to concentrate on serving and global demand for it is expected to rise strategy because it is one of the most our customers energy needs by expanding i by nearly a third by 2040.
With millions of affordable energy sources for heating trading capabilities while taking a leading people increasingly reliant on energy, we homes and running businesses, is the role in creating a new model for generating have an ongoing responsibility to source, lowest carbon fossil fuel and backs-up and supplying energy through our new generate and supply competitively priced intermittent renewable energy.
We continue to be a sizeable producer Together with our innovative products and We must evolve how we do this to create of gas and oil.
We are, however, reducing services see page 24, this approach will stronger energy propositions that meet the the scale of our oil and gas E&P business improve energy security by diversifying needs of our customers, the environment to reflect the conclusions of our strategic supply and reducingdemand.
and makes us a more resilient business.
review to rebalance the Groups investments in favour of our customer-facing activities.
OUR PROGRESS Owning and operating wind farms no Evolving our energy supply Revolutionising energy supply longer fit with our customer-focused In 2015, we produced 78.6mmboe of We have established a new global fide&P strategy which is why we will instead gas and oil.
We increased our focus on business and expect to invest 700 million continue to be an enabler of other purchasing more competitive and diverse over the next five years to revolutionise the operators wind projects, committing to energy supplies on the global market.
traditional, centralised way of generating take electricity through a limited number In 2016 and beyond, we will concentrate and supplying energy.
on significantly growing our presence in We will give large scale energy users such LNG which is forecast to account for a To reduce risks associated with increased as businesses and hospitals, the ability growing share of the worlds energy mix.
energy trading, particularly in respect of to take control of their energy and use it LNG, PPAs and entry into new markets, we The development of natural gas from shale more intelligently to reduce, generate and have sought to maintain rigorous controls could also strengthen energy security in the manage it themselves.
fide&P will bring in contracting to ensure future partners UK and throughout 2015, we continued to together flexible, local generation with meet the legal standards we expect.
explore its potential through our 25% stake storage and renewable technologies in the Bowland exploration licence operated alongside energy efficiency measures At the end of 2015, our overall commitment by Cuadrilla Resources.
Despite plans to and smart building management systems.
to secure gas and power for customers mitigate possible adverse impacts on the All of these technologies will be managed totalled over 50 billion.
local community such as noise and traffic, from a smart energy control centre to help planning consent was refused in July.
Our keep costs and carbon emissions as low partners have since appealed the decision as possible.
We have taken the decision and we await the outcome in 2016. fide&P will also develop new propositions to sell our 245MW wind farm Alternatives to fossil fuels are important and technologies that reduce demand on as we transition to a lower carbon future.
the grid and reward customers with lower We hold a 20% stake in the UKs existing bills for shifting use away from peak times.
nuclear power fleet and while we have been Together with battery storage and smarter pivotal in shaping the UKs wind industry grids, this will help energy use become through our role as an early developer, we more efficient, reduce consumption and have taken the decision to sell our 245MW improve future energy security.
wind farm capacity by the end of 2017. i International Energy Agency, 2015.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 26 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE DO BUSINESS Reducing carbon emissions to combat climate change Fossil fuels contribute to climate change so we are helping customers reduce theircarbon footprint while driving down emissions across our business.
THE ISSUE AND OUR ROLE Energy is essential to the lives of individuals, We fully support climate change targets With over 90% of our carbon emissions families and businesses but we recognise setat a national and international level by coming from customers, empowering them that fossil fuels are also the biggest helping customers cut carbon emissions to reduce emissions is vital.
We are well contributor to climate change: one of from their energy consumption alongside placed to do this through market-leading societys greatest global challenges.
those generated by our business.
products and services that give customers greater choice and control over their energy.
OUR PROGRESS Our commitment to disclose and effectively 28MWp.
This was up from 19MWp the Our UK fuel mix of power sold % manage risks related to climate change previous year, following the acquisition of were again recognised in 2015 by CDP, an residential solar capabilities in July 2014.
2 international non-governmental organisation Inthe UK, British Gas exited residential 11 NGO, who ranked Centrica as a leader solar due to challenging market conditions in disclosure and awarded us a B for and will now focus on large scale solar for 33 i performance.
This was down from an A businesses.
Combined, installations rose 23 the previous year, due mainly to reduced low from 7MWp to 34MWp across 697 UK carbon nuclear and renewable generation.
Enabling customers to cut carbon Balancing demand on the grid also reduces 31 impact from fossil fuels because less energy Our expected 1.2 billion investment over needs to be generated to meet peak the next five years in Connected Home demand.
In 2015, Direct Energy launched seepage 24 and fide&P see page 25, can Gas Coal Reduce Your Use Rewards where help our customers lower their emissions Nuclear Other customers save 5% on their bill by lowering through greater insights and control over Renewable usage during a peak event.
In 2016, British how they use and generate energy.
Gas expects to roll-out its own Time-of-Use Cost-effective energy efficiency measures tariff to reduce consumption at peak hours.
In 2015, the carbon intensity of our power such as insulation, are also delivered as part generation fell by 24% to 117gCO2 kWh.
In total, we calculate that we have helped of ECO.
During 2015, we installed 149,000 This surpasses our target of 260gCO2 kWh our UK customers save over 22mtCO2e measures through ECO which will generate by 2020, largely due to reduced gas since 2008, the majority of which was lifetime savings of 2.8mtCO2e.
generation, stronger nuclear generation through mandated government schemes.
Furthermore, we help customers reduce and divestments made in 2014.
We have Reducing our own emissions reliance on fossil fuels by investing in now revised our target to 200gCO2 kWh alternative energy sources.
Solar energy We now emit nearly 70% less carbon for by 2020, which better reflects our business.
is growing in North America and during every pound of revenue raised than in 2010, The carbon intensity of all power sold to 2015, Direct Energy installed solar panels having gradually shifted away from being ourUK customers during 2014 15, was in 2,164 homes and businesses, generating a large scale energy producer.
oneof the lowest among major UK energy suppliers at 240gCO2 kWh: well below the iii UK average of 360gCO2 kWh.
Our carbon emissions Meanwhile, the internal carbon footprint 2015 2014 of our core business was 79,096tCO2e.
This meant we exceeded our target to ii Total carbon emissions 4,393,016tCO2e 5,587,885tCO2e reduce emissions by 20% since 2007, ii Scope 1 4,272,477tCO2e 5,452,079tCO2e achieving a total reduction of 27%.
ii Scope 2 120,539tCO2e 135,806tCO2e Total carbon intensity by revenue 157tCO2e m 190tCO2e m i Based on 2014 data.
We report on an equity basis with practices drawn from WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol, IPIECAs Petroleum ii Restated due to availability of improved data.
Industry Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Defras Environmental Reporting Guidelines.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 27 The Group takes its obligations to pay Our view on taxation and collect the correct amount of tax very seriously.
Responsibility for tax governance and strategy lies with the Group Chief Financial Officer, with the oversight of the Board and the Audit Committee.
OUR APPROACH TAXES PAID IN THE UK TAXES PAID OUTSIDE THE UK Wherever we do business in the world we We maintain a transparent and constructive Outside the UK the Groups businesses take great care to ensure we fully comply relationship with HMRC in the UK.
This aresubject to corporate income tax rates with all of our obligations to pay or collect includes regular, open dialogue on issues inexcess of the UK Corporation Tax Rate taxes and to meet local reporting and ofsignificance to HMRC and Centrica.
Ourrelationship with fiscal authorities in other countries where we do business A more detailed explanation of the way the We fully disclose information on ownership, isconducted on the same principles.
Groups tax liability is calculated and the transactions and financing structures to the timing of cash payments is provided on our relevant tax authorities.
Our cross-border We carefully manage the tax risks and costs website at centrica.
tax reporting reflects the underlying inherent in every commercial transaction, in commercial reality of our business.
the same way as any other cost.
However, we do not enter into artificial arrangements We ensure that income and costs, in order to avoid taxation nor to defeat the includingcosts of financing operations, stated purpose of tax legislation.
areappropriately recognised on a fair and sustainable basis across all countries where We actively engage in consultation with the Group has a business presence.
We government on tax policy where we believe understand that this is not an exact science we are in a position as a Group to provide and we engage openly with tax authorities valuable commercial insight.
Tax charge v. cash tax by country Breakdown of UK adjusted tax charge Statutory tax rates on profits 2015 m m Group activities % Adjusted UK UK supply of energy and services 20 tax charge 74 98 UK oil and gas production 50 75 74 121 Deferred taxes and 106 Norway oil and gas production 78 associates taxes 47 Netherlands oil and gas production 50 2015 taxes to be United States supply of energy repaid in 2016 66 106 andservices 35 130 Canada supply of energy and 2014 taxes paid 28 in 2015 services and oil and gas production 26 Republic of Ireland supply UK tax charge Taxes paid of energy and services 12.5 in 2015 121 UK cash tax paid As at December 2015.
Mainland Europe tax charge 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 Mainland Europe cash tax paid 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 North America tax charge FURTHER INFORMATION ON THE TAX CHARGE North America cash tax paid IS SET OUT IN NOTE 9.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
