STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 47 Directors and Corporate Governance Report We took the opportunity to review our governance structure.
By aligning it with our identified principal risks, we enhanced the Boards governance and oversight.
Dear Shareholder Board governance As Chairman of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors and Corporate Governance Report which sets out how we promote good corporate governance principles, the work of the Centrica Board and its Committees and our approach to risk management and internal control.
Taken together, these define our approach, which underpins our firm commitment to ensuring that Centrica operates to the highest standards of corporate governance.
The Group relies on a robust governance framework to support the organisation see page 53 and responsibility for its delivery Rick Haythornthwaite, Chairman lies with the Board.
The Board is accountable to shareholders and remains committed to developing good shareholder engagement in accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Good corporate governance is an important Code the Code.
We detail how we comply with the Code on enabler to the success and reputation of the page 48.
Group and provides the framework for the way We took the opportunity in 2015 to review our governance structure and, by aligning it with our identified principal risks, we enhanced in which we conduct our business and deliver the Boards governance and oversight.
One output of this exercise our strategic objectives.
was the establishment of a new Board Committee, the Safety, Health, Environment, Security and Ethics Committee SHESEC.
This report is intended to provide shareholders with a good Board evaluation understanding of how the Group is managed, how the Board and The Board considers that its own continuing effectiveness is vital its Committees are organised and how these contribute to a robust to the Group delivering its strategic objectives.
Towards the end framework of governance.
The importance of our governance ofthe year, the Board conducted its annual evaluation of its own framework in ensuring the continuing success of Centrica and the performance against a number of changes on the Board which delivery of long-term sustainable value creation for all of Centricas Ihave already outlined.
In accordance with the requirements stakeholders is recognised.
I firmly believe that good corporate of theCode, we undertook an internally facilitated assessment governance is an important enabler to the success and reputation and the findings provided a clear agenda for Board development.
of the Group and provides the framework for the way in which Moredetail can be found on page 50.
We expect to hold we conduct our business and deliver our strategic objectives.
anexternal review of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees next year.
Appointments and succession As I highlighted in my Chairmans Statement, during the year we The Directors and Corporate Governance Report that follows have seen a number of Board changes notably welcoming Iain hasbeen prepared in order to provide shareholders with a Conn on to the Board as Chief Executive and Carlos Pascual comprehensive understanding of Centricas governance framework andSteve Pusey were appointed as Non-Executive Directors.
and to meet the requirements of the Code, the Listing Rules and the Wealso appointed Ian Meakins as our Senior Independent Director.
I trust you will find it informative.
During the year, Jeff Bell, our Interim Group Chief Financial Officer, Rick Haythornthwaite was confirmed in post and Mark Hodges was appointed as an Chairman Executive Director.
Both Jeff and Mark have been appointed to the 18 February 2016 Executive Committee and bring with them a wealth of experience reflecting their respective careers to date.
I look forward to working with my fellow Directors in driving excellence in governance both in the boardroom and throughout the Group.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 48 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Directors and Corporate Governance Report continued BOARD CONSTITUTION Governance profile Chairman and Chief Executive Independence Compliance The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Almost two-thirds of our Board is made up of The Company complied with the UK are split and are set out in their respective job independent Non-Executive Directors, including Corporate Governance Code in 2015. descriptions.
Senior Independent Director Financial experience centrica.
com Ian Meakins is our Senior Independent The chair of the Audit Committee is deemed to For further information on our Board and our Director.
have recent, relevant financial experience.
corporate governance framework, please refer to our website.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Key strategic considerations of the review included: We are required to measure ourselves for the year under review the outlook and sources of growth for global gas markets, against the standards of the Code.
A copy of the Code is available and the UK and US energy markets: at frc.
This report sets out how the Company applied the a review of the portfolio mix and capital intensity and the principles of the Code and the extent to which the Company recommended portfolio direction based on identified complied with the Code in the year to 31 December 2015.
The growthoptions: Board confirms that up to the date of this report, the Company optimising operating capability and efficiency in support has continued to comply with the provisions of the Code.
of the revised strategy: and A summary of our governance profile, highlighting our compliance the Groups financial framework.
with key areas of the Code, is set out above.
For more information on the outcome of the strategic review THE BOARD see page 12.
The Board believes that good corporate governance is central BOARD LEADERSHIP to contributing to Centricas performance.
A clearly defined Board meetings framework of roles, responsibilities and delegated authorities is The Board holds regular scheduled meetings throughout the year.
in place and this supports the Boards aim to deliver sustainable In 2015, the Board met 10 times.
Further information on topics growth for the benefit of shareholders, employees and customers.
considered by the Board in 2015 are detailed on page 53.
The powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association Articles, which are available on the Companys Board Directors website.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution.
We have sought to ensure we have a balanced Board where individual In addition, the Directors have responsibilities and duties under merit and relevance are the key entry requirements but collectively we legislation, in particular the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
have an appropriate mix of diversity and skills to ensure constructive debate and thoughtful decision making.
In addition, we believe it is The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for important to maintain a blend within the Non-Executive group where its approval which is reviewed annually to ensure best practice.
some are in full-time executive employment and others are pursuing A summary is shown below and the full schedule is available a non-executive portfolio career path.
The Board also delegates other matters to Board Committees and management as appropriate.
A balance of Executive Directors and independent Non-Executive Directors on our Board promotes thorough debate and The Board is responsible for: consideration of the important issues facing Centrica and the the development of strategy and major policies: Groups performance.
At present, there are a total of 11 Directors, the Groupss customers and our services to them: of whom four are Executive and six are Non-Executive, in addition the Groups corporate governance and systems of risk to our Chairman.
This represents more than half the Board, which management and internal control: satisfies the requirements of the Code.
reviewing performance: All of our Non-Executive Directors are considered to be approving interim dividend payments and recommending final independent and free from any business interest which could dividend payments: materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
In addition, approving the annual operating plan, Financial Statements and all of our Non-Executive Directors have assured the Board that they major acquisitions and disposals: remain committed to their respective roles and, having considered the Groups corporate responsibility arrangements including these assurances, the Board is satisfied that each Non-Executive customer services, health, safety and environmental matters:and Director is able to dedicate the necessary amount of time to the Companys affairs.
Our Non-Executive Directors are members the appointment and removal of Directors and the ofvarious committees of the Board, which are the Audit, the CompanySecretary.
Nominations, the Remuneration and the Safety, Health, As part of its responsibilities, the Board approves and monitors Environment, Security and Ethics Committees.
the development of the Groups strategy.
During 2015, the Board During the year the Non-Executive Directors, including the undertook a strategic review of the Groups businesses and Chairman, met independently of management.
This led to an announcement on 30 July 2015 outlining theSenior Independent Director met with the independent a revised business model and strategic priorities.
Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 49 The Directors have full access to the advice and services of the or letters of appointment, in the case of Non-Executive Directors, Group General Counsel & Company Secretary, who is responsible areset out in the remuneration policy that was approved by for advising the Board through the Chairman on corporate shareholders on 27 April 2015.
The full remuneration policy can governance matters.
They are also able to seek independent be found on our website.
professional advice at the Companys expense in respect of Copies of Directors service contracts and letters of appointment theirduties.
for the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection by The Board has agreed that each Director shall stand for shareholders at each AGM and during normal business hours reappointment at each AGM.
Details of the Directors of the Company are set out with their In line with best practice, the roles of our Chairman and Chief biographies on pages 44 and 45.
Information on remuneration Executive are separate, formalised in writing and have been and share interests are set out in the Remuneration Report on approved by the Board.
A summary of these and other roles pages 63 to 79.
Details relating to Directors service contracts is shown in the table below.
Board composition and roles Chairman Rick Haythornthwaite Responsible for the leadership and management of the Board.
In doing so, he is responsible for promoting high ethical standards, ensuring the effective contribution of allDirectors and, with support from the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary, best practice in corporate governance.
Chief Executive Iain Conn Responsible for the executive leadership and day-to-day management of the Company, to ensure the delivery of the strategy agreed by the Board.
Group Chief Financial Jeff Bell Responsible for providing strategic financial leadership of the Company and day-to-day Officer management of the finance function.
Independent Margherita Della Valle, Responsible for contributing sound judgement and objectivity to the Boards deliberations Non-Executive Lesley Knox, Mike Linn, and overall decision-making process, providing constructive challenge and monitoring Directors Carlos Pascual, Steve Pusey the Executive Directors delivery of the strategy within the Boards risk and governancestructure.
Senior Independent Ian Meakins Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as a trusted intermediary for the Director other Directors, as well as shareholders, as required.
Group Executive Mark Hanafin, Mark Hodges Responsible for executive leadership and day-to-day management of relevant business Directors units in support of the Chief Executive and the delivery of the strategy agreed by theBoard.
Recruitment Appointments A formal, rigorous and transparent process is followed during the During the year under review, there were a number of changes selection and subsequent appointment of each new Director to to the Board.
As announced in December 2014, Ian Meakins the Board, which is led by the Chairman.
The recruitment process succeeded Mary Francis to become the Companys Senior conducted for the appointment of Carlos Pascual and Steve Pusey Independent Director with effect from 1 January 2015. was in line with this approach.
Iain Conn was appointed as a Director of the Company and The Committee appointed several executive search agents to assist became Chief Executive on 1 January 2015.
In addition, Carlos in the search for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Pascual and Steve Pusey were appointed as Directors of the agents engaged included Russell Reynolds Associates, The Zygos Company with effect from 1 January 2015 and 1 April 2015 Partnership, JCA Group and SpencerStuart.
Jeff Bell, our Interim Group Chief Financial Officer, was confirmed in post on 1 August 2015 and Mark Hodges was The Committee considered the candidates against the objective appointed as a Director with effect from 1 June 2015. criteria set out in the profile, having due regard for the benefits of Board diversity.
None of the executive search agents listed above provide any other services to the Company.
Recruitment process Stage 01 Stage 02 Stage 03 Stage 04 Stage 05 Identify Board Appoint executive search Nominations subRecommendation to Formal Board approval appointment requirement agents.
Shortlist committee conducts the Board by the candidates interviews Nominations Committee Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 50 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Directors and Corporate Governance Report continued Balance and independence of the Board Board evaluation As part of the evaluation process, the Board considers the balance Our policy over many years has been to conduct a thorough review of skills, knowledge, experience and independence to ensure of Board process, practice and culture on an annual basis with the the Board and Committees effectively discharge their duties input of an external facilitator at least once every three years.
As part of its annual review of corporate Board considers the annual review of the Board, its Committees governance, the Board considered the independence of each and Directors as an essential part of good corporate governance.
Non-Executive Director, other than the Chairman, against the On each occasion, the Board has received positive reports and criteria in the Code and determined that each Non-Executive has adopted recommendations to improve Board, Committee Director remained independent.
It is important that the Directors and individual Director performance.
have a varied range of skills and experience to ensure they can Recognising that it could take some time for the new Board to exercise their independent judgement on issues of strategy, settle, we undertook an internal Board review in 2015, which performance and resources.
is set out in the diagram below: Board diversity Centrica is committed to the merits of diversity in all its forms at Internal Board review Board level and throughout the Group.
As at 31 December 2015, 18% two Directors of the Board were women, this was driven by Board changes that took place at the end of 2014 reducing this Stage 01 from 33% three Directors at the same point in 2014.
Centrica is committed to maintaining its current level of women on the Board November 2015 The completion of Board questionnaires on governance, management and would increase the percentage if the skills, experience and and best practice benchmarks: our progress against our improvement knowledge of the individual were appropriate and in keeping agenda: and reflections and insights in response to the Boards evolving with the needs of the business.
Tenure % Nationality % Stage 02 9 9 January 2016 Interviews between the Chairman and each Director to explore thematic areas and specific points raised in the survey, as well as to peer review individual Directorperformance.
27 27 64 64 Stage 03 February 2016 Consideration by the Board of the final report on the results of the survey.
03 years 7 directors UK 7 directors 36 years 3 directors North America 3 directors 69 years 1 director Mainland Europe 1 director 9 years 0 directors Rest of the World 0 directors Stage 04 Breakdown by gender % March 2016 Feedback meetings on the peer reviewresults.
Board Senior Other Management employees 18 27 29 27 30 33 A complementary exercise was conducted in parallel with the 67 73 70 Board review process, to develop and articulate a Board Charter 71 73 82 to redefine our role and purpose: the skills, values and culture necessary to deliver that role and purpose: our journey to enhance our effectiveness: and the key areas of focus for 2016.
We intend to 2015 Male 2014 Male use the Board Charter to contribute to the development of our Board 2015 Female 2014 Female and serve as a framework for our 2016 Board evaluation exercise.
Each Committee chair led their own separate internal Committee review for 2015, the results of which, including progress against Balance of Non-Executive and Executive Directors the findings of the 2014 external evaluations, were considered Non-Executive 63.6% at their respective meetings in February 2016.
Executive 36.3% The Chairmans evaluation was conducted by Ian Meakins, the Senior Independent Director, and reported to the Board in February2016.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 51 in the Thames Valley area for senior professionals who have taken Employee and senior management diversity a career break as either a parent or a carer.
The 12-week paid Our employment policies and practices reflect a culture where return-ship offers the opportunity to work on professional decisions are based on individual ability and potential in relation assignments and get expert coaching from people who have to the business needs.
We are committed to promoting equal also returned to work after some time out.
Centrica is working with opportunities and diversity as part of creating an inclusive working the Womens Business Council which makes recommendations environment that attracts and retains the best people and that to UK government and businesses on how womens contribution enables everyone in Centrica to fulfil their potential.
Individuals to growth can be optimised.
are treated in a non-discriminatory manner at all stages of their employment, including recruitment and selection, reward, training The power of our employee networks, which include the and development, promotion and career development.
By WomensNetwork, Carers Network, Parents Network and Lesbian, delivering on our commitment to diversity and inclusion D&I Gay, Bi-Sexual & Transgender Network, drives us to become a we are able to: trulydiverse organisation, giving us that sense of energy that comes from having a broader group of people contributing to attract a diverse range of talent which we believe is the fuel ideasand issues across our organisation.
Via our annual employee for the company of the future: survey, wehave established a D&I index that sets a baseline for create an inclusive environment so that everyone can bring ourorganisation that over time we will be able to measure their whole self to work, to be themselves, have their voice ourselvesagainst.
heard and contribute to innovation and ideas: and ensure people receive career opportunities based on merit We fully support the Governments intention to introduce measures so that we have the right people in the right jobs.
in the future to require companies to report on the gender pay gap, as we believe that transparent reporting drives positive intervention At senior management level, 27% are women, whilst 29% within organisations.
of employees, excluding the Board and senior management, are women as indicated in the charts on the previous page.
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS Our senior management level includes categories of employees Directors attendance as defined in the Act.
During the year, Centrica was recognised All Directors are expected to attend all Board and relevant for our commitment to D&I by a number of awards for our Committee meetings.
Details of attendance by Directors at Board policies promoting and supporting carers, older workers and and Committee meetings during 2015 are set out in the table family-friendly practices.
Where a Director was not in attendance, this was due to Centrica has various programmes taking place relating to diversity other prior work commitments.
Directors who were unable to in all its forms.
These include coaching and mentoring and our attend specific Board or Committee meetings reviewed the relevant participation in the 30% Clubs cross-company, cross-sector papers and provided their comments to the Chairman of the Board mentoring scheme for mid-career women who will benefit from or Committee, as appropriate.
In addition, any Director who is mentoring at the current stage of their career.
In partnership with unable to attend a meeting will, as a matter of course, receive the Mars and Vodafone, we launched HitReturn, a new UK programme minutes of that meeting for their reference.
i Board and Committee meetings and attendance during the year Safety, Health, Environment, Security and Ethics Audit Nominations Remuneration Committee Board Committee Committee Committee SHESEC ii Rick Haythornthwaite 10 10 N A 5 5 4 4 N A Iain Conn 10 10 N A N A N A N A Jeff Bell 3 3 N A N A N A N A Margherita Della Valle 10 10 4 4 5 5 6 6 2 2 Mark Hanafin 10 10 N A N A N A N A Mark Hodges 6 6 N A N A N A N A Lesley Knox 9 10 4 4 5 5 6 6 N A Mike Linn 8 10 2 3 4 5 4 6 2 2 Ian Meakins 9 10 4 4 4 5 5 6 N A Carlos Pascual 10 10 3 3 5 5 6 6 2 2 Steve Pusey 6 7 2 3 2 3 N A 2 2 i Following the review of the Board and Committee governance, membership of the Committees was revised.
ii SHESEC was established on 28 July 2015.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 52 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Directors and Corporate Governance Report continued Induction The Group General Counsel & Company Secretary oversees the schedule of briefings and meetings that would be most beneficial All new Directors appointed to the Board receive a comprehensive to ensure an effective induction following each appointment.
As a induction programme tailored to meet their individual needs.
The result, tailored induction programmes were designed for Iain Conn, Chairman and Group General Counsel & Company Secretary are Mark Hodges, Carlos Pascual and Steve Pusey.
These included responsible for delivering an effective induction programme for briefings from members of the Executive team on key areas of newly appointed Directors.
the business including the internal audit function, an overview of the Groups risk management processes, the key risks facing the business, site visits and a briefing in respect of the corporate governance framework withinCentrica.
Case studies of Director inductions Executive Non-Executive Mark Hodges, Group Executive Director Carlos Pascual, Non-Executive Director and Chief Executive, Energy Supply & Services, UK & Ireland An invaluable part of my induction My induction programme has programme has been meeting been detailed and engaging, passionate individuals on site providing me with the visits who are committed to opportunity to meet with staff delivering for our customers.
on the ground and gain a deeper understanding of the Groups operations as well as visiting a number of sites.
Experience and strengths Strong understanding of the UK consumer market Senior leader in energy geopolitics Non-resident senior fellow, Center on Global Energy Expertise in driving significant improvements in Policy, Columbia University customer service A solid track record of improving business performance Experience of working in a regulated environment Focus areas Meet senior management across the Group Learn more about Centrica and our businesses Learn more about British Gas Understand the UK corporate governance environment Meet senior management across the Group Overview of induction programme Health and safety responsibilities training Health and safety responsibilities training Meetings with British Gas Leadership Team Met with the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary on UK corporate governance Accompanied a British Gas service engineer on home visits around Norwich Accompanied a Direct Energy technician on home visits around Houston Site visits to British Gas offices in Cardiff, Leicester and Oxford Meetings with senior management including the Chief Executive, Head of Internal Audit, Met shareholders and advisers at the 2015 AGM Risk & Controls and Group Director, HSES Site visit to Connected Home, London Site visits to solar installation, Colonia, New Jersey Meeting with a selection of journalists and to a significant client of Direct Energy Business Met shareholders and advisers at the 2015 AGM Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 53 Board programme Ongoing training and development During the year, Directors considered regular updates and Ongoing training and development is also provided to all presentations as part of the Board programme on changes and Directors, as agreed with the Chairman and supported by the developments to the business and to the legislative and regulatory executive management.
environments in which the Group operates.
In particular, the Board Conflicts of interest was briefed on the following key issues during 2015: The Act and the Articles require the Board to consider any potential The Group Strategic Review conflicts of interest.
The Board considers and, if appropriate, authorises each Directors reported actual and potential conflicts Direct Energy Strategic Review of interest regularly.
The conflicts of interest register is reviewed at Developments in the Competition and Markets Authoritys least annually by the Board.
Each Director abstains from approving investigation into the energy market their own reported potential conflicts.
The Board operates a policy Investor feedback to identify and, where appropriate, manage potential conflicts of Customers and the provision of Energy and Services to them interest for Directors.
The Board monitors the status of each conflict British Gas smart metering roll-out and has put in place a protocol that a Director shall abstain from Update on health, safety, environment and security involvement in any decision process relating to their specific conflict.
Information security with a particular focus on cyber risk Review of the Board governance structure Company law, corporate governance, reporting and remuneration reporting developments BOARD GOVERNANCE Board governance structure Board of Directors Safety, Health, Audit Nominations Remuneration Environment, Disclosure Chief Executive Committee Committee Committee Security and Committee Ethics Committee Minutes of Committee meetings are made available to all Directors Review of the Board and Committee and the Chairman of each Committee provides regular updates governancestructure to the Board.
During the year, the Board conducted a comprehensive review ofthe Board and Committees governance framework against The responsibilities of each Board Committee, its membership theGroups identified principal risks.
These risks are discussed and the key issues considered by each one during 2015 are set inour Principle Risks and Uncertainties on page 38.
The review out in the Committee reports beginning on page 54. concluded that these principal risks would primarily be the responsibility of the Board, Audit Committee and, a new Delegated authority committee, the Safety, Health, Environment, Security and Ethics As part of the review into the Board Committees governance Committee SHESEC.
Oversight of the systems of internal structure, revisions were made to the delegations of authority controlsand risk structure of the Group would remain with given to the Chief Executive, which he in turn is able to further theAudit Committee.
As part of this review, the Groups Corporate sub-delegate to his executive team.
The Chief Executive is required Responsibility Committee ceased and its duties addressed either to establish an executive governance structure including an by the Board itself, particularly in respect of customers, or by Executive Committee that has responsibility for strategy portfolio theSHESEC.
and planning, performance management of the Group as a whole, people and capability, communications and alignment and risk As a result, the membership of each of the Committees was management.
reviewed and the Matters Reserved for the Board and the terms of reference of each Committee were revised accordingly and are available on our website.
The independent Non-Executive Directors are members of the Audit, Nominations, Remuneration and SHESEC Committees.
The Committees are supported in the same way as the Board in order to ensure information flows in a timely, accurate and completemanner.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 54 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Directors and Corporate Governance Report continued Areas of focus and training AUDIT COMMITTEE An annual schedule of training is designed to provide the Members Committee members with practical training and insight into specific Margherita Della Valle areas of interest.
In 2015, there were two training sessions focused Chairman on understanding and assessing risks in commodity trading and Lesley Knox the trade lifecycle, including a visit to the trading floor to experience Ian Meakins front office gas trading.
Steve Pusey Responsibilities of the Audit Committee: to support the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in effective governance of the Companys financial reporting, internal controls and risk management: Margherita Della Valle, to provide advice to the Board on whether the Annual Report Committee Chairman and Accounts, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides all the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business This report aims to provide you with insight into the workings model and strategy: and activities of the Committee during 2015, outlining how the monitoring and reviewing the operation and effectiveness of Committee discharges its duty in providing oversight of financial the Groups internal audit function, including its strategic focus, reporting and related controls, the types of issues considered activities, plans and resources: during the year and the key judgements reached.
the appointment and, if required, the removal of the Following the establishment of the SHESEC, the Committees Head of Internal Audit, Risk & Controls: terms of reference and its interaction with the SHESEC were managing the relationship with the Groups external auditors reviewed.
Joint meetings with the SHESEC were scheduled on behalf of the Board including the policy on the award of for thematic areas of mutual interest to both Committees.
non-audit services: Compliance with the revised Code, including the additional to conduct a tender for the external audit contract at least every requirements introduced in 2014 in relation to risk management 10years and make appointment recommendations to the Board: and the viability statement, is set out on page 62. to consider and review legal and regulatory compliance issues, Role of the Committee specifically in relation to financial reporting and controls, and, together with the SHESEC, maintain oversight of the The role of the Committee is primarily to assist the Board in fulfilling arrangements in place for the management of statutory and its corporate governance obligations in relation to the Groups regulatory compliance in areas such as financial crime: and financial reporting, internal control and risk management systems as well as providing oversight of the internal audit function and to establish and oversee whistleblowing and fraud prevention the external auditors.
Membership and attendance Key issues considered by the Audit Committee: Margherita Della Valle, as Deputy Group CFO of Vodafone Group review of the 2014 preliminary results, the 2014 Annual Report plc, is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant and Accounts and 2015 half-year results and Interim Report: financial experience as required by the Code.
Carlos Pascual and consideration of updates to the Code and its application to the Steve Pusey were appointed to the Committee on 1 January 2015 2015 Annual Report and Accounts including complying with and 1 April 2015, respectively.
Carlos Pascual stood down as a new provisions relating to the robust assessment of risks and member of the Committee following the review of the Board and the viability statement: Committee governance structure in July 2015.
Each member of full consideration of the key judgements and financial reporting theCommittee is an independent Non-Executive Director who matters in 2015: hasa wide range of relevant business experience.
Further details assessment of the effectiveness of the system of risk regarding the Directors skills and experience can be found in their management and internal controls: biographies on page 44.
The Board is satisfied that the Committee review and approval of audit and non-audit fees: has the resources and expertise to fulfil its responsibilities.
consideration and recommendation that the Annual Report Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chairman of and Accounts, when taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and the Board, the Chief Executive, the Group Chief Financial Officer, understandable: the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary and the review of effectiveness of external auditors PwC : Head of Internal Audit, Risk & Controls, none of whom do so as review of Group Assurance Report and Group Compliance of right.
Other senior executives will attend as required to provide Report: information on matters being discussed which fall into their area of consideration of adherence across the Group with regulatory and responsibility.
The external auditors,  LLP compliance requirements, including the undertakings in respect PwC, also attend each meeting.
The Committee meets individually of Centrica Storage: with the external auditors, the Group Chief Financial Officer and the review of internal audit activity: Head of Internal Audit, Risk & Controls at each meeting without Executives present.
consideration of whether the judgements, estimates and assumptions used in the presentation of the Financial Statements were reasonable and consistent: and regular updates of cases reported to the Companys Speak Up helpline.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 55 In addition, to ensure the independence of the external auditors Risk management and internal controls and in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & Internal audit Ireland 260 and Ethical Statement 1 issued by the Accounting The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing Practices Board and as a matter of best practice, PwC have the operation and effectiveness of the Groups internal confirmed their independence as auditors of the Company, in a audit function, including its strategic focus, activities, plans letter addressed to the Directors.
Together with PwCs confirmation and resources.
The appointment and removal of the and report on their approach to audit quality and transparency, Head of Internal Audit, Risk & Controls is also a matter for the Committee concluded that PwC demonstrated appropriate the Committee.
qualifications and expertise and remained independent of the The Groups internal audit three-year plan for the period 2016 to Group and that the audit process was effective.
2018 was approved by the Committee in 2015, which was primarily Non-audit fees risk-based and also focused on the assurance of core processes.
In order to preserve the independence of the external auditor, the The Committee also reviewed staffing levels and qualifications to Committee is responsible for the policy on the award of non-audit ensure these were appropriate and adequate for the delivery of services to the external auditors.
A copy of this policy is available theplan.
The award of non-audit work, within permitted During the year, the Committee received regular reports categories, is subject to pre-clearance by the Committee, should summarising the findings from the Groups internal audit functions the fees in a given year exceed a specified threshold.
All significant work and action plans to resolve any highlighted areas.
The non-audit work is tendered and where PwC were appointed, it Committee monitored the progress of the most significant action was considered that their skills and experience made them the plans to ensure these were completed satisfactorily.
most appropriate supplier of the work.
Significant engagements undertaken during 2015 included tax compliance and advice The Boards review of the system of risk management on corporate finance support for acquisitions and disposals.
andinternal controls On a quarterly basis, the Committee is provided with reports Each year, an extensive process of self-certification operates of all non-audit assignments awarded to the external auditors throughout the Group whereby the effectiveness of internal controls and a full breakdown of non-audit fees incurred.
A summary and compliance with the Groups Business Principles and policies of fees paid to the external auditors is set out in note S9 to the are assessed.
Self-certification is completed both at the half year Financial Statements.
The results of the annual process, together with the conclusions of the internal reviews by internal audit, inform the Appointment of the external auditors annual assessment of the effectiveness of the systems of risk PwC have been the external auditor of the Group since the management and internal controls performed by the Audit demerger of Centrica in 1997.
As in past years, at the Committees Committee in 2015. request, and following PwCs review of the prior year audit, they presented a formal audit plan and fee proposal for 2015.
Following External auditors a full review and having given full consideration to the performance The Committee manages the relationship with the Groups external and independence of the external auditors, the Committee has auditors on behalf of the Board.
The Committee considers annually recommended to the Board that a resolution to re-appoint PwC the scope, fee, performance and independence of the external be proposed at the 2016 AGM and the Board has accepted and auditors as well as whether a formal tender process is required.
In accordance with the Code, PwC were reappointed auditors of the Group at the AGM held the Group expects to perform an audit tender in 2016 for the in April 2015.
2017 year-end audit, which will coincide with the next audit The Board considers it of prime importance that the external partner rotation.
auditors remain independent and objective and as a safeguard Audit information against this being compromised, the Committee implemented and Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of monitors a policy on the independence of external auditors.
This the Annual Report and Accounts confirms that, so far as they are policy details the process for the appointment of the external aware, there is no relevant audit information of which PwC are auditors, the tendering policy, the provision of non-audit services, unaware and that they have taken all steps that they ought to have the setting of audit fees and the rotation of audit partner and staff.
taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit There are no contractual or similar obligations restricting the information and to establish that PwC are aware of that information.
Groups choice of external auditors.
Effectiveness and independence of the external auditors To assess the effectiveness and independence of the external auditors, the Committee carried out an assessment of PwC.
This included a review of the report issued by the audit quality review team regarding PwC and an internal questionnaire completed by Committee members and relevant members of management on their views of PwCs performance.
The questionnaire covered a review of the audit partner and team, the audit scope and approach, audit plan execution, auditor independence and objectivity and robustness of the challenge of management.
Thefeedback received was reviewed by management and reportedto the Committee and the Board.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 56 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Directors and Corporate Governance Report continued Key judgements and financial reporting matters in 2015 Audit Committee reviews and conclusions The Committee reviewed management reports detailing the carrying and Impairment of goodwill, upstream gas and oil assets, recoverable value of the assets and the key judgements and estimates power generation assets and storage facility assets used.
At the year-end it concluded pre-tax impairments of Centrica Energy The Group makes judgements and estimates in considering whether the upstream gas and oil assets of 1,865 million relating to the UK, Dutch and carrying amounts of its assets are recoverable.
These judgements include Norwegian gas and oil assets 1,514 million, including 510 million of primarily the achievement of Board approved business plans, long-term goodwill, Canadian upstream assets 309 million, including 99 million projected cash flows, generation and production levels including reserve of goodwill and Trinidad and Tobago gas assets 42 million were required, estimates and macroeconomic assumptions such as the growth and primarily due to declining market gas and oil prices.
Reductions in baseload discount rates and long-term commodity and capacity market auction power prices and forecast capacity market auction prices, have led the prices used in the valuation process.
In the forecasts, where forward Committee to conclude pre-tax impairments of the Groups power assets market prices are not available, prices are determined based on internal were also required.
These related to its finance leased UK gas-fired power model inputs.
station of 31 million and the Nuclear investment in associate of 372million.
The Committee reviewed the recoverable amount of all other significant balance sheet assets and concluded they had recoverable values in excess of the carrying value and were not impaired.
The external auditors held discussions with the Committee on the key judgements and assumptions used in the impairment tests and provided their own analytical report.
Further detail on impairments arising and the assumptions used in determining the recoverable amounts is provided in notes 7 and S2 on pages 105 to 107, 140 and 141.
In prior years the Committee received training on the classification of Presentation of certain re-measurements and exceptional items and certain re-measurements on the face of the income exceptional items statement.
The Committee reviewed management reports detailing the The Group reflects its underlying financial results in the business judgements regarding the appropriate presentation of items as certain performance column of the Group Income Statement.
To be able to re-measurements and exceptional items.
The Committee considered the provide this clearly and with consistent presentation, the effects of certain size, nature and incidence of these items and concluded that separate re-measurements of financial instruments and exceptional items are disclosure of these items was appropriate in the Financial Statements.
reported separately in a different column in the Group Income Statement.
Exceptional items include the upstream asset impairments in the UK, theNetherlands, Norway, North America and Trinidad and Tobago, impairment of the Groups investment in associate Nuclear and of its finance leased UK gas-fired power station asset, along with additional onerous contract provisions predominantly in relation to the tolling contract of the finance leased UK gas-fired power station.
Further detail is provided in note 7 on page 105.
The Committee has reviewed and held discussions with the external Downstream revenue recognition auditors on the level of provisions made during the year.
The implementation The Groups revenue for energy supply activities includes an estimate of of a new billing system in British Gas Business in 2014 meant that the energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading determination of the appropriate level of unbilled revenue and of bad debt and an estimated year-end meter reading.
It is estimated through the provisions last year required more judgement than in previous years.
During billing systems, using historical consumption patterns, on a customer by 2015 unbilled revenue assessments have returned to pre-implementation customer basis, taking into account weather patterns, load forecasts and levels however, the review of bad debt provisioning has continued to require the differences between actual meter readings being returned and system more judgement.
The Committee has reviewed management reports estimates.
An assessment is also made of any factors that are likely to detailing these judgements and concluded that the level of provision is materially affect the ultimate economic benefits which will flow to the Group, adequate.
Further detail of accrued energy income and provision for credit including bill cancellation and re-bill rates.
To the extent that the economic loss is provided in note 17 on pages 119 and 120. benefits are not expected to flow to the Group, revenue is not recognised.
The Committee reviewed management reports detailing the key Determination of long-term commodity prices developments during the year and a summary of price changes and drivers.
Long-term commodity price forecasts are derived using valuation The Committee also reviewed the proposed valuation commodity curves techniques based on available external data.
A significant number of versus those of external third parties.
The external auditors also provided judgements and assumptions are used in deriving future commodity detailed reporting and held discussions with the Committee on the curves.
These forecasts are benchmarked against other third-party potential impact of changes in the commodity curves.
More detail on the forecasts and are approved by the Groups Executive Committee.
The assumptions used in determining fair valuations is provided in note S6 long-term commodity price forecasts are used in determining the fair on pages 153 to 155.
Sensitivities of the asset impairment tests to changes values of derivative financial instruments in North America and Europe.
in price forecasts are provided in note 7 on pages 105 to 107.
They are also a key input in the Groups impairment valuation testing.
A review and discussion of provisions with management was undertaken Onerous contracts by the Committee and by the external auditors, including the utilisation and The Group makes judgements and estimates in considering whether the release of existing provisions and any new provisions made during the year.
unavoidable costs of meeting specific obligations exceed the associated The Committee reviewed management reports detailing the key future net benefits.
During the period, a new onerous contract provision judgements and estimates used, including the discount rate assumptions was established for further unavoidable costs under the tolling contract used.
Further detail on provisions and the assumptions used in determining for its finance leased UK gas-fired power station.
An assessment of the the value is provided in notes 7 and 21 on pages 105, 107 and 123. economic benefits which partially offset these costs is based on forecast production profiles, forward prices for power, gas and carbon and forecast capacity market auctions and forecast operating and capital expenditure.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 57 Key judgements and financial reporting matters in 2015 Audit Committee reviews and conclusions The Committee reviewed and approved the key assumptions and Pensions disclosures in the Financial Statements.
Independent actuaries are The cost, assets and liabilities associated with providing benefits under consulted on the appropriateness of the assumptions and discussions defined benefit schemes is determined separately for each of the Groups are held with the external auditors.
Further details on pensions are set schemes.
Judgement is required in setting the key assumptions used for out in note 22 on pages 124 to 128. the actuarial valuation which determines the ultimate cost of providing post-employment benefits, especially given the length of the Groups expected liabilities.
The Committee reviewed managements funding forecasts and sensitivity Going concern and liquidity risk analysis and the impact of various possible adverse events including The Group experiences significant movements in its liquidity position significant commodity price movements and credit rating downgrades.
due primarily to the seasonal nature of its business and margin cash.
The Committee also reviewed the forecast liquidity position of the Group in To mitigate this risk the Group holds cash on deposit and maintains the context of the borrowing constraints under the Articles of Association, significant committed facilities.
The Group regularly prepares an including the analysis considering the remote scenario of borrowing assessment detailing these available resources to support the going restrictions remaining in place after the Companys AGM on 18 April 2016. concern assumption in preparing the Financial Statements.
The external auditors also provided detailed reporting and held discussions with the Committee.
Following the review, the Committee recommended to the Board the adoption of the going concern statement in the Annual Report and Accounts 2015.
Further details on sources of finance are set out in note 24 on page 131 and in the Going Concern section of the Directors and Corporate Governance Report on page 62.
The Committee reviewed the CSS and the key judgements and disclosures Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement made in its preparation.
The external auditor also provided a detailed report The Group is required to prepare an annual regulatory statement and held discussions with the Committee.
The full CSS and the independent Consolidated Segmental Statement CSS for Ofgem which breaks down audit opinion approved by the Committee for publication are set out on our licensed activities for the financial year into a generation, domestic and pages 183 to 193. non-domestic and electricity and gas result.
The CSS is reconciled to our externally reported IFRS Annual Report and Accounts.
The Group publishes the CSS at the same time as our full year Annual Report and Accounts and the CSS is independently audited.
In preparing the CSS, judgement is required in the allocation of non-specific costs between domestic and non-domestic and electricity and gas and the distinction between licensed and non-licensed activities.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 58 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Directors and Corporate Governance Report continued SAFETY, HEALTH, NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE ENVIRONMENT, SECURITY Members AND ETHICS COMMITTEE Rick Haythornthwaite Chairman SHESEC Margherita Della Valle Members Lesley Knox Mike Linn Chairman Mike Linn Margherita Della Valle Ian Meakins Carlos Pascual Carlos Pascual Steve Pusey Steve Pusey Mike Linn, Rick Haythornthwaite, Committee Chairman Committee Chairman In July 2015, following the review of the Board and Committee 2015 was a busy year for the Nominations Committee.
We governance structure, the Board took the decision to convene reviewed the succession plans in place for the Board and the anew Committee, the Safety, Health, Environment, Security Executive.
Wealso considered and appointed Steve Pusey as andEthics Committee SHESEC to focus on specific principal a Non-Executive Director and Mark Hodges and Jeff Bell to risksidentified by the Group.
At the same time, the Corporate Executive Director positions on the Board.
Responsibility Committee ceased, its duties being addressed Role of the Committee eitherby the Board or by the SHESEC in the revised governance The Committee ensures there is a formal and appropriate framework.
procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
The SHESEC met for the first time in September 2015 where it The Committee is responsible for leading this process and making spent time formalising its forward agenda to ensure its focus was recommendations to the Board.
aligned with those principal risks considered to have a greater Membership and attendance impact potentially on the Group in the short to medium term.
The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board who is Understandably this will be an iterative process and a full years an independent Non-Executive Director.
Carlos Pascual and review of the Committees activities will be reported in the 2016 StevePusey were appointed to the Committee on 1 January 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
During the year, the Chief Executive Role of the Committee and the Group HR Director attended Committee meetings at which The Committee has non-executive responsibility for the oversight of matters related to succession planning for senior management the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys internal controls were considered.
and risk management systems in respect of certain principal risks Each member of the Committee is an independent Non-Executive identified by the Group.
These are as follows and the Committee Director who has a wide range of relevant business experience.
will be considering each one in terms of their ethical and compliance Further details regarding the Directors skills and experience can implications: be found in their biographies on page 44.
People: engagement, culture and behaviours: Key issues reviewed by the Nominations Committee: Sourcing and supplier management: review of Committee membership: Health, Safety, Environment and Security: and the appointments of Jeff Bell, Mark Hodges and Steve Pusey: Legal and Regulatory matters.
consideration of exposure to loss of key personnel: Membership and attendance succession planning for the Group Chief Financial Officer: The Committee is chaired by Mike Linn, an independent succession planning for the Managing Director, British Gas: .
The Board has determined that each succession planning for the Senior Independent Director and member of theCommittee is independent.
During the year, the theNon-Executive Directors: and Chairman ofthe Board and the Chief Executive regularly attended a review of the skills of each of the Directors and the Committeemeetings.
independence of each of the independent Non-Executive Key issues reviewed by the Safety, Health, Environment, Directors prior to the 2015 AGM and recommendation that Security and Ethics Committee: each of them be subject to re-election at the 2015 AGM.
developing the priority risk focus for the Committees forward: agenda programme: cyber and data security: and health and safety matters relating to asset integrity.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 59 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE Members Members Lesley Knox Chairman Iain Conn Chairman Margherita Della Valle Jeff Bell Mike Linn Grant Dawson Ian Meakins Carlos Pascual Lesley Knox, Iain Conn, Committee Chairman Committee Chairman Set out below are the key governance features of the Remuneration Role of the Committee Committee.
The Remuneration Report can be found on page 63, The Disclosure Committee is responsible for the implementation which contains more detail on the main areas of focus for the and monitoring of systems and controls in respect of the Committee in 2015. management and disclosure of inside information and for ensuring that regulatory announcements, shareholder circulars, Role of the Committee prospectuses and other documents issued by the Company The role of the Committee is to determine and make comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements.
recommendations to the Board on the Companys policy for the remuneration of the Chairman of the Board, the Companys At each Executive Committee meeting, transactions or events Executive Directors and other senior executives.
must be considered against the disclosure obligations of the Company and whether any matter was considered to be Membership and attendance pricesensitive.
The Committee is chaired by Lesley Knox, an independent Non-Executive Director.
Carlos Pascual was appointed to the Membership and attendance Committee on 1 January 2015.
Rick Haythornthwaite and The Committee is chaired by Iain Conn, the Chief Executive.
StevePusey stood down as members of the Committee Iain Conn was appointed to the Committee on 1 January 2015. following the review of the Board and Committee governance Responsibilities of the Disclosure Committee: structure in July 2015.
The Board has determined that each a review of the preliminary results announcement, the interim member of the Committee is independent.
No Director is management statement, the half-year results and the trading involved in the determination of, or votes on, any matters relating statements: to his or her own remuneration.
Meetings of the Committee are consideration of the release of regulatory and industry attended by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, announcements: the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary and the Group HRDirector.
key management changes: and announcements in respect of specific projects.
Responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee: determine total individual remuneration packages and terms Key issues reviewed by the Disclosure Committee: and conditions for the Board and senior executives: stock exchange announcements about customer pricing: approve the design of, and determine targets for, any the proposed final dividend and the final preliminary results performance related pay schemes for the Executive Committee announcement: and approve the total annual and long-term incentive plan LTIP the interim management statement, the trading update and payments: approval of the final draft of the announcements: and review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the interim dividend and the announcement in respect of both the Board and the Companys shareholders: and the interim results for the six months to 30 June 2015 and prepare and recommend to the Board for approval each year the outcome of the strategic review.
a report on remuneration policy and a separate report on the implementation of the policy in the last financial year.
Key issues reviewed by the Remuneration Committee: the rules of three new share plans, including the LTIP for Executive Directors: the new remuneration policy, following shareholder consultation: the approval of incentive targets for the awards made in 2015, and pay and incentive awards granted to Executive Directors and Executive Committee members in the year: the approval of the terms of appointment for two new Executive Directors and one Executive Committee member: developments and trends in executive remuneration with the independent external remuneration committee adviser: and input to and approval of the individual performance conditions for the Chief Executive recruitment awards and evaluation of the achievement against the targets set.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 60 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Directors and Corporate Governance Report continued OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Equal opportunities The Group is committed to an active equal opportunities policy The Directors submit their Annual Report and Accounts for from recruitment and selection, through training and development, Centrica plc, together with the consolidated financial statements of performance reviews and promotion to retirement.
It is our policy to the Centrica group of companies, for the year ended 31December promote an environment free from discrimination, harassment and 2015.
The directors report required under the Companies Act victimisation, where everyone receives equal treatment regardless 2006 comprises this Directors and Corporate Governance Report, of gender, colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, age, marital the Directors Remuneration Report and the How We Do Business status, sexual orientation or religion.
All decisions relating to section for disclosure of our greenhouse gas emissions in the employment practices will be objective, free from bias and based Strategic Report.
solely upon work criteria and individual merit.
The management report required under Disclosure and Employees with disabilities Transparency Rule 4.1.
5R comprises the Strategic Report, which It is our policy that people with disabilities should have full and fair includes the risks relating to our business, Shareholder Information consideration for all vacancies.
During the year, we continued to and details of acquisitions and disposals made by the Group during demonstrate our commitment to interviewing those people with the year in note 12.
This Directors and Corporate Governance disabilities who fulfil the minimum criteria, and endeavour to Report fulfills the requirements of the corporate governance retain employees in the workforce if they become disabled statement required under Disclosure & Transparency Rule 7.2.
Future developments Human rights A description of future developments can be found in the As an international company we have a responsibility and are Strategic Report.
A description of the Groups exposure and committed to uphold and protect the human rights of individuals management of risks is provided in the Strategic Report on working for us in the communities and societies where we operate.
We take steps to ensure that our people working in countries with Results and dividends a high risk to human rights are safeguarded, as set out in our The Groups results and performance summary for the year are set Business Principles and Human Rights Policy.
We also recognise out on page 1.
Dividends paid and proposed are set out in note 11 the opportunity we have to contribute positively to global efforts to the Financial Statements on page 111. to ensure human rights are understood and observed.
Financial instruments Relations with shareholders Full details of the Groups financial instruments can be found in The Board recognises and values the importance of maintaining notes 19, S3 and S6 on pages 121, 148 and 154 respectively.
an effective investor relations and communication programme.
The Board is proactive in obtaining an understanding of Articles of Association Articles shareholder views on a number of key matters affecting the Group The Companys Articles were adopted at the 2010 Annual General and receives formal investor feedback regularly.
They may only be amended by a special resolution of the Shareholders.
A resolution will be put forward to In 2015, Centricas shareholder engagement programme included: shareholders at the 2016 AGM to propose making amendments formal presentations for the announcement of the to the Articles.
Full details are set out in the Notice of AGM.
Groups 2014 preliminary and 2015 interim results: Directors meetings between the Chief Executive and The names of the Directors who held office during the year are Group Chief Financial Officer and the Companys set out on pages 44 and 45. major shareholders during the year: meetings between the Chief Executive and the Companys Details of the authority, role and powers of Directors are set major shareholders, as part of his induction process: out within this Directors and Corporate Governance Report.
the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee meeting with Directors indemnities and insurance a number of the Companys major shareholders during the In accordance with the Articles, the Company has granted a deed year to discuss the Companys remuneration arrangements: of indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to Directors and the Chairman and Senior Independent Director meeting with members of the Executive Committee.
Qualifying third-party major institutional shareholders in order to gain a first-hand indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Act were understanding of their concerns and key issues and provide in force during the year ended 31 December 2015 and remain in regular updates of these to the Board: and force.
The Company also maintains directors and officers liability a meeting with our largest investors and leading proxy advisers insurance for its Directors and officers.
to provide insight into the key focus and considerations of the Employment policies Board and its Committees and a better understanding of the Employee involvement governance measures operating across the business.
We remain committed to employee involvement throughout the The Companys AGM provides all shareholders with the business.
Employees are kept well informed of the performance opportunity to develop further their understanding of the Company.
and strategy of the Group through personal briefings, regular Shareholders can ask questions of the full Board on the matters meetings, email and broadcasts by the Chief Executive and put to the meeting, including the Annual Report and Accounts and members of the Board at key points in the year.
the running of the Company generally.
The Company intends to The Companys all-employee share schemes are a long-established send the Notice of AGM and any related papers to shareholders at and successful part of our total reward package, encouraging and least 20 working days before the meeting.
All Directors, including supporting employee share ownership.
In the UK we offer both Committee Chairmen, are in attendance at the AGM to take Sharesave, HMRCs Save as You Earn Scheme, and the Share questions, unless unforeseen circumstances arise.
Incentive Plan SIP with good levels of take-up across the Group.
Currently, 57% of eligible UK employees participate in Sharesave and 36% of eligible UK employees participate in the SIP.
Details of both schemes are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 69.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 61 At the AGM, the Chairman and the Chief Executive present Related party transactions a review of the Groups business.
A poll is conducted on each Related party transactions are set out in note S8 to the Financial resolution at all Company general meetings.
have the opportunity to cast their votes in respect of proposed Events after the balance sheet date resolutions by proxy, either electronically or by post.
Following Events after the balance sheet date are disclosed in note 26 the AGM, the voting results for each resolution are published to the Financial Statements.
and are available on our website.
Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Ian Meakins, the Senior Independent Director, is available to The Company is required to disclose certain information under shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal Listing Rule 9.8.
4R in the Directors Report or advise where such channels has failed to resolve.
The other information that may Our website contains up-to-date information for shareholders and be relevant to the Directors Report can be found in the following other interested parties including annual reports, shareholder sections of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015. circulars, share price information, news releases, presentations to the investment community and information on shareholder services.
Information Location in Page s Annual Report Material shareholdings At 31 December 2015, Centrica had received notification of the Directors Remuneration Report 63 to 79 compensation following material shareholdings pursuant to the Disclosure & Transparency Rules: Capitalised interest Financial Statements 107, note 8 borrowing costs 31 December 2015 Details of long-term Remuneration Report 68 incentive schemes Ordinary % of share Share capital shares capital The Company has a single share class which is divided into 14 Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 244,065,649 4.91% ordinary shares of 6 81 pence each.
The Company was authorised at the 2015 AGM to allot up to 1,656,357,416 ordinary shares as Invesco Limited 251,354,895 4.99% permitted by the Act.
As at 31December 2015, the Company Schroders plc 248,775,761 5.00% had not allotted any shares under this authority.
A renewal of this Schroders Investment Management Limited 289,823,318 5.72% authority will be proposed at the 2016 AGM.
The Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2015, together with In the period 31 December 2015 to 18 February 2016, Invesco details of shares issued during the year, is set out in note 25 Limited have disclosed, in accordance with these rules, an increase to the Financial Statements.
and a subsequent decrease, in their shareholding to 4.99%, 253,431,126 ordinary shares.
Rights attaching to shares Each ordinary share of the Company carries one vote.
Further Political donations information on the voting and other rights of shareholders is Centricas political donations policy states that Centrica operates set out in the Articles and in explanatory notes which accompany on a politically neutral basis.
No donations were made by the Group notices of general meetings, all of which are available on for political purposes during the year.
However, in accordance with our website.
the Federal Election Campaign Act, Direct Energy has authorised Repurchase of shares the establishment of a Political Action Committee PAC, to facilitate voluntary political contributions by its US employees.
The PAC is As permitted by the Articles, the Company obtained shareholder not controlled by Centrica and contributions from the fund are authority at the 2015 AGM to purchase its own shares up to a determined by a governing board of PAC members.
Participation maximum of 496,907,224 ordinary shares.
The minimum which in the PAC is voluntary for eligible employees.
In 2015, contributions must be paid for each ordinary share is its nominal value and the to the PAC by employees amounted to $62,126.50.
The PAC made maximum price is the higher of i an amount equal to 105% of the 19political donations totalling $11,000.
average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share of the Company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Significant agreements change of control Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the The following are significant agreements to which the Company day on which the share is contracted to be purchased and ii an is party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent change of control in the Company following a takeover bid: trade of an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System, in each case, exclusive of expenses.
as part of the demerger in 1997, BG Group plc which is a separately listed company and not a part of the Centrica Group As at 31 December 2015, 58,705,016 shares were held as treasury assigned ownership of the British Gas trademarks and related shares.
These shares held in treasury represent 1.2% of the logos to Centrica for use in Great Britain.
BG Group plc has Companys issued share capital.
Dividends are waived in respect the right to call for a reassignment of this intellectual property of shares held in the treasury share account.
if control of Centrica is acquired by a third party: and in 2009, Centrica entered into certain transactions with EDF Group in relation to an investment in the former British Energy Group, which owned and operated a fleet of nuclear power stations in the UK.
The transactions include rights for EDF Group and Centrica to offtake power from these nuclear power stations.
As part of the arrangements, on a change of control of Centrica, the Group loses its right to participate on the boards of the companies in which it has invested.
Furthermore, where the acquirer is not located in certain specified countries, EDF Group is able to require Centrica to sell out its investments to EDFGroup.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 62 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Directors and Corporate Governance Report continued Shares held in employee benefit trusts Directors responsibilities statement The Centrica plc Employee Benefit Trust EBT is used to purchase The Directors, who are named on pages 44 and 45, are shares on behalf of the Company for the benefit of employees, responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors in connection with the Deferred and Matching Share Scheme, Remuneration Report, the Strategic Report and the Financial the Deferred Bonus Plan and the Restricted Share Scheme.
Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Centrica plc Share Incentive Plan Trust SIP Trust is used Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial Statements to purchase shares on behalf of the Company for the benefit of for each financial year.
Accordingly, the Directors have prepared employees, in connection with the SIP.
Both the Trustees of the the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International EBT and the SIP, in accordance with best practice, have agreed not Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European to vote any unallocated shares held in the EBT or SIP at any general Union EU and the Company Financial Statements in accordance meeting and dividends are waived in respect of these shares.
In with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice respect of allocated shares in both the EBT and the SIP Trust, the United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Trustees shall vote in accordance with participants instructions.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the Financial In the absence of any instruction, the Trustees shall not vote.
Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and Going concern of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chief Executives Statement on pages 5 to 9 and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the Business Review on pages 28 to 37. consistently: The Directors have considered the implications on going concern make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and viability for the Group following the significant declines in and prudent: commodity prices and resulting asset impairments during the year.
state whether IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable Under the terms of the Articles of Association Articles the Groups UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any borrowings are currently restricted to the higher of 5 billion and material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and three times its adjusted capital and reserves.
Whilst preparing the CompanyFinancial Statements respectively: and Annual Report and Accounts, the Directors became aware that, prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis predominantly due to the impairments and the resulting reduction in unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will capital and reserves, the Groups borrowings limit under the Articles continue in business.
would reduce to 5 billion from the date of approval of these audited Financial Statements.
There will, therefore, be a technical breach of The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Article 94.
Consequently, the Directors are proposing a resolution records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys at the AGM to amend the Articles to increase the limit on the transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Companys borrowing powers.
They consider that the resolution the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable to be proposed is in the best interests of shareholders and are them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors therefore confident that the resolution will be passed.
Remuneration Report comply with the Act and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They The Directors have reviewed the implications of this technical are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company breach, including evaluating the Groups liquidity position and and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the availability of cash resources.
This analysis also considered the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
remote scenario of restrictions continuing after the Companys AGM.
Following this review, the Directors continue to have a Furthermore, the Directors are responsible for the maintenance and reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group asa integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing whole have adequate resources to meet their financial obligations the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Further details of the Groups liquidity position and The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts 2015, going concern review are provided in notes 24 andS3to the when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and Financial Statements.
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Viability statement Each of the Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: In accordance with provisions C. 2.1 and C. 2.2. of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in prospects for the Group and confirm that they have a reasonable accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view expectation that the Group will continue to operate and meet its of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the Group: liabilities, as they fall due, over a period of at least three years.
the Strategic Report contained on pages 1 to 42 together with The Group has a strong position in its chosen markets, with strong the Directors and Corporate Governance Report on pages 47 brands, a highly skilled customer-facing workforce and reliable to 62, includes a fair review of the development and performance operations.
There are a number of risks, detailed on pages 38 of the business and the position of the Group, together with a to 42, that could have a significant impact on the financial description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces: performance of the Group including commodity prices, energy as outlined on page 55, there is no relevant audit information demand driven in part by weather, customer numbers and the of which PwC are unaware: and evolving regulatory landscape.
A number of risks, particularly they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as commodity prices, could change significantly over both the short, a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant medium and longer term.
Taking account of the principal risks, the audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors Groups current position and risk mitigation, the Board consider are aware of that information.
three years as the most suitable timeframe to form a reasonable By order of the Board expectation as to the Groups longer term viability.
Grant Dawson Group General Counsel & Company Secretary 18 February 2016 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
