72 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Directors report seNIor maNagemeNt finance and business development Pierre Louw Andy Davidson Richard Osman chief financial officer Head of investor relations Business development manager Pierre is a senior manager with Prior to joining Centamin in Richard is a geologist and holds broad experience gained over August 2012, Andy worked for a Masters degree in Mining 25 years in the mining industry nine years as a mining analyst, Geology from the Camborne in both major and midtier including three years as an School of Mines.
He has over gold and copper producing equity research director at the 16 years experience in the companies.
He has a National Londonbased investment bank mining industry, having worked Diploma in Financial Accounting Numis Securities.
Before this, in exploration, open pit mining from the University of Andy was a senior exploration and the evaluation of mineral Johannesburg and is a member geologist within the mining properties internationally.
of the South African Institute of industry, including six years Richard previously worked at Professional Accountants.
Pierre with Ashanti Goldfields where the Companys Sukari mine has extensive international he was closely involved in the in Egypt for over twelve experience having worked in discovery and development of years in exploration, resource Tanzania, Australia, Zambia the world class Geita project in development and as open pit and his native South Africa.
Andy holds an MSc in mine manager.
Prior to this professional experience include Mineral Project Appraisal from Richard was employed for five working at AngloGold Ashanti, the Royal School of Mines and years at the Big Bell operation Equinox and JCI.
He is also in Western Australia owned by a member of the Institute of Harmony Gold.
since 19 April 2011 since 13 August 2012 since 3 February 2014, previously open pit mine manager at sukari operations Youssef ElRaghy Terry Smith Chris Boreham GM egyptian operations GM sukari Underground mine manager An officer graduate of the Terry Smith is a qualified Chris Boreham holds a BEng Egyptian Police Academy, mining engineer and member Mining degree from the Youssef ElRaghy held senior of the Australasian Institute University of Sydney and a management roles within the of Mining and Metallurgy.
Graduate Diploma of Business, Egyptian police force for a Terry has 35 years experience First Class Mine Managers period in excess of ten years, in the mining industry and Certificate in WA, Queensland having attained the rank of over 20 years experience in and New South Wales.
He is a captain, prior to joining the general management and site member AusIMM and has over group.
He has extensive management roles.
Terry has 27 years experience in the contacts within the government worked in both open pit and mining industry, having worked and industry and maintains underground operations for predominantly in gold and excellent working relationships both owners and contracting copper mines.
Chris significant with all of the Companys firms.
His experience covers experience in the design and stakeholders within Egypt.
the gold, copper, lead, zinc, operation of hard rock mining, diamonds and coal industries extends to managing personnel, in Australasia, Africa and risk mitigation and operational South America.
since 13 April 2006 since 14 June 2012 since January 2010 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 73 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Directors report Legal and compliance Lynne Gregory Doaa Abou Elailah Darren Le Masurier Heidi Brown General counsel Group sustainability and company secretary subsidiary director and business development manager company secretary Before joining Centamin, Lynne Darren is a member of the was a legal director at Charles Doaa has worked closely with Association of Chartered Heidi is a Fellow Chartered Russell LLP, prior to which she Centamin for ten years initially Certified Accountants and Secretary FCIS, FGIA was a solicitor at top law firms as an adviser before joining has over 15 years experience and GAICD.
Heidi holds a in London, Allen & Overy and the Company in 2013.
Doaa in corporate administration, Graduate Certificate of Applied Baker & McKenzie.
Lynne has has more than 18 years of governance and offshore Finance and Investment and a worked for over 20 years as a experience as a consultant in regulation in Jersey.
Prior to Diploma of Financial Advising lawyer specialising in complex health and safety, environment joining Centamin, Darren from the Financial Services international commercial and community affairs.
Doaa worked at the fiduciary and law Institute of Australasia.
Heidi litigation and arbitration for has provided technical support firm Ogier in Jersey for over ten was the company secretary corporate clients in a variety of to numerous industries and years, providing professional of Centamin from 2004 sectors.
Lynne holds a degree facilities in Egypt and the company secretarial, until 2012, and continues in Law from University College Middle East across a broad accounting, administration and to act as company secretary London as well as professional range of sectors including director services for a diverse and director of Centamins qualifications from the College mining, oil and gas, industrial range of corporate clients Australian subsidiaries.
Doaa holds MSc and BSc honours degrees in Chemical Engineering from the University of Cairo.
since 1 september 2013 since 1 May 2013 since 8 July 2013 since 23 January 2003
