64 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Directors report INtroductIoN As chairman of the board I endorse the values of good governance, and in my view, board effectiveness is enhanced by regular information being presented to the board.
Josef ElRaghy Chairman Dear shareholders I am pleased to observe that, during Andrews first year as CEO, the Company has continued to develop and realise its In my view, board effectiveness has been achieved by next stages of growth, whilst maintaining its strategic focus ensuring that communication channels are open between all on cash flows, shareholder returns and social responsibility.
board members and regular information is presented to the board allowing all members to contribute knowledgeably Our board composition and approach to leadership are set at board meetings and in discussions between the out in detail on page 66.
Within the directors report and, executives and nonexecutive directors.
This has enabled where applicable, the strategic report, the directors provide open discussion on the requirement and content of the required governance and regulatory assurances.
These public disclosures, to meet regulatory obligations as well are set out in the following areas: as ensuring shareholders are properly informed about key events.
Code compliance statement on page 65.
Having consulted with the nonexecutive directors, I believe Directors responsibilities C. 1.1 C. 1.3 on page 104. that the format of the board, in conjunction with the Strategic report and risk management report C. 1.2 activities of the various board committees, allows open C. 2.1 C. 2.2. on page 32. debate.
This format has allowed directors to engage on matters of executive management policy and performance Directors report C. 2.3. set out in this section.
and risk management and allows them to effectively monitor As described in my chairmans statement, Centamin the performance of management and develop proposals made continued progress during 2015 in developing its on strategy.
In my role as chairman, Following the appointment of our new chief executive I look forward to continuing to work with the Company officer CEO, Andrew Pardey, the previously combined towards delivering substantial shareholder value through roles of chairman CEO are now separate.
It should be noted further development of our portfolio of assets.
that, on appointment, Andrew received a full induction pack and over the last year Andrew has met many of our key Josef ElRaghy shareholders.
Andrew has also presented to investors and Chairman analysts at key conferences throughout the year.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 65 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Directors report Compliance statement Leadership and effectiveness The Company is incorporated in Jersey, Channel Islands.
This report sets out the key areas the board has focused on The Company is by virtue of the Listing Rules, subject to the during the year, together with details of the roles of the key Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the board members and an assessment of the effectiveness of UK Financial Reporting Council and therefore the Company the board.
must confirm that it has complied with all relevant provisions How the board of directors operates of the Code or to explain areas of noncompliance.
The The board sets and implements the strategic aims and Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils values of the Company, providing strategic direction to website www.
See the strategic report In addition, the Company is required to follow the principles Detailed below are the key activities and standing agenda of corporate governance set out in the best practice items for the board.
recommendations of the Toronto Stock Exchange, in particular those recommendations in National Policy 58201 Key activities of the board in 2015: Corporate Governance Guidelines NP 58201. approval of the appointment of the chief executive officer: Throughout the year ended 31 December 2015, the Company has been in full compliance with the provisions set declaration of the interim and annual dividend: out in the Code with the exception of the following matters: approval of the updated reserve and resource statement: The roles of chairman and chief executive officer were review and approval of the capital markets day both exercised by Josef ElRaghy during 2014.
This matter presentation: was addressed on 1 February 2015 when Andrew Pardey reports and updates from the chairmen of the respective was appointed as the Companys CEO.
Josef ElRaghy, board committees: the Companys interim CEO, will continue in his role as Sukari operational review and monthly reporting: Chairman.
exploration updates for the sites in Burkina Faso and It should be noted that both the Code and best practice Cte dIvoire: recommendations favour that the chairman be an review of business development opportunities: independent director on appointment.
Josef ElRaghy is not setting budgets and production guidance for the year: an independent nonexecutive chairman within the meaning review of operational performance and efficiency: of the Code.
As such, Edward Haslam will continue to take an active role to ensure the boards ongoing effectiveness litigation updates on the Companys ongoing court in all respects.
As advised in the 2015 halfyear results, hearings details of which can be found in note 4 : Edward Haslams title was changed to deputy chairman review and approval of the Companys quarterly, half and senior independent nonexecutive director, which is yearly and annual financial statements: reflective of his role and activities.
review of the AGM circular, dividend proposals and compliance reports and policies: It is noted that in the case of the directors remuneration report, the disclosures have exceeded the obligations on review of the Companys principal risks and orchestrating the Company given its incorporation in Jersey.
However, the ongoing development of the Companys the Company considers such enhanced disclosure is risk appetite: appropriate to allow shareholders to compare the Company review of material contracts, policies and procedures: with UK incorporated FTSE 350 listed companies.
It has also review of KPIs for the executive directors and senior incorporated many additional and voluntary disclosures in management and reviewing performance appraisals: and its strategic report.
review of succession planning, diversity and board performance and evaluation.
66 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Directors report INtroductIoN continued How the board of directors operates continued Internal control the board, with assistance from the audit and risk committee oversees the groups internal Key activities of the board in 2015 continued control and management information systems.
Following Further to the introduction of the revised UK Corporate the appointment of the internal auditor, the board will be Governance Code in 2014, the board spent time discussing reviewing progress on the recommendations put forward the changes to the Code and the guidance from the FRC on by the internal auditor.
implementing the new Code requirements.
In particular, the board and audit and risk committee spent time reviewing Reporting and audit the board, through the audit their internal control environment, risk management and risk committee, is reviewing proposals to upgrade processes and internal and external reporting.
Internal system upgrades in the accounting and financial reporting areas will also be closely The board has delegated certain matters to its committees monitored by the board as well as recommendations from and their reports are presented within the strategic or the external auditor on areas for improvement.
directors report: Relationship with stakeholders the board will continue Health, safety, environmental and to maintain, develop and monitor relationships with key sustainability committee strategic report page 38 stakeholders including EMRA in relation to Sukari and other Compliance and governmental bodies in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
corporate governance directors report page 74 The responsibilities of the board and key roles within the Nomination committee directors report page 76 organisation are set out below: Audit and risk committee directors report page 98 Remuneration committee directors report page 80 the chairman: leads the board to ensure it operates effectively: Leadership sets the agenda and ensures all matters are given due The Chairman, Josef ElRaghy, is responsible for ensuring consideration and that directors have the opportunity the business is run in accordance with the boards strategy.
to contribute to board discussions: Following the appointment of the new CEO, responsibility communicates with shareholders in relation to the for implementing strategy and overseeing the daytoday Companys strategic aims and policies: and running of the business is with Andrew Pardey.
represents the group before key stakeholders including The management team and board are relatively few in government officials including EMRA.
number and are, therefore, actively involved in, and made aware of, all the major activities of the group.
They can chief executive officer: therefore ensure the Companys actions are aligned with develops and implements, short, medium and long term the strategic aims of the group.
corporate strategies: is responsible for daytoday management of the Areas of focus for the board in 2016 business and the implementation of the boards strategic Strategic planning the board regularly reviews and aims: and approves strategic plans and initiatives put forward by management and the executive, including geographical promotes the highest standards of safety, corporate diversification.
Details of the strategic objectives for compliance and adherence to codes of conduct.
cash generation, shareholder return, growth and social Nonexecutive directors: responsibility can be found in the strategic report.
challenge and help develop the groups strategy: Communications the board oversees the Companys participate as members of the board on their respective public communications with shareholders and other committees: stakeholders and plans to develop the financial statements, monitor the performance of management: presentations and other forms of communication, such as need to be satisfied as to the adequacy and integrity the Companys website, over 2016. of financial and other reporting: Risk assessment the board has primary responsibility for determine appropriate levels of remuneration for identifying the principal risks in the Companys business executive directors: and and to ensure the implementation of appropriate systems raise any concerns with the board or with management.
The board will continue to review its processes for risk identification and evaluation, improving For senior management roles and responsibilities please see internal communication and external reports in this area.
page 72 of the directors report.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 67 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Directors report Detailed knowledge of the groups activities is essential and, The nomination committee and the board also considered each year, the board visit Sukari where they are shown the and approved that Josef ElRaghy, interim CEO, continue in underground operation, open pit site and the operations his role as chairman of the board.
plant, accompanied by the heads of department based at In January 2015, Trevor Schultz, a nonexecutive director Sukari.
In addition to regular site visits to Sukari, the senior but not independent having served with the Company as members of the management team and executive visit the an executive director, was appointed chairman of the HSES exploration sites in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire to ensure committee.
This appointment followed the retirement of the activities in these regions are aligned with the corporate Bob Bowker.
The Company remains compliant with the provisions of Board effectiveness the Code that the board should have a greater number of Each committee carries out a selfassessment evaluation nonexecutive directors than executive directors.
of its effectiveness over the year.
This review compares the responsibilities and objectives of the committee against When determining whether a director is independent, the the activities carried out during the year.
This evaluation board has established a directors test of independence is submitted to the board for review.
The internal annual policy, which is based predominantly on the definition performance evaluation of the board was completed of independence in Canadian Securities Administrators in March 2015 for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The criteria The internal annual performance evaluation for 2015 was set out in the instrument are mandatory and are more completed in March 2016 by the board.
The nonexecutive stringent in certain respects than the independence criteria directors meet at least annually, without the chairman or suggested by the Code.
Based on this policy, the majority of CEO present and evaluate their performance during the the board are considered by the board to be independent year.
The board is assisted by the nomination committee nonexecutive directors.
on its evaluation of the nonexecutive directors.
An external Managing risks and internal controls facilitator will be appointed in May 2016 to assess the The board is responsible for satisfying itself that effectiveness of the board.
The last review by an external management has developed and implemented a sound facilitator was carried out in May 2013. system of risk management and internal control.
Assisted Following the evaluation process, there were no proposed by the audit and risk committee, management reports to changes to the membership of the committees or the the board on the groups key risks and the extent to which composition of the nonexecutive directors or executive it believes these risks are being appropriately managed directors.
The nomination committee and the board and mitigated.
discussed the need for any new appointments to the Full details of the risk environment can be found in the risk board, either through the process of succession planning management report on page 32. or external appointments.
Discussions of this nature will continue in 2016.
The board are pleased to confirm that the Company remains in compliance with best practice guidelines, with Board appointments and independence the UK Corporate Governance Code and relevant Canadian During the course of 2015, the vacancy for the position requirements, and the systems in place to manage risk and of CEO, an executive director appointment, was filled.
the internal control environment have been in place for the The nomination committee, through the process of year under review, up to the date of approval of the annual succession planning, had ensured that adequate support report and accounts.
and development were given to Andrew Pardey to prepare him for the role of CEO.
After a thorough assessment of the experience and expertise of Andrew Pardey and his performance as COO, the nomination committee recommended, and the board unanimously agreed, to appoint Andrew Pardey as the Companys new CEO effective from 1 February 2015.
68 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Directors report INtroductIoN continued Managing risks and internal controls continued Board committees During the year, the Company conducted an assessment of The board committees are a valuable part of the Companys the control environment of the group, summarised by the corporate governance structure.
The workload of the board following key headings: committees is far greater than the table of scheduled meetings would indicate, as adhoc meetings and corporate governance framework: communications occur frequently between the directors and management reporting framework: management.
Details of each of the board committees is set out below.
material contracts and contract management: procedures for forecasting and budgeting: CSR report see the HSE committee report on page 38. external reporting obligations and procedures: Succession planning see the nomination committee information technology environment: and report on page 76. corporate and operational principal risk assessment.
Directors remuneration report see the remuneration committee report on page 80.
The board made the following recommendations to Risk and control environment see audit and audit and enhance the internal control environment following the risk committee on page 98. review and these are summarised below: Policies, procedures and ongoing regulatory disclosures carry out an upgrade of the finance accounting software see compliance and corporate governance committee on and an overhaul of the accounting handbook: page 74. recommendations on the areas of focus for the internal Board composition and reelection auditor as set out in section 100 of the audit and risk It is proposed at the date of this annual report that all committee report: and directors will be put forward for reelection at the AGM.
updates to the risk reporting framework as set out on All directors are subject to annual reelection.
page 32 of the risk management report.
The board of directors It was noted that the review of the internal control At the date of this report the board is made up of a environment and subsequent recommendations were not chairman, CEO, four independent nonexecutive directors seen as significant failings or weaknesses, but are reflective and one nonexecutive director.
See directors details of the detailed review that was undertaken.
The following table sets out the number of board and committee meetings held during the year and the number of meetings attended by each director.
Health, safety, Compliance Audit environmental and corporate Remuneration Name and title Attendance and risk and sustainability governance nomination Josef ElRaghy Attended C. Chairman 4 of 4 Andrew Pardey Attended CEO 4 of 4 Edward Haslam Attended Attended Attended Attended C. Deputy chair SNED 4 of 4 9 of 9 5 of 5 4 of 4, 3 of 3 Trevor Schultz Attended Attended C. NED 4 of 4 4 of 4 Mark Arnesen Attended Attended C. Attended Attended Independent NED 4 of 4 9 of 9 5 of 5 4 of 4, 3 of 3 Mark Bankes Attended Attended Attended Attended C. Independent NED 3 of 4 9 of 9 4 of 4 5 of 5 Kevin Tomlinson Attended Attended Attended Independent NED 4 of 4 4 of 4 4 of 4, 3 of 3 This table excludes meetings held by written resolution or subcommittees and reflects the membership during 2015.
C. means chairman of the board or of the committee.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 69 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Directors report Employees Information relating to employees is contained in the CSR report together with details of the number of employees at Sukari.
The Company abides by antidiscrimination legislation in all jurisdictions in which it operates.
These principles are also set out in the Companys code of conduct which sets out the framework in which the Company expects all staff to operate.
For a summary of the social conditions in Egypt and the Middle East and an explanation as to the gender balance in the workforce, please see the CSR report on page 41.
Environmental compliance The directors are aware of their commitment to environmental, community and social responsibility, details of which can be found in the CSR report.
The group is currently complying with relevant environmental regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates and has no knowledge of any environmental orders or breaches against the group.
Political donations The Company does not make donations to any organisations with stated political associations.
Supplier and payment policy It is the Companys policy that, subject to compliance with trading terms by the supplier, payments are made in accordance with terms and conditions agreed in advance with the supplier.
Further details on trade creditors are provided in note 15 to the financial statements.
