46 GOVERNANCE SENIOR EXECUTIVES Senior Executives Full biographies can be found at centrica.
com D CHARLES CAMERON GRANT DAWSON Director of Technology Group General Counsel & &Engineering CompanySecretary Charles was appointed Director of Grant was appointed Group General Technology & Engineering on Counsel & Company Secretary in 1January2016.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Charles Cameron Charles has extensive technology and Grant joined British Gas plc in October engineering experience and has held 1996 and has been Group General Counsel corporate roles in marketing, planning and & Company Secretary of Centrica plc M&A.
Before joining Centrica he was head since the demerger of British Gas plc on of technology, downstream at BP plc and 17February 1997.
He was called to the Bar was a member of the downstream in 1982 and has spent most of his career executiveteam.
in industry joining the legal department of Racal Electronics plc in 1984 and then STC Prior to his time at BP, Charles spent 23 plc as legal adviser in 1986 until they were years with the French Institute of Petroleum Chris Cox taken over in 1991 by Northern Telecom and their catalyst, technology licensing and Limited.
Between 1991 and 1996, he was engineering service business, Axens.
the associate general counsel for Nortel in Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
CHRIS COX Managing Director, Exploration BADAR KHAN &Production Chief Executive, Energy Supply Chris was appointed Managing Director, &Services, North America Exploration & Production on 1February Badar was appointed President and CEO, 2016.
Grant Dawson Direct Energy on 1 April 2013.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Chris has extensive experience in global oil Badar has extensive expertise in both and gas upstream activities.
Since 2006 upstream and customer-facing energy and prior to his appointment with Centrica, businesses.
Prior to his appointment as he held a number of senior roles at BG President and CEO, Direct Energy, he was Group plc and was latterly the executive President, Upstream and Trading of Direct vice president, BG Advance and a member Energy.
Prior to joining Centrica in 2003, he of the group executive team.
Prior to his was a senior officer of a private retail energy time at BG Group plc, Chris was with Badar Khan company in the US and a management Amerada Hess and Chevron Corporation.
JILL SHEDDEN Group HR Director Jill was appointed Group Director, Human Resources on 1 July 2011.
Skills and experience Jill Shedden Jill joined British Gas plc as a graduate in 1988 and has since held a wide range of roles across the Group.
Prior to her appointment as Group HR Director, Jill was HR Director for Centrica Energy and was previously HR Director for British Gas Business and HR Director for British Gas Energy.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
