70 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Directors report board of dIrectors Josef ElRaghy Andrew Pardey Edward Haslam Trevor Schultz chairman chief executive officer Deputy chairman Nonexecutive director and ceo until January 2015 ceo since February 2015 and senior independent since 1 May 2014 nonexecutive director Josef ElRaghy has been Andrew Pardey was appointed Trevor Schultz has made an responsible for overseeing CEO and director of the board In addition to his role as invaluable contribution to the the transition of the Company of Centamin plc on 1 February senior independent director, establishment of Sukari as a from small explorer, through 2015.
Andrew served as general Edward Haslam has carried globally significant gold mining construction and into manager operations at the out additional corporate operation, and in particular for production.
Sukari Gold Mine before his governance functions over the his recent role in overseeing previous appointment as chief past few years for Centamin, the construction of the Stage 4 operating officer in May 2012. while the roles of CEO and process plant.
He was executive chairman were combined.
director of operations from 20 May 2008.
Director since ceo since Director since Director since 26 August 2002 1 February 2015 23 March 2011 20 May 2008 Board meetings attended Board meetings attended Board meetings attended Board meetings attended 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 experience experience experience experience Josef holds a Bachelor of Andrew was a major driving Edward has been nonexecutive With more than 40 years Commerce degree from the force in bringing Sukari into director and chairman from experience at executive and University of Western Australia production, having joined June 2007 to April 2012 of the board level, Trevor has a and subsequently became during the mines construction LSE listed Talvivaara plc and Masters Degree in Economics a director of both CIBC phase and was instrumental in since 1 May 2004 has been from Cambridge University, a Wood Gundy and Paterson the successful transition of the a nonexecutive director of Masters of Science degree in Ord Minnett.
operation through construction Aquarius Platinum Ltd.
In 1981, mining from the Witwatersrand and into production.
Edward joined Lonmin, he was University and has completed appointed a director in 1999 the Advanced Management Andrew holds a BSc in and chief executive officer in Program at Harvard University.
Geology and has over 25 years November 2000 before retiring experience in the mining and in April 2004.
Edward is a Fellow exploration industry, having of the Institute of Directors UK.
previously held senior positions in Africa, Australia and other parts of the world with Guinor Gold Corporation, AngloGold Ashanti and Kalgoorlie Consolidated Gold Mines.
committee membership committee membership Audit and risk committee HSES committee chair Remuneration committee chair Nomination committee chair Compliance and corporate governance committee Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 71 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Directors report Mark Bankes Mark Arnesen Kevin Tomlinson independent independent independent nonexecutive director nonexecutive director nonexecutive director Mark Bankes is an international Mark Arnesen has extensive Kevin Tomlinson was previously corporate finance lawyer.
Mark expertise in the structuring managing director of Investment specialises in international and negotiation of finance for Banking at Westwind Partners securities, mining policy and major resource projects.
Mark Stifel Nicolaus Weisel where he agreements, mergers and is a chartered accountant with advised a number of gold, base acquisitions and international over 20 years experience in the metal and nickel companies, restructurings for the resources industry.
Director since Director since Director since 24 February 2011 24 February 2011 17 January 2012 Board meetings attended Board meetings attended Board meetings attended 3 4 4 4 4 4 experience experience experience Mark has an MA from Mark is currently the sole Kevin holds a Master of Science Cambridge University and director of ARM Advisors degree in Geology from the joined Norton Rose in 1984.
Proprietary Limited and has University of Melbourne in He worked in both London and also been on the board of Gulf Victoria, Australia.
He began Hong Kong and was a partner Industrials Limited.
Mark holds his career as a geologist at Norton Rose LLP from 1994 a Bachelor of Commerce and 30 years ago and has worked to 2007 before starting his own Bachelor of Accounting degrees with various Australian and business, Bankes Consulting from the University of the Canadian based natural EURL, in October 2007.
resources companies, where he has held the positions of chief executive officer and exploration manager.
committee membership committee membership committee membership Compliance and corporate Audit and risk committee chair HSES committee governance committee chair Compliance and corporate Remuneration committee HSES committee governance committee Nomination committee Audit and risk committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee
