98 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Directors report audIt aNd rIsk commIttee report The committee has had a full agenda this year, finalising the scope of the newly appointed internal auditors, developing the relationship with the external auditors and managing oversight of the risk reporting framework Mark Arnesen Chairman of the audit and risk committee Dear shareholders Committee activity in 2015 Committee Date Attendance This report provides you with a summary of the activities attendance joined Attendance in 2015 undertaken by our independent audit and risk committee Mark Arnesen 9 of 9 February 2011 100% Chairman of the committee meetings during 2015.
The report looks at the involvement of Edward Haslam 9 of 9 March 2011 100% the committee in respect of the work carried out by the Member meetings external auditors, the appointment and scope of the new Mark Bankes 9 of 9 February 2011 100% Member meetings internal audit function and the development of the control environment in compliance with the Corporate Governance The committee meetings are regularly attended, by Code the Code.
invitation, by the Chairman, CEO and CFO along with the company secretary and general counsel.
PwC are also Audit committee composition and effectiveness invited to attend relevant committee meetings.
Separate The audit and risk committee is made up of three discussions outside of formal committee meetings are independent nonexecutive directors, myself as chairman, regularly held between the external audit partner, the Mark Bankes and Edward Haslam.
Biographies of the committee chairman and the CFO.
members of the committee can be found on pages 70 and 71.
The committee meets in person for four scheduled meetings during the year.
The committee also meet, by way In accordance with the Ontario Securities Commission of conference call, at least once a quarter to review the draft requirements, all members of the committee are considered quarterly and annual financial statements.
A summary of the financially literate pursuant to section 1.5 of the Multilateral committees main duties and activities carried out during Instrument 52110 and in compliance with the Code, I am 2015 is set out below: the member with the required relevant financial experience as a professionally qualified accountant.
External auditor: The committee reviewed the audit planning and completion documents and assessed The board conducted an evaluation of the committee, the effectiveness of the external auditor, taking into its composition, experience and activities during the year.
consideration the perceptiveness of the auditor in handling The findings concluded that the committee had made key judgments and estimates.
a significant contribution during the year to enhance the control environment within the finance team and in Financial reporting: The committee reviewed the quarterly, establishing a detailed scoping and action plan in respect halfyear and annual results and reviewing the application to the provision of internal audit services.
of the accounting policies, making recommendations and highlighting any matters to the board.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 99 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Directors report Risk reporting: The committee reviewed the risk During 2015, PwC attended meetings with the committee management process and periodic review of the corporate, and the management team, presenting their detailed audit strategic and operational risks.
See risk management and plan, their findings and recommendations in respect to reporting on page 32 for full details of the risk management the issue of their audit review and statutory opinions.
The committee developed further the internal and has open access to the board of directors at all times and external reporting to take account of updates to the Code.
the audit partner and certain of the audit management team attend and present at relevant committee meetings Internal controls: The committee reviewed the internal throughout the year.
control environment, to include controls over financial reporting, budgeting and reporting obligations.
The The committee, having considered the audit plans put committee also finalised the appointment of the internal forward by PwC, assessed the content and scope of the auditor and assisted in the scoping of services for 2015 audit to ensure the key areas have been identified.
The and 2016 see below for details of the process and work approach to the audit and identification of the significant undertaken by the internal auditor.
Details of the risk focus areas were considered appropriate by the committee, management and internal controls are summarised in the based on their detailed understanding of the business and corporate governance report together with the assessment the control environment and procedures in place.
which was undertaken by the board during the year.
PwC has visited the Sukari mine site and audited stock take, Accounting for transactions: The committee reviewed, as well as spending time at our finance and administrative among other reports, the cost recovery model, the offices in Alexandria, Egypt and Jersey.
PwC has also met accounting treatment for SGM and PGM together with with our legal advisers in Cairo.
the procedures for maintaining the PPE register and PwC has arranged training and Q&A sessions during asset allocation.
The committee considered the timing the year, attended by management and members of and modelling of future profit shares with government.
the committee to cover topics including governance, The committee also reviewed the accounting policies for accounting and risk management updates.
the write down of exploration expenditure during the year in respect to Sheba Ethiopian exploration which ceased Nonaudit fees operations late in 2015.
Details of the financial forecasting There was no significant nonaudit work carried out by PwC can be found in the risk management section and during the year, with the majority of the tax advisory services viability statement.
continuing to be provided by the Deloitte LLP tax teams in the UK and Australia.
The groups policy for nonaudit General: The committee maintained oversight for the services sets out the categories which the external auditor preparation of accounts for the major subsidiaries, the will and will not be allowed to provide to the group and repatriation of funds through the corporate structure, those engagements that need preapproval of the group.
the treasury policy and the reorganisation of the Ampella Fees for audit services incurred during the year amounted group structure which holds the Burkina Faso and to US$345k, there were nonaudit services carried out by Cte dIvoire assets.
Full details are set out in note 22 to External audit the financial statements.
At the AGM in May 2015, the shareholders approved the Our policy on nonaudit services and auditor independence appointment of  LLP PwC can be found on our website.
as the Companys external auditor.
PwCs appointment followed a tender process in 2014, conducted in compliance Audit rotation with best practice guidelines, and there were no matters There has been no rotation of audit partner since PwCs raised in connection with the subsequent resignation appointment.
The Companys policy is to tender the of the previous auditor, Deloitte LLP.
PwC has, since its external audit every ten years.
appointment on 23 June 2014, carried out the review Auditor objectivity and independence engagement for the half year ended 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2015 as well as the statutory audit for the years The committee continues to monitor the auditors objectivity ended 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015. and independence and are satisfied that PwC and the group have appropriate policies and procedures in place to ensure The committee have been instrumental in ensuring an that these requirements are not compromised.
orderly handover of the audit engagement to PwC and the process was compliant with relevant auditing standards.
100 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Directors report audIt aNd rIsk commIttee report continued External audit continued Having approached a number of firms, including midtier and the big four audit firms, BDO LLP was selected based external auditor effectiveness on its experience and industry knowledge.
There were The group has an established control environment which no matters which might otherwise compromise their ensures regular reporting by its operating mine and independence and objectivity.
The committee assisted exploration projects through to the Companys headquarters management in developing the scope of the audit for 2015 in Jersey.
Progress was made in 2015 to make better use of and 2016.
BDO LLP reports its findings primarily to the the existing financial reporting programmes, to streamline committee and discussions are regularly held between the reporting and therefore remove processes which could audit partner and the chairman of the committee.
be subject to human error.
These improvements in the reporting environment have been recognised and In 2015, representatives of BDO LLP visited the mine in encouraged by PwC.
Egypt and met with the senior heads of department.
Having carried out an initial assessment, it concentrated the internal The committee undertakes a review of the effectiveness audit on the core financial controls and corporate risk of the external auditor at the halfyear review and annual management, as set out below.
This review compares the original audit plan against the delivery of the audit.
The committee Audit review: core financial controls also reviews the process, taking account of the views of Control General Sales and accounts Accounts the senior members of the finance team and the CFO.
framework ledger receivables payable An evaluation of auditors findings and recommendations Cash and Fixed Financial reports Management are considered, to ensure that all key areas have been bank assets accounts identified.
Where applicable, an action plan and control sheet is set up to ensure recommendations are addressed.
Audit review: risk management There has been open communication between the Risk Risk assessment Risk monitoring governance and mitigation and reporting committee and the auditor.
Management has also worked well with PwC during the halfyear and full year audit.
BDO LLP provided a list of recommendations to the committee to make further improvements to the control Having carried out the evaluation, the committee is satisfied environment and to meet best practice guidelines.
The that the audit engagement for the financial year ended action plan and progress updates, following the initial 2015 was both effective and added value to the group.
internal audit review, will be monitored by the committee Appointment of the internal auditor throughout 2016.
In 2015, the committee assisted management to complete a The scope of work for 2016, which was developed after tender process for the provision of internal audit services.
consultation with the management team, the committee and BDO LLP, is set out below: 2016 scoping schedule Warehouse, purchasing Compliance with the and tendering Contract management Budgetary controls concession agreement Procurement strategy, policy Contract signing.
Compliance with the and procedures.
Contract spend analysis and Budget monitoring.
Controls in place to prevent Changes to budgets.
Contractor performance Management information management.
Ongoing monitoring of Good requisition and issue.
Contractor training Quotations and tendering completion.
procedures, including obtaining value for money.
Compliance testing of a sample of CA items.
Receipting and return of goods.
The committee will also monitor the auditors progress this year and ensure they have access to the required resources and information to complete their scope in 2016.
The internal auditor will make an assessment each year of any significant changes to the risk profile of the organisation and consider any areas of focus for the provision of internal audit services.
The committee will ultimately be seeking an independent viewpoint and assurance over internal control environment from BDO LLP.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 101 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Directors report Significant issues highlighted during the year by the committee The following significant issues were highlighted during the year by the committee full details and analysis are set out in note 4 to the financial statements.
significant topic issue How the committee addressed these issues Internal Appointment Completion of the tender for the provision of internal audit services.
audit of an internal Details of the appointment of BDO LLP and the work carried out and scope for 2016 are set out above.
auditor Accounting Impairment Management have concluded that there is no the key assumptions applied in the 31 December for of assets indication that an impairment exists, nor have any 2015 impairment review: transactions other than indicators arisen after the reporting period and are forecast gold prices: financial therefore not required to perform a full impairment discount rate: assets review under IAS 36. production volumes: In making the assessment as to the possibility of reserves and resources report: and whether impairment losses have arisen, management costs and recovery rates.
considered the following indications: The committee reviewed the papers presented internal sources of information: by management in respect to IAS 39 and are in external sources of information: agreement with the conclusions set out above.
litigation: Accounting Litigation The group exercises judgment in measuring and recognising provisions and the exposures to contingent for liabilities related to pending litigation, as well as other contingent liabilities see note 20 to the financial transactions statements.
Judgment is necessary in assessing the likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible range of the financial settlement.
The details of this litigation, which relate to the loss of the Egyptian national subsidy for Diesel Fuel Oil and 2 the ability of the group to operate outside the area of 3km determined by the Administrative Court of first instance to be the area of the Sukari exploitation lease, are given in note 20 to the financial statements and in the most recently filed Annual Information Form AIF which is available on SEDAR at www.
The committee has reviewed the external legal opinions, the opinions of the Companys general counsel and the facts associated with the litigation and are in agreement with management on the accounting judgments and agree that, in the unlikely event, that the group is unsuccessful in either or both of its legal actions, and that the operating activities are restricted to a reduced area, it is managements belief that the group will be able to continue as going concern.
Accounting Going Under guidelines set out by the UK Financial Reporting Council FRC the directors of UK listed companies for concern are required to consider whether the going concern basis is the appropriate basis of preparation of financial transactions statements.
Based on a detailed cash flow forecast prepared by management, in which any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which cash flow forecast is based, the directors considered it appropriate to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis.
Key assumptions underpinning this forecast include: litigation as discussed in note 20 to the financial statements: forecast gold price: production volumes: and costs and recovery rates.
These financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 have therefore been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplate the realisation of assets and liquidation of liabilities during the normal course of operations, in preparing the financial statements.
Accounting Accounting SGM is consolidated within the Centamin group of companies, reflecting the substance and economic reality for treatment of the Concession Agreement see note 21 to the financial statements.
The group, in considering the relevant transactions of Sukari activities of SGM, its power over these activities and exposure to the variable returns has concluded that the Gold Mines group consolidate this interest.
A noncontrolling interest is recorded in relation to the equity in the subsidiaries SGM and that are not attributable to the group.
Note 21 to the financial statements sets out in detail the accounting profit share.
treatment for all the assets, liabilities, income and expense of SGM.
The committee reviewed papers from management and agree with the accounting treatment as set out above.
Due to the cessation of exploration activity in Ethiopia during the year, an impairment of US$6.3 million was recorded.
The committee reviewed the papers presented by management in respect to IFRS 6 and are in agreement with the accounting treatment.
Risk Jurisdictional As detailed in note 7 the group operates in several countries and, accordingly, it is subject to the various tax reporting taxation regimes in the countries in which it operates.
From time to time, the group is subject to review of its related tax matters filings and in connection with such reviews, disputes can arise with the taxing authorities over the interpretation or application of certain rules to the groups business conducted within the country involved.
If the group is unable to resolve any of these matters favourably, there may be an adverse impact on the groups financial performance, cash flows or results of operations.
In the event that managements estimate of the future resolution of these matters changes, the group will recognise the effects of the changes in its consolidated financial statements in the period that such changes occur.
102 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Directors report audIt aNd rIsk commIttee report continued Fair, balanced and understandable Is the annual report clear and understandable?
The committee was satisfied that the controls over the Do we clearly show our business model and strategy accuracy and consistency of the information in the 2015 to the reasonably informed reader of the report?
annual report were sufficiently robust.
The committee Have we identified the key metrics and explained the reviews the control environment and is in receipt of monthly, significance of these results?
quarterly and annual financial and budgetary information.
Have we reflected the link between our strategy, The committee is also involved in the review of all key performance and financials?
accounting policies and matters requiring judgment Are our risk and governance presented clearly?
The committee recommended an update on how we The committee has, at the request of the board, also present our risk management process and business model considered whether the annual report is fair, balanced this year, which has been implemented in this report see and understandable.
In arriving at that decision, the page 32.
The additional sign posting and clear presentation committee has been involved in reviewing, at an early of the strategic objectives, and how these link to operational stage, the content of both the financial statements and and exploration activity has also been modified to help the the strategic report including the business model, the user of the report.
performance review and governance reporting throughout the report including the directors report.
The assessment The committee concluded that the annual report was fair, of each component by the committee can be summarised balanced and understandable having considered the as follows: activity of the Company during the period and that users of the report would be able to understand our position, Is the annual report fair and balanced?
strategy, business model and overall performance which Have the groups activities been presented fairly in were presented consistently throughout the annual report.
Control environment Does the narrative reporting fairly represent Full details of the risk management and control environment financial results?
are set out in the strategic report on page 32.
The risk Have we disclosed key indicators of performance?
management report concludes by identifying the principal Have we applied the appropriate emphasis on the risks for the business and the Companys statements on risk material matters?
appetite and long term viability.
Do the chairman and CEO reports reflect the While the board has overall responsibility for risk full story?
management and internal controls, the board has delegated The committee considered these questions and more and certain responsibilities to this committee.
These include as an example, the committee considered the reporting of responsibility over the adequacy of the internal control both the positive and less favourable outcomes this year.
policies and procedures and the effectiveness of internal For example, the increase in ounces of gold produced was financial controls and risk management systems.
sufficiently weighted against the backdrop of a low gold The key features of the control environment are to ensure price environment.
In addition, the ongoing litigation was compliance with laws, regulations and other requirements given prominence in the chairmans statement.
The narrative relating to external reporting by the Company of financial reporting also explained the write down of exploration and nonfinancial information.
The purpose of the risk expenditure following the decision to relinquish the licence management framework is to understand the risks the areas in Ethiopia with sufficient narrative relating to the group faces and to manage them appropriately to enhance ongoing investment at our advanced and early stage the Companys ability to improve its decision making exploration in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
process, deliver on its objectives and subsequently improve its performance as a mining company.
During the year, the committee reviewed the overall control environment, including specific financial controls and procedures.
The committee also recommended the adoption of a new risk framework agreement to formalise the existing information and reporting flows between the operation, the executive management team and the committees and board.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 103 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Directors report As part of the review process, it was necessary to update Overview the existing corporate policy on risk and the board adopted As a result of its work during the year, the committee a revised and updated risk management framework has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its agreement.
The risk management framework includes terms of reference and has ensured the independence additional detail about the scope and structure of an and objectivity of the external auditor.
A member of the executive risk management working group, which will be committee will be available at the annual general meeting preparing quarterly reports on an ongoing basis to help along with the CFO to answer any questions in relation to implement the suggested improvements following the last this report.
review and internal audit recommendations.
During the year, the committee carried out an evaluation The appointment of the internal auditor, BDO LLP, was an of its own performance, taking into consideration the important step in the Companys growth strategy, and will contribution to the quarterly and annual accounts and the help the Company and the committee identify any potential risk review and risk assessment process.
The committee also weaknesses in the control environment and recommend considered its composition, the competency, availability and improvements for the future.
contribution of its members and did not recommend any further changes to the board.
controls over financial reports and financial statements The consolidated financial statements and annual report are prepared at the Companys head office in Jersey, where Mark Arnesen the group financial controller and chief financial officer For and on behalf of the audit and risk are based.
The accounting information from the groups committee of Centamin plc operations is provided to the head office where the ledgers 21 March 2016 are consolidated.
Appropriate reconciliations and reviews are performed at the level of the operation and at the groups head office by way of the performance of monthly, quarterly and annual reconciliations.
Going concern and long term viability The directors considered it appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern statement is detailed in full in note 3 to the financial statements.
The statements in relation to the groups viability, over the longer term, are set out in the risk management report on page 37.
External auditor So far as each current director of the Company is aware, the auditor has had full access to all relevant information and the committee has answered any questions raised by the auditor allowing the auditor to carry out its duties.
The committee recommends to the board the appointment of PwC as auditor at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
PwC has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor.
