14 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR FOCUS FOR LONG-TERM GROWTH Our focus for long-term growth Energy Supply & Services 1 Supplying UK & IRELAND Our energy supply businesses will continue to be a energy and key contributor to Group cash flow.
In the UK, given a highly competitive market, our focus for growth will be through significantly improved cost efficiency and customer service to underpin better retention levels.
providing We expect these to offset the impacts of competitive intensity and reducing consumption.
By leveraging our capability to innovate and compete, we believe that distinctive we can offer compelling propositions to customers.
In services, we are building on our capability in service delivery to develop new propositions to appeal to new and leading customer segments.
In the Republic of Ireland we will look to increase ourshare of electricity supply and energy services services facilitated by a market more recently deregulated thanthe UK.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 15 NORTH AMERICA Our North American customer-facing businesses are an important part of the Group and we see opportunities to increase market share.
In residential energy supply, we are focused on developing a more sustainable business model through the development of improved bundled propositions, greater focus on customer mix and achieving better retention levels.
In business energy supply, the acquisition of Hess Energy Marketing in 2013 has provided us with a market leading position and a strong base from which to deliver sustainable returns over the long term.
In our North American services business we are the US market leader, albeit with a small market share in a very fragmented market, and believe there is strong potential for growth from the wide range of products we are able to offer.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR FOCUS FOR LONG-TERM GROWTH Our focus for long-term growth Distributed Energy & Power 2 Distributed energy, including energy efficiency, flexible generation and new technologies, is an activity which, alongside energy management and optimisation, we expect to provide significant growth potential for Focusing on Centrica in the long term.
This activity will be targeted at commercial and industrial C&I customers in all the geographies in which we operate.
Although building distributed up our capability in this area will require additional investment, many of the skills associated with distributed energy already exist in the Group.
energy offerings We have a good starting position and this is an attractive opportunity for Centrica.
We expect to invest up to 700 million of additional operating and capital resources in this area over the next five years.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 17 Connected Home 3 Investing We believe that our Connected Home offerings will become increasingly important, with propositions in Smart linked to our core energy and services products in the UK, the Republic of Ireland and North America.
These propositions will help to underpin better retention levels as well as provide growth opportunities technologies in their own right.
We already have products in the market under our Hive brand and have built high quality end-to-end in the home capability in this area, with operating platform design and operation, hardware and software development, data analytics, installation and maintenance.
Given these capabilities, the scale of our existing customer relationships and our ability to directly support customers through our national network of engineers and technicians, we will be able to compete effectively in this space.
To drive growth, we are investing 500 million in operating costs and capital expenditure in our Connected Home activities over the next five years.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 18 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR FOCUS FOR LONG-TERM GROWTH Our focus for long-term growth Energy Marketing & Trading 4 Building our EM&T provides a good opportunity for growth and is an area where we already have strong capabilities.
international In LNG, the first commercial delivery under our US gas export contract with Cheniere is expected in late 2018 or early 2019 and we have been actively building both our capability and market presence in LNG.
capability We will also continue to expand our route to market services and to utilise our knowledge of European energy markets to benefit from trading and in energy optimisation activity.
We expect to invest an additional 150 million of operating costs and capital expenditure in this area marketing over the next five years.
and trading Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 19 Exploration & Production Supplying energy The role of Exploration & Production E&P in the portfolio is to provide cash flow and balance sheet and providing cash strength.
We have determined that a stable E&P business which produces around 4050mmboe per annum, and requires 400 million to 600 million of capital expenditure each year, is sufficient to fulfil flow and balance this role.
This compares to a business which produced 75-80mmboe and incurred capital expenditure of around 1.1 billion in both 2013 and 2014 as sheet strength we sought to grow E&P.
We will focus our E&P activity on the North Sea and East Irish Sea, where we are material enough to play a major role in the UK and Netherlands as well as having the capability and presence in Norway to allow us to access additional value opportunities.
Central Power Generation In thermal power, we will continue to operate our existing small gas-fired fleet, maximising optimisation activity and seeking opportunities to make investments in improving the fleet where economics allow.
We will maintain a watching brief as the capacity market evolves, and will retain sufficient capability to enable us to continue to manage power assets in the future.
However, we will not increase our emphasis on central thermal generation, preferring to seek opportunities in peaking units and distributed generation.
Additionally, we intend to continue to dispose of our interests in wind generation.
Our participation in nuclear power generation is an attractive financial investment but provides limited strategic optionality for the Group.
Centrica Storage Our offshore gas storage asset, Rough, is the largest in the UK.
We do not see it as a growth option in the current environment and will focus on safety, compliance and efficiency of the asset.
We will continue to work with the UK Government on any changes necessary to ensure Rough fulfils its role as a strategic asset for UK energy security.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
