44 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board of Directors Full biographies can be found at centrica.
com N D RICK HAYTHORNTHWAITE JEFF BELL MARK HANAFIN Chairman Group Chief Financial Officer Group Executive Director and ChiefExecutive, Energy Production, Rick joined the Board as a Non-Executive Jeff was appointed Group Chief Trading and Distributed Energy Director on 14 October 2013.
He was FinancialOfficer and joined the Board appointed Chairman of the Board on on1August 2015.
Mark joined the Board on 14 July 2008.
1January 2014 and is Chairman of the Skills and experience Skills and experience Nominations Committee.
Jeff has a broad range of finance Mark has senior management experience Skills and experience experience.
He joined the Groups Direct across the energy value chain from E&P Rick has a wealth of knowledge in the Energy business in Toronto in 2002 where through to product sales.
He has excellent energy industry and has significant board he held various senior finance positions midstream and trading credentials as well experience, both as an executive and before moving to the Companys head as a strong track record in developing supply non-executive.
He led the rescue of Invensys office in 2008 to support the Group Chief and marketing businesses.
Before joining from 2001 to 2005 and the defence, Executive and to lead the Group Strategy Centrica, Mark spent 21 years with Royal turnaround and subsequent sale of Blue team.
In 2011 he was appointed Director Dutch Shell.
He has of Corporate Finance.
Prior to Centrica, Jeff External appointments served on the boards of Network Rail as worked in Toronto for both KPMG, where Non-executive director of EDF Energy chairman and Cookson, Lafarge, ICI and he qualified as a chartered accountant, Nuclear Generation Group Limited.
Land Securities as non-executive director.
and the Boston Consulting Group.
External appointments A N R S MARK HODGES Chairman of the global board of MARGHERITA DELLA VALLE Group Executive Director and Chief MasterCard Incorporated, QIOTechnologies Non-Executive Director Executive, Energy Supply & Services, and Arc International.
Margherita joined the Board on 1 January UK & Ireland 2011 and is Chairman of the Audit D Mark joined the Board on 1 June 2015.
Skills and experience Chief Executive Skills and experience Mark brings a strong understanding of the Iain was appointed Chief Executive on Margherita brings considerable corporate UKconsumer market and a track record 1 January 2015 and is Chairman of the finance and accounting experience and inimproving business performance.
has a sound background in marketing.
She isexperienced in working in a regulated was chief financial officer for Vodafones environment, driving significant improvements Skills and experience European region from April 2007 to October in customer service and efficiency, offer Iain has a wealth of experience heading 2010 and chief financial officer of Vodafone innovation, major IT and change projects.
Previously she Mark was group chief executive officer of He possesses a deep understanding of worked for Omnitel Pronto Italia in Italy and Towergate Partnership and prior to this he the energy sector built up over a lifetime held various consumer marketing positions spent over 20 years with Norwich Union and in the industry with a commitment to in business analytics and customer base Aviva plc holding a variety of finance, planning customers and safety.
Iain was previously management prior to moving to finance.
and strategy roles including sitting on both chief executive, downstream, BPs refining External appointments the executive committee and Aviva plc board.
and marketing division from 2007 to 2014.
Deputy Group CFO of Vodafone Group plc, Iain was a board member of BP for 10 A N R a member of HM Treasurys Financial years from 2004 and has previously held LESLEY KNOX Management Review Board of a number of senior roles throughout BP.
Non-Executive Director HMGovernment and a trustee of the Lesley joined the Board on 1 January 2012 and External appointments Vodafone Foundation.
is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Non-executive director of BT Group plc.
Skills and experience Lesley brings a wealth of strategic and financial experience across a range of businesses to the Board and she is an experienced remuneration committee chair.
She was previously with British Linen Bank and was a founder director of British Linen Advisers.
Lesley was senior non-executive director of Hays Plc and also spent 15 years with Kleinwort Benson.
External appointments Non-executive director of SABMiller plc, trusteeof the Grosvenor Estate and chairman ofGrosvenor Group Limited, Chairman of Design Dundee Limited and a trustee of The National Life Story Collection and National Galleries Scotland.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 45 Rick Haythornthwaite Iain Conn Jeff Bell Margherita Della Valle Mark Hanafin Mark Hodges Lesley Knox Mike Linn A Audit S Safety, Health, Committee Environment, Security D Disclosure and Ethics Committee Committee N Nominations Denotes Committee Committee R Remuneration Chairman Committee Ian Meakins Carlos Pascual Steve Pusey N R S N R S MIKE LINN CARLOS PASCUAL Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Mike joined the Board on 1 June 2013 Carlos joined the Board on 1 January 2015. and is Chairman of the SHESEC.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Carlos has held a number of senior positions Mike has considerable experience in the in the energy industry and is a senior leader energy sector, particularly exploration and in energy geopolitics and economic and production and the US market.
Between 2011 and was previously chairman, chief and 2014 Carlos established and directed executive officer and president of LINN the US State Departments Energy Energy, LLC.
Until August 2014 Carlos was special envoy and coordinator for External appointments international energy affairs, acting as senior Non-executive director of LINN Energy, adviser to the US Secretary of State on LLC, non-executive board member of energy issues.
He has also served as Nabors Industries, Blackstone Minerals US ambassador in Mexico and Ukraine.
Company, LP and Western Refining Logistics and senior advisor to Quantum External appointments Energy Partners.
Member of the National Non-resident senior fellow at the Centre on Petroleum Council and inducted into the Global Energy Policy, Columbia University All American Wildcatters.
and senior vice president of IHS Inc. A N R A N S IAN MEAKINS STEVE PUSEY Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Ian joined the Board on 1 October 2010 Steve joined the Board on 1 April 2015. and is Senior Independent Director.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Steve has a wealth of international Ian has broad general management experience as a senior customerand board experience and considerable facing business technology leader.
knowledge of managing businesses He has considerable experience in the with strong brands.
Ian is currently chief telecommunications industry in both executive officer of Wolseley plc and was, the wireline and wireless sectors and until April 2009, chief executive of Travelex in business applications and solutions.
He was chief executive officer Stevehas worked for Vodafone, Nortel of Alliance UniChem plc until its merger with and British Telecom and is a graduate Boots in July 2006 and between 2000 and of the Advanced Management Program 2004 he was president, european major at HarvardUniversity.
markets and global supply for Diageo plc.
External appointments External appointments Non-executive director of FireEye, Inc. Group chief executive officer of Wolseley and ARM Holdings plc.
It has been announced that Ian is expected to retire from Wolseley plc on 31August 2016.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
