Strategic review During 2015, we significantly accelerated our strategy to build Progressing our strategy a world-class, self-sustaining specialty biopharmaceutical Following the completion of the acquisitions, Circassia has made good business.
In June, with our allergy portfolio continuing to make progress across all three areas of its expanded business.
Our allergy progress and our lead programme on track to deliver phase portfolio has continued to advance in the clinic, we have substantially III results in the coming year, we acquired Aerocrine and its increased NIOX sales and the approval of the lead asthma treatment market-leading NIOX asthma management products and validates the acquisition strategy.
As a result, our business is well established commercialisation infrastructure that was already positioned, combining marketed products, an exciting pipeline of targeting the key allergy asthma specialists who will drive the next generation treatments and a strong balance sheet.
successful launch of our first allergy treatment.
At the same time, the acquisition of Prosonix broadened the Companys Allergy portfolio clinical progress pipeline with a number of asthma and chronic obstructive Cat allergy pulmonary disease products, which offer the prospect of Circassias lead allergy programme continues on track to deliver near-term revenues and longer-term high value novel phase III results in Q2 2016.
The pivotal registration study CATALYST formulations.
We also completed a successful 275 million completed dosing of the final subject in the second half of 2015, and Placing and Open Offer to fund the acquisitions, and ensure the primary endpoint will measure the combined improvement in the Company remains funded to deliver its pipeline.
allergy symptoms and rescue medication use one year after treatment initiation.
A total of 1,409 cat allergy sufferers were randomised into the study, exceeding the target by 19%, and the study is fully powered for the primary efficacy analysis.
As part of its preparations to ensure efficient regulatory filings following receipt of the phase III data, Circassia has scheduled a pre-BLA meeting with the FDA and also intends to meet with the European Medicines Agency prior to submission.
CATALYSTs long-term follow-up CP007A also continues to make progress, with 424 subjects enrolled after completing the phase III study.
The two-to-five year extension study is designed to confirm the ongoing efficacy of the cat allergy immunotherapy without further dosing, and offers the potential to extend the products licence following initial approval.
275m During 2015, we undertook a number of activities to support licence applications for our lead allergy therapy.
Preparation of We completed a successful 275 million Placing and Open Offer to fund strategic the US and European regulatory filings is underway, and we have acquisitions.
signed an agreement with long-term partner Bachem for commercial supply of the active pharmaceutical ingredient.
In addition, we completed a pilot paediatric safety study CP009 at the end of the year, which was required by the regulators to progress the product filing in Europe.
We recently received preliminary results from the study conducted in 15 children aged 5 to 11 years old, which will support our filing and allow us to move to a larger paediatric study following a Marketing Authorisation Application.
In the US, we will finalise the Pediatric Study Plan following product approval in line with the usual regulatory process.
Grass allergy Grass pollen is the most common cause of hay fever.
Circassias grass allergy immunotherapy has previously demonstrated successful proof-of-concept in a phase IIb study, with symptom improvements maintained in subjects tested after each pollen season over three years, despite only a short course of treatment before the first season.
In preparation for the clinical programme to support the products registration, the Company has now met with regulators in Europe and the US.
Based on these discussions, the Company is initiating a single innovative adaptive-design registration study, which is designed to meet regulators requirements on both sides of the Atlantic.
The first stage of the study will recruit approximately 400 subjects, who will receive a course of 8 x 6nmol doses over 14 weeks, or placebo.
The subjects will report on their allergy symptoms and use of rescue medications during the pollen season, and following favourable results, the second stage will include a pre-recruited expansion cohort.
This will permit sizing of the study based on first-stage performance to achieve appropriate powering, and currently the Company anticipates including a further 1,100 subjects.
The study remains on track to begin in H1 2016, with results anticipated in H2 2018.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 22 During 2015, we also completed a successful safety study in controlled asthmatics with grass allergy TG004.
The product was well tolerated and no safety concerns were identified.
Consequently, this important patient group can be included in the planned registration study.
House dust mite allergy House dust mite proteins are the most common cause of allergy in Europe and the USA.
Circassias house dust mite allergy treatment achieved successful results in an earlier proof-of-concept phase IIb study, with subjects receiving 4 x 12nmol doses over 12 weeks experiencing a significant p 0.02 reduction in symptoms when challenged one year after the start of treatment.
In long-term follow-up, symptom improvements were maintained at the same level in patients assessed two years after the start of treatment, despite receiving no further dosing.
Following these encouraging results, we started a large field study TH005 comparing the best performing regimen from the proof of concept study 4 x 12nmol with an 8 x 12nmol regimen, and a higher dose.
The study is ongoing in North America, Europe and South Africa, and at the end of 2015 we closed recruitment.
As a result, Allergy is the medical condition with the randomisation into the study is now complete with 715 subjects greatest impact on US work productivity enrolled, an increase of 8% over the initial target of 660.
The study will assess the combined improvement in symptoms and rescue medication use one year after the start of treatment, and results are expected in H1 2017.
Ragweed allergy Ragweed allergy is highly prevalent in North America where it is a common cause of hay fever.
In Europe, the allergy is less common, but is affecting a growing proportion of the population.
In 2015, Circassia conducted a follow-up field study TR006A of its ragweed allergy immunotherapy in subjects who completed the TR006 phase IIb trial in 2014.
The follow-up study assessed the subjects allergy symptoms and use of rescue medication two pollen seasons after the completion of treatment, despite no further dosing.
The results show that all of the regimens demonstrated a treatment effect at the peak and across the H1 2016 whole season.
These recent results follow a successful 2011 proof-of-concept study, We are on track to initiate our grass allergy which indicated that higher doses of the ragweed allergy treatment treatment registration study in H1 2016. have a greater clinical effect in an environmental exposure chamber challenge.
In this study, the highest dose achieved significant improvements in subjects with more severe symptoms p 0.04.
Similarly, the TR006 study results showed evidence of a dose response, with the higher dose regimen achieving the best reduction in symptoms, despite a marked placebo effect.
TR006 also assessed the combined improvement in symptoms and rescue medication use during a natural ragweed pollen season, and also showed that the highest dose had the greatest treatment effect.
These conclusions are now supported by the TR006A follow-up study, in which the highest dose had the greatest effect in the field across the pollen season, achieving an improvement in the change in combined symptom and rescue medication score of 21% vs placebo.
Consequently, we are now planning to initiate a phase IIb dose-ranging study to identify the optimal dose to progress to phase III.
The study will compare the best performing dose regimen from the earlier trials 8 x 12nmol and a higher dose regimen 8 x 24nmol in approximately 450 subjects.
The study is on track to begin in 2016, with dosing planned for completion before the 2017 pollen season, and results anticipated in H1 2018.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 23 Strategic review continued Birch and Japanese cedar allergies Tree pollens are a common cause of allergy and pollen released by birch and Japanese cedar can cause allergic reactions.
Circassia is developing immunotherapies for these allergies and both programmes made good progress in 2015.
In the second half of the year, we moved our birch allergy treatment into clinical development, with a first-in-human study beginning in July.
The study is now fully recruited n 64 with dosing complete, and the Birch trial is anticipated to report in the second half of the year following the end of the natural birch pollen season.
Our treatment for Japanese cedar allergy also advanced during the year.
The programme has allergy completed pre-clinical development, and we have recently agreed the design of a first-in-human clinical study with the Japanese We moved our birch allergy regulatory authorities.
treatment into the clinic in July 2015.
NIOX commercial progress Strong sales growth Following the acquisition of Aerocrine in June 2015, we have sold its unique NIOX asthma products direct to allergy asthma specialists in the US and Germany and through a network of partners internationally.
NIOX MINO and the next-generation NIOX VERO are used to improve asthma diagnosis and management through monitoring of patients fractional exhaled nitric oxide FeNO and are the only pointof-care devices available across major markets.
FeNO measurement is recommended by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence NICE to help guide asthma diagnosis and management and is Chinese included in the American Thoracic Society treatment guidelines, which are endorsed by the leading allergy asthma professional societies.
During 2015, the NIOX franchise made impressive progress, with launch revenues growing strongly, and since our acquisition of the products in June sales have increased by 32% to 10.3 million at constant We launched NIOX VERO in China in August 2015. exchange rates compared with the same period the year before.
Chinese approval and launch Asia is an important market for NIOX, and in China the products are distributed by a network of local partners managed by Circassias team of sales managers based in Beijing.
During the summer, the China Food and Drug Administration issued regulatory clearance for the next-generation NIOX product, NIOX VERO, and at the end of August our Chinese commercial team held a launch meeting in Guangzhou.
The launch included a scientific meeting chaired by asthma expert Professor Jiang-Tao Lin and attended by over 100 opinion leaders, and a separate session for distributors in preparation for the roll out of NIOX VERO across China.
Label extension studies During the year, we have reviewed development opportunities to continue the growth of the NIOX franchise and subsequently planned two clinical studies to support label extensions.
The first study, which is currently ongoing, is designed to support the use of NIOX VERO in children aged four to six years old in the US.
Currently, the product is indicated for use in those aged four years and older in Europe, with the option of using a six second test for children unable to perform the normal ten second mode.
However, the US approval does not include children aged under seven years or the use of the six second test.
The study, which will include approximately 100 subjects, is designed to demonstrate the accuracy of the shorter test mode in children aged four, five and six years old.
The results are anticipated in H2 2016.
NIOX VERO offers important improvements over the previous generation product Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 24 The second study, which is currently awaiting local ethics approval before initiation, is designed to explore the potential to extend NIOX VERO s licence to include the diagnosis of primary ciliary dyskinesia.
This disorder, which affects approximately 20,000 people in the US, is characterised by chronic respiratory tract infections, as well as abnormally positioned internal organs and infertility, and sufferers have year-round nasal congestion and a chronic cough.
Diagnosis can be complex and include the use of genetic testing and electron microscopy of airway cilia samples.
As a result, there is an opportunity for more straightforward diagnostic methods.
Consequently, we have adapted our easy-to-use NIOX device to sample nasal nitric oxide and designed the clinical study to determine the threshold for the diagnosis of primary ciliary dyskinesia.
The study, which we plan to conduct in the US and Europe, will include approximately 50 subjects with confirmed primary ciliary dyskinesia and 100 healthy controls.
Respiratory portfolio progress Flixotide pMDI substitute approval At the end of 2015, the UKs Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency MHRA confirmed the successful outcome of Our fluticasone propionate pMDI targeting direct substitution of Flixotide the European Decentralised Procedure for Circassias fluticasone pMDI is approved in the UK for the prophylactic treatment of asthma propionate pressurised metered dose inhaler pMDI for the prophylactic treatment of asthma.
The product, which is part of a previously announced global licensing agreement with Mylan, targets direct substitution of GlaxoSmithKlines Flixotide pMDI.
The MHRA has now issued the Marketing Authorisation for the product, which covers all three strengths in which the originator is available 50g, 125g and 250g.
Our fluticasone propionate pMDI was developed under the European regulatory guidelines on orally inhaled products that permit approval based on an in vitro demonstration of equivalence only, without the need for clinical data.
This regulatory standard is extremely challenging to achieve, and we believe this is the first time it has been We have started a study accomplished for a range of product strengths.
This achievement is an important validation of our proprietary particle-engineering technology, to support the use of NIOX which is designed to overcome the production and formulation challenges associated with traditionally produced respiratory VERO in children aged four pharmaceuticals.
to six years old in the US Seretide substitute filing We are also using our particle-engineering technology to develop a wholly-owned fluticasone propionate salmeterol xinafoate combination asthma treatment targeting direct substitution of GSKs Seretide Advair pMDI.
The market opportunity for the product is significant, with originator sales accounting for approximately $1.5 billion in 2015.
As a result, we progressed our in vitro development programme alongside parallel pharmacokinetic studies, which were set up in South Africa prior to the products acquisition, to inform the clinical work required for a US filing and act as a contingency measure if required for a European submission.
Recently, we received headline results from these studies, which indicate that the fluticasone component of the product is similar to the originator.
The results also show that the total absorption of salmeterol was similar to the originator, although the peak plasma concentration did not match.
These data suggest the formulation may contain insufficient fine particles of salmeterol.
As a result, we have initiated a corrective plan to optimise the product and we anticipate the initial Marketing Authorisation Application will be filed in the second half of 2017.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 25 Strategic review continued Triple fixed dose combination clinical programme Our triple combination therapy for moderate-to-severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD contains an inhaled corticosteroid, long-acting beta agonist and long-acting muscarinic antagonist delivered via an easy-to-use pMDI.
Currently, there are no triple therapies available, and consequently COPD patients require at least two devices with potentially different operating procedures and inhalation techniques to receive the equivalent medication.
As a result, the triple market has significant commercial potential, with independent forecasts predicting sales of nearly $8 billion in 2025.
In September 2015, we completed pre-clinical development for our novel triple formulation and progressed the product into the clinic.
The first-in-human clinical study is ongoing in Berlin, and the initial single-dose component in 20 healthy subjects is now complete.
The results show that the product was well tolerated with a favourable safety profile and therefore the local ethics committee has approved the initiation of the repeat dose component, which is now fully recruited and nearing completion.
Results from the full study are anticipated in the coming months.
We received over 2,000 applications to join our US sales force Commercial strategy progress Commercial infrastructure acceleration During the first half of 2015, we made significant progress in expanding our nascent commercialisation capabilities in preparation for the launch of our first allergy immunotherapy.
Having appointed our Chief Commercial Officer and incorporated our US subsidiary in 2014, we appointed Regional Medical Affairs Directors in the United States and Europe and established analytics, marketing and distribution management capabilities during the first half of 2015.
We also finalised and submitted brand names for our cat allergy immunotherapy to EU regulators and completed market research to inform our launch positioning.
The regulators have now approved both brand names and we have finalised our proposed scientific name.
During the second half of the year, we significantly accelerated our strategy to sell our products directly in key territories through the acquisition of Aerocrine.
This brought established commercial infrastructure and sales forces targeting allergy asthma specialists in the two most significant markets, the US and Germany.
We have subsequently integrated the Aerocrine commercial organisation and significantly expanded our capabilities.
This will enable us to continue the growth of NIOX sales and build broad market understanding of our revolutionary allergy technology ahead of our first product launch, in order to target accelerated uptake and higher peak sales.
As a result, we have now increased our US sales force by 65% to 48, added managed markets expertise and at the end of the year we convened our first national sales conference.
Our recruitment campaign had an extremely highly positive response, receiving over 2,000 applications for our 28 open positions.
At the same time, we have expanded our marketing and market access team, who have completed the development and roll out of a compelling new NIOX promotional campaign, commissioned specialists to target increased product reimbursement in the US and undertaken further market research to support the launch of our cat allergy treatment.
Expanding direct sales In H2 2015, we initiated a territory review to determine the priority countries in which to establish direct sales organisations, complementing our growing presence in the US and Germany.
These local teams will leverage our global marketing and supply chain capabilities and enable us to promote our NIOX products more widely in the short-term while also broadening links with opinion leaders, educating specialists and mapping key accounts well in advance of the anticipated launch our cat allergy immunotherapy.
We have now concluded the initial review in key European territories where we have distributors in place and have begun discussions to establish a direct presence in France.
We anticipate concluding the process during the coming year.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 26 Building our team R&D and commercial team expansion During the year, we continued to progress our allergy and respiratory product portfolio and explored options to expand the indications for our NIOX products.
As a result, we have initiated a number of clinical studies and put in place preparations to begin others.
To support this work, we have expanded our R&D organisation, recruiting additional experts to our clinical, regulatory, quality and CMC teams, and during 2015 our R&D group increased by 75% to 77 employees.
We also made good progress accelerating the build of our commercial organisation, expanding the team dramatically during 2015.
We now have in place the range of specialists required to commercialise products, including sales, medical affairs, compliance, distribution, regulatory and commercial administration.
As a result, we now have over 100 employees in our commercial team, and much of our infrastructure can be leveraged across additional markets as we expand our direct sales territories.
Board expansion During 2015, we strengthened our Board, with Lota S Zoth and Marvin S Samson joining as Non-Executive Directors.
Ms Zoth, who now chairs the Companys Audit and Risk Committee, has significant financial experience gained in a number of global public companies, including as CFO at MedImmune.
She also held senior positions at We have now increased PSINet, Sodexho Marriott, PepsiCo and Ernst & Young.
Mr Samson brings 50 years experience of the specialty pharmaceutical industry, our US sales force by 65% having established and led a number of successful companies.
He is currently Founder and CEO of Samson Medical Technologies LLC, and to 48, added managed was previously CEO of several specialty pharmaceutical companies, as well as Group Vice President of Injectables at Teva.
markets expertise and at At the end of 2015, Paul R Edick informed the Company that he will retire from the Board on 17 May 2016 following several years the end of the year we as a Non-Executive Director.
We thank Paul for his highly valuable convened our first national contribution and strategic guidance during his time on the Board, and we look forward to his continued input over the coming months.
sales conference Intellectual property progress During 2015, we continued to invest in our intellectual property to protect our ToleroMune technology and allergy product portfolio.
This investment was extended during the second half of the year, to cover our acquired NIOX products and particle-engineering technology.
We have successfully upheld two European patents relating to our cat allergy therapy, and we were also successful at a European Patent Office hearing in November at which the Opposition Division upheld the validity of a patent relating to our cat allergy treatments formulation.
During 2015, we also created additional layers of protection, with 22 new patents relating to our allergy, NIOX and particle-engineering technologies granted in the US, Europe, China and Japan.
Of these, four relate to our cat allergy treatment, three to our grass allergy therapy, three to our house dust mite allergy product and three to our ragweed allergy immunotherapy.
In addition, we succeeded in extending a key US patent relating to our house dust mite allergy treatment by 21 months.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 27 Strategic review continued Outlook Delivering our allergy franchise We anticipate that the coming year will be a period of significant progress across our entire business.
In our allergy franchise, we plan to deliver results from our pivotal phase III cat allergy study, initiate the registration study for our grass allergy treatment and advance our house dust mite, ragweed, birch and Japanese cedar allergy programmes.
In parallel, we plan to continue the expansion of our commercial Over 100 infrastructure in preparation for the launch of our revolutionary cat allergy therapy, targeting more rapid product penetration and higher We plan to increase our US sales force to over 100 by Q1 2017. peak sales.
To achieve this, we plan to double our US field team to over 100 by Q1 2017, building on the highly successful recruitment campaign we conducted in the second half of 2015.
This will ensure the team is in place with the training, supply chain and commercial preparations complete well in advance of the product launch.
We also plan to expand our European presence in 2016 to support the launch in our target markets, extending our direct presence to additional key territories and growing our field force in Europe.
During 2015, we Progressing our NIOX and respiratory franchises dramatically accelerated In our NIOX franchise, we plan to leverage our expanding commercial infrastructure to continue sales growth, and expand our direct sales our strategy to sell our to further territories.
With the next-generation NIOX VERO now launched in the key American, European, Japanese and Chinese products independently markets, a strengthened market access team in place, a renewed focus on reimbursement and a refreshed promotional campaign in key territories, build underway, we are well placed to increase revenues in the coming a broad and balanced years.
The potential of NIOX was further highlighted recently by the launch of an implementation project by NICE that includes the use of portfolio complementing FeNO in primary care.
The project is designed to ensure the effective and efficient introduction of NICEs forthcoming proposed asthma our innovative allergy guideline, which recommends use of FeNO measurement in different diagnosis algorithms.
Since the completion of our acquisition of NIOX, immunotherapies and the franchises revenues have grown by 32%, well ahead of the 18% CAGR achieved over the previous five years, and as a result of our deliver our pipeline ongoing investment we anticipate continued strong growth in 2016.
In our respiratory portfolio, we also expect good progress in 2016.
We plan to advance the development of our triple fixed dose combination COPD therapy and the first clinical trial is on track to complete in the coming months.
We also plan to finalise the optimisation work for our Seretide pMDI substitute product and complete manufacture of the registration batches in the coming months, as we move toward filing in 2017.
Positioned to deliver During 2015, we dramatically accelerated our strategy to sell our products independently in key territories, build a broad and balanced portfolio complementing our innovative allergy immunotherapies and deliver our pipeline.
As a result of this progress, we are now well positioned to bring our cat allergy product to market, and with sales teams in place selling to our core allergy asthma specialist customers we are well placed to capture the full value of this revolutionary new therapy.
With a strong balance sheet, we are also funded to deliver across our broader business, and anticipate reporting clinical results in our respiratory and NIOX franchises, as well as continuing robust sales growth of currently marketed products and investment in our commercial infrastructure.
With the recent acceleration in our strategy, 2016 is going to be an important year for Circassia as we continue to advance towards our ultimate objective of becoming a self-financing, world-class specialty biopharmaceutical company.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 28
