STRATEGIC REPORT Business Model Cineworld is an international cinema chain operating in nine territories.
Our primary customers are the cinema-going public who rely Technology on us to provide the best entertainment experience in this Investment in technology is central to the viewing experience field.
In our cinemas we want to give our customers, not just we offer, but also allows us to be much more flexible in the the choice of cinema, but also the choice of how to watch use of our auditoriums and with our pricing policy.
In many cinemas we have up to six different offerings digital enabled estate, we can maximise revenue by scheduling of how to watch movies: regular screens, 3D, 4DX, IMAX, film show times to reflect the commercial performance of Superscreen and VIP theatres.
each offering in real time.
Once again, our brand, scale and experience are attractive to our commercial partners in We provide the films our customers want to see in the most thisarea.
appropriate venues and locations, using the best technology, with the right retail offerings and great customer service.
Our Property ticket price represents the various offerings of how to watch Nearly all of our properties are leased so that we can a movie.
Our major source of revenue is driven by admissions, deploycapital into enhancing the customer experience and and our ability to maximise this income is dependent on growing the business.
Our venues are located to suit our target the quality of the film slate and on the experience we can audiences preferences.
As such, we can offer animportant offer.
Our admissions also have a direct effect on our screen proposition for property developers, leadingtomutually advertising revenues, and on our retail sales, primarily of beneficial leasing agreements.
Our People Brand Our people underpin the whole of our business model.
They We see our brands as a guarantee to the quality of the are the external face of our business, and are all responsible for cinemaexperience and service our customers can always ensuring that our customers enjoy the best possible experience expect.
We have focused brands in each territory in which during their visit to our cinemas.
Interaction with our teams on the day is critical, is a key focus across the Group.
but we have extended the experience by developing our cinema subscription schemes, such as our Unlimited Value programme in the UK which was also recently launched Value is generated through our focus on continually aiming in Poland, online discounts, and other tailored offers to to enhance revenue, profit generation and prudent cash encourage frequent visits.
Our brands are also important management.
We share the value we generate by reinvesting in toour commercial partners, helping in our relationships the business and expanding our offer to customers, rewarding withthe film distributors, retail suppliers and advertisers.
our employees and paying dividends to our shareholders.
Film Delivering a high quality film slate is one of the key external drivers of our business.
Whilst we do not have control over what is in the marketplace, our close and long-standing relationships with the film distributors are fundamental to providing the best and most varied selection for our customers at the right time.
The Groups box office revenue isdriven by admissions which in turn drive the two other main revenues for the Group, which are retail revenue the sale of food and drink for consumption within our cinemas and screen advertising income revenue from advertisements shown on our screens prior to feature presentations.
The Forum Film brand is Cinema Citys film distribution business.
Forum Film operates across the CEE & Israel regionand distributes films on behalf of the major Hollywoodstudios aswell as owning the distribution rights to certain independent movies.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 12 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS Reinvest STRATEGIC REPORT Our Customers Resources and Relationships u Our People u Key Commercial Relationships u Customers u u u Brands Property Technology Revenue u Box Office u Retail u Advertising u Distribution Value u u u Customer Experience Motivated Team Financial Returns Shareholder Returns u u Earnings Per Share Dividends | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 13 Drives repeat visits
