Determined to deliver Improving health is a major opportunity We plan to revolutionise allergy therapy.
Were transforming the management of asthma.
We intend to boost COPD treatment.
We want to improve the lives of sufferers worldwide.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 06 Particle-engineering technology for asthma and COPD treatments We are developing particleengineered products to substitute for successful asthma therapies and improve COPD treatment.
Respiratory medicines are notoriously difficult to produce, and we use focused radial ultrasound to control particle properties to overcome these challenges.
Our unique approach is broadly applicable across product and device types, giving us a major advantage.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 07 24m $190m Cat allergy is common.
24 million Americans are cat-allergic, and over Our NIOX products are market leaders.
one million of them consult a specialist Theyre used to improve the diagnosis and each year.
Of these, few accept management of asthma.
And theyre currently currently-available immunotherapy, targeted at specialists.
In the US alone, this and fewer still finish it.
This large opportunity is about $190 million.
majority are our target market.
Determined to deliver Improving health is a major opportunity Significant numbers of people are affected Current immunotherapies have inherent by cat allergy.
In Europe and the US, problems.
Requiring lengthy treatment, between 80 million and 90 million people and with adverse reactions common, are sensitised to the cat proteins that patient compliance is poor.
are responsible for allergic reactions.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 08 $1.6bn Asthma is extremely $8bn common, and inhaled $500m treatments are well COPD gets worse over time.
Were US specialists on average can be complicated, with patients using developing products see more than 30 new cat different inhalers to take different medicines.
to substitute for current allergy patients each month.
Were developing a triple combination therapy therapies.
Our two lead Treating just five of these that combines three key treatments in one.
candidates target existing with our new therapy could It targets a predicted $8 billion future market.
sales of approximately achieve sales of over $500 $1.6 billion.
Our products have significant market An allergy revolution opportunities We use our unique ToleroMune technology to develop nextgeneration allergy therapies with the potential to revolutionise Our business is based on three separate franchises, built on three current treatment.
In contrast with existing therapies, we design different technologies.
Each has a significant market opportunity.
our products to deliver strong and long-lasting treatment effects Each is sufficient to drive our success.
And were determined to with a positive safety profile from just a short course of therapy.
And were making good progress.
Our most advanced product is in the final phase of testing, and were expecting to deliver the We already sell our NIOX products direct to specialists in the US results in the coming months.
and Germany, and our partners market them elsewhere.
NIOX is the market leader, and the only product of its type available across major markets.
This gives us a huge advantage.
In the US alone, NIOX delivery were targeting a specialist opportunity of $190 million.
It delivers highly accurate measurements of nitric oxide in asthma patients breath in an easy-to-use device.
Our allergy treatments also have a significant commercial potential.
Physicians can use this to improve asthma management, and Third-party research suggests our cat allergy treatment has the the approach is recommended by leading asthma societies.
potential to achieve peak sales of over $500 million, and our other Our improved next-generation product is now available in many products have major market opportunities.
markets, and we are starting to deliver on NIOX s potential.
Sales grew more than 30% last year.
Our asthma treatments are designed to substitute for existing products.
This requires little promotion, with the prospect of Delivering respiratory medicines significant sales, and our two lead candidates target existing revenues of approximately $1.6 billion.
Our COPD treatments We are developing our asthma and COPD medicines in easy-to-use also target major markets, which are predicted to reach over pMDI inhalers.
These are well established with patients and have $11 billion per year.
They also give us an important opportunity.
Other companies are developing asthma substitute products, but few in pMDIs, and this limited competition boosts our target opportunity.
We are making good progress.
Our lead product is now approved in the UK, and we are advancing others too.
Our COPD treatments are also progressing.
They have significant benefits over existing treatments, and both are in clinical development.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 09
