We think globally Because our target diseases know no borders Allergies, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Were targeting each with our unique technologies.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 02 ToleroMune technology for innovative allergy treatments Our next generation immunotherapies have the potential to revolutionise allergy treatment.
They are based on ToleroMune technology that identifies unique combinations of synthetic peptide T-cell epitopes capable of rapidly inducing immune tolerance.
As a result, our allergy products are the first in a new class of treatments, Synthetic Peptide Immuno-Regulatory Epitopes SPIREs.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 03 3rd 235m people biggest Asthma is one of the worlds major non- 3 sec communicable diseases.
WHO estimates it Half of Americans affects 235 million people globally.
And its with asthma had an the most common chronic disease in children.
killer attack during the year.
Thats more than Chronic obstructive 11 million asthma attacks pulmonary disease COPD annually.
Thats one is a major killer.
It was every three seconds.
responsible for over three million deaths in 2012. WHO predicts it will become the third biggest cause of death by 2030.
We think globally Because our target diseases know no borders COPD is a major cause of disability.
It is the Asthma is a common disease, and affects third biggest cause of death in the United people of all ages.
In Europe about 30 million States, where millions of people have been aged under 45 have the disease.
COPD develops slowly, with the symptoms often worsening over time.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 04 1020% of $50bn Pandemic population Asthma affects more than Allergy is considered a public 20 million people in the US.
Allergies are a serious global health issue.
More than six million are Allergic diseases affect around one billion It affects over 150 million people, children.
Treatment costs are people worldwide.
Allergic rhinitis is the and its the continents most significant.
By 2002, theyd worlds most prevalent chronic nonprevalent chronic disease.
Allergies cause chronic misery COPD is under-diagnosed and life-threatening Allergies are an overreaction of the immune system to substances Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD is an umbrella that wouldnt normally be harmful.
They are extremely common, term, which incorporates chronic lung diseases that limit the affecting over one billion people worldwide, and allergic rhinitis lungs airflow, and includes the previously used diagnoses of is the worlds most prevalent chronic non-communicable disease.
The primary cause is tobacco It is characterised by sneezing, blocked nose and itching and smoke and the most common symptoms are breathlessness, burning eyes, and allergies can cause skin rashes and itching excessive sputum and chronic cough.
However, rather than just as well as wheezing or chest constriction.
As a result, allergy can smokers cough, COPD is under-diagnosed and life-threatening cause chronic misery, greatly impacting quality of life by causing and can progressively lead to death.
WHO estimates that COPD sleep problems and fatigue, reducing concentration and limiting is responsible for over three million deaths annually, accounting social functioning.
for six percent of global mortality.
Asthma has no cure Asthma is a common lung disease.
It is the worlds most frequent chronic disease in children, and WHO estimates that the number of people with asthma will increase by more than 100 million in the next 10 years.
Asthma is characterised by chronically inflamed airways, which can be irritated by external triggers, such as allergens, tobacco smoke, cold air, chest infections and certain chemicals.
This can cause airway contraction and secretion of mucus into the airways, making breathing more difficult.
Consequently, asthma can result in symptoms such as coughing, wheezing, breathlessness and chest tightness.
Asthma exacerbations occur when the number and or level of symptoms increase and become more intense.
Severe asthma exacerbations can require emergency care, and can even be fatal.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 05
