Directors report Directors report Information on the Directors remuneration and their interests in the In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Directors present share capital of the Company are set out in the Remuneration report.
their report together with the financial statements and the Independent None of the Directors has a commercial interest in any material Auditors report for the year ended 31 December 2015. contract entered into by the Company.
Information included in Strategic Report As is permitted by sections 232 to 235 Companies Act 2006, and The Companys Strategic Report is on pages 1 to 37 and includes the consistent with the Companys Articles of Association, the Company following information that would otherwise be required to be disclosed has maintained insurance cover for its Directors and Officers under in this Directors report: a Directors and Officers Liability Policy.
Further, the Company has granted an indemnity to its Directors against liability which arises due to claims brought by third parties.
Subject matter Page reference The Directors may exercise their powers pursuant to the Articles of Likely future developments in the 22 to 28 Association, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation, and any business resolution of the Shareholders.
The Articles are available for review at the registered office.
Research and development 22 to 28 Share capital and Shareholders Share capital At 7 March 2016 the Company had a total of 348 Ordinary Employee involvement 32 Shareholders and 284,889,171 Ordinary shares in issue.
During the year the share capital of the Company increased by 95,469,537 Ordinary shares as a result of the admission of shares Disclosures concerning 33 issued pursuant to the Placing and Open Offer on 11 June 2015. greenhouse gas emissions Details of the movements in the Companys share capital are shown in note 23 to the financial statements.
Corporate governance statement The Company has only one class of shares which carry no right to fixed The information that fulfils the requirements of the Corporate income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings Governance Statement can be found in the Corporate Governance of the Company.
There are no restrictions on voting rights or on the Report on pages 40 to 41 and the Strategic Report on pages 34 to 37 holding or transfer of these securities.
and is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference, with the Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 24 to the exception of the information referred to in DTR 7.2.
6, which is located in financial statements.
The Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Employee this Directors Report.
Benefit Trust abstains from voting on the shares held by it.
110,845 Results and dividend shares were acquired by the Employee Benefit Trust during the year The results for the year and the financial position as at 31 December 2015 2014: Nil and the balance of shares held at 31 December 2015 was are shown in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income and therefore 110,845. the Consolidated statement of financial position.
The results of the Group Pursuant to the Articles of Association and vote of Shareholders at the are explained in more detail in the Financial review.
AGM which took place on 20 May 2015 the Company has been granted The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for the authority to allot shares for cash up to a maximum nominal amount of year to 31 December 2015 2014: nil.
This nominal amount represents approximately 3% of the issued share capital of the Company as at Directors and Directors interests 10 March 2016.
No such allotments were made during the year to The Directors of the Company at the date of this report, together with 31 December 2015 or up to the date of this report.
At the General their biographical details and dates of appointment are set out in the Meeting which took place on 10 June 2015 the Company was granted Corporate governance report and the Board of Directors section.
authority to allot shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal The Directors served throughout the year to the date of this report amount of 76,375.63 pursuant to the placing and open offer.
with the exception of Lota S Zoth who served from 9 February 2015 Lock up arrangements and Mr Marvin S Samson who served from 8 December 2015.
The Company and the Directors agreed certain lock-up arrangements in The Board confirms that each of the Directors who served during the advance of the IPO of the Company on 18 March 2014. year has been formally appraised during this period.
In accordance with Pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement which was made between the Code, all Directors of the Company will stand for re-election on an the Company, the Directors, the Selling Shareholders, and the Banks, annual basis.
each of the Directors agreed that, subject to certain exceptions, during the period of 12 months following Admission, they would not without prior consent of the Joint Bookrunners, offer, sell or contract to sell or otherwise dispose of any Ordinary shares.
This obligation expired on 17 March 2015.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 75 Directors report continued Share price Significant shareholdings From 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 the share price As at 29 February 2016 the Company had been notified of the following ranged from a high of 353p to a low of 246p.
The average price for interests, held, directly or indirectly, in 3% or more of the Companys the period was 289p.
The mid-market price of an Ordinary share on issued share capital.
Number % of of shares shares The Bank of New York Nominees Limited 107,563,357 37.8% State Street Nominees Limited 35,010,387 12.3% Nortrust Nominees Limited 33,774,706 11.9% PH Nominees Limited 26,693,711 9.4% Chase Nominees Limited 25,694,183 9.0% Chase GA Group Nominees Limited 16,825,049 5.9% Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 76 The Board confirms that, in accordance with LR 9.2.
2AR 2 a Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Relationship Agreements were put in place on 12 March 2014 between The information that fulfils the reporting requirements relating to the the Company and Invesco Asset Management Limited, and the following matters can be found on the pages identified.
Company and Imperial Innovations LLP and their affiliates.
Subject matter Page reference Invesco holds more than 20% of the voting rights attached to the issued share capital of Imperial Innovations and accordingly there is a presumption which has not been rebutted that Invesco and Imperial Statement by the board on 77 Directors report Innovations are acting in concert in relation to their shareholdings in the relationship agreements with Company.
At the date of this report, Invesco and Imperial Innovations controlling shareholders together held 44.4% of the voting rights attached to the issued share capital of the Company.
Invesco relationship agreement Treasury management The principal purpose of the relationship agreement is to ensure that The Companys policy on the use of financial instruments and the the Company will be capable of carrying on its business independently management of financial risks is set out in note 2 to the financial of Invesco for so long as Invesco, together with its concert parties, statements.
Going concern Pursuant to these agreements, and for so long as Invesco holds a The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.
controlling interest: Budgets are prepared on a rolling three year basis each year.
These are built from the bottom up and presented to the Board The parties shall procure that all transactions and relationships each year for review and approval.
The Directors have reviewed between the Company and any other member of the Group and the current and projected financial position of the Company, taking Invesco or any of its associates are conducted at arms-length into account existing cash balances and available financial facilities.
and on normal commercial terms: and On the basis of this review, the Directors have not identified any Invesco shall not and shall procure that each of its associates material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to adopt the shall not take any action that would prevent the Company going concern basis of accounting for a period of at least 12 months from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules and from the date of approval of the financial statements.
shall not propose or procure the proposal of any Shareholder resolution which is intended to or appears to be intended to Employment and environment circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
The Companys policies on health and safety, the environment, and employee-related matters are disclosed in the Strategic report.
Imperial Innovations relationship agreement Greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated as carbon The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that dioxide equivalents.
the Company will be capable of carrying on its business independently of Imperial Innovations for so long as Imperial Innovations with its Political and charitable donations concert parties, holds a controlling interest.
There were no charitable or political donations in the year to 31 December 2015.
Pursuant to these agreements, and for so long as Imperial Innovations together with Invesco holds a controlling interest: Auditor  LLP has expressed its willingness to The parties shall procure that all transactions and relationships continue in office as Auditor and a resolution to re-appoint PwC will between the Company and any other member of the Group and be put to the members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Imperial Innovations or any of its associates are conducted at arms-length and on normal commercial terms: and The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this report Imperial Innovations shall not and shall procure that each of its confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit associates shall not take any action that would prevent the Company information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware, and each from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules and shall Director has taken all the steps a Director ought to have taken to make not propose or procure the proposal of any Shareholder resolution themselves aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the which is intended to or appears to be intended to circumvent the Auditor is aware of that information.
proper application of the Listing Rules.
Annual General Meeting The Board confirms that the Company has complied with the The Annual General Meeting will be held at the offices of Circassia independence provisions under the relationship agreements referred Pharmaceuticals plc on 18 May 2016 at 9:30 a. m. Details of the to above and, that so far as it is aware, the controlling Shareholders business to be transacted at the forthcoming AGM will be given in have complied with the independence provisions and, so far as a separate circular to Shareholders.
it is aware, the controlling Shareholders have complied with the By order of the Board procurement obligation.
Julien Cotta Company Secretary 11 March 2016 Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 77
