STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Set out below in full is the Policy Report which was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 8 May 2014.
The Policy Report has been included for reference purposes and has been printed verbatim from the 2013 Annual Report.
The information contained in it is therefore accurate as at 6 March 2014.
The Committees intention is to put its Policy to a binding vote every three years, unless there are any changes requiring shareholder approval.
Directors Remuneration Policy Executive Directors To determine the elements and level of remuneration Policy Effective Date appropriate for each Executive Director, the Committee This section describes the Committees policy on the considers benchmark remuneration data for selected remuneration of Directors.
The policy will be put to comparable companies and seeks to ensure that an shareholders for approval at our AGM in May 2014 and will appropriately significant proportion of potential pay come into effect from the date of the AGM.
The Committee isperformance related and that total pay opportunity intends that this policy will remain in effect for a period of is consistent with appropriate superior levels of pay threeyears unless there are changes requiring shareholder forsuperior performance.
Following approval at the AGM, remuneration payments and payment for loss of office to Directors can only The policy of the Committee is to set performance be made if they are consistent with this policy or otherwise conditions for annual bonuses and long-term incentives approved by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders.
which are appropriately stretching but fair given the environment in which the Group operates and internal Current Policy on Remuneration andexternal expectations.
The objective of the Groups remuneration policy is that Executive Directors should receive appropriate remuneration While the Boards normal practice is to operate within for their performance, responsibility, skills and experience.
the above parameters, it will take account of individual Remuneration packages are designed to enable the Group circumstances and tailor remuneration packages to attract and retain key employees by ensuring they are accordingly.
In cases of material variance, it would seek remunerated appropriately and competitively and that they are totake account of major shareholders views.
motivated to achieve the highest level of Group performance in line with the best interests of shareholders.
They are also Executive Directors remuneration currently comprises an structured with due regard of risk so no Director is encouraged annual salary, a performance-related bonus, a share-based to take inappropriate risks because of the level of potential long-term incentive scheme, pension contributions and variable rewards.
other benefits as explained below.
The table summarises the policy for each element of pay: Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation Basic Salary To provide a core level of Salaries may be adjusted and Executive Directors salary levels are agreed on joining and 1 remuneration to enable the any increase will ordinarily be thereafter reviewed annually on 1 July each year.
Company to attract and retain in percentage terms in line skilled, high-calibre executives with those across the Group.
The Committee considers both the nature and the status to deliver its strategy.
of the Companys operations and the responsibilities, skills, Percentage increases beyond experience and performance of each Executive Director.
those granted to the wider The Committee compares the Groups remuneration workforce may be awarded packages for its Executive Directors and employees with in certain circumstances such those for Directors and employees of similar seniority as where there is a change in companies whose activities are comparable with the in responsibility, progression Group.
The Committee also takes into account the progress in the role, experience or a made by the Group, contractual considerations and salary significant increase in the increases across the rest of the Group which for 2013 2 scale of the role and or size, weregenerally around 3%.
value and or complexity ofthe Group.
1 Given the new arrangements put in place for Executive Directors in relation to the combination with Cinema City International, no salary increases willbe made in July 2014.
2 Stephen Wiener has a contractual right to an annual salary increase in line with RPI, which was in place prior to the Companys listing in 2007.
Goingforward, and in respect of new appointments, it is the Committees policy not to agree any guaranteed minimum increases.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 67 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation Pension To provide marketMonthly employer All employees, including Executive Directors, are invited competitive retirement contribution of 20% of basic to participate in a Group Personal Pension Plan which is benefits.
salary or in the form of a money purchase plan.
The Company contribution for apension allowance.
Executive Directors is 20% of base salary.
Executive Directors may choose to opt out of the Group scheme and instead receive a cash pension allowance equivalent to 20% of base salary.
The Companys pension contribution may be conditional on the Executive Director contributing up to 5% of his base salary to the pension scheme.
Executives may make pension contributions under salary sacrifice arrangement.
Savings as a result of such an arrangement may be shared with the Executive Director in the form of an additional pension contribution.
Other Benefits To provide marketThe cost to the Group of Benefits in kind for Executive Directors currently include the competitive benefits and providing such benefits will provision of a company car or car allowance, private mileage, support the health and safety vary from year to year in life insurance, permanent health insurance, private medical of individuals.
accordance with the cost cover and, for the Chief Executive Officer only, a driver.
Benefits are tailored to the individual circumstances of Directors to ensure that overall packages are attractive and additional benefits may be introduced where appropriate.
A limited flexible benefits scheme operates for all employees including Directors and the intention istoexpand it over a period of time.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 68 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation Annual Bonus To incentivise the annual Maximum opportunity for The level of bonus is based primarily on overall Group delivery of financial and Executive Directors of 100% performance in meeting its primary financial objectives operational targets.
in EBITDA for the financial period.
The level of bonus is determined by a matrix of budgeted EBITDA and personal performance levels.
The weighting of measures is circa 80% budgeted EBITDA and 20% personal performance.
The Committee seeks to ensure that the budget is challenging and so there is a clear link between the short-term Group performance and payout under the arrangements.
No bonus is payable if a minimum threshold of 90% 2012: 95% of budgeted EBITDA is not achieved.
At this level assuming good performance against individual objectives, a bonus of 30% of maximum opportunity would be payable.
The maximum bonus level is only payable if both 110% of budgeted EBITDA and exceptional performance against individual objectives was achieved.
The personal element is determined by the achievement ofindividual strategic objectives, which vary year from year to ensure that objectives are aligned with the business plan.
Individual objectives vary from year to year but our policy is to set goals which relate to the achievement of the business strategy.
Examples include ensuring a strong pipeline of new cinema sites and maintaining good financial controls.
The choice of these measures reflects the Committees belief that any incentive compensation should be tied both to the overall performance of the Group and to those areas of the business that the relevant individual can directly influence.
The performance measures and targets are reviewed annually to ensure alignment to strategy.
Bonuses are paid in cash following the approval of the Group Annual Report.
Where a Director leaves and is considered a good leaver, hewill be paid on the usual payment date a proportion of any bonus entitlement, which would have otherwise accrued, reflecting that part of the bonus period which wasactually worked.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 69 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation The Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan PSP To encourage sustainable The maximum award to an Annual awards of conditional shares or nil-cost options are profitability over a period of individual in any year under made to Executive Directors and members of the Senior time aligned to the overall the plan rules is 200% of Management Team at the discretion of the Committee.
Awards may vest after three years subject to continuing However, the Remuneration employment and the achievement of stretching three-year Committee does not currently EPS growth performance conditions which are aligned with intend that awards to Executive the Groups strategy of delivering long-term growth.
Directors should exceed 150% 3 of their base salary.
The Committee will review and calibrate the EPS growth targets on an annual basis for each award to ensure they If it is considering changing are sufficiently stretching in light of both internal and this approach, it will consult external performance expectations.
Threshold performance with key shareholders before is generally intended to align to the performance of the doing so.
relevant market and or our competitors level.
If the stretch performance level is achieved, we would expect to have significantly out-performed the relevant market and for term and against our competitors.
At the threshold performance level, 30% of an award will vest.
At the stretch level of performance, 100% of an award will vest.
Between these levels, vesting will be determined on a straight-line basis.
On vesting, participants will also receive additional shares or a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting.
At the discretion of the Committee, each participant in the PSP may have a proportional part of their PSP award replaced by an HMRC approved share option granted under the Cineworld Group Company Share Option Plan CSOP, up to the maximum value of options permitted by legislation currently 30,000.
Such awards are subject to identical performance vesting conditions as the PSP shares they replace.
The conditions applicable to awards may be varied inexceptional circumstances following the grant of an award so as to achieve their original purpose, but not so as to make their achievement any more or less difficult to satisfy.
Awards may also be adjusted to reflect corporate events, such as rights issues, to maintain a holders position, butnotso as to enhance it.
It is the Committees intention to settle awards in shares, but the plan rules allow for flexibility to settle in cash if required.
Where vesting of any award granted would result in the Greidinger family the family of the new CEO and COO controlling shares carrying 30% or more of the voting rights of the Company then the Committee may instead make a cash payment equal to the market value of the shares comprised in the vested award.
3 As a result of the combination with the cinema business of Cinema City International N. V. and in recognition of the increased size and international complexity of the combined business, the Committee has determined to increase the annual award level under the PSP for Executive Directors from 100% to 150% of salary.
Major shareholders have been consulted in relation to the adjustment of PSP award levels.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 70 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation The Cineworld Group Sharesave Scheme To enable Group employees The maximum saving level Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the to become Cineworld is250 a month over a threeSharesave Scheme, which is an HM Revenue and Customs shareholders, encouraging year term.
approved scheme open to all employees of nominated alignment and rewarding Group companies.
Under the Sharesave Scheme, employees are eligible to acquire shares in the Company at a discount of up to 20% of the market value at grant if they agree to enter into a savings contract for a three-year period.
Consistent with the relevant legislation, no performance conditions apply.
Share Ownership Guidelines To provide alignment N A Each Executive Director is expected to build up, over a period between Executive Directors of time, a holding in shares equal to 100% of their base salary.
In order to achieve this level of shareholding, Executive Directors are expected to retain 50% of any shares they acquire under the PSP or on the exercise of options, after allowing for the sale of shares to pay tax and other deductions, until such time as they have built up such a holding.
For the purposes of these guidelines, only beneficially owned shares will count towards the holding.
Satisfaction of Share Options and Share Awards exceed 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Awards under the PSP, the Sharesave Scheme and the CSOP Company from time to time.
described in the table above can be satisfied using new issue In any ten-year period, the number of shares which may shares, shares held in treasury or shares purchased in the be issued under the PSP and under any employees market in conjunction with the Cineworld Group Employee share or option scheme established by the Company Benefit Trust the Trust, established by the Company on may not exceed 10% of the issued ordinary share capital 24March 2006 with independent trustees based in Jersey.
of the Company from time to time.
If new issue shares are used, the following limits will be followed: Resulting Total Pay Levels Under Different Scenarios The chart below illustrates how the potential future In any ten-year period, the number of shares which may be compensation of each of the Executive Directors may vary issued under the PSP and under any other executive share at different levels of performance and the percentage each or option scheme established by the Company may not element may form together with the possible total value.
2.5m 2,098,215 39% 2.0m 1,447,662 1.5m 1,407,662 1,337,382 39% 40% 19% 26% 27% 928,912 1.0m 888,912 18% 26% 19% 723,215 27% 27% 35% 100% 54% 28% 510,162 470,162 0.5m 100% 55% 35% 100% 53% 33% 0m Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum CEO COO CFO Fixed Elements Short-Term Variable Element Long-Term Variable Element | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 71 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued For the purpose of this chart, the following assumptions have requirements attaching to that remuneration.
If it is been made: necessary in thecircumstances, the Committee reserves the right tooffer a longer initial notice period than one The base salary, bonus opportunity and PSP award levels year.
Insucha circumstance, this would reduce to a are those for the Executive Directors following completion notice period of no greater than 12 months after the initial of the combination with the cinema business of Cinema period.
TheCommittee may agree that the Company will City International N. V. as set out on page 58 of the 2013 meet certain relocation expenses as appropriate or pay Annual Report.
Fixed elements comprise base salary, pension and otherbenefits.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element Benefits levels are assumed to be the same as in 2013. awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay For target performance, assumptions of bonus payout out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into of 67% of maximum and threshold vesting 30% for account the appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing PSPhave been made.
remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment No share price increase has been assumed.
Recruitment Remuneration Policy Shareholders will be informed of any Director appointment New Executive Directors will generally be appointed on and the individuals remuneration arrangements as soon as remuneration packages with the same structure and elements practicable following the appointment via an announcement as described in the policy table above.
On appointment, base to the regulatory news services and on our website.
salary level will be set taking into account a range of factors including market levels, experience, internal relativities and Service Contracts cost.
Annual bonus opportunity will be no greater than 100% The Groups policy in entering into service contracts of salary and the normal maximum award under the PSP withExecutive Directors is to enable the recruitment of willbe 150% of salary.
high-quality executives and to obtain protection from their sudden departure, whether or not to competitor companies.
For external appointments, although we have no plans In addition, service contracts are an important element to offer additional benefits, cash and or share-based in maintaining protection for the Groups business and elements on recruitment, the Committee reserves the itscommercially sensitive information.
right to do so when it considers this to be in the best interests of the Company and shareholders.
Such payments A summary of the key terms of the Executive Directors will take account of remuneration relinquished when service contracts is set out below: leaving the former employer and, to the extent possible, would reflect the nature, time horizons and performance 1 2 2 Stephen Wiener Philip Bowcock Moshe Greidinger Israel Greidinger Date of Contract 23 April 2007 16 November 2011 27 February 2014 27 February 2014 3 Notice Period 12 months 6 months 12 months 6 months Remuneration Base salary Base Salary Base salary Base salary Pension contribution Cash in lieu of Pension contribution Pension contribution Company car pension contribution Company car or car Company car or car anddriver Car allowance allowance allowance Entitlement to Entitlement to Entitlement to Entitlement to participate in annual participate in annual participate in annual participate in annual bonus scheme bonus scheme bonus scheme bonus scheme Life assurance cover Life assurance cover Disturbance Disturbance Medical insurance Medical insurance allowance allowance Permanent health Permanent health Life assurance cover Life assurance cover insurance insurance Medical insurance Medical insurance Permanent health Permanent health insurance insurance Termination Company has right to Company has right to Company has right to Company has right to terminate on payment terminate on payment terminate on payment terminate on payment on pre-agreed basis on pre-agreed basis on pre-agreed basis on pre-agreed basis Non-Competition During employment and During employment and During employment and During employment and for 12 months thereafter for 6 months thereafter for 12 months thereafter for 6 months thereafter 1 Stephen Wiener resigned as CEO and a Director on the completion of the combination with the cinema operations of Cinema City International N. V. on27 February 2014.
2 Appointed on the completion of the combination with the cinema operations of Cinema City International N. V. on 27 February 2014.
3 The Groups policy is to have notice periods for Executive Directors which are between 6 and 12 months.
The Executive Directors are, under the terms of their service contracts, entitled to an annual review of their base salary each year.
Inthe case of Stephen Wiener, a minimum increase in line with RPI had to be made.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 72 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Loss of Office Policy B.
Under the CSOP: The Companys policy is to endeavour to minimise any An option will normally lapse upon a participant leaving payment on early termination by insisting on mitigation the employment of the Group.
However, if a participant of any loss where possible.
To allow the Company to leaves the Group by reason of death, injury, ill health, terminate an Executive Directors employment contract disability, redundancy, retirement as at or after reaching legally so it would not face a claim for wrongful termination 55 years under Part A of the CSOP or any other reason although aclaim for unfair dismissal could still exist, as determined by the Remuneration Committee or if the itspolicy is to pre-agree arrangements which would apply company or business for which he works ceases to be part on termination.
Only the Company has the right to trigger of the Group, then unless the Remuneration Committee sucharrangements and it has complete discretion as to in its absolute discretion otherwise determines, his option whether it does.
will become exercisable when he leaves on a reduced basis taking into account only that part of the three-year Under the terms of their contracts, the Company may, performance period which has elapsed.
An option, to the inlieuof giving notice, terminate an Executive Directors extent it becomes exercisable, may be exercised during the service contract by making a payment equivalent to 95% period of six months after which, to the extent unexercised, inthe case of Stephen Wiener and 100% in the case of the option shall lapse automatically.
theother Executive Directors of base salary and contractual benefits for the notice period.
In this event, the Executive In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement Director would not be entitled to any bonus for the unworked or winding-up of the Company all options will vest to the portion of his notice period, but would be eligible for a pro extent that any performance targets have, in the opinion of rata bonus for the period up to the date of the termination the Remuneration Committee, been satisfied at that time, ofhis contract.
on a reduced basis taking into account only that part of the three-year performance period which has elapsed unless the Where an Executive Director works their notice, pension, Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise benefits and bonus will continue to accrue as normal up determines.
Such options become exercisable for a limited untilthe date of the termination.
Any bonus entitlement period of time.
Alternatively in the case of a takeover, with willbe paid as normal on a pro-rated basis.
the agreement of the acquiring company, the participants may exchange their options for equivalent options to acquire Leaving arrangements under the Share and Share Option shares in the acquiring company or its parent company.
Schemes vary: C. Under the Sharesave Scheme: A.
Under the PSP: An option granted may normally not be exercised until the An award will normally lapse upon a participant leaving option holder has completed their savings contract and then the employment of the Group unless the Remuneration not more than six months thereafter.
However, if a participant Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise determines.
leaves the Group by reason of death, injury, ill health, Any such discretion would only be applied by the Committee disability, redundancy, retirement on reaching 60 years or to good leavers where it considers that continued any other contractual retirement age or if the company or participation is justified by reference to past performance to business for which he works ceases to be part of the Group, the date of leaving or because of the prevailing circumstances.
the option will become exercisable.
An option, to the extent In such cases, the award would become exercisable on the it becomes exercisable, may be exercised during the period original vesting date on a reduced basis taking into account of six months 12 months in the case of death after which, only that part of the three-year performance period which tothe extent unexercised, the option will lapse automatically.
has elapsed and subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions unless the Remuneration Committee determines In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement other arrangements are justified.
and or a winding-up of the Company, options may be exercised for a limited period of time.
Alternatively in the In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement case of a takeover, with the agreement of the acquiring or winding-up of the Company all awards will vest to the company, the participants may exchange their options extent that any performance targets have, in the opinion of for equivalent options to acquire shares in the acquiring the Remuneration Committee, been satisfied at that time, company or its parent company.
on a reduced basis taking into account only that part of the three-year performance period which has elapsed unless the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise determines.
An award, to the extent it becomes exercisable, may be exercised during the period of one month after which, to the extent unexercised, the award will lapse.
Alternatively, with the agreement of the acquiring company, the participants may exchange their awards for equivalent options to acquire shares in the acquiring company or its parent company.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 73 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment The dates of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and their notice periods are as follows: Director Date of appointment Notice period Anthony Bloom Chairman 7 October 2004 1 month Martina King 2 July 2010 1 month David Maloney 22 May 2006 1 month Thomas McGrath 16 May 2005 1 month Rick Senat 2 July 2010 1 month Peter Williams 22 May 2006 1 month 1 Scott Rosenblum 27 February 2014 1 month 1 Arni Samuelsson 27 February 2014 1 month 1 Appointed on the completion of the combination with the cinema operations of Cinema City International N. V. on 27 February 2014.
The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, do Where a Non-Executive Director does not serve until the end not have service contracts with the Company.
The terms and of his or her term, the policy is to pay the fees due pro-rata conditions of their appointment as Non-Executive Directors tothe date of cessation.
are set out in letters of appointment, which are subject to the provisions of the Articles of Association.
Consideration of Employment Conditions Elsewhere intheCompany It is the Boards policy that the appointment of each When considering salary increases for the Executive Directors, Non-Executive Director is terminable on a short notice the Committee takes into account average levels of increase unless their appointment is terminated by a resolution awarded to employees generally.
Salary increases will ofthe shareholders in general meeting or if they fail to normally be broadly in line with those for other employees.
bere-elected by shareholders in general meeting when itaims to ensure no notice is necessary.
The Committee does not formally consult employees in relation to remuneration policy for the Executive Directors.
The Companys policy is that Non-Executive Directors However, the Company regularly carries out engagement receive a fixed fee for their services as members of the surveys which enable employees to share their views Board and its Committees.
do not participate in the Companys share incentives or otherwise receive performance-related pay but may receive Consideration of Shareholder Views in Developing Policy reimbursement for travel and incidental costs incurred The Committee is grateful that shareholders have infurtherance of Company business.
beensupportive of its policy in the past.
As appropriate, theCommittee will continue to engage and communicate The level of fees is determined by the Board after taking with shareholders regarding Cineworlds remuneration into account appropriate advice except in the case of policyand take suitable action when required.
the Chairman whose level of fee is determined by the Remuneration Committee, in line with prevailing market In the last year, the Committee considered feedback from conditions and at a level that will attract individuals with some shareholders in relation to the setting of performance the necessary experience and ability to make a significant targets for PSP awards.
For awards in 2013, it was decided contribution to the Companys affairs.
No Director to increase the thresholds for lower and upper end vesting participates in discussions relating to the setting of his from those used for previous awards and to express targets orherown remuneration.
Fee levels are reviewed on in excess of RPI.
By order of the Board Martina King Chair of the Remuneration Committee 10 March 2016 | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 74
