Delivery time Were delivering on our potential Weve had a year of achievements across each area of our business.
And 2016 promises to be exciting.
Were planning a year of delivery.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 10 NIOX technology for asthma management Allergic airway inflammation is the major underlying cause of asthma, and patients generally have higher than normal levels of nitric oxide in their exhaled breath.
Our unique NIOX technology measures its concentration, and clinicians can use this to evaluate patients allergic airway inflammation and improve asthma management.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 11 2 marketed Q2 2016 products Our lead allergy treatment is on track.
The last phase III subject We sell NIOX direct in the US and Germany.
Were on Partners sell it elsewhere.
Recently, we launched schedule to deliver results in Q2 2016. the next generation NIOX in China.
And were planning to go direct in additional EU countries.
Delivery time Were delivering on our potential Our NIOX products are the only pointWe are advancing our clinical portfolio of-care devices available across major with clinical studies ongoing in each of our markets for the measurement of FeNO to allergy, respiratory and NIOX portfolios.
assist asthma diagnosis and management.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 12 6 UK clinical 203.8m approval We raised 275 million to fund our studies acquisitions.
Our balance sheet remains Our lead asthma treatment is now strong.
With 203.8 million of cash at Weve got a broad pipeline approved.
This was achieved with the end of 2015, were funded to deliver.
of 12 allergy, asthma and in vitro data only.
And we hurdle is highly challenging, and plan to extend our NIOX we believe were the first to do so.
Weve got six clinical studies underway and several others planned.
Delivering our strategy Marketing our products Our strategy is clear.
We aim to build a world-class and selfIn June, we acquired two marketed products and teams sustaining biopharmaceutical company, with novel products to sell them to allergy and asthma specialists in the US sold direct in key markets and a broad and balanced and Germany.
We then expanded this capability, boosting pipeline.
During the last year, we accelerated our progress the sales force and adding marketing, market access and towards this goal.
We advanced our allergy treatments, and reimbursement expertise.
We intend to extend this further completed two acquisitions that gave us marketed products, in 2016, in our existing countries and further afield too.
direct sales capabilities and an enlarged portfolio.
We then plan to use these capabilities to launch our cat allergy treatment once approved.
Preparing early lets us target faster uptake and higher sales.
Delivering our pipeline Our allergy pipeline has great potential, and during 2015 Broadening our pipeline we continued to move our treatments towards the market.
We dosed the last patient in our cat allergy phase III study At the same time we broadened our pipeline.
As well as and remain on track to deliver results in Q2 this year.
progressing our earlier-stage allergy products, we acquired We completed recruitment into our house dust mite allergy a portfolio of asthma and COPD treatments.
The lead asthma study, moved our birch allergy treatment into the clinic therapy is now approved, and we moved a novel combination and are planning large-scale field studies of our grass treatment for COPD into clinical development.
We now have and ragweed allergy therapies.
a broad and balanced portfolio, with marketed products, near-term allergy and asthma treatments and longer-term COPD therapies.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 13
