STRATEGIC REPORT Market Overview The Group operates in nine territories and, measured by number of screens, is either the number one or two operator in each.
1 Characteristics of the Cinema Market European Cinema Industry The Group operates in nine territories and, as measured by NO.
OF number of screens, is either the number one or two operator RANK COMPANY SCREENS in each.
The nine territories are a blend of mature and growth 1.
Odeon 2,243 markets which provides the Group with both organic and 2.
Cineworld Group 1,864 acquisition growth opportunities.
Vue 1,723 Mature markets such as the UK and Israel tend to be 4.
Path 1,021 characterised by higher admissions per capita, higher average ticket prices and a much lower population per screen ratio.
Nordic Cinema Group 635 Growth markets have the opposite characteristics and provide 6.
UGC 469 great investment potential for the Group.
CGR 440 example of such a growth market where we have invested significantly during 2015 and will continue to do so in 2016.
Event Hospitality & Entertainment 421 Property Market and Development 10.
Kinepolis 371 The rate of new cinema openings is dependent upon local market conditions.
Planning laws, the economic environment, and the ability of developers to finance their 1 Source: Dodana 2014 projects are factors which impact where we chose to locate our cinemas.
These characteristics differ by territory.
In External Factors more mature markets such as the UK and Israel, the rate The cinema industry is dependent upon the customer choosing of new cinema openings has been slower in recent years, to spend disposable income on watching a movie.
Customer partly due to the limited number and associated lead time support has been assisted by developments in technology such of new retail and leisure developments.
We have seen the as digitalisation of cinemas, which have enabled a greater range converse indeveloping markets such as Romania where of films to be offered, as well as streaming of live events such as  opportunities tends to be opera and ballet.
Superior experiences offered by technologies greater.
The Group opened a record number of new sites such as IMAX and 4DX are also ensuring that watching a during 2015, with 11being in the more mature markets.
moviein the cinema continues to be a unique experience which cannot be replicated at home or on a portable electronic Structure of the Market and Competitive Landscape device.
Valuefor money also remains an important factor and There are four significant cinema chains in Europe with over cinemahas tended to be a less expensive form of entertainment 1,000 screens.
The rest of the market is represented by smaller in the wider leisure markets in which the Group competes.
multiplex operators, which may only operate in one or two territories, and independent operators which are specific Market Performance tolocal markets.
The industry is dependent on the quality of films and thereforethe appeal of such films to the cinema-going public.
Box office revenue is driven by admissions and average ticket price.
Admissions depend on the number, timing and popularity of films.
The average ticket price is driven by film mix, the demographics of admissions and local economic factors such as local levels of disposable income and competition.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 10 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 2015 was a strong year for the cinema industry, with the Other Income main blockbusters of the year being Spectre, with global Retail and screen advertising revenues are the revenues of $877.8m, Jurassic World, with revenues of  sources of income for cinema chains.
$1,670.4m globally and Star Wars: The Force Awakens which Popcorn and soft drinks remain the most popular retail items.
managed to gross revenues of $1,985.3m globally in the last There is, however, a growing demand for cinemas to offer a two weeks of the calendar year and continued to generate wider range of products, including healthier or reformulated revenue into 2016.
These Hollywood titles were popular across variants of the traditional offerings.
There is also an increase all of the territories in which the Group operates.
However, in in supplementary products including branded coffee outlets, certain territories, especially Poland and the Czech Republic, such as Starbucks in the UK.
local films continue to be popular and account for a greater percentage of annual admissions.
In particular, during the year Screen advertising revenue varies depending on the type of the Polish box office was supported by a local blockbuster films screened, the number of minutes and value of advertising called Listy Do Movie 2 which generated gross revenues sold, the number of attendees who view the film and the inPoland of $13.8m.
placement of advertisements in relation to the start of the film.
The strength of the film slate in 2015 had a positive impact COUNTRY TOP 3 FILMS ORIGIN onthe screen advertising revenues for the period.
Spectre US UK Distribution income is also generated in certain territories in 2.
Star Wars: The Force Awakens US the CEE & Israel where Cinema City acts as the local country 3.
Jurassic World US distributor for the main Hollywood studios or by directly Poland 1.
Listy Do Movie 2 Poland acquiring the rights to specific title.
Where rights are directly acquired the Group earns royalties not only from cinema 2.
Star Wars: The Force Awakens US exhibition but also from Video on Demand, DVDs and TV 3.
Cinema City acted as the distributor for certain territories within the Group for three of the main titles in Hungary 1.
Star Wars: The Force Awakens US the year, Spectre, Hunger Games: Mockingjay Part 2 and 2.
Minions Movie US StarWars: The Force Awakens.
Jurassic World US Future Market Trends Romania 1.
Fast and Furious 7 US Although streaming and downloading of films at home has 2.
Star Wars: The Force Awakens US become increasingly popular, the cinema continues to offer aunique experience which cannot be replicated at home and 3.
Minions Movie US is often associated with an inexpensive social outing.
Fast and Furious 7 US auditoriums are also increasingly being used for purposes 2.
Inside Out US other than just exhibiting movies such as the streaming of liveevents for example opera and ballet and for corporate 3.
Minions Movie US event space.
Minions Movie US Republic The cinema industry continues to believe that the interests of 2.
Star Wars: The Force Awakens US the film industry and the customer are generally best served 3.
Spectre US UK by the existence of the cinematic window, the period between Slovakia 1.
Minions Movie US the release of a film in a cinema theatre and on any other platform.
There is no expectation that the current cinema 2.
Fifty Shades of Grey US window will significantly change in the near future.
Star Wars: The Force Awakens US 3.
Minions Movie US | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 11
