STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and the Results and Dividends audited financial statements for the 52 week period ended The results for the Group for the 52 week period ended 31December 2015.
The comparative period is the 53 week 31December 2015 are presented under International Financial period ended 1 January 2015.
Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law.
However, the Company has elected to prepare Management Report its financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting This Directors Report, together with the Strategic Report on Standards, including the FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure pages 1 to 34, form the Management Report for the purposes Framework.
The results for the period are set out in the of rule 4.1.
8R of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
GroupConsolidated Statement of Profit or Loss on page 84.
Information Contained Elsewhere in the Annual Report An interim dividend of 5p per share was paid on 2 October Information required to be part of this Directors Report 2015.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of and certain other information can be found elsewhere 12.5p per share which, if approved by the shareholders at the inthe Annual Report as indicated in the table below, Annual General Meeting AGM, will be paid on 7 July 2016 andisincorporated into this Report by reference: toshareholders on the register on 10 June 2016.
Information Location in Annual Report Audit Tendering Page 52 Events Affecting the Company Since Year End There have been no significant events affecting the Company Corporate Governance Statement Pages 39 to 53 since the end of the period.
Corporate Social Responsibility Pages 33 to 34 Financial Risk Management Directors Biographies Pages 36 to 38 The Board of Cineworld Group plc regularly reviews the Financial instruments: Note 21, Page 121 financial requirements of the Group and the risks associated Information on the Groups financial therewith.
Full details are set out at Note 21 to the financial risk management objectives and statements, and are incorporated into this Directors Report policies, and its exposure to credit byreference.
risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk Funding and Liquidity Going Concern Statement Page 40 The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidityposition and borrowing facilities are described in Key Performance Indicators Pages 14 to 15 the Financial Review on pages 29 to 32.
In addition, Note 21 Statement of Directors Page 80 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, Responsibilities in respect of the policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk Annual Report and Financial management objectives: details of its financial instruments and Statements hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Such sections are incorporated into this DirectorsReport Viability Statement Page 40 by reference.
Forward Looking Statements International Operations Certain statements in these sections are forward looking At the financial year end, the Group had operations in the and so involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to UK, Jersey, Ireland, Poland, Israel, Hungary, Czech Republic, events, and depend upon circumstances that will occur in Bulgaria, Romania and Slovakia.
Therefore results and developments can differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward looking Substantial Shareholdings statements reflect knowledge and information available At 31 December 2015, the Group had been notified, pursuant at the date of preparation of this Annual Report, and the to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward interests in the voting rights of the Company.
Nothing in this Annual Report should confirming a partys interest has gone below the threshold beconstrued as a profit forecast.
notification level have not been included: % of total Voting voting 1 Shareholder rights rights Nature of holding 2 Global City Holdings N. V. 76,626,344 29.0 Direct Mawer Investment Management Limited 21,140,961 7.98 Direct 3 3 BlackRock, Inc 17,626,511 6.64 Indirect Aviva plc 10,698,450 4.06 Direct and Indirect Royal London Asset Management Limited 10,596,114 3.99 Direct 1 Percentages are stated as at the time of notification.
The total number of voting rights at 31 December 2015 was 265,232,321.
2 Global City Holdings N. V. is majority owned by the Greidinger Family and family trusts.
Shares are held by Global City Holdings N. V. GCH, a connected person of both Moshe Greidinger and Israel Greidinger.
Israel Greidinger transferred his entire interest in GCH to a trust for the benefit of his children on6September 2015.
3 1,345,761 0.5% of this figure represents qualifying financial instruments and financial instruments with similar economic effect to qualifying financialinstruments.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 75 GOVERNANCE Directors Report continued No notifications were received in the period from 1 January Change of Control 2016 up to 10 March 2016 the last practicable date to include There are no significant agreements which take effect, alter or such notifications.
terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company except that under its current banking arrangements a change Major Shareholder Voting Arrangements of control may trigger a right for lenders to require early Global City Holdings N. V. GCH is interested in aggregate repayment of all sums outstanding.
in 29% of the rights to vote at general meetings of the Company.
The Company and GCH entered into a relationship No Director or employee is contractually entitled to agreement dated 10 January 2014 to regulate the relationship compensation for loss of office or employment as a result of a between them.
Under the relationship agreement, the change in control: however, provisions in the Companys share parties acknowledge that the Group is capable of carrying schemes may cause options or awards granted to employees on business independently, and that all arrangements to vest on a change of control.
between the Company and GCH will be on arms length terms.
Therestriction on the disposal of ordinary shares in the Issue of New Shares and Authority to Purchase Shares Company by GCH has now expired, but there is a requirement At the AGM held on 26 May 2015, shareholders gave authority where reasonably practical to consult with and consider for the allotment of shares up to an aggregate nominal value the reasonable views of the Chairman or Senior Independent of 1,761,900 subject to certain conditions.
This authority will Director of the Company prior to a disposal of ordinary expire at the 2016 AGM of the Company or on 25 August 2016, sharesin the Company.
Share Capital and Control Between 2 January 2015 and 31 December 2015, a total of The Company has only one class of share capital formed 1,371,656 shares were issued.
Further details of the 1,371,656 ofordinary shares.
All shares forming part of the ordinary ordinary shares issued in the period in this respect are set share capital have the same rights and each carries one vote.
outin Note 20 to the financial statements.
Details of the share capital, and changes in it over the period, are shown in Note 20 to the financial statements.
At the AGM held on 26 May 2015, shareholders gave authority for the purchase of up to 39,616,000 ordinary shares in the The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive Company for cancellation or placing into treasury.
No shares Company reports and accounts, to attend and speak at have been acquired under this authority.
general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and toexercise voting rights.
The Board proposes to seek shareholder approval at the AGM to renew both the Companys authority to issue new There are no restrictions on transfers of, or limitations on the shares and its authority to purchase its own ordinary shares holding of, ordinary shares and there is also no requirement for cancellation or placing in treasury.
Details of the proposed of any prior approval of any transfers other than those which resolutions are set out in the Notice of AGM the AGM may be applicable from time to time under existing laws or circular dispatched to shareholders with the Annual Report regulation or if a person with an interest in 0.25% of the issued and Accounts or on notification of their availability.
share capital held in certificated form has been served with a disclosure notice and fails to respond with the required information concerning interests in that share capital.
No ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Except as set out in the Major Shareholder Voting Arrangements section above, there are norestrictions on voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares and the Company is not aware of any known agreements between shareholders that restrict thetransfer of voting rights attached to ordinary shares.
No treasury shares are held by the Company and no shares are held byanytrustee in connection with any Share Scheme operatedby the Group.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association Articles set out the rules governing the appointment and replacement of Directors.
In addition the Articles, together with English law, define the Boards powers.
Changes to the Articles must be approved by shareholders in accordance with the Articles themselves and legislation in force at the relevant time.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 76 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Directors Interests Ordinary shares held by companies in which a Director Ordinary shares held directly has a beneficial interest or is a connected party Director 2 January 2015 31 December 2015 2 January 2015 31 December 2015 1 Anthony Bloom 2,158,006 2,208,006 2 Israel Greidinger 76,626,344 76,626,344 Mooky Greidinger 76,626,344 76,626,344 Martina King 2,563 2,563 Alicja Kornasiewicz Scott Rosenblum 10,377 10,377 Arni Samuelsson Rick Senat 26,937 53,874 Julie Southern 1 Shares are held by a nominee for a Jersey based discretional trust, of which Mr Bloom is one of the potential beneficiaries.
2 Shares are held by Global City Holdings N. V. GCH, a connected person of both Mooky Greidinger and Israel Greidinger.
Israel Greidinger transferred his entire interest in GCH to a trust for the benefit of his children on 6 September 2015, following which he ceased to be beneficially interested in ordinary shares in the Company.
The Directors who held office at the end of the financial period Conflicts of Interest had interests in the ordinary shares of the Company at the The Articles permit the Board to consider and, if it sees beginning and end of the year under review as set out above.
fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests Under the Articles of Association the Articles, one third of the Company.
There is in place a formal system for the ofthe Directors must retire by rotation at the AGM and, being Board toconsider authorising such conflicts whereby the eligible, offer themselves for re-election each year.
A Director Directors who have no interest in the matter decide whether excluding as Chairman of the Board must retire and will to authorise the conflict.
In deciding whether to authorise the be counted in the one third to retire if he was last appointed conflict, the non-conflicted Directors are required to act in the or reappointed three years or more prior to the AGM or has way which they consider would be most likely to promote the served more than eight years as a Non-Executive Director.
success of the Company for the benefit of all shareholders and Inaddition any Director appointed during the year must stand they may, and do, impose conditions to be attached to such for election as well.
In accordance with best practice, however, authorisations.
The Board believes that the arrangements for all the Directors are retiring and are offering themselves for reporting and considering such conflicts operate effectively.
re-election this year at the AGM.
Directors Interests in Contracts Following the Board evaluation process undertaken in The Group has a number of property lease agreements in November 2015, the Board is satisfied that each Director place with Global City Holdings N. V. and or its subsidiary standing for re-election continues to show the necessary undertakings of which Mooky and Israel Greidinger are commitment and to be an effective member of the Board Non-Executive Directors.
Further details of the amounts dueto their skills, expertise and business acumen.
paid under these agreements can be found in Note 24 to thefinancial statements.
Under the terms of the relationship agreement between the Company and GCH described further in the Major None of the Directors has a material interest in any contract Shareholder Voting Arrangements section above, GCH has of significance to which the Company or a subsidiary was a the right to appoint one Non-Executive Director butonly party during the financial year, other than as disclosed above, if none of Mooky Greidinger, Israel Greidinger and Scott in their service contracts or letters of appointment described Rosenblum are on the Board for so long as it holds at on pages55 and 72 to 74 and in Note 24 to the financial least10% of the voting rights in the Company.
Details of the Directors remuneration, and information on their Directors and Officers Insurance and Indemnity service contracts, are set out in the Directors Remuneration The Company maintains insurance cover for all Directors and Report on pages 54 to 74.
Officers of Group companies against liabilities which may be incurred by them whilst acting as Directors and Officers.
Details of the interests in the ordinary shares of the Company arising under the Groups Share and Option Schemes are set As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under out in the Remuneration Report on pages 63 to 66.
Norights which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors to subscribe for shares in or debentures of other Group as permitted by law and by the Articles against liabilities companies were granted to any of the Directors or their they may incur in the execution of their duties as Directors immediate families, or exercised by them, during the financial oftheCompany.
None of the Directors had any disclosable interest in the shares of Group companies other than the Company and there have been no changes to Directors share interests between 31 December 2015 and the date of this report.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 77 GOVERNANCE Directors Report continued Political Donations The Group encourages the involvement of employees in its The Groups policy, which it has followed, is to make performance through the operation of a Sharesave Scheme nodonations to political parties.
inthe UK and bonus schemes throughout the Group.
Employees Environmental Matters and Greenhouse Gas Emissions The policy is to recruit, employ and develop staff on the Information on the Groups environmental policies are basis of the suitability of their qualifications and experience, summarised in the Corporate Responsibility section on regardless of sex, marital status, race, nationality, age, sexual pages33 to 34.
This section provides the greenhouse gas orientation or religion.
It is Company policy to give full and fair GHG emission data and supporting information required consideration to applications for employment from disabled by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors people, having regard to their particular abilities and aptitudes.
Full consideration is given to continuing the employment of staff who become disabled, including considering them for Organisational Boundary other reasonable positions and arranging appropriate training.
The organisational boundary used for the Companys GHG reporting is operational control.
The health, welfare and development of the Groups employees remain a priority.
With the intent of attracting, Reporting Scope recruiting, developing and retaining key employees, Cineworld The Company is reporting on emissions covered by scopes maintains a number of policies and procedures for the benefit 1 and 2 comprising electricity, gas, and fugitive F-gas of its employees, which can be accessed by employees via the emissions from global operations.
Human Resources department and in the UK via the Human Resources manual on the Companys intranet.
Continuing As well as scope 1 and 2 emissions figures, additional outside education, training and development are important to ensure of scope emissions are included for owned transport to the future success of the Group and employee development account for biofuel additions.
Scope 3 well-to-tank for all isencouraged through appropriate training.
The Group fuels and transmission and distribution from electricity supports individuals who wish to obtain appropriate further emissions are also included.
education qualifications and reimburses tuition fees up toaspecified level.
Emissions Included Mandatory emissions sources as specified by the Regular and open communication between management and Environmental Reporting Guidelines published by the employees is essential for motivating the workforce.
Briefings Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Defra are held regularly to provide updates on the Groups business have been included in this report see also Estimates and and to provide opportunity for questions and feedback.
Company also maintains both an internet website which is freely accessible and an intranet site accessible to all head Table 1 shows Defras stated mandatory areas for reporting office employees and at all cinemas in the UK.
and how the stated categories apply to the Group.
Table 1: Reporting Requirements Ref Defra requirement Relevance A1 Fuel combustion stationary Natural gas heating A2 Fuel combustion mobile Owned transport fleet B Facility operation: process emissions N A B Facility operation: fugitive emissions F-gases: refrigeration & aircon C Purchased electricity, heat, steam, cooling Electricity only | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 78 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE GHG Emissions Data The GHG emissions for the Group for the calendar year to 31 December 2015 are shown in Table 2 below in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e. 2 Table 2: 2015 GHG Emissions Ref Category tCO e 2014 tCO e 2015 2 2 A1 Fuel combustion stationary 16,506 18,330 A2 Fuel combustion mobile 745 922 B Facility operation 4,893 3,242 C Purchased electricity 117,009 132,798 Total 139,153 155,292 Estimates and Exclusions Auditor and Tender A minimal amount of estimated data was used for electricity At the date of this Annual Report, a tender process is and gas emissions for some UK meters for December 2015. underway in respect of the Companys 2016 audit Tender.
This affects under 0.1% of total emissions.
If KPMG LLP KPMG is re-selected pursuant to the Tender, or if the Tender does not complete prior to the posting of the Data on fugitive emissions from CCI jurisdictions other Companys Notice of AGM, KPMG have confirmed that they thanCzech Republic and Poland were not available and are willing to continue in office, and resolutions proposing areexcluded from the emissions figures given above.
their reappointment and authorising the Audit Committee Thesecombined omissions are estimated to represent to agree their fees, will be proposed at the AGM.
KPMG lessthan 1% of total group emissions.
will subsequently resign if not re-selected pursuant to the Tender.
If the Tender does complete prior to the posting of Emissions Intensity the Companys Notice of AGM, and the selected Auditor The chosen carbon intensity measure is financial turnover.
is notKPMG, then such resolutions will relate to the newly Thiswas chosen due to ready availability of the data.
for the period was 220.0 tonnes CO e per m turnover.
2 Disclosure of Information to Auditor For comparison, 2014s emissions were 139,153 tonnes CO e The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 2 atan intensity of 224.7 tCO e m. Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, 2 there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Methodology and Emissions Factors auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that This report was calculated using the methodology set he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware outin Defras updated greenhouse gas reporting guidance, of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the Environmental Reporting Guidelines ref.
PB 13944, issued Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Emissions factors are taken from DECC Defra 2015 update.
By order of the Board Emissions factors for fuels use scope 3 well-to-tank upstream F Smith additions to account for emissions from sourcing and Company Secretary processing fuel.
Owned transport emissions include outsideCineworld Group plc of-scope additions for biogenic additions.
Electricity emissions 10 March 2016 include transmission and distribution losses.
Registered Office: Annual General Meeting Power Road Studios The Notice convening the AGM, to be held at Picturehouse 114 Power Road Central, Corner of Great Windmill Street and Shaftesbury Chiswick, London W4 5PY Avenue, Piccadilly, London W1D 7DH at 10.30am on 19May 2016 is contained in the AGM circular.
Details of all the Registered: England No: 5212407 resolutions to be proposed are set out in the AGM circular.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 79
