Strategy and progress against objectives Circassias strategy is to build a self-sustaining specialty biopharmaceutical company based on a broad portfolio of innovative therapies, commercialised independently in the US and key European markets and partnered in other regions, complemented by a strong and balanced pipeline of product candidates.
Expanding our established commercial infrastructure will give us the opportunity to license or acquire additional complementary products that we can commercialise directly, as we move towards our goal of becoming a leading specialty biopharmaceutical business.
Strategic objectives Deliver the pipeline: complete the development In territories outside our key markets, we intend to distribute our of our innovative product candidates products through partners.
We have an international network of We are focused on completing the development of our next distributors in place for our NIOX products, and have further potential generation allergy treatments and our particle-engineered respiratory partnership options for our allergy and respiratory products, including products.
Our lead allergy therapy, targeting cat allergy, continues out-licensing commercialisation rights or collaborating with major on track to report results from its phase III registration study in Q2 pharmaceutical companies.
During 2016, we also plan to initiate the registration study for our grass allergy treatment, as well as progressing our house dust Build a broad and balanced portfolio: expand our mite, ragweed, birch and Japanese cedar allergy programmes.
development pipeline Additionally, we plan to complete the first clinical study of our fixed We are developing a wide range of allergy, asthma and COPD dose triple combination treatment for chronic obstructive pulmonary products based on our innovative ToleroMune, NIOX and particledisease COPD and to advance our Seretide pMDI substitute engineering technologies.
As a result, we have a portfolio of 12 product in preparation for planned UK filing in 2017. products currently in development, and have the opportunity to leverage our technologies to further expand our pipeline of candidates, Market novel products: independently commercialise targeting other common allergies and developing additional respiratory our products in North America and major EU markets, medicines.
We also have the opportunity to further enhance our and partner elsewhere portfolio by in-licensing complementary product candidates and We have commercial infrastructure in place in the US and Germany or technologies and seeking further acquisitions.
Additionally, as our promoting our NIOX asthma management products direct to allergy commercial infrastructure expansion advances, we should become asthma specialists.
We are significantly expanding this commercial increasingly well placed to attract collaborators seeking to partner presence to grow our current product sales and prepare for the the commercialisation of their specialty products or to add further launch of our first allergy product, once approved.
In addition, we are specialty products of our own.
planning to expand our commercial organisation into additional key Achieving our strategic objectives involves risks and uncertainties, European territories to sell our NIOX products directly to specialists which are detailed in the section entitled Risks and risk management and build market awareness in advance of the launch of our cat on pages 34 to 37. allergy therapy.
We can also use this infrastructure to commercialise our asthma treatment substitute products, which do not require significant promotion but need regulatory, market access and supply chain support, as well as additional products we may bring into our pipeline through acquisition or in-licensing.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 20 Deliver the pipeline Build broad and balanced portfolio Market novel products Progress in 2015 During 2015, we made good progress implementing all three During the year, we also made progress expanding our allergy areas of our strategy.
We advanced the clinical development pipeline.
We completed the pre-clinical development of our birch programmes for our lead allergy treatments, and moved an allergy product and moved it into the clinic, as well as advancing our additional product into the clinic.
We complemented this immunotherapy for Japanese cedar allergy.
We also completed the progress with the completion of two strategic acquisitions planning for a clinical study with our novel NIOX technology, exploring that brought us established commercial infrastructure the potential to expand its use to include the diagnosis of primary targeting allergy asthma specialists in the worlds two ciliary dyskinesia.
largest allergy markets, an international network of distributors, marketed specialty products and a broad Progress delivering the pipeline portfolio of product candidates.
During 2015, we made advances across our newly-broadened allergy and respiratory portfolio.
We completed the treatment of the last Progress marketing novel products patient in our cat allergy phase III study, and remain on track to deliver During 2015, we dramatically accelerated our strategy to promote the trials results in Q2 2016.
We also completed a paediatric safety our products directly to specialists in our target territories through study to support a European Marketing Authorisation Application.
This brought us established commercial At the end of the year, we finished recruitment into our house dust infrastructure in the key US and German markets and market-leading mite allergy large-scale field study, completed a two-season follow-up NIOX asthma management products.
Following the completion of the of our ragweed allergy product and progressed our plans to begin acquisition in June 2015, we significantly expanded the commercial the registration study for our grass allergy immunotherapy.
In our team, increased the US field force and began the process of respiratory portfolio, our lead asthma product, which is partnered with establishing direct sales capabilities in additional European markets.
Mylan, has now received approval from the UK regulatory authority, This gives us the platform on which to prepare the market for the and we moved our novel fixed dose triple combination treatment for launch of our allergy products while growing the existing sales of COPD into its first clinical study.
Progress building a broad and balanced portfolio In June 2015, we completed the acquisition of Prosonix, accelerating our strategy to build a broad and balanced portfolio.
This brought a pipeline of respiratory products based on novel particle-engineering technology, which complements our existing innovative allergy immunotherapies.
The products include near-term asthma treatments, targeting direct substitution of currently marketed therapies, and longer-term novel formulations for the treatment of COPD.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 21
