Board of Directors 1 Dr Francesco Granata 3 Julien Cotta 5 Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud 7 Russell Cummings Chairman, 65 Chief Financial Officer, 52 Senior Independent NonNon-Executive Director, 51 Executive Director, 60 Dr Francesco Granata, joined Circassia Julien Cotta joined Circassia as Chief Russell Cummings joined Circassia as Chairman on 1 September 2013.
Financial Officer on 5 January 2012 Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud, the Senior as a Non-Executive Director on He is also Chairman of the and was appointed a Director on Independent Non-Executive Director 25 January 2007.
He is Chief Nomination Committee.
26 November 2013. joined Circassia as a Non-Executive Executive Officer of Imperial Director on 1 November 2012.
Innovations Group plc, having joined Francesco is senior advisor at Warburg Julien has significant financial He is a Member of the Audit and as Chief Investment Officer in 2006.
Prior to this management experience in the Risk Committee and the Nomination From 2003 to 2006, he held roles at he was Executive Vice President at healthcare industry.
the growth equity and venture capital Biogen Idec Inc. and before that he Circassia, he was Chief Financial firm Scottish Equity Partners LLP, was Group Vice President and Officer of the Finnish medical Jean-Jacques has extensive and prior to this spent 16 years at the President responsible for Canada and technology company, Inion Oy, and pharmaceutical research and international venture capital company major European markets at Scheringbefore this Group Financial Controller development experience having held 3i Group plc, latterly as a Director in its Plough Corporation.
Previously, he at Whatman plc now part of GE senior roles at companies in the United UK Technology Group.
He holds a BSc served as Regional President for Healthcare.
Previously, he served as States and Europe.
Until recently he was Eng in Mechanical Engineering from Northern Europe and also Middle East Vice President of Financial Accounting Global Head of Pharma Research and Imperial College, London.
Russell is and Africa at Pfizer Inc. and as at Chiron Corporation and Group Early Development and a member of also a Non-Executive Director of Managing Director of Pharmacia & Financial Controller at PowderJect the extended corporate executive Nexeon Limited.
He is currently a Pharmaceuticals plc prior to its committee at F Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. Board member of Italfarmaco SpA, acquisition by Chiron in 2003. having joined the company in 2007 as a leading Italian pharmaceutical group Before this he held senior financial Global Head of Pharmaceutical 8 Paul R Edick that operates in both the pharma management roles at Scotia Development and Chief Medical Officer.
Non-Executive Director, 60 and chemical sectors: Prismic Pharmaceuticals Limited, and Sanofi Prior to this he was Global Head of Pharmaceuticals Inc. a US based S. A. having begun his pharmaceutical Clinical Research and Development Paul R Edick joined Circassia as an medical food company: Quanta Ltd. career as a sales representative at and Global Head of Exploratory independent Non-Executive Director a UK company that has developed Merck Sharpe & Dohme Corporation.
Development at Novartis and held on 3 April 2013. advanced haemodialysis systems for He completed his accountancy training roles at Schering-Plough Corporation, Until 18 November 2014 Paul was use in the home and clinic: Cell Therapy at Coopers & Lybrand now Rhone-Poulenc Rorer Limited and Chief Executive Officer of Durata Ltd. a UK biotechnology company  LLP.
Julien Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals Inc. Therapeutics Inc. which was acquired focused on regenerative medicine: holds a BSc Hons in Pharmacology Before working in industry, Jeanby Actavis plc.
Prior to this he was and a member of the strategic advisory from University College London and Jacques practised medicine at the Chief Executive Officer of Ganic committee at Lupin, a leading Indian is a Chartered Accountant and Claude Bernard Hospital in Paris, France Pharmaceuticals Inc. a Warburg global pharmaceutical company.
Prior a member of the ICAEW.
after gaining his medical degree at the Pincus investment vehicle disbanded to his career in industry, Francesco University of Paris.
From 2006 to 2008 he practised as a medical doctor Executive Director at MedDay SAS, served as Chief Executive Officer of specialising in cardiology.
He holds a 4 Dr Rod Hafner Inatherys SAS and Polyphor Limited MedPointe Healthcare Inc. following degree in medicine and surgery from Director and Senior Vice President and Chairman of the Inserm Transfert a period as President.
After MedPointe the University of Pavia, Italy, and was Research & Development, 50 Initiatives Investment Committee.
was acquired by Meda in late 2007, formerly a member of the Board of the Dr Rod Hafner joined Circassia on he continued in office until mid-2008 European Federation of Pharmaceutical 1 March 2007 and became Senior and then acted as a consultant for the Industry Associations.
6 Dr Tim Corn Vice President of Research & rest of the year.
Earlier roles included Independent Non-Executive Development and a Director on 10 a number of senior positions at GD Director, 64 March 2008.
Searle & Company, and Pharmacia 2 Steven Harris Dr Tim Corn joined Circassia as an Corporation now Pfizer Inc., following Chief Executive Officer, 49 Rod has many years of experience at a independent Non-Executive Director the acquisition of Searle by Pharmacia, senior level in the life sciences industry Steven Harris co-founded Circassia on on 1 August 2006.
He is a Member of culminating in his appointment as and is a named inventor on numerous 19 May 2006 and has led the Company the Audit and Risk Committee, the Pharmacias Group Vice President granted patents and patent as Chief Executive Officer since then.
Remuneration Committee, and the and President, Asia Pacific Latin applications.
Before joining Circassia, Nomination Committee.
Paul holds a BA Steven has extensive experience of he led the UK operating company of in Psychology from Hamilton College.
leading specialty pharmaceutical the Scandinavian drug delivery Tim was previously Chief Medical He currently sits on the board of companies.
Prior to co-founding business, OptiNose AS now OptiNose Officer at EUSA Pharma Europe NewLink Genetics Corporation, Circassia, he was a founding member US Inc. and prior to that was Director Limited, an international division Iterum Therapeutics, NEOS of the management team that grew of Programme Management and Vice of Jazz Pharmaceuticals plc.
In the Therapeutics, and PDL BioPharma, Zeneus Pharma Limited into a President of Research & Development course of his career, he has played and was previously chairman of the successful specialty pharmaceutical Portfolio Management at PowderJect.
a key role in the regulatory approval Danish biotechnology company, Life company and managed its acquisition Other roles have included Head of of numerous products in the fields of Cycle Pharma A S. by Cephalon Inc. now part of Teva Project Management at Cortecs neurology and oncology.
Tim qualified Pharmaceutical Industries Limited.
International Limited and positions at in medicine at Kings College Hospital, Prior to this he served for seven years Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, Inc. now London, after gaining an MSc in as Chief Financial Officer of PowderJect Pfizer and The Procter & Gamble Biochemistry from Imperial College, Pharmaceuticals plc and was a key Company.
Rod has led Circassias London.
He has been a Fellow of the member of the management team research and development function Faculty of Pharmaceutical Medicine which grew the organisation from a since joining in 2007.
He has a BSc since 1996 and a Fellow of the Royal private biotechnology company to the Hons in Biochemistry from Edinburgh College of Psychiatrists since 1998. worlds fifth largest vaccines business, University and a PhD in Biochemistry He is Chairman of the Board of Trustees before it was acquired by Chiron from the University of Cambridge.
of the Neuro Foundation and a Corporation in 2003.
He holds Non-Executive Director of Reneuron plc.
a BSc from Southampton University and is a Chartered Accountant and a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales ICAEW.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 38 9 Cathrin Petty 11 Charles Swingland 1 2 Non-Executive Director, 42 Non-Executive Director, 63 Cathrin Petty joined Circassia Charles Swingland is a Non-Executive as a Non-Executive Director on Director and co-founder of Circassia.
Charles is Deputy Chairman and Cathrin is Co-Head of EMEA General Counsel at Drayson Healthcare at J. P. Morgan, and has Technologies Limited.
He was General extensive senior level experience of the Counsel, Company Secretary and life sciences industry.
She has held a Deputy Chairman of Circassia from number of non-executive roles, most May 2006 until March 2014.
Prior to recently at ICON plc and at the NHS founding Circassia with Steven Harris, Strategic Health Authority for Greater he was a Director and General London.
She has previously worked Counsel at Zeneus Pharma Limited 3 4 as Special Partner at Vitruvian Partners from 2004 to 2006 and before this LLP, Partner at Apax Partners LLP, was Executive Director, General and at Schroders and Schroder Counsel and Company Secretary at Ventures Life Sciences.
She holds PowderJect, until it was sold to Chiron an MA in Natural Sciences from the in 2003.
Before working in industry, University of Cambridge and a Charles practised as a lawyer in the post-graduate Diploma in City of London for over 15 years.
Management Studies from Charles is a member of the board the Judge Institute, Cambridge.
of advisers of the Earthwatch Institute.
10 Marvin S Samson 12 Lota S Zoth Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director, 74 Director, 56 5 6 Marvin S Samson joined Circassia Lota Zoth joined Circassia as an as an independent Non-Executive independent Non-Executive Director Director on 8 December 2015. on 9 February 2015.
She is Chair He is Chairman of the Remuneration of the Audit and Risk Committee Committee.
and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Marvin brings to Circassia 50 years experience of the specialty Lota is an experienced Board member, pharmaceutical industry, having and has significant financial experience established and led a number of gained in a number of global public successful companies.
Most recently she was Founder and CEO of Samson Medical CFO at MedImmune, and she Technologies LLC, and was until previously held senior positions at 7 8 recently Interim President of the PSINet, Sodexho Marriott, PepsiCo University of the Sciences, and Ernst & Young.
Previously, he was a Non-Executive Director at Hyperion CEO and Chairman of Qualitest Therapeutics Inc, NewLink Genetics Pharmaceuticals, Group Vice President Corporation, Orexigen Therapeutics of Injectables at Teva, CEO and Inc. and Spark Therapeutics.
She is President of SICOR, Founder, also Chair of Aeras, a non-profit President and CEO of Marsam product development organisation Pharmaceuticals and Founder, CEO focused on tuberculosis and funded and President of Elkins-Sinn.
He holds by The Bill and Melinda Gates a BSc in Chemistry from Temple Foundation, and until 2014 was a University, Philadelphia.
He is currently Non-Executive Director at privatelya Non-Executive Director of Antares held biopharmaceutical company 9 10 Pharma Inc, Flynn Pharma Ltd and Ikaria Inc. Lota has over 30 years NanoPass Technologies Ltd.
He is also experience as a Certified Public Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Accountant, and holds a Bachelor the University of the Sciences in of Business Administration from Philadelphia and a Board Member of Texas Tech University.
the Cooper Rowan Medical School, Virtua Health and the Franklin Institute.
11 12 Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 39
