Strategic report Our strategy Our purpose Our mission is to grow value for to maintain and our shareholders, building on extend our industry our strong financial performance leadership... and supporting our progressive dividend policy by maintaining and developing our position as the worlds leading shipping services group.... is underpinned by Breadth Reach our key drivers... We provide a wide We support our clients range of integrated in all the worlds services key regions With an industry-leading range of Ours is a global presence, enabling products and services that spans us to meet client needs wherever the maritime and financial markets, and whenever they arise.
With we are uniquely placed to deliver the 46 offices in 20 countries, we share best, bespoke commercial solutions understanding, culture, IT platforms to all our clients large or small.
and high standards of corporate governance across our business We are the best in class intermediary a fine example of how joined-up across every sector of maritime trade thinking can deliver a truly local and no single company is our lead service, worldwide.
competitor in more than one market.... and reinforced by Integrity Excellence our values 6 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Our proven and robust strategy is focused on the development of our best in class fully integrated service offer across the global shipping and offshore, broking and banking, research and support markets.
We have delivered a consistently profitable and cash generative performance which bears comparison, not only in the shipping sector but across the FTSE.
Trust Understanding People We are the trusted We build long-term We empower everybody source of essential relationships with at Clarksons to fulfil shipping information clients their potential The industrys leading providers From oil majors, raw material We want Clarksons to be recognised of data and market intelligence on producers and other multinationals as the place where the best people the shipping and offshore industries, to long-established shipowning are empowered to do their best work.
our research team is the largest families, our client base is second We hire the brightest talents and give commercially-led unit in the maritime to none.
We have worked with them the tools to shine including world.
Our databases track over many of these clients for generations, leading edge IT systems, high quality 100,000 ships and 6,000 offshore building a deep understanding of their training and development as well as fields and our Shipping Intelligence businesses and providing the services financial reward.
Network is viewed more than three that have helped them to prosper.
Fairness Transparency See inside front cover for more information on our values 7 www.
