Governance Governance D Directors report irectors report The directors report required under the Companies Act 2006, together pursuant to the companys share dealing practices whereby the with the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015, directors and designated employees require approval to deal in the comprises sections of the annual report incorporated by reference as set companys shares: out below which, taken together, contain the information to be included certain restrictions on securities arising from company acquisitions in the annual report, where applicable, under Listing Rule 9.8.
4. including the Platou acquisition : and under the companys employee long term incentive plans.
Going concern Page 32 Board membership Pages 38 39 Change of control The company is not party to any significant agreements that would take Dividends Page 31 effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
Directors long-term incentives Pages 43 57 Details of the executive directors service contracts, including contractual Waiver of directors emoluments Page 43 arrangements in connection with a change of control of the company, Corporate governance report Pages 40 42 are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 48 to 49.
Future developments of the business of the group Pages 10 29 Upon a change of control, all unvested awards under the 2004 Clarkson Employee equality, diversity and involvement Pages 34 36 PLC LTIP would vest to the extent that any performance conditions attaching to the relevant award have been achieved.
Carbon emissions Page 37 Information to the independent auditor Page 61 All unvested awards under the 2014 Clarkson PLC LTIP shall vest on the date of such event.
In the case of performance awards, the number Dividend waiver Page 99 of shares to vest will be determined by the committee subject to the Financial risk management Pages 101 103 performance or any other conditions and or pro rata reduction in the Subsidiaries Pages 121 124 case of leavers.
Notifiable interests in share capital Shareholder information The following interests have been disclosed to the company by major Share capital and control shareholders under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Details of the companys share capital are shown in note 23 to the financial DTR as at the end of the financial year and at 3 March 2016 being the statements.
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares are last practicable date prior to the date of this report : set out in the Articles, copies of which can be obtained free of charge from the Companies House website at http: www.
Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited 5.11% 12.33% The executive directors are expected to maintain a shareholding equivalent of 100% of their respective salaries.
RS Platou Holdings AS 7.10% 7.10% A transfer of shares is only permitted for shares which are fully paid up.
Heronbridge Investment Management LLP 5.01% 5.01% A transfer form must be duly stamped if required and made out in favour Legal & General Investment of a single transferee or no more than four joint transferees.
The transfer Management Limited 5% 5% form must be delivered to the companys registrars, Computershare, accompanied by the share certificate to which it relates or such other Information provided to the company pursuant to the DTR is published evidence that proves the title of the transferor.
Please contact on a Regulatory Information Service and on the companys website at: Computershare on 44 0 370 707 1055 or online at: www.
In addition, as at 3 March 2016, employees directly held 27.58 % The holders of ordinary shares have the right to: of the companys share capital and 5.34 % was held by employee share trusts for use under the companys various incentive schemes.
receive dividends when declared: Interests in the shares of the company or derivatives or any other receive the companys report and financial statements: financial instrument relating to those shares, conducted by the directors attend and speak at general meetings of the company: and of the company on their own account, notified to the company pursuant appoint proxies and exercise voting rights at general meetings.
to Rule 3 of the DTR, are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 53 to 54.
There are no restrictions or special conditions regarding voting rights and control of the company.
Major shareholders have the same voting At the 2015 AGM the companys shareholders authorised the company, rights per share as all other shareholders.
Shareholders who wish to for the purposes of Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006, to make appoint a proxy to exercise their voting rights at the AGM are required market purchases of its own shares up to a maximum aggregate amount to submit a proxy voting form to the company no later than 48 hours of 3,011,675 shares representing 10% of the companys share capital as prior to the time of the meeting using the following link: at 2 April 2015.
This authority is due to expire at the end of the 2016 AGM http: www.
and a resolution will be put to shareholders at that meeting to extend the authority for a further period.
The company has not acquired or disposed Shares acquired through Clarksons share schemes rank equally with of any interests in its own shares.
other shares in issue and have no special rights.
Restrictions on transfer of shares There are no restrictions on transfers of ordinary shares in the company other than: By order of the board certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws Penny Watson Company secretary or regulations such as those relating to insider dealing: 4 March 2016 60 60 Clarkson PLC Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 Annual Report 2015
