Strategic report Our business model Clarksons business model provides an unrivalled level of service and information that creates value from being the heart of global shipping... to enabling global trade.
Our key inputs Financial Intellectual People Client relationships Trade We have no bank Our research team We aim to recruit and We work ethically and build The world relies upon borrowings and have is acknowledged as retain the best in the strong client relationships the movement of trade cash available to the market leader in industry.
Our people where our knowledge from raw materials, fund the growth of providing validated and are one of our most builds trust.
foodstuffs and household the business.
accurate data across important assets across goods.
Its simply what all shipping sectors.
all parts of the business keeps the world moving We continually invest in from information and developing.
both research staff and providers to those the technology we use who deal with clients.
to capture and deliver our market intelligence.
Our outputs Financial Intellectual People Client relationships Trade We aim to reward By ensuring that our Our skills and knowledge We encourage a responsible We enable global trade.
shareholders with clients receive the best ensure that world trade approach to business, An essential part of the dividends whilst information through continues to flow in the and foster close long-term supply chain, we have maintaining a good a range of innovative most effective manner, mutually beneficial the necessary skills and financial standing and technological solutions, that countries receive relationships with our information at our fingertips strong balance sheet.
we provide them with the the raw materials to build customers.
to ensure we know what tools they need to make and develop and people commodities need moving key business decisions.
have the food and goods to where and when and they need.
the best solutions for this.
62p 14,000 1,379 5,234 100,000 dividend vessel positions employees multinational vessels in the per share updated every companies world fleet minute as clients 8 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Owners e d a r t Assets Broking shipping Support Financial Research Broking offshore Freight 9 www.
