Governance Board of directors James Hughes-Hallett, CMG Andi Case Chief executive 49 Chairman 66 Andi Case was appointed to the board as chief executive James Hughes-Hallett was appointed as a director on on 17 June 2008, having previously been Clarksons chief 20 August 2014 and became chairman on 1 January 2015. operating officer.
James is a non-executive director of John Swire & Sons Andi joined Clarksons in 2006 as managing director of the Limited and chairman of United States Cold Storage Inc. groups shipbroking arm, H Clarkson & Company Limited.
He is also chairman of the Courtauld Institute and of the He began his shipbroking career with C W Kellock and later Esmee Fairbairn Foundation.
James was chairman of John Eggar Forrester.
Prior to joining Clarksons he was with Swire & Sons Limited until the end of 2014 and chairman Braemar Seascope for 17 years, latterly as head of sale of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited and Swire Pacific Limited.
Earlier in his career James was also the managing director and chairman of The China Navigation Company and of Swire Pacific Offshore, and chairman of the Hong Kong Shipowners Association.
He served as a non-executive director of HSBC Holdings PLC from 2005 to 2014.
James is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and an honorary fellow of the University of Hong Kong and of Merton College, Oxford.
James is chair of the nomination committee and a member of the remuneration committee.
Jeff Woyda Peter M. Anker Chief financial officer and chief operating officer 53 President of broking and investment banking 58 Jeff Woyda was appointed to the board on Peter M. Anker joined the board on 2 February 2015.
Peter has been chief executive and managing partner of Jeff qualified with KPMG and before joining Clarksons was RS Platou Shipbrokers AS since 1987 and has also served a member of the executive committee of Gerrard Group as head of the Platou group and offshore division.
Jeff also spent 13 years at GNI where he was chief previously served as vice president of RS Platou USA Inc. operating officer.
Jeff serves as a non-executive director from 1982 to 1986. of the International Transport Intermediaries Club ITIC.
38 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Peter Backhouse Ed Warner, OBE Senior independent director 64 Non-executive director 52 Peter Backhouse was appointed to the board on Ed Warner was appointed to the board on 27 June 2008.
16 September 2013 and became senior independent Ed is chairman of derivatives exchange LMAX Limited, director on 5 November 2013. the Standard Life European Private Equity Trust PLC, the Peter is chairman of the Supervisory Board of HES Blackrock Commodities Income Investment Trust PLC, UK International B. V, a leading provider of port services in dry Athletics, the sports governing body, and investment bank and liquid bulk handling, and a member of the Advisory Panmure Gordon.
He is also a non-executive director of Board of US private equity firm Riverstone Energy Partners.
Grant Thornton UK LLP, a leading accountancy and advisory Peter has over 40 years experience in the international practice, and SafeCharge International Group.
At British Petroleum he was chairman previously chief executive of IFX Group PLC and Old Mutual and chief executive of BP Europe, executive vice-president Financial Services UK, head of Pan European Equities at of global refining and marketing, and head of both North BT Alex Brown, and head of global research at Dresdner Sea oil development and global mergers and acquisitions.
He served as a non-executive director of BG Group plc, Ed is chairman of the remuneration committee and the international energy group, between 2000 and 2014. a member of the audit and nomination committees.
Peter is a member of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees.
James Morley Birger Nergaard Non-executive director 67 Non-executive director 64 James Morley was appointed to the board on Birger Nergaard joined the board on 2 February 2015 and 5 November 2008. has been deputy chairman of the board of Clarksons Platou AS formerly RS Platou ASA since 2008.
James is senior independent director of Costain Group PLC and a director of Minova Insurance Holdings Limited.
James Birger established Four Seasons Venture today Verdane has served as chief operating officer of Primary Insurance Capital in 1985 and was the companys chief executive until Group, group finance director of Cox Insurance Holdings 2006.
He is currently a director of Verdane Capitals funds V, and Arjo Wiggins Appleton PLC, group executive director VI, VII and VIII, a director of Clarksons Platou Securities AS, finance at Guardian Royal Exchange, deputy chief Nergaard Investment Partners AS and an advisor to the executive and group finance director at AVIS Europe PLC, P E fund Advent International in Norway.
Birger was and was a non-executive director of The Bankers awarded King Haralds gold medal in 2006 for pioneering Investment Trust PLC, W S Atkins PLC, Trade Indemnity the Norwegian venture capital industry.
Birger holds a law Group PLC, The Innovation Group PLC and Speedy Hire degree from the University of Oslo.
Birger was appointed to the remuneration committee on James is chairman of the audit committee and a member 5 January 2016. of the remuneration and nomination committees.
