Board of Directors Chairman Executive Directors Non-executive Directors 1.
Mike Wareing Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director Senior Independent Non-executive Director BEng, CEng, FIMechE, FIEE CMG, FCA, FCCA, MCSI Age: 58 Age: 69 Appointed: June 2012 Age: 62 Appointed: Director February 2010, Chairman May 2010 Skills and experience: Bob was with BAE Systems for Appointed: December 2010 Skills and experience: Johns executive career was built 13 years from 1999, serving as a member of the Executive Skills and experience: Mike worked for KPMG from in engineering companies within the Varity Group.
John has Committee of BAE Systems plc as Executive Vice President 1973 until 2009 when he retired.
Between 2005 and 2009, previously served as Non-executive Director of Northern for the global operations of the product sectors business he was International Chief Executive Officer, KPMG: Rock Asset Management between 2007 and 2010, forBAE Systems, Inc. including the Electronic Systems, Chairman, KPMG International Executive Team: and Chairman of Marconi plc, later renamed Telent, and Landand Armaments and Platform Solutions Sector.
He Chairman, KPMG Iberoamerica Board.
He was formerly the Chairman of National Express Group plc.
He was President hasalso held a number of other senior operational and Prime Ministers Envoy for Reconstruction in Southern Iraq.
ofPerkins Engines in the mid-1980s, and he went on to be financial roles with BAE Systems.
Prior to this, Bob spent Mike retired from his role as Non-executive Director and President of Kelsey-Hayes, the automotive components 18years with General Electric GE company, where he Chairman of the Audit Committee of Wolseley plc in manufacturer.
He was subsequently Chief Executive of heldnumerous financial leadership positions, culminating November 2014.
Eastern Electricity, the largest regional electricity company inhis role as CFO of the military engines operation of the External appointments: Senior Independent inthe UK at the time.
Following its acquisition by Hanson, GEAircraft Engines Group.
Previously, Bob has served on Non-executive Director and Chairman of the hewas appointed Chairman of Hansons electricity division.
theBoard of Trustees for the US National Defense Industrial Audit Committee of Intertek Group plc, and John retired from his role as Non-executive Chairman Association and the Board of Visitors for the Clark School of Economic Development Adviser to the Government ofNATS National Air Traffic Services in August 2014.
Engineering at the University of Maryland.
Committee membership: Member of the Audit and Committee membership: Chair of the Nomination Committee membership: Chair of the Executive Nomination Committees.
Simon Nicholls Independent Non-executive Director Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director MA, MBA BSc Hons, ACA Age: 52 Age: 51 Appointed: July 2011 Appointed: May 2013 Skills and experience: Alison is engaged with a mix of Skills and experience: Simon was CFO of Senior plc, not for profit and non-executive activities in the UK and theFTSE250 international manufacturing group New Zealand.
She was formerly Global Director Corporate providingengineered products for aerospace, defence Development and Strategy for National Grid plc.
Previously, andcommercial industrial applications, a position he held she was Group Strategic Development Director for BAE from2008.
Previously, Simon was CFO of Hanson North Systems plc responsible for corporate strategy, mergers America and prior to that he was Financial Controller for andacquisitions, and strategic business development Hanson plc for three years.
Simon spent nine years with acrossthe UK and US.
She has held three previous Price Waterhouse, now PwC, in the UK and Canada, and Non-executive Directorships: BTG plc from 2004 to 2008, fouryears working in senior financial positions.
Simon THUS plc from 2007 to 2008 and GCHQ from 2009 to 2011. served asaNon-executive Director of AIM listed External appointments: Non-executive Director and Hamworthy plc fromSeptember 2011 until its takeover Senior Independent Director of e2v technologies plc.
Simon is a Chartered Accountant, holding Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration a Bachelor of Science in Mathematics, Operational Research, Committee of Costain Group plc and British Standards Statistics andEconomics from the University of Warwick.
Committee membership: Chair of the Remuneration Committee membership: Member of the Executive Committee and member of the Nomination Committee.
com Cobham plc 42 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Non-executive Directors 6.
Mark Ronald Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director BA, CA CBE, MBA, BSc, FREng, FInstP CBE, BA, BScEE, MScEE Age: 56 Age: 55 Age: 74 Appointed: February 2015 Appointed: May 2013 Appointed: January 2007 Skills and experience: Alan was formerly CFO and Skills and experience: Jonathan is currently CEO Skills and experience: Mark was, until his retirement aDirector of John Wood Group plc, a role he had held ofOxford Instruments plc, a leading provider of high atthe end of 2006, Chief Operating Officer of BAE since2000, and retired in May 2015.
Prior to this, he technology tools and systems for research and industry, Systemsplc and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems heldanumber of senior finance roles in the John Wood aposition he has held since 2005.
Prior to this, he was Inc. its wholly owned US subsidiary.
Previously he was Group from 1996.
Alan previously served as the Group theUK Managing Director of Vislink plc and has also Vice-President, Programme Management with Litton Finance Director of GRT Bus Group plc from 1994 to 1995, heldmanagement positions with BAE Systems and GEC Industries and ChiefOperating Officer of AEL Industries.
one of two companies which merged to form FirstGroup MarconiAvionics.
A physics graduate from Imperial Mark was a Non-executive Director of ATK Inc. Mark was plc.
Between 1987 and 1994, he was Finance Director at CollegeLondon, Jonathan was made a CBE in 2012. also a Non-executive Director of Aeroflex Holdings Inc. Seaforth Maritime Group Limited.
External appointments: CEO of Oxford Instruments plc.
untilthe acquisition of the Group by Cobham plc in External appointments: Non-executive Director of Committee membership: Member of the Audit September 2014.
External appointments: Non-executive Director of Committee membership: Chair of the Audit Committee Anaren, Inc. and DRS Technologies, Inc. a subsidiary of and member of the Nomination Committee.
Senior Adviser of Veritas Capital LLC and a 9.
Independent Non-executive Director Committee membership: Member of the Remuneration 7.
Mike Hagee MA, MBA and Nomination Committees.
Independent Non-executive Director Age: 57 Age: 71 Appointed: April 2014 Appointed: December 2008 Skills and experience: Birgit, a Danish national, currently Skills and experience: Mike served in the US Marine holds a number of non-executive roles in the private and Corps for almost 39 years ending his career in 2007 as public sectors in the UK and overseas.
Birgits last executive Commandant of the Marine Corps and a member of the role was as both the Chief Executive Officer of Grontmij Joint Chiefs of Staff.
His numerous military assignments CarlBro, the Danish engineering consultancy group as well included Commanding General, 1st Marine Expeditionary as the Chief Operating Officer of Grontmij NV, the Dutch Force, Deputy Director of Operations at the US European parent company.
An economics graduate from Copenhagen Command and Executive Assistant to the Director of Business School, Birgit has an MBA from INSEAD.
He also served in a number of diplomatic External appointments: Non-executive Director of IMI missions including the presidential diplomatic mission to plc.
Birgit is a Non-executive Director at WSP Global Inc, Somalia.
Mike retired from his role as Non-executive Director aglobal consulting engineering company listed in Canada, of Remington Outdoor CompanyInc.
in February 2015. and DSV A S an international transportation company listed External appointments: President and CEO of the on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange.
She also holds Board Admiral Nimitz Foundation in Fredericksburg, Texas, US, positions in private companies and public sector positions.
Co-Chairman of the Commission on Energy and Geopolitics, Committee membership: Member of the Remuneration Non-executive Director of SGI Corp. and DynCorp and Nomination Committees.
International Inc. and Outside Manager on the Government Security Committee of the Special Security Agreement ofTE SubCom, a TE Connectivity Limited company.
Committee membership: Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
com Cobham plc 42 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
