Our Capabilities COBHAM IS FOCUSED ON A FEW SPECIALIST TECHNOLOGIES Cobham has a portfolio of leading edge technologies and capabilities which are focused on a small number of specialist areas where it has an in-depth expertise and longstanding customer relationships.
Participating Our key capabilities: Sectors: Proportion of Group Revenue: 1.
Communication Communications Cobham is a leading supplier ofcommunications products & Connectivity products for sending forcommercial and defence customers where there is a need and receiving voice, Advanced Electronic 63% tocommunicate on the move and Solutions data and video signals indemanding or harsh environments including on aircraft, in space and atsea.
It also offers a range of high end test and measurement products for wireless markets.
P neumatic and Mission Systems Cobhams market leading safety andsurvival systems increase actuation systems missioneffectiveness and the survivability ofpeople and assets 11% byleveraging specialist technology expertise in actuation, pure oxygen, gas management, water sensing, and restraint and release applications.
Nose-to-tail aerial Mission Systems With over 80 years experience, Cobham is the most technically refuelling systems advanced supplier of aerial refuellingsystems in the world.
7% Cobham has delivered more than 2,000 aerial refuelling systems to defence customers worldwide.
Military and commercial Aviation Services Cobham delivers specialist outsourced aviation services outsourced formilitary and commercial customers worldwide through aviation services 19% militarytraining, special mission flightoperations, outsourced airlineservices, fly-in fly-out servicesand aircraft engineering.
com Cobham plc 8 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR LEADING CAPABILITIES RESULT IN DIFFERENTIATED SUBSYSTEMS AND COMPONENTS Our investment attributes: Growth prospects Broad programme participation Cobham is focused on end markets with long term growth prospects, in The Group supports a wide range of programmes across air, land, sea and particular driven by an increasing demand for mobile communication and spacedomains, so reducing the risk from any single platform or programme.
increased global demand for air travel.
Thisbroad participation presents opportunities for cross-selling, which helpsgrow the business and increases the financial returns on its technology investment.
Leading market positions Operational excellence Cobham has leading positions in high-tech specialist markets with a particular focus on connectivity, where it designs and assembles subsystems and Cobham has embedded a continuous improvement philosophy with a focus components.
There are significant barriers to entry when these leading on leading edge production techniques, improving customer delivery metrics positions are combined with its ongoing investment to continually improveand and driving efficiency in its production planning, supply chain and engineering refresh itscapabilities.
This enables it to maintain its competitive differentiation.
This positions the Group as an efficient, cost effective provider, enhancing its ability to increase market share over time.
Balanced market exposure Cobham has significant exposure to global commercial and defence security markets, positioning it to grow through cycles.
The Group aims to leverage its technology across these markets as demand dictates.
Leveraging our technology and know-how Cobham favours technologies Cobhams high reliability which have applications in electronics, which are designed different markets, as this enables to operate in environments Core Growth Emerging the Group to maximise its return where there are high levels on investment and to grow ofradiation such as space, through economic cycles.
arenowbeing used in medical applications, including digital Space Medical Industrial X-ray and CT scanners.
New industrial markets are also beingaccessed including airportsecurity and data centreapplications.
WHICH TARGET THESE RESULTS Top and bottom line growth over the long term Return on invested capital Building and maintaining leading market positions, through leveraging Organic revenue growth, a strong trading margin and effective asset utilisation innovative technology and customer insights, will enable the Group to contribute to a return on invested capital which is greater than the Groups deliversustainable top and bottom line growth.
estimated weighted average cost of capital.
See pages 15 to 16 for more information.
See page 15 for more information.
Trading margins Progressive dividend The Groups leading positions in specialist markets with hard-to-replicate Cobhams objective is to pay a progressive dividend and it has a long track intellectual property contributes to its strong trading margins.
record of dividend growth spanning 45 consecutive years.
See page 27 for more information.
See page 5 for more information.
Cash conversion Cash conversion Underlying EPS The Groups trading margin characteristics combined with its relatively low capital intensity results in its consistent, good cash conversion potential.
71% 19.5p TheGroup has a threshold for 80% operating cash conversion in any year.
Key performance indicator used by management.
com Cobham plc 8 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
