Our Markets TECHNOLOGIES AND KNOW-HOW THAT ARE USED IN GLOBAL COMMERCIAL, AND DEFENCE AND SECURITY MARKETS, WITH AN EMPHASIS ON CONNECTIVITY SOLUTIONS Commercial The desire to communicate more Our response The growth attributes of these communication isapositive long term trend markets are attractive to Cobham and it has aligned Cobhams markets are driven by a small number of 38% its technology investment to take advantage of long term macro growth trends which underpin its 2014: 39% them.
Cobhams commercially focused connectivity financial performance.
Foremost among these is businesses, such as its SATCOM and Wireless business thedesire on the part of the global population for an units, invest a double digit percentage of their revenue everincreasing and enhanced ability to communicate.
annually in developing new and improved products, Put simply, people want to be able to communicate US defence security tomeet customers evolving technology requirements.
no matter where they are and what they are doing.
Thisdemand encompasses video, data and voice Furthermore, Cobham has invested to acquire communication.
This trend is driven by increased 36% companies which are primarily focused on urbanisation, a growing middle class and long term 2014: 34% commercial connectivity markets.
These fit Cobhams global economic growth.
strategic imperatives and include having leading positions in long term growth markets, with the ability Global mobile data traffic is expected to grow to discriminate its product offering based on real significantly.
To deliver this growth, there is a Non-US defence security technology differentiation.
In doing this, Cobham constant focus on new technology, innovation and has reinforced its market positions and brought more the optimisation of equipment, as wellas network balance to its market exposures.
Cobham makes specialist products for 26% the mobile communication market, with a particular 2014: 27% The US defence market is nearing emphasis on communication in harsh or difficult theend of a prolonged downturn environments.
The technology challenges which this represents is well aligned to Cobhams strategy and US defence spending on procurement, and research, itshigh-end technology.
development, testing and evaluation RDT&E has fallen significantly in recent years, principally due to Cobham also maintains leading positions in specialist thewithdrawal of troops from Iraq and Afghanistan.
aviation services markets, principally in Australia, and The decline in investment spending is beginning in aerospace markets, where it  tostabilise.
products for a range of aircraftincluding large transport jets, regional jets, business jets and helicopters.
Since the start of the downturn, the US Government Cobhams focus is againon communication related has consistently stated that it is refocusing its products in these markets, which are driven by the investment spending on a Pivot to Asia strategy.
growing demand for air travel, with the production In itsJune 2015 document, The National Military ofnew aircraft continuing to increase.
Strategy of the United States of America, the investment priorities include enhancing Global monthly mobile data traffic exabytes US DoD budget US$bn 2015 5.3 2015 92 63 2016 8.4 2016 111 71 2017 12.7 2017 102 66 2018 19.2 2018 107 63 2019 27.7 2019 113 63 Procurement RDT&E 18 1 Exabyte 10 bytes Source: Ericsson Mobility Report Nov 2015 One exabyte equals one billion gigabytes.
Source: US Department of Defense DoD Future Years Defense Program.
com Cobham plc 10 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT We have focused on bringing more balance For further information visit us online at www.
com tothe portfolio between our commercial and defence markets.
communications, networked intelligence, and the Demand conditions in non-US Our commercial swift and decisive projection of force around the marketsinclude defence security markets continue world.
These priorities are aligned to the Groups toimprove differentiated communication related technologies, Specialist Aviation with its components and subsystems having a variety Services Demand conditions in non-US defence security of applications including for electronic warfare, radar, markets have continued to improve.
In particular, missile guidance systems, and satellite actuation there is a good level of demand in Asia-Pacific and in and power distribution modules.
Cobham also has the Middle East, where there are heightened regional leading positions in aerial refuelling, and pneumatic security tensions and local conflicts.
The Group has and actuation products primarily for aircraft platforms.
continued to benefit from these market conditions, Many of these platforms are key to the achievement Aerospace including orders from a number of different countries of the customers strategic priorities.
for missile control subsystems on high volume air-to-ground missiles and laser guided munitions.
Our response Cobham considers that its defence security capabilities In Europe, some countries have started to increase are well aligned with current US Government strategic their defence budgets modestly in response to priorities and the Group has increased investment in heightened security threats.
However, budgetary developing new and improved products to position Marine SATCOM increases are not being applied throughout the region Cobham on the significant, multi-year opportunities and overall public deficits and indebtedness remains which are being awarded.
This is likely to continue to hold back growth indefence security investment.
As a result of this investment, the Group has succeeded in securing good positions on priority Our response platforms such as the KC-46 aerial refuelling tanker and Cobham aims to leverage its technologies and the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, as well as on important capabilities into accessible markets worldwide outside Wireless upgrade programmes including next generation of the US, either by benefiting from export orders radar, ballistic missile defence and electronic warfare won by its US and non-US defence security customers programmes.
Many of these are expected to benefit or by direct sales to the end customer, as its critical from increased funding over the coming years.
subsystems and components are used globally on However, it is expected that there will be a two-way adiverse range of platforms and programmes.
impact in this market as there will be reduced funding for legacy positions, as these are wound down to It has also won and operates significant aviation Space support the increased investment in next generation services contracts around the world, including for platforms and programmes.
The Group continues governments in the UK, Australia, the Middle East, to believe that, over the coming years, the ability to theCaribbean and Asia.
grow in this market will be determined by company positioning on key programmes and platforms.
Medium term global defence expenditure growth estimates MENA 3% 6% Latin America 1% 4% Asia-Pacific 1% 3% Africa 1% 3% Europe -2% 1% MENA Middle East and North Africa, excluding inaccessible countries.
Sources: Cobham analysis, SIPRI, IMF, Strategic Defence Intelligence.
com Cobham plc 10 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
