2 What We Do CONTINUALLY INVESTING IN OUR TECHNOLOGY AND KNOW-HOW IS KEY TO THE SUCCESS OF THE GROUP Our business model 1.
L eading positions in our markets Our business model combines our longstanding The success of our model is also dependent on the Cobham primarily designs and assembles subsystems customer relationships with a deep understanding rigour we apply to our risk management processes.
and components and, as such, operates principally at of customer needs.
It includes understanding We have clearly defined risk identification and Tier 3 and 4 of its chosen markets, with some limited how to nurture and sustainably grow businesses mitigation processes in place and an established risk participation at the Tier 2 level.
The Group does not with specialist technologies, while continuously appetite through which risks can be managed with participate at the Tier 1 level, which includes the improvingour operational performance.
We also appropriate controls and assurance measures.
manufacture and integration of complete aircraft have a focus on ethics, safety and developing platforms, ships, missiles, medical and industrial See pages 32 to 37 for more information.
and enhancing the critical skills and capabilities equipment, and satellites.
The Groups leading market positions and its ongoing programme of investment combine to create effective barriers to entry in its markets, whileoptimising financial returns.
Highest ethical The chart below summarises the tier structure of standards ourmarkets, including a small number of examples page 38 ofproducts which demonstrate Cobhams participation in each.
Tier Platforms Fully Integrated Systems 1 Cobham does not participate here Understanding Safe working Talented environment and response to and engaged 2 Major subsystems significant and recognisable parts of a platform or programme page 39 employees customer needs Aerial refuelling systems page 39 - Electronic warfare jamming pods SATCOM consoles 3 Smaller subsystems comprise a number of components Avionics products Antennas Managing Integrated microwave assemblies for radar environmental impacts or jamming systems Power distribution modules for satellites page 40 Components the smallest 4 identifiable parts of a subsystem Small electronic components such as diodes, capacitors, limiters, filters Static dischargers Actuation components for parachute releases Investing in skills and expertise Being able to recruit and develop employees Cobham in action withtheappropriate level of skills and expertise Cobham Semiconductor Solutions supplies isakey component underpinning Cobhams application specific integrated circuits for CT deliveryof shareholder value over the longer term.
or computerised tomography, digital X-ray Atthe endof2015, Cobham employed 4% of and ultrasound scanners, which are specifically itsUKworkforce as apprentices, graduates and designed for use in high radiation environments.
undergraduate placements and is on track to The specialised microelectronic solutions offered meetits5% commitment by 2019. by Cobham enjoy strong market positions, being supplied to four of the top five global medical See page 39 for more information.
com Cobham plc 6 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 3.
L e v s e n r o a i g t i i s n o g p i n t t e o k r n a e m w g n m i d a r a k e e L t. s 1 STRATEGIC REPORT Financial characteristics Trading margin See pages 14 to 17 for information on our strategy and key performance indicators.
The financial characteristics of the business have remained essentially unchanged over a long period of time.
Differentiated technology and leading 16.0% market positions in specialist markets haveenabled 2014: 15.5% the business to deliver strong trading margins.
This, combined with its relatively low capital intensity, Free cash flow after restructuring has enabled the business to generate good levels offree cash flow over time.
More information on thefinancial characteristics of the business is set 106m For further information visit us outon page 9.
I nvestment in high value, leading 3.
Programme management and edge technology and know-how products and services into continuous improvement Cobhams success is dependent on it bringing to Cobhams continuing success is dependent on new markets market new and improved products and services, its ability to deliver products and services to its An advantage of operating at the component with a focus on markets with positive, long term customers on time, on budget and to the required andsubsystem level is that Cobhams leading macro trends, favouring products and services which specification.
The Groups leading edge technologies edgetechnology will often have applications in have application across a number of markets.
Making are critical to its customers and these need to be different end markets.
This enables the Group to targeted investments across its leading technologies combined with industry leading quality and on serve a diverse customer base and deliver growth is therefore crucial to delivering increasing revenue.
through economic cycles, as it is not dependent During the year, the Group invested 138m 2014: on demand in one specific market, helping shift 97m in Private Venture PV or company funded The Groups programme management capabilities the focus of its portfolio over time.
Each one R&D Research and Development, including a full critical for the successful design, testing and delivery ofCobhams Sectors now has commercial and year contribution from Aeroflex.
This represents of new and improved products on time, on cost and defence security market exposure.
The Group has aligned to specification are a particular focus.
Success here this spending with developing products and services will enable it to grow market share and optimise its Revenue from commercial markets in growing markets including avionics, SATCOM, investment in technology by being the supplier of wireless and microelectronics.
38% The Group also delivers year-on-year improvements PV investment 2014: 39% to its operational execution and production processes, to keep ahead of the competition and deliver lower Cobham in action prices for its customers, while maintaining its trading 138m Cobham is a leader in defence markets for fuel margins.
It achieves this through implementing a 2014: 97m tank inerting technology, which reduces the risk culture of continuous improvement CI, underpinned ofcombustion of flammable material in aircraft by a well established suite of best practice processes Total R&D investment fueltanks, so improving safety.
Cobham has invested called the Cobham Standard Operating Framework.
to develop this life saving defence technology Operational performance is monitored and managed for application in commercial markets and has using a well defined set of performance metrics.
258m gained a significant position in commercial aircraft 2014: 198m production, being on the Boeing 787 wide-body aircraft.
It is also on the new Mitsubishi Regional Jet, Number of CI professionals within Cobham in action which completed its maiden development flight in Cobhamsbusinesses In 2015, Cobham introduced its new electric 2015.
In addition to new build opportunities, it is propulsion xenon regulator and latch valve for gaining traction in retrofit markets, with a significant satellites.
These products, which were developed new award won from an airline during the year on 40 using company funding, allow commercial satellites the Boeing 737NG.
2014: 20 to reach orbit in reduced time and to remain active for longer periods, so helping customers Cobham in action maximise their satellite investment.
This, along During the year, Cobham doubled the number with the Cobham products lower weight and its ofits CI professionals, drawing on internal experts other operational cost savings, position the Group as well as recruiting experienced individuals with to benefit from the increasing number of satellite best practice backgrounds from outside the launches expected over the coming years.
These professionals, with a range of deepsubject matter expertise, are key catalysts inthe drive to deliver business benefits including cost saving initiatives, increased cash generation andimprovements to customer delivery.
Graduates and apprentices Graduates and apprentices in recruited since 2010 Cobhams UK workforce 213 4% 2014: 172 2014: 3% Cobham plc www.
com Cobham plc 6 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
