OUR STRATEGY STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIGITAL Michael Weiss Head of Group Strategy & Marketing PLATFORMS OUR AMBITION: ENABLING USERS AND THEIR BUSINESS FOUR HYBRID DIGITAL PLATFORMS IDENTIFIED IN A DIGITAL WORLD From disrupted to productive with our Next Generation Service Desk In 2014, Computacenter set out an ambition to be Europes preferred NGSD.
With its self-service portal, web chat feature, intuitive user IT provider to enable users and their business.
The feedback we have interface and constantly expanding knowledge database, NGSD is a received from our existing and potential customers has been very great example of a hybrid digital platform.
We will continue to enrich positive.
This has included an appreciation for our strong focus on the our NGSD offering by extending its functionality and improving the end-user, which sets us apart from many other competitors with a user experience.
NGSD is the latest example of solution innovation much wider scope.
With the consumerisation of IT going mainstream at Computacenter, and illustrates our ambition to enable users in and the shift to digital becoming a reality, we have updated our a digital world.
ambition statement to be Europes preferred IT provider to enable users and their business in a digital world.
Our Mobile Management solution drives enterprise mobility.
The Enterprise Mobile Management EMM solution provides an OUR STRATEGIC POSITIONING integrated and highly secure desktop and mobile work environment Computacenter aims to be the multi-vendor Managed Services that can be tailored to different workstyles and device ownership provider of choice for the IT infrastructures of our customers.
Advising, building and managing EMM and AppStore are able to make this multi-vendor distinction thanks to our strong technologies from market-leading vendors represents a significant relationships with major IT vendors.
This enables us to provide our step on our journey to a digital workplace.
customers with independent and trusted advice about different and emerging technologies.
Increasing IT agility with our Hybrid and End-user Cloud Services.
Our hybrid cloud offering ranges from audits and blueprints, to Our focus on Managed Services is critical to retaining and planning, building and operating hybrid cloud infrastructures and maximising our customer relationships over the long term.
management platforms efficiently and cost-effectively.
We are also Previously, Computacenter worked towards this objective primarily helping our customers to deploy and manage cloud-based services through physical processes and facilities.
For example, customers for example Office 365 in the workplace.
With our heritage in IT would speak to our dedicated, 24x7 Global Service Desk when they transformation and our experience in cloud enablement, we are needed an IT issue resolved.
Going forward, these and other service a trusted advisor and key partner in these times of change.
delivery scenarios will evolve with processes being digitised and fulfilled through digital assets.
Enabling users means securing users with our Managed Security Services MSS.
By drawing on our existing consulting expertise and In response to the shift to digital, we intend to become the preferred building a centralised security capability, we aim to defend ourselves Managed Services provider of hybrid, digital platform solutions.
Our and our customers against cyber threats.
We want to protect and customers need digital platforms to help them cope with the growing grow our Managed Services business by embedding MSS in current complexity and fluidity of digital services, as well as to improve and future customer agreements.
Hybrid services and solutions blend digital and physical delivery channels and capabilities to enable businesses to grow faster and users to work smarter.
Computacenter aims to be the multivendor Managed Services provider of choice to run the IT infrastructures of our customers.
07 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED Neil Hall Director of Business Enablement & Contractual Services 1.
To lead with and grow our Services business WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED IN 2015 WHAT WE INTEND TO DO IN 2016 We have seen strong growth in our Services contract base in In 2016, we expect to see growth in our forward order book for Germany, with a number of key wins within our target market, Services in our key markets, with an increased focus on challenging including DekaBank, Airbus and Daimler.
Greater focus on qualification geographies, such as France.
We will continue to strengthen our and sales execution has helped improve our win rates.
Extended pipeline for 2017 and 2018, ensuring we have clear visibility of contracts with existing clients, the growth of new customers, such customer requirements ahead of any competitive process.
We will put as Transport for London, and the renewal of our largest customer have greater focus on internationally based customers requiring end user helped limit a contract base decline in the UK, caused primarily by the services.
We will further develop our propositions and capabilities, loss of a large contract.
We have successfully transitioned a number ensuring we continue to innovate within our target market in areas of the wins from 2014, with these customers going on to reference our such as infrastructure desktop-as-a-service, cloud, security and capabilities early in their contract, which is of significant value as we digital workplace.
We have a key opportunity in France to renew address upcoming opportunities.
and extend a contract with one of our major clients, which would help to drive in-country Services revenue growth.
We will ensure Across our business, our enabling users approach has helped drive existing customers continue to renew and extend their contracts new growth and deals, including Union Chimique Belge UCB.
Our by leveraging our high-quality Service Management and Client Teams key growth plays, such as Next Generation Service Desk NGSD and across the Group.
Enterprise Mobility, are resonating well with the market, supporting the sales of new Services contracts and the creation of a more robust pipeline.
We have a significant Group pipeline of opportunities, which should assist our contract base in 2016.
We are leveraging our UK-based mature cost tools across the Group, which will help ensure we are designing services that are competitive, deliverable and profitable.
We will continue to focus on the right deals within our target market.
By bringing together the best of our Group capabilities and credentials, we will make selecting Computacenter an easy decision for our customers.
2 Services contract base m 656 1.4% 08 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Chris Webb Group Chief Operating Officer 2.
To improve our Services productivity and enhance our competitiveness WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED IN 2015 WHAT WE INTEND TO DO IN 2016 As a result of new business wins with Royal Mail Group, Network Rail, While we develop our automation tool to be called Field Force Transport for London, DekaBank and Volkswagen MAN Service Desk, we Enablement, we will analyse the engineering work we perform grew our overall Services headcount by more than 530 people during across all of our Managed Services contracts.
As part of this process, the year.
The fact that we were able to take on and absorb all of these we will identify the volume and variety of tasks undertaken and the fiercely competed contracts without diluting the overall revenue per time involved.
We will then use our bespoke Management Operating head indicator is a testament to our ongoing focus on and driving of System to establish greater controls and drive productivity gains.
By leveraging our investment in SAPs scheduling tool MRS, we will be able to take a more optimised and centralised approach, which will In 2015, we continued to run our biannual review process where we not only help unlock greater efficiencies, but also align our business internally evaluate our core businesses of Managed Services and processes ahead of automation.
These reviews involve a deep analysis of the underlying foundations required to deliver a high quality of service, We will continue to expand both in terms of our geographic coverage while at the same time remaining productive and competitive in the and our services portfolio placing particular focus on customer market.
Using trusted external benchmark data, we were able to requirements related to cloud, security, mobile and analytics.
This assess and adjust primary job roles within consultancy, engineering approach will ensure that we can continue to compete successfully and project management to maximise our competitiveness and the for the largest and most challenging customer opportunities.
During the year, our Group Industrialisation team embarked on a programme of Group-wide standardisation projects all of which will help us streamline our activities and processes to leverage better our experience, best practices and standards.
The team has worked closely with specialists from our Group Information Systems function to identify the building blocks we need to put in place to enable the innovative automation of everyday engineering and support processes associated with common customer requests, such as installations, moves, changes and device swaps.
1 Our focus on, and experience of, enabling Adjusted Services revenue generated 2 per Services head 000 users means we are ideally positioned to help our customers succeed.
84 2.4% 09 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED Mike Norris Chief Executive Officer 3.
To retain and maximise the relationship with our customers over the long term WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED IN 2015 WHAT WE INTEND TO DO IN 2016 One of our key performance indicators remains the number of In 2016 we intend to maintain our success over the last few years customers who make a contribution to the Group of over 1 million of securing new named customers.
While 2015 was alittle quieter in 2 per year of gross profit, measured now on a constant currency basis.
the UK following some very active years, momentum has improved materially in Germany.
Looking forward, the pipeline in both countries Computacenter is focused on its profitability by customers over the is promising for 2016 and we expect some contribution from our other long term, across the range of services and products that we supply.
Additionally, we anticipate that agradually improving economic environment, together with an increase in the range of Typically, we make progress against this key performance indicator our offerings, will enable us to increase the number of our customers by winning new customers, and leading with a Managed Services making a contribution of over 1 million per year of gross profit approach, which often requires a long sales cycle and significant preto the Group.
Once a Managed Services bid has been successful, there are often a number of almost immediate opportunities to build up the size and value of the customer relationship.
Nowhere has this been more evident across the Group than in the UK business in the second half of 2014 and in the first half of 2015, Maintaining high levels of customer which has benefited from in-year Supply Chain pull-through from its significant Managed Services wins seen in 2014.
It has also satisfaction retains customers for the resulted in Professional Services projects work, as customers looked to modernise their end-user environments as part of the long term which enables you to gradually on-boarding process.
Building trust with our customers during this initial phase, and then maintaining it through the provision of high levels of service, generating customer satisfaction, and taking a long-term approach are all key components of achieving consistent progress in this area.
Maintaining high levels of customer satisfaction retains customers for the long term which enables you to gradually grow your customer base.
Number of customer accounts with 2 contribution over 1 million 83 1.2% 10 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Michael Weiss Head of Group Strategy & Marketing 4.
T o innovate our Services offerings to build future growth opportunities WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED IN 2015 WHAT WE INTEND TO DO IN 2016 Having developed and internally deployed our NGSD and Enterprise In 2016, we intend to leverage our NGSD and Enterprise Mobility Mobility solution in 2014, our priority for 2015 was to successfully solutions to protect our existing Managed Services business, launch both offerings to our customers.
With our industry award Best while also driving new customer engagements.
We are committed Managed Service Desk 2015 and the implementation at Visa Europe to further developing both solutions, in addition to our cloud and see case study, we have achieved exactly this.
Through NGSD, which security capabilities.
was rolled out in April 2015, Visa Europe has significantly improved employee productivity and engagement by driving the rate of digital As part of this development, we enhanced the functionality of NGSD interaction with its users above 40 per cent.
With the subsequent by making the mobile app a standard offering.
For Enterprise Mobility, introduction of our Enterprise Mobility solution, Visa Europe users we will go to market with three different state-of-the-art technical will enjoy secure access to their email, calendar, contacts and a host platforms to meet customer demand.
of other company specific apps.
Visa Europe will also be our first customer to benefit from the full functionality of the NGSD mobile With our Hybrid Cloud offering, we will be able to significantly drive app at the end of this year.
our Supply Chain and Professional Services businesses: we are also extending our capabilities to manage these cloud infrastructures.
In 2015, we also established a Group-wide cloud offering through To drive growth and safeguard our business and that of our which we advise, build and deploy our customers hybrid cloud customers, we plan to establish a Group-wide managed security infrastructures.
Building a private cloud for Deloitte see case study operation and cyber defence capability.
As part of Managed Security illustrates that customers are looking for transformation partners Services, we will invest in increased analytics skills.
who can offer a comprehensive hybrid cloud model covering all architectural, design and implementation aspects.
By building on our strategic developments, we plan to create a vision, offering and capability around the Digital Workplace, which addresses Finally, we have developed a layered Managed Security Services our customers workplace transformation needs.
model and capability through which we can address our customers increasing security requirements, while also winning and retaining workplace Managed Services contracts.
Our strategic investments have been 1,2 Adjusted Services revenue m well-timed.
Innovation is back on the CIOs agenda and CIOs trust us as the right transformation partner.
