Strategic report BUSINESS MODEL A PROVEN AND SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS MODEL We source the best ingredients responsibly and make health and safety a way of life, giving our customers confidence in the hygiene and provenance of their food and the safety of our working practices.
We aim to make a positive difference to the communities and environments in which we operate, acting responsibly to deliver sustainable results.
SOURCE BENEFITS TO STAKEHOLDERS The suppliers we buy from undergo a robust This ensures that we use the best ingredients, quality assurance process.
We have global responsibly sourced, to protect both our suppliers supply chain standards in place to ensure and the environment, whichgives our consumers traceability and provenance through each confidence in the quality ofthe food we provide.
PREPARE BENEFITS TO STAKEHOLDERS We are committed to the highest standards of We are reducing the impact we have on the food hygiene and safe working practices.
We also environment, increasing the sustainability of our look to reduce our impact on the environment by results, supporting the communities in which we focusing on efficient energy use, minimising water operate, while lowering the costs of our operations.
PROVIDE BENEFITS TO STAKEHOLDERS Our award winning chefscreate menus from the Our consumers get greattasting, nutritious food highest quality ingredients which are served by that exceeds expectations.
Our people are supported our highly trained teams in the mostefficient way.
through training and development, enabling them to Great people give great service, so the development contribute to and share inour success.
of ourpeople is one of our toppriorities.
INNOVATE BENEFITS TO STAKEHOLDERS Innovation is integral toour business.
We are This gives our clients and consumers greater choice constantly striving to develop new food concepts, to and the highest level of service while keeping Compass find more efficient ways to source and to improve the at the forefront of innovation in the foodand support experience of our customers by introducing technologies servicesindustry.
to, for example, increase the speed of service.
12 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 S E I C N E I C I F F E G N I T A R E P C O O M P E T I T I V E We are also constantly innovating what we do and how we do it, and by doing all of this in the most efficient way, we ensure that we increase our competitiveness.
This, in turn, underpins our core strategic goals to grow our business organically and to generate efficiencies.
SHAREHOLDER OUR VALUE PEOPLE ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH OPERATING EFFICIENCIES COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE OUR PEOPLE We are investing in the We generate savings by Organic revenue growth Our people are at the business to drive organic adopting a systematic increases our scale, which, heart of everything we growth opportunities.
This is approach to our supply combined with our food do, delivering world class supplemented with small to chain, labour management, procurement, and our ability service to our customers medium sized infill acquisitions and other in unit and above to leverage back office and working tirelessly to in food or support services unit costs.
These efficiencies costs, gives us a competitive achieve our goals.
where they add either enable us to reinvest savings advantage in being the highest capability or scale in our in the significant growth quality, lowest cost provider.
We have opportunities around the This enables us to go to market a disciplined approach to Group and improve margin.
with a sector approach to drive our acquisitions based on further organic revenue growth.
the returns they are expected to deliver.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 13 A D V A N H T T A W G O E R G E U N E V E R C I N A G R O
