OUR MARKETS SHIFT TO DIGITAL GENERAL MARKET CONDITIONS ARE FAVOURABLE Digital transformation: E-commerce and digital social marketing For our three core territories, the UK, Germany and France, we has not only transformed how companies engage with customers, expect to see revenue growth of more than two per cent per year but also how customers buy products and services.
Businesses, over the next three years across hardware and software product and their users and their customers are now connected through Professional and Managed IT services.
Within this market, the pricing multiple channels from mobile applications and social networks pressure seen last year for the supply of hardware, particularly PCs, to helpdesks and websites.
This is reshaping a wide range of printers, servers and storage, is predicted to continue.
sectors, including leisure, travel, retail and financial services, and is accelerating the adoption of digital technologies.
However, this is expected to be more than compensated for by growth in enterprise networking equipment and software in the TRENDS IN OUR TARGET MARKET areas of infrastructure virtualisation, IT operations, enterprise Market evidence shows that the era of IT outsourcing mega-deals content management and web conferencing and collaboration.
Instead, organisations are favouring smaller, more targeted contracts, which presents a significant opportunity The outlook for the IT services segment remains positive.
There are two factors that are contributing services are expected to return to modest growth driven by mobile, toward this shift: cloud, networking and security requirements.
Professional services are benefiting from the shift from hardware to software as customers Disaggregation: Customers are separating their IT contracts look for consulting and integration services to transform their and tenders into specific service verticals, or towers, such as end IT infrastructures.
user support, workplace support, datacenters and networking.
Larger organisations often split their IT outsourcing into even THE SPEED OF CHANGE IS INCREASING more specific service lines, for example managed security, The speed of digital innovation in social media, mobility, analytics and managed voice or managed LAN.
This multi-sourcing model cloud has increased dramatically in the last few years.
Digitisation allows companies to select the best provider for each service is already making profound and long-lasting changes to how the tower and create a strong ecosystem of IT partners.
IT industry operates, and how IT enables businesses and their users.
There are a number of drivers for this: End-to-end solutions: Our customers increasingly want end-toend solutions instead of point solutions.
To meet this need, service Industrialisation: IT operations and services are becoming providers must have the capabilities and resources to cover the increasingly standardised and automated, driving cost savings full IT spectrum from providing software and devices through and efficiencies.
The growing use of virtualisation and cloud-based to networking and security into the datacenter.
This demand for services are also enabling greater agility.
a joined-up approach also extends to IT services, with customers preferring to work with partners that can support them throughout Consumerisation: Employees expect enterprise IT devices and the transformation lifecycle from advising, sourcing and services to match the user experience they enjoy in their personal designing to deploying, integrating and managing.
This trend will be reinforced as younger generations digital natives enter the work environment.
Both of these trends play to the strengths of Computacenter.
As a result of the increase in smaller outsourcing contracts, we expect Internet of Things: From cars and fridges to drones and scanners, that there will be more opportunities within Computacenters target more and more devices are becoming connected as the distinction market.
The end-to-end focus of our customer base matches the between the physical and the digital disappears.
Both consumer breadth and depth of our services and solutions portfolio.
and commercial worlds will be impacted as the Internet of Things continues to grow.
