OUR BUSINESS MODEL DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION PARTNER Our business model explained HELP THE CIO TO ENABLE USERS AND THEIR BUSINESS Our business model Solutions model Engagement model EDGE IT CORE IT SERVICE MANAGEMENT Services model CONSULT & SOURCE & MANAGE & CHANGE DEPLOY TRANSFORM How we innovate NGSD MOBILITY SECURITY CLOUD Our strategic objectives SERVICES SERVICES CUSTOMER SERVICES GROWTH PRODUCTIVITY RELATIONSHIP INNOVATION Services Services revenue generated Number of customer Services revenue contract base per Services head accounts with contribution over 1 million Our business results OPERATING EMPLOYEE CUSTOMER CASH FLOW PROFIT ENGAGEMENT SATISFACTION EARNINGS PER SHARE 12 GENERATE ACHIEVE INNOVATE INVEST STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Through our Solutions Model, we design and sell end-to-end IT Strategic objective: To improve our service delivery productivity, solutions for end-user computing Edge-IT and back-end IT we have three streams of activity which are being executed in parallel infrastructures Core-IT.
With our Services Model, we cover the also see KPI #2 : complete lifecycle of these solutions from advisory and systems 1.
Standardising our tools and processes to drive out complexity integration Consult & Change, to product resale and distribution 2.
Right-shoring of our Service Desk and infrastructure management Source & Deploy and then maintenance and operations Manage & capabilities Transform.
Our Engagement Model ensures that all our services and 3.
Driving the integration and automation of our business processes solutions are managed consistently and continuously improved and aligned to the needs and requirements of our customers.
Our Services Model is fundamental to how we support our customers transformation and evolution as they adapt to the major trends in the HOW IT SUPPORTS OUR STRATEGY IT industry.
Solutions Model Building and managing hybrid digital platforms Engagement Model Digitising customer engagement Opportunity: From all the opportunities that the shift to digital brings to our industry, we have identified the NGSD, Enterprise Mobility, Opportunity: The consumerisation of IT and the increasing Hybrid and End-user Cloud, and Managed Security Services as the importance of digital user interfaces and experiences provide four key areas providing growth potential for Computacenter see another opportunity to improve and enrich the interaction with Our strategy.
our customers and their users.
Rationale: As the velocity and variety of technology trends continue Rationale: The digitalisation of the user interface see NGSD in Our to increase, our customers are looking for a partner who is able to Strategy provides both the prerequisite for improving our service identify best-of-breed solutions for their business as well as reduce productivity through automated processes and the information the complexity of managing these solutions on their behalf.
needed to achieve stronger customer intelligence and satisfaction.
Strategic objective: By providing innovative solutions that address Strategic objectives: As our digital user interface solution, NGSD will help the IT and business challenges facing our customers, we will build drive Managed Services growth see KPI #1 by acting as an incentive future growth opportunities for Computacenter see KPI #4. for early renewals, as well as a key differentiator when bidding for new business.
Our more traditional customer engagement channels i. e. With our Solutions Model, we make innovation work.
sales and service management remain key to maximising and retaining relationships with our customers in the long term see KPI #3.
Services Model Industrialising our service delivery Our Engagement Model helps us to be a truly customerOpportunity: Customers expect service providers like Computacenter centric business.
to constantly improve efficiency and drive out cost as part of longterm engagements.
HOW OUR BUSINESS MODEL DRIVES SHAREHOLDER VALUE Each of the building blocks in our business model is focused on Rationale: The off-shoring of service delivery to lower cost helping us achieve our strategic objectives.
By working towards our locations can prove detrimental to the quality of service that goals, we are able to improve customer satisfaction and employee customers receive.
Potential financial savings can be severely engagement.
This, in turn, will support the generation of operating impactedby the increase in transactional or quality assurance profit and cash flow across our core territories.
The realisation of our costs.
At Computacenter, we believe in right-shoring.
This means financial and non-financial goals enables us to continue to invest in blending the right mix of on-site, in-country, near-shore and offand refine our business model.
shore resources for each customer engagement.
We expect to deliver even greater productivity gains by using digital technologies that enable automation and self-service.
