COMPUTACENTER SECURITY INFORMATION SECURITY SECURITY 28 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Computacenter is actively engaged in the delivery of Managed Security Our continued investment in the development of new and enhanced Services and extensive Security Consultancy to its customers across cyber security offerings for our managed service and consultancy Europe.
However, we rarely detail the specific services we provide customers is a strategic imperative for Computacenter: it reflects our and how they relate to individual customers due to the sensitive philosophy of putting security at the heart of every service we design, nature of these services, the importance of Computacenters role implement and manage.
in the prevention of cyber attacks for these customers, and our desire to avoid any scenario that could potentially compromise our customers security.
Therefore, in preference to a direct customer case study we have looked instead to an external validation of our portfolio of Managed and Consultancy Security services from the German analyst house Experton Group, who have commented: Jan Mller Solution Director of Security, Computacenter Computacenter sees security as an integral part of its portfolio not only in the product The information security market has witnessed a and consulting business, but also in managed sudden and significant shift from delivering purely services.
Computacenter ensures that the preventative solutions to those focused on detection security aspect is included in all areas.
Only those organisations who successfully implement measures to prevent, detect and quickly a one-stop-shop, customers dont need to buy react to security threats across the entire IT services from third parties, but Computacenter infrastructure from the core to the edge will be able integrates them directly in its solutions.
This to mount a robust defence against cyber attacks.
is not based on a particular manufacturer, but the best solution is always selected for the At Computacenter were embracing this market shift, developing tailored security services for both respective purpose.
Experton Group considers Professional and Managed Services, all of which are this approach to be absolutely correct.
continually evolving to meet the latest customer needs.
Computacenter could therefore position itself in six of seven categories in the leader quadrant, which reaffirms its strong competitive position on the market.
Experton Group, Analyst House Germany Security Vendor Benchmark 2016 29
