MARKET PERSPECTIVE CONTINUING GROWTH POTENTIAL ACROSS SECTORS AND MARKETS Markets for food and support services continue to offer significant growth potential as we drive outsourcing and deliver a strong proposition across our sectors and regions.
Compass provides outsourced food and The Defence, Offshore & Remote sector OUTSOURCING PENETRATION RATES FOR ADDRESSABLE support services in a market worth over offers significant opportunities to build lasting FOOD AND SUPPORT SERVICES MARKETS 400 billion spread over 50 countries.
The strategic relationships with large local and five sectors in which Compass operates are international operators.
Creating strong client Business & Industry: Healthcare & Seniors: relationships allows us to respond positively to Education: Defence, Offshore & Remote and tougher market conditions, for example in the Sports & Leisure.
All five sectors continue to basic commodities sector where we have met 1 offer very significant opportunities for growth.
client needs and retained business in the face FOOD of real budgetary pressure.
2 Food service remains at the core of the SERVICE Compass offer, with an estimated global Sports & Leisure is a highly outsourced sector market value in excess of 200 billion.
with a global outlook, in which we benefit from Business & Industry accounts for around our strong reputation across key markets.
half of this value, and this important sector Support services remains an important market continues to offer significant growth for Compass, particularly in Healthcare & opportunities.
In more developed markets Seniors and Defence, Offshore & Remote.
In where outsourcing rates are routinely in these sectors, we are recognised for meeting excess of 60%, our combination of scale, the needs of clients who require a combination 2 SUPPORT efficiencies and first class delivery supports SUPPORT of excellent food and support services, without 1 SERVICES continued revenue growth.
In our Fast SERVICE compromising on quality.
Growing & Emerging region, outsourcing rates are still only around 10%, providing In all the markets and regions in which enormous opportunity for future growth Compass operates, we continue to build our in our core sector.
business and our reputation on the back of an ongoing focus on health, safety and the 1.
SELF OPERATED The Healthcare & Seniors and Education environment and our firm commitment to sectors continue to grow, providing ever responsible corporate practices.
The FOOD AND SUPPORT SERVICES MARKET SIZE combined value of these sectors is in excess of 120 billion, and less than half of this value is currently outsourced.
We increasingly see the benefits of operating at scale in these 400bn sectors.
We are developing operational excellence in areas such as our proposition Numbers relating to market size and penetration rates for hospital visitors and school nutritional are based on management estimates and a range of external data meal planning, and by sharing this expertise, we can better serve our clients and consumers across multiple markets.
Regional review Read more on pages 20 to 25 Risks Read more on pages 31 to 33 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 11
