GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT A well defined and effective governance structure promotes the success of the Company and helps to safeguard shareholders investments and the Companys assets.
ANNUAL STATEMENT In July, we announced the appointment of Ireena Vittal and Nelson Silva as non-executive directors together with Sir Ian Robinsons DEAR SHAREHOLDER retirement as Senior Independent Director SID on 1 October 2015 As a Board, we are committed to maintaining the highest standards of and his succession by Don Robert on the same day.
Sir Ian will retire corporate governance.
We strongly believe that good governance is at from the Board and its committees at the conclusion of the Annual the heart of and is fundamental to the effective management of the General Meeting to be held on 4February 2016 2016 AGM.
business and its long term sustainability.
On 24 September 2015, we further announced that Andrew Martin, In the pages which follow, we have set out our governance policies Group Chief Operating Officer, Europe & Japan, will step down from and practices and included details of how the Group has applied the the Board on 1 December 2015 and that Dominic Blakemore, currently mainprinciples and complied with the relevant provisions of the UK Group Finance Director, will become the Group Chief Operating Officer, Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code using the key themes Europe from that date.
On the same day, Johnny Thomson, who is ofthe Code as the framework within which we define our governance.
currently Regional Managing Director of the Groups Latin American business, will become Group Finance Director and will join the Board Over the last nine years, the Board has continued to evolve and as an executive director.
strengthen our governance framework and we have sought to create an environment in which honesty, integrity and openness are On behalf of my fellow directors, I would like to take this opportunity encouraged and put into practice.
I believe that this approach has towelcome Ireena, Nelson and Johnny to the Board.
I would also like created a strong governance framework which lends itself well to to offer my sincere thanks to Andy for his outstanding contribution our business, leaving us well placed to take advantage of business to the Company and to Sir Ian for his excellent services to the Board opportunities whilst helping to safeguard shareholders investments and its committees over the past nine years.
Iwish them both every and the Companys assets.
In September 2014, the Financial Reporting Council FRC published I am confident that these changes, combined with the existing skills the latest edition of the Code, which included a number of changes and experience of our longer serving directors, will strengthen the around directors remuneration, risk management and internal control, Board as we look to the future of the Company and continue to which we have adopted.
One of the new requirements of the Code is encourage open debate in Board and committee discussions.
for boards to make an annual viability statement.
Details of our Going It has been another year of significant progress and I continue to see Concern and Viability Statement may be found in the Strategic Report positive development of the Boards activities across our governance on page 30. agenda.
As ever, we will continue to challenge ourselves and the At Compass, we recognise the importance of planning for the future business.
We are committed to building on the progress we have and, in line with our succession planning strategy, with help from the made to date, strengthening our existing governance structure and Nomination Committee, we have continued to develop our Board with contributing to the ongoing success of the business.
However, there anumber of new appointments.
Please see pages 40 and 41 for are always further areas for improvement and these will form part information on the Board.
In this regard, we have welcomed new members onto the Board following the announcement of the forthcoming departure of some long-standing colleagues.
PAUL WALSH Chairman 24 November 2015 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 43 Corporate governance GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The directors present their Annual Report and the audited consolidated same day.
It was also announced that Sir Ian will retire as a director accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended of the Company at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
This Corporate Governance Report and As further announced on 24 September 2015, Johnny Thomson will be other statutory disclosures set out on pages 42 to 58 make up the appointed as an executive director and Andrew Martin will step down Directors Report.
from the Board on 1 December 2015.
The appointment of Ireena and This Directors Report also contains information required to be Nelson during the year further strengthens the existing international disclosed under the UK Listing Authoritys UKLA Listing Rules and strategic capability of the Board.
Rules and under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR.
All of the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be To the extent necessary, certain information is incorporated into independent of management and free of any relationship which could this Report by reference.
materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board considers that each of the non-executive directors brings UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE COMPLIANCE their own senior level of experience, gained in each of their own fields, Responsibility for good governance lies with the Board.
The Board is mainly in international operations.
accountable to shareholders and is committed to the highest standards Biographical details of the directors currently in office are shown of corporate governance as set out in the Code.
The Code can be found on pages 40 and 41.
The Companys policy relating to the terms of on the FRC website at www.
This Corporate Governance appointment and the remuneration of both executive and non-executive Report, together with the Directors Remuneration Report set out on directors is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report, which is pages 59 to 77, describes how the Board has applied the main on pages 59 to 77. principles of good governance, as set out in the Code, during the year under review.
The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad hoc basis, as required by business needs.
The Board met six times COMPLIANCE STATEMENT during the year and director attendance for each meeting is shown It is the Boards view that for the year ended 30 September 2015 the in the table below.
Each director also attends the Annual General Company has been fully compliant with all of the principles set out in Meeting AGM to answer shareholder questions.
the Code applicable to this reporting period.
The Companys auditor, MEETINGS ATTENDANCE KPMG LLP, is required to review whether the above statement reflects 1 the Companys compliance with the provisions of the Code specified for Name Attendance its review by the Rules of the UKLA and to report if it does not reflect Carol Arrowsmith 6 of 6 such compliance.
No such report has been made.
John Bason 6 of 6 Dominic Blakemore 6 of 6 Richard Cousins 6 of 6 HOW WE GOVERN THE COMPANY Gary Green 6 of 6 Our governance structure comprises the functions shown below, Andrew Martin 6 of 6 supported by the Groups standards, policies and internal controls, Susan Murray 6 of 6 which are described over the following pages in more detail.
2 Don Robert 5 of 6 Sir Ian Robinson 6 of 6 3 Nelson Silva 2 of 2 CHAIRMAN 3 Ireena Vittal 2 of 2 Paul Walsh 6 of 6 1 The number of meetings attended out of the number of meetings each director was BOARD eligible to attend.
2 Unable to attend a meeting due to unforeseen circumstances.
Prior to the meeting, the director read the papers for the meeting and discussed his comments with the Chairman of the Board.
CORPORATE 3 Ireena Vittal and Nelson Silva were appointed to the Board on 16 July 2015.
AUDIT NOMINATION REMUNERATION RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES The Board manages the business of the Company and may, subject to GENERAL DISCLOSURE EXECUTIVE the Articles of Association and applicable legislation, borrow money, BUSINESS COMMITTEE BOARD COMMITTEE guarantee, indemnify, mortgage or charge the business, property and assets present and future, issue debentures and other securities and give security, whether outright or as a collateral security, for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
The Board THE BOARD has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, although its COMPOSITION primary role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership and to review the overall strategic development of the Group as a whole.
In addition, the As at 30 September 2015, and as at the date of this Report, the Boardof directors was made up of 12 members, comprising the Board sets the Groups values and standards and ensures that it acts ethically and that its obligations to its shareholders are understood non-executive Chairman, four executive directors and seven non-executive directors.
The Board may delegate any of its powers to any committee consisting of one or more directors.
As announced on and with effect from 16 July 2015, Ireena Vittal and The Board has delegated day to day operational decisions to the Nelson Silva joined the Board as independent non-executive directors, SirIan Robinson stepped down as Senior Independent Director SID Executive Board referred to on page 53. on 1October 2015 and Don Robert succeeded Sir Ian as SID on the 44 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 The Board has established a procedure for directors, if deemed Don Robert succeeded Sir Ian Robinson as the SID on 1 October 2015.
His role includes providing a sounding board for the Chairman necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Every director also has and acting as an intermediary for the non-executive directors, where necessary.
Sir Ian will step down from the Board and its committees access to the General Counsel and Company Secretary, who is charged with ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that good at the conclusion of the Companys 2016 AGM.
The Board believes that Don has the appropriate experience, knowledge and independence corporate governance and compliance are implemented throughout the Group.
Together with the Group Chief Executive and the General to succeed Sir Ian in this role.
Counsel and Company Secretary, the Chairman ensures that the Board The Chairman ensures that the Board maintains an appropriate is kept properly informed and is consulted on all issues reserved to it.
Although the non-executive directors Board papers and other information are distributed in a timely fashion are not formally required to meet the shareholders of the Company, to allow directors to be properly briefed in advance of meetings.
In their attendance at presentations of the interim and annual results accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, directors have is encouraged.
been granted an indemnity issued by the Company to the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their BOARD EFFECTIVENESS office.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage where a director A performance evaluation of the Board and of its committees is carried is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Company has out annually to ensure that they continue to be effective, that each of also arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action the directors demonstrates commitment to his or her respective role against its directors and officers.
and has sufficient time to meet his or her commitment to the Company.
The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate and In 2013-2014, an external performance evaluation of the Board was clearly defined, with the division of responsibilities set out in writing conducted by independent external facilitators, EquityCommunications and agreed by the Board.
In accordance with the Code, and in light of the changes made to the composition of the Board during the year, an independent DIRECTOR EFFECTIVENESS AND TRAINING external evaluation will next be carried out in 2015-2016 so as to give In accordance with best practice, the Chairman addresses the the recently reconstituted Board a reasonable period in which to settle developmental needs of the Board as a whole, with a view to further prior to the next external performance evaluation.
developing its effectiveness as a team, and ensures that each director refreshes and updates his or her individual skills, knowledge During the year, the Board conducted an evaluation of its performance and expertise.
and that of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees to ensure that they continue to be effective and that each of the directors Meetings between the non-executive directors, both with and without demonstrates commitment to his or her respective role and has the presence of the Group Chief Executive, are scheduled in the sufficient time to meet his or her commitment to the Company.
Board meetings are also held at Group years performance evaluation took into account the principal themes business locations to help all Board members to gain a deeper which had emerged from the preceding external evaluation, notably a understanding of the business.
This also provides senior managers continued focus on enhancing the approach to the strategy formulation from across the Group with the opportunity to present to the Board process and succession planning, taking into account nationality, as well as to meet the directors on more informal occasions.
economic background and gender diversity, together with the ratio of Succession planning is a matter for the whole Board, rather than non-executive directors to executive directors.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that Having conducted its evaluation, it was concluded that the structure one third of the directors retire by rotation each year and that each and composition of the Board was considered conducive to robust director will seek re-election at the AGM every three years.
The timeliness and quality of Board papers was considered in accordance with the Code, all directors submit themselves for to be high, but it was agreed that there should be more time for the annual re-election by shareholders.
New directors may be appointed Board to discuss strategic issues.
It was further concluded that Board by the Board, but are subject to election by shareholders at the first discussions would be enhanced by having external parties, such as opportunity after their appointment, as is the case with Ireena Vittal, economists, present to the Board from time to time.
These key issues, Nelson Silva and Johnny Thomson, all of whom will seek election at the together with any other matters identified as a result of the evaluation, 2016 AGM.
The Articles of Association limit the number of directors to will be addressed by the Board over the coming year.
not less than two and not more than 20, save where shareholders decide otherwise.
Non-executive directors are normally appointed for It was also noted that the changes made to the Board during 2015 an initial term of three years, which is reviewed and may be extended had resulted in a an increased ratio of 8:4 non-executive to for a further three years.
It is Board policy that non-executive director executive directors b 25% overseas nationals, and c 25% female appointments should last for no more than nine years.
representation on the Board and that the increase in the number of female directors had brought the Company in line with Lord Davies A formal, comprehensive and tailored induction is given to all recommendations that there should be a minimum of 25% female non-executive directors following their appointment, including access directors represented on company boards by 2015.
The Board, to external training courses and visits to key locations within the Group however, continues to believe that gender based or other types of and meetings with members of the Executive Board and other key targets are inappropriate and that the blend of skills, knowledge and senior executives.
The induction also covers a review of the Groups experience is of paramount importance.
governance policies, structures and business, including details of the risks and operating issues facing the Group.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 45 Corporate governance GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED It was also the view of the Board that each of the non-executive COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD directors brings considerable management expertise and an The Board has established a number of committees to assist in the independent perspective to the Boards deliberations and that they discharge of its duties: are considered to be independent of management and free from any Audit Committee relationship or circumstance that could affect, or appear to affect, the Corporate Responsibility Committee exercise of their independent judgement.
Overall, the Board considered Disclosure Committee the performance of each director to be effective and concluded that General Business Committee both the Board and its committees continue to provide effective Nomination Committee leadership and exert the required levels of governance and control.
Remuneration Committee The Board will continue to review its procedures, effectiveness and Executive Board development in the year ahead.
The formal Terms of Reference for the principal committees, approved CONFLICTS OF INTEREST by the Board and complying with the Code, are available from the As part of their ongoing development, the executive directors may seek General Counsel and Company Secretary and can also be found on the one external non-executive role on a non-competitor board, for which Companys website at www.
Terms of Reference they may retain the remuneration in respect of the appointment.
In are reviewed annually and updated when necessary to reflect changes order to avoid any conflict of interest, all appointments are subject to in legislation or best practice.
the Boards approval and the Board monitors the extent of directors Directors who are not members of individual Board committees may other interests to ensure that its effectiveness is not compromised.
also be invited to attend one or more meetings of those committees Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 during the year.
to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have a direct or The General Counsel and Company Secretary acts as Secretary to all indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the Board committees.
The chairmen of each of the principal committees interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition to the obligation that attend the AGM to respond to any shareholder questions that might be he or she owes to the Company to disclose to the Board an interest in raised on a committees activities.
any transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association authorise the directors to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with.
The Board follows an established procedure when deciding whether to authorise an actual or potential conflict of interest.
Only independent directors i. e. those who have no interest in the matter under consideration will be able to take the relevant decision, and in taking the decision the directors must act in good faith and in a way they consider will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
Furthermore, the directors may, if appropriate, impose limits or conditions when granting authorisation.
Any authorities are reviewed at least every 15 months.
The Board considered and authorised each directors reported actual and potential conflicts of interest at its July 2015 Board meeting and considers changes on an ad hoc basis throughout the year.
46 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 AUDIT COMMITTEE Defined and established risk management and internal control procedures ensure that our growth is supported by a developed and embedded risk management culture.
ANNUAL STATEMENT The Boards responsibility for organisational culture is essential to the way in which risk is considered and addressed within the Group DEAR SHAREHOLDER and, at an operational level.
The Board and the Committee have On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 2014-2015 Audit continued to promote the strengthening of regional governance Committee Report.
structures by increasing the regularity of the meetings of the Regional Governance Committees RGCs, with the aim of further embedding As reported in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 41, we continue the Groups risk management culture within the business.
to develop and grow our business.
We operate in territories where the concept of corporate governance is still underdeveloped.
In these During the year, in line with our succession planning strategy, we regions in particular, it is imperative to have a defined and established welcomed two new members onto the Committee.
The appointments system of risk management and internal control procedures to ensure of Ireena Vittal and Nelson Silva will ensure that the Committee that our growth is supported by a developed and embedded risk continues to challenge and debate the performance and relevance management culture, which promotes solid business practice.
of the Groups governance systems and internal controls.
Over the next 12 months, we will work alongside the Board under our Terms The Board recognises that the scale, complexity and geographic of Reference with the aim of further mitigating potential risks.
diversity of our business means we often operate in challenging environments.
The Board also understands that to ensure effective Further details of the Committees activities during the financial year development and delivery of the Groups strategic objectives, within ended 30 September 2015 can be found on the pages which follow.
a risk control framework there must be a level of prudence, robustness and integrity to mitigate risk coupled with a degree of flexibility so as to encourage the pursuit of new business opportunities.
The Committees focus has, as in previous years, primarily been centred on the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, together JOHN BASON with related internal control activities and risk and compliance matters.
Chairman of the Audit Committee The Committee has considered new developments in corporate 24 November 2015 governance and reporting, and, in light of its review of such matters, was able to offer advice on such issues and, as necessary, recommend an appropriate course of action to the Board.
In 2013-2014, we approved the reprioritisation of the reporting of the Groups ongoing operational risks with the aim of giving context to our principal risk disclosures.
This year, we have introduced visual indicators to make it easier to interpret the year on year change in a specific risk.
More details of the Groups principal risks can be found on pages 31 to 33.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 47 Corporate governance GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED OBJECTIVES THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committees key objectives are the provision of effective COMPOSITION governance over the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting, The Audit Committee comprises John Bason, Chairman, and all including the adequacy of related disclosures, the performance of both of the non-executive directors in office at the date of this Report.
the internal and external audit functions, and the management of the Members of the Audit Committee are appointed by the Board following Groups systems of internal control, business risks and related recommendations by the Nomination Committee and the Audit compliance activities.
Committees membership is reviewed by the Nomination Committee and as part of the annual Board performance evaluation.
ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR The matters reviewed and evaluated by the Audit Committee during the Each member of the Audit Committee brings relevant senior level year are set out below: financial experience.
The expertise and experience of the members of the Audit Committee are summarised on pages 40 and 41.
The Board FINANCIAL REPORTING considers that each member of the Audit Committee is independent the appropriateness of the interim and annual financial statements within the definition set out in the Code.
The Audit Committees including the announcements thereof to the London Stock Chairman, John Bason, is considered by the Board to have significant, Exchange with both management and the external auditor, recent and relevant financial experience as Finance Director of including: Associated British Foods plc.
at the Boards request, whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable All members of the Audit Committee receive an appropriate induction, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to which includes an overview of the business, its financial dynamics assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy and risks.
Audit Committee members are expected to have an the clarity of disclosures and compliance with financial reporting understanding of the principles of, and recent developments in, standards and relevant financial and governance reporting financial reporting, including the applicable accounting standards and requirements statements of recommended practice, key aspects of the Companys discussing the critical accounting policies and use of policies, financing, internal control mechanisms, and matters that assumptions and estimates, as noted in section B of the require the use of judgement in the presentation of accounts and key accounting policies on page 89 of this Annual Report, and figures as well as the role of internal and external auditors.
Members concluding that the estimates, judgements and assumptions of the Audit Committee undertake ongoing training as required.
used were reasonable based on the information available and had been used appropriately in applying the Companys MEETINGS ATTENDANCE accounting policies 1 Name Attendance the material areas in which significant judgements have been John Bason 3 of 3 applied, namely: Carol Arrowsmith 3 of 3 the consideration of any goodwill impairment assessments and Susan Murray 3 of 3 how these were addressed.
The judgement largely relates to the 2 Don Robert 2 of 3 assumptions underlying the calculation of the value in use of the Sir Ian Robinson 3 of 3 cash generating units CGUs being tested for impairment, 3 Nelson Silva 1 of 1 primarily the achievement of the three year business plan for the 3 Ireena Vittal 1 of 1 CGUs and the macroeconomic assumptions such as discount 1 The number of meetings attended out of the number of meetings each director was rates underpinning the valuation process.
The Committee eligible to attend.
receives reports from management outlining the basis for the 2 Unable to attend a meeting to due unforeseen circumstances.
Prior to the meeting assumptions used.
Business plans are approved by the Board.
the director read the papers for the meeting and discussed his comments with the Committee Chairman.
In addition, the external auditor provides detailed written 3 Ireena Vittal and Nelson Silva were appointed to the Board on 16 July 2015. assessments to the Audit Committee in this area considering the nature and quantum of the purchasing income The Audit Committee meets throughout the year and its agenda is earned by the Group during the financial year.
It also assessed linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
Each member the extent to which the amounts recognised required estimation of the Audit Committee may require reports on matters of interest in and reviewed the recoverability of amounts accrued at the year addition to the regular items.
The Audit Committee met three times end with reference to aged analyses and subsequent cash during the year and members attendance at the meetings is set out receipts.
Nothing arose during the course of this review to in the table above.
indicate that anything but limited judgement was required, The Audit Committee invites Paul Walsh Chairman, Richard Cousins or that purchasing income had not been accounted for in Group Chief Executive, Dominic Blakemore Group Finance Director, accordance with the Groups accounting policies Kate Dunham Group Financial Controller and Kamal Zoghbi Interim the level of provisioning for liabilities including tax where Director of Group Internal Audit, together with senior representatives management, accounting and legal judgements are important.
of the external auditor, to attend each meeting although, periodically, The Committee discusses with management the key judgements it reserves time for discussions without invitees being present.
Other made, in particular, the policy efforts being led by the EU and senior management are invited to present such reports as are required OECD which may have a material impact on the taxation of all for the Audit Committee to discharge its duties.
international businesses, including relevant legal advice.
The external auditor also reports on all material provisions to the The Chairman of the Audit Committee attends the AGM to respond to Committee any shareholder questions that might be raised on its activities.
The Going Concern and the new Viability Statement remuneration of the members of the Audit Committee and the policy with regard to the remuneration of the non-executive directors are set out on pages 68 and 75.
48 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 OTHER MATTERS The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, In addition to its key role in the financial reporting process, the implementation and monitoring of the Companys policy on external Audit Committee also considered the following as well as developments audit.
The Audit Committee reserves oversight responsibility for in regulation such as in relation to the retendering of audit services monitoring the auditors independence, objectivity and compliance with noted below: ethical, professional and regulatory requirements.
The Audit Committee recommends the appointment, reappointment and removal of the Nov May Sept Items discussed 2014 2015 2015 Companys external auditor, and considers the risks associated with its withdrawal from the market in its risk evaluation and planning.
INTERNAL AUDIT The Audit Committee also reviews and sets the terms, areas of approval of the Groups internal audit plan and responsibility and scope of the audit as set out in the external auditors risk controls and the review of internal audit activity reports and updates, together with the engagement letter: the overall work plan for the forthcoming year, rollout of key financial controls together with the associated fee proposal and cost effectiveness of the audit: any major issues which arise during the course of the audit and EXTERNAL AUDIT their resolution: key accounting and audit judgements: the level of audit report on interim results errors identified during the audit: the recommendations made to approval and review of proposed audit plan and management by the auditor and managements response: and the procedures auditors overall performance.
review of auditor effectiveness following The Audit Committee also ensures that key partners within the external KPMGs first year as external auditor auditor are rotated from time to time in accordance with applicable agreement of external auditor fees for 1 legislation.
The Audit Committee monitors the extent of non-audit work 2015-2016 which the external auditor can perform, to ensure that the provision of review of the policy and update of the provision those non-audit services that can be undertaken by the external of non-audit services provided by the external auditor auditor falls within the agreed policy and does not impair its objectivity assessment of the deployment of the or independence.
Following the change of external auditor in 2014, the audit plan Audit Committee agreed that Deloitte LLP should continue to provide tax services to the Group and has amended its policy on the provision OTHER MATTERS of non-audit services by the external auditor accordingly, to exclude litigation and contingent liabilities such services.
Therefore, the external auditor should be excluded operation of the Groups Speak Up whistleblowing from providing the Company with general consultancy and all other policy non-audit services, unless there is no other competent and available country and theme specific audit matters provider.
Engagements for non-audit services that are not prohibited the RGC structure and the outputs from the are subject to formal approval by the Audit Committee based on the Committee meetings level of fees involved.
Non-audit services that are pre-approved are tax matters, including provisioning for potential either routine in nature with a fee that is not significant in the context current tax liabilities and the level of deferred tax of the audit or are audit related services.
asset recognition as well as compliance with statutory tax reporting obligations Within the constraints of applicable UK rules, the external auditor has traditionally undertaken some due diligence reviews and other pieces 1 A three year fee was agreed as part of the audit retender noted below.
The provision of non-audit services within such constraints and the agreed policy is assessed on a case by case basis EXTERNAL AUDIT so that the best placed adviser is retained.
Principal non-audit services The Committee is aware of EU legislation to reform the statutory audit provided by KPMG LLP and approved by the Audit Committee during market which came into force in April 2014 and which is expected to the year ended 30 September 2015 comprised assistance on audit apply to Public Interest Entities PIEs including the Company from related assurance matters and tax related services.
Under the proposal, all PIEs will be required, amongst During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed KPMG LLPs fees for other things, to rotate their auditors every 10 years and to cap the its services during the year ended 30 September 2015 which had non-audit fees paid to auditors at 70% of the three year average audit been set for three years from appointment, its effectiveness and fees at Group level.
The EU legislation provides for member states whether the agreed audit plan had been fulfilled and the reasons for and supervisory bodies such as the FRC in the UK to determine how any variation from the plan.
The review included a formal evaluation stringently the new legislation should be applied.
At the date of this process involving the use of questionnaires completed by finance Report, the FRC has proposed a number of prospective amendments teams around the Group.
to the Code in this regard.
The Audit Committee also considered the robustness of the 2015 audit In 2013-2014, the Company tendered its external audit appointment and the degree to which KPMG LLP was able to assess key accounting and, as a result, KPMG LLP was appointed as the Companys auditor.
and audit judgements and the content of the management letter issued Under the terms of the proposed new legislation and in line with the by the external auditor.
The Audit Committee concluded that both the Code, the Company is required to put its external audit process out audit and the audit process were effective.
The Company has in force a policy on audit fees which it reviews annually and discloses the ratio of audit to non-audit fees paid in each financial year.
The Committee will therefore await further guidance from the FRC on this and other matters contained within the new EU legislation and will keep these matters under review to ensure that the Company continues to comply with prevailing legislation and best practice.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 49 Corporate governance GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The total fees paid to KPMG LLP in the year ended 30 September INTERNAL AUDIT 2015 were 5.2 million of which 0.7 million related to non-audit The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal work 2014: 6.1 million for the six months from March to September audit function and its relationship with the external auditor, including 2014 of which 1.9 million related to non-audit work, much of which internal audit resources, plans and performance as well as the degree related to the period prior to its appointment in March 2014.
Further to which the function is free of management restrictions.
Throughout disclosure of the non-audit fees paid during the year can be found in the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the internal audit functions note 2 to the consolidated financial statements on page 98. plans and its achievements against those plans.
The Audit Committee considered the results of the audits undertaken by the internal audit To ensure objectivity, key members of the audit team rotate off the function and considered the adequacy of managements response to Companys audit.
To safeguard the independence of the Companys matters raised, including the time taken to resolve any such matters.
external auditor and the integrity of the audit process, the recruitment of senior employees from the Companys auditor is not permitted for a period of at least two years after they cease to be involved in the INTERNAL CONTROL provision of services to the Company.
The Audit Committee also reviews the integrity of material financial statements made by the Company.
The Audit Committee monitors and conducts a robust review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal REAPPOINTMENT OF AUDITOR control systems, accounting policies and practices and compliance KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness to continue as auditor of controls including key financial controls as well as the Companys the Company.
Separate resolutions proposing its reappointment and statements on internal control before they are agreed by the Board for determination of its remuneration by the Audit Committee will be each years Annual Report.
The Board retains overall responsibility for proposed at the 2016 AGM.
internal control and the identification and management of business risk.
The internal audit function is involved in the assessment of the DISCLOSURE OF RELEVANT AUDIT INFORMATION quality of risk management and internal control and helps to promote The directors confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no and further develop effective risk management within the business.
relevant audit information of which KPMG LLP is unaware and each Certain internal audit assignments such as those requiring specialist director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a expertise continue to be outsourced by the Director of Group Internal director to be aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Audit as appropriate.
The Audit Committee reviews internal audit that KPMG LLP is aware of that information.
reports and considers the effectiveness of the function.
In a Group where local management have considerable autonomy to OUR STANDARDS run and develop their businesses, a well-designed system of internal The Company remains committed to the highest standards of control is necessary to safeguard shareholders investments and the business conduct and expects all of its employees to act accordingly.
The directors acknowledge that they have overall The Groups Speak Up policy an extension of the Code of Ethics responsibility for risk management, the Groups systems of internal incorporated within the Groups Code of Business Conduct CBC control, for reviewing the effectiveness of those controls and for which is available in 40 languages sets out arrangements for the ensuring that an appropriate culture has been embedded throughout receipt, in confidence, of complaints on accounting, risk issues, the organisation.
In accordance with the guidance set out in the FRCs internal controls, auditing issues and related matters which would, Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial as appropriate, be reported to the Audit Committee.
Speak Up is Business Reporting 2014, and in the Code itself, an ongoing process a standard review item on all internal audit work programmes.
has been established for identifying, managing and evaluating the risks The Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics are available on the faced by the Group.
This process has been in place for the full Companys website at www.
financial year and up to the date on which the financial statements The Audit Committee also receives updates on any allegations of were approved.
bribery and fraud in the business at least twice each year, with The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk individual updates being given to the Audit Committee, as needed, of failure to achieve the Groups strategic objectives, safeguard the in more serious cases of alleged bribery, fraud or related activities.
Groups assets against material loss, fairly report the Groups The Groups anti-fraud policies are a subset of the CBC, which does performance and position, and to ensure compliance with relevant not tolerate any activity involving fraud, dishonesty or deception.
These legislation, regulation and best practice including that related to policies, for which the Audit Committee retains overall responsibility, social, environmental and ethical matters.
The systems provide set out how allegations of fraud or bribery are dealt with, such as by reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement the local human resources or finance team, and the frequency of local or loss.
Such systems are reviewed by the Board to deal with reporting that feeds into the regular updates, which are presented changing circumstances.
Reporting of these matters to the Audit Committee is managed and overseen by the internal audit function.
A summary of the key financial risks inherent in the Groups business The Speak Up policy operates when the complaint is received through is given on pages 31 to 33.
Risk assessment and evaluation are an the whistleblowing channel and that policy will redirect the alleged integral part of the annual planning cycle.
Each business documents fraud or bribery for investigation at the most appropriate level of the the strategic objectives and the effectiveness of the Groups systems organisation which may, for example, be by a member of the local of internal control.
As part of the review, each significant business and human resources team or, on occasion, the Audit Committee itself.
function has been required to identify and document each substantial risk, together with the mitigating actions implemented to manage, Each year, the Audit Committee critically reviews its own performance monitor and report to management on the effectiveness of these and considers where improvements can be made.
Senior managers are also required to sign biannual 50 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 confirmations of compliance with key procedures and to report any expenditure.
The Board considers social, environmental and ethical breakdowns in, or exceptions to, these procedures.
Summarised results matters in relation to the Groups business and assesses these when have been presented to senior management including to the Executive reviewing the risks faced by the Group: further information regarding Board and to the Board.
environmental and ethical matters is available on pages 34 to 39.
The Board is conscious of the effect such matters may have on the These processes have been in place throughout the financial year short and long term value of the Company.
The external auditor ended 30 September 2015 and have continued to the date of this of the Company and the Director of Group Internal Audit attend Report.
Taken together, these processes and the reports they generate, Audit Committee meetings and receive its papers.
The Report of which are considered by the Audit Committee, constitute a robust the Audit Committee is set out on pages 47 to 51 and the Audit assessment of key risks and the internal controls that exist, and Committee members meet regularly with the external auditor and are designed to mitigate these risks.
The Board has reviewed the with the Director of Group Internal Audit, without the presence of effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the year executive management.
under review and a summary of the principal control structures and processes in place across the Group is set out in this Report.
There were no changes to the Companys internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the year ended 30 September 2015 that have affected materially, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, CONTROL ENVIRONMENT the Companys internal control over financial reporting.
Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, it has delegated responsibility for the operation of the internal control and risk COMMUNICATING WITH SHAREHOLDERS management programme to the Executive Board.
The detailed review The Company places considerable importance on communication with of internal control has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
The its shareholders, including its private shareholders.
The Group Chief management of each business is responsible for internal control and Executive and the Group Finance Director are closely involved in risk management within its own business and for ensuring compliance investor relations and a senior executive has day to day responsibility with the Groups policies and procedures.
Each business has appointed for such matters.
The views of the Companys major shareholders are a risk champion whose primary role in such capacity is to ensure reported to the Board by the Group Chief Executive and the Group compliance by local management with the Groups risk management Finance Director as well as by the Chairman who remains in contact and internal control programme.
The internal and external independent with our largest shareholders and are discussed at its meetings.
auditors have reviewed the overall approach adopted by the Group There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and this has towards its risk management activities so as to reinforce these internal been extended to include private shareholders through the AGM.
Contact with institutional shareholders and with financial analysts, brokers and the media is controlled by written guidelines to ensure CONTROL PROCEDURES the protection of share price sensitive information that has not already The Board reviews its strategic plans and objectives on an annual basis been made generally available to the Companys shareholders.
Contact and approves Group budgets and strategies in light of these.
Control is is also maintained, when appropriate, with shareholders to discuss exercised at Group, regional and business level through the Groups overall remuneration plans and policies.
Management and Performance framework as well as through the The primary method of communicating with shareholders is by RGCs and monthly monitoring of performance by comparison with electronic means, helping to make the Company more environmentally budgets, forecasts and cash targets, and by regular visits to Group friendly by reducing waste and pollution associated with the printing businesses by the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and and posting of its Annual Report.
The Annual Report and Accounts is Group Chief Operating Officers.
available to all shareholders and can be accessed via the Companys This is underpinned by a formal major risk assessment process, which website at www.
The Groups annual and interim is an integral part of the annual business cycle and is also a robust results are also published on the Companys website, together with all process adopted to support the Viability Statement.
Each of the other announcements and documents issued to the market, such as Groups businesses is required to identify and document major risks statements, interviews and presentations by the Group Chief Executive facing their business and appropriate mitigating activities and controls, and Group Finance Director.
and to monitor and report to management on the effectiveness of these The Notice of Annual General Meeting is circulated to all shareholders controls on a biannual basis.
These reports, together with reports on at least 20 working days prior to such meeting and it is Company internal control and departures, if any, from established Group policy not to combine resolutions to be proposed at general meetings.
procedures prepared by both the internal and external auditors, are All shareholders are invited to the Companys AGM at which they reviewed by the Group Finance Director and the Audit Committee.
have the opportunity to put questions to the Board and it is standard Group companies also submit biannual risk and internal control practice to have the chairmen of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, assurance letters to the Group Finance Director on internal control and Nomination and Remuneration Committees available to answer risk management issues, with comments on the control environment questions.
The results of proxy voting for and against each resolution, within their operations.
The Group Finance Director summarises these as well as abstentions, are announced to the London Stock Exchange submissions for the Audit Committee, and the Chairman of the Audit and are published on the Companys website shortly after the meeting.
Committee reports to the Board on any matters that have arisen from Further shareholder information is available on pages 152 and 153. the Audit Committees review of the way in which risk management and internal control processes have been applied.
The Board has formal procedures in place for approval of client contracts, capital investment and acquisition projects, with clearly designated levels of authority, supported by post investment review processes for selected acquisitions, client contracts and major capital Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 51 Corporate governance GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE Our CR achievements have been delivered through the commitment of our employees, underpinned by a well established governance framework.
ANNUAL STATEMENT THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE COMPOSITION DEAR SHAREHOLDER The Corporate Responsibility Committee comprises Susan Murray, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 2014-2015 Chairman, Paul Walsh, Richard Cousins, Dominic Blakemore, Corporate Responsibility Committees CRC Report.
Robin Mills Group Human Resources Director, Mark White General As Chairman of the Boards CRC, I oversee the governance of our Counsel and Company Secretary, and all of the non-executive directors corporate responsibility CR activities and monitor the progress in office at the date of this Report.
of the CR commitments and targets we set.
MEETINGS ATTENDANCE Over the past nine years, we have continued to develop our CR 1 agenda and activity programmes focusing on four key areas: Health Name Attendance & Wellbeing, Responsible Sourcing, Our People and Environment.
I am Susan Murray 2 of 2 delighted to report that, as a Group, overall we continue to make good Carol Arrowsmith 2 of 2 progress against our CR targets and these achievements have been John Bason 2 of 2 delivered through the commitment of our employees, underpinned Dominic Blakemore 2 of 2 Richard Cousins 2 of 2 by a well established governance framework.
However, we will continue Jane Kingston 2 of 2 to challenge ourselves and the business to ensure that we build upon Don Robert 2 of 2 the progress we have made to date.
Sir Ian Robinson 2 of 2 2 For more information, please visit our corporate responsibility website Nelson Silva of 2 at www.
Ireena Vittal of Paul Walsh 2 of 2 Mark White 2 of 2 1 The number of meetings attended out of the number of meetings which each director member was eligible to attend.
2 Ireena Vittal and Nelson Silva were appointed to the Board on 16 July 2015.
SUSAN MURRAY Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee The Corporate Responsibility Committee meets at least twice a year.
24 November 2015 The Committee met twice during the year and members attendance is set out in the table above.
RESPONSIBILITIES The CRCs primary responsibilities include health, safety and environmental practices, ethical business conduct, the promotion of employee engagement and diversity and community investment.
The Committee has a rolling agenda and receives reports from the Director of Health, Safety and Environment and other senior managers to ensure that progress is being made toward meeting the Groups specific corporate responsibility KPIs and in our ongoing corporate responsibility commitments.
We are dedicated to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance and throughout the Annual Report there are examples of how we are endeavouring to achieve our strategic goals whilst underpinning our CR core values.
52 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 For the purposes of the CA 2006, the Directors Report for the year OTHER COMMITTEES ended 30 September 2015 comprises pages 43 to 58 of the Corporate Governance Report and the Directors Responsibilities Statement on DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE page 79.
As provided by the CA 2006, the Board has elected to set The Disclosure Committee ensures accuracy and timeliness of out in the Strategic Report some of those matters required to be public announcements of the Company and monitors the Companys disclosed in the Directors Report which it considers to be of obligations under the Rules and DTR of the UKLA.
These are as follows: Meetings are held as required.
At the date of this Report, the Carbon emissions Disclosure Committee comprises Dominic Blakemore, Mark White, Likely future developments the Group Financial Controller and the Head of Investor Relations.
Risk management EXECUTIVE BOARD ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR The Executive Board is the key management committee for the Group During the year, the Committee addressed a number of governance and at the date of this Report comprises the executive directors of the matters and in this regard we received updates from the General Company, Andy Furlong Regional Managing Director, Central Asia, Counsel and Company Secretary on new developments in corporate Middle East, Africa & Turkey, Philippe Op fide Beeck Regional governance and reporting.
The Committee considered recommendations Managing Director, Asia Pacific, Johnny Thomson Regional Managing to the Board concerning these matters which, by way of example, Director, Latin America, Mark White and Robin Mills.
included items such as forthcoming EU legislation in respect of audit reform that will come into force in 2016 and the change to the Code The Executive Board meets regularly and is responsible for developing which resulted in the introduction of the requirement for a viability the Groups strategy, capital expenditure and investment budgets.
It statement, details of which may be found on page 30 of this Report.
reports on these areas to the Board for approval, implementing Group policy, monitoring financial, operational and customer quality of service Substantial progress was made in 2014-2015 in advancing our performance, health and safety, purchasing and supply chain issues, sustainability priorities including our supply chain integrity, which succession planning and day to day management of the Group.
continues to be a challenge for the Group.
The Committee also reviewed the implementation of a series of GENERAL BUSINESS COMMITTEE measures designed to maintain the profile of the CBC which The General Business Committee comprises all of the executive encompasses the Groups Code of Ethics within the Group.
By way directors and meets as required to conduct the Companys business of example, this included ad hoc training sessions focused on the within clearly defined limits delegated by the Board and subject to practical application of the CBC, publication of our 5 Golden Rules those matters reserved to the Board.
on payslips, in employee newsletters and during online CHAT sessions to raise awareness and to reach our colleagues in remote sites.
We constantly challenge our leadership teams to implement new measures to refresh the understanding and importance of the CBC to our business, and we will continue to work with our businesses to further eliminate risk and reduce any vulnerabilities in our supply chain.
COMING YEAR Good corporate governance underpins all of our corporate activities and the Committee will continue to offer comment and advice to the Board on those areas in the business where governance might be enhanced.
In conjunction with the General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Committee will also keep the Board up to date with the latest legislative changes and best practices in governance and reporting, and of any action required to be taken by the Company as a result of the changes.
One of these areas will be how the Committee seeks assurance as it prepares to make the required disclosures in respect of human trafficking and slavery introduced by the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
During the next 12 months, the Committee will continue to review CR commitments and targets to ensure they remain aligned to the business strategy.
The introduction of additional KPIs sets new challenges, but as a business we remain focused on building on our achievements to date and we look forward to reporting progress in the 2016 Annual Report.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 53 Corporate governance GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED NOMINATION COMMITTEE We recognise the importance of planning for the future and of having a succession planning policy designed to progressively bring new skills and different perspectives to the Board.
ANNUAL STATEMENT THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE COMPOSITION DEAR SHAREHOLDER The Nomination Committee comprises Paul Walsh, Chairman, Richard On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 2014-2015 Cousins and all of the non-executive directors in office at the date of Nomination Committee Report.
The Nomination Committee has an important role to play in ensuring that the Board and its principal committees have the right mix of skills, MEETINGS ATTENDANCE experience and diversity.
This year, as part of our Board succession 1 Name Attendance planning process, we have seen further enhancements to the Paul Walsh 2 of 2 composition of the Board.
Carol Arrowsmith 2 of 2 In July 2015, we announced the appointment of Ireena Vittal and John Bason 2 of 2 Richard Cousins 2 of 2 Nelson Silva as non-executive directors, both of whom bring a wealth Susan Murray 2 of 2 of experience and knowledge to the Company and who will broaden Don Robert 2 of 2 the skills, experience and diversity of the Board.
We also announced Sir Ian Robinson 2 of 2 that Sir Ian Robinsons nine year tenure will come to an end on 2 Nelson Silva of 30 November 2015 and that he will step down as a director of the 2 Ireena Vittal of Company at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
I am pleased to report that the Board succession planning process left us well placed to 1 The number of meetings attended out of the number of meetings which each appoint Don Robert as SID from 1 October 2015 in succession to director was eligible to attend.
2 Ireena Vittal and Nelson Silva joined the Board on 16 July 2015.
Don will continue to perform his responsibilities as a member of the other principal committees of the Board.
The Nomination Committee meets on an as needed basis.
The On 24 September 2015, we further announced that Andrew Martin, Nomination Committee met twice during the year and members attendance is set out in the table above.
Group Chief Operating Officer, Europe & Japan, will step down from the Board on 1 December 2015, that Dominic Blakemore, Group OBJECTIVES Finance Director, will become the Group Chief Operating Officer, The Nomination Committees key objective is to review and monitor the Europe and that Johnny Thomson, Regional Managing Director of the Boards composition and to ensure that the Board comprises individuals Groups Latin American business, will become Group Finance Director with the right blend of skills, knowledge and experience to maintain and will join the Board from that date.
a high degree of effectiveness in discharging its responsibilities.
Biographical details of the members of the Board who held office RESPONSIBILITIES during the year and up to the date of this Report can be found on The Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size and composition pages 40 and 41. of the Board and its committees and makes recommendations with In the coming year, in consultation with the chairmen of the principal regard to any changes considered necessary in the identification committees, we will continue to monitor the needs of the Board and and nomination of new directors, the reappointment of existing its committees with the aim of ensuring that the Groups succession directors and appointment of members to the Boards committees.
planning policy is aligned to, and evolves to meet the ongoing strategic It also assesses the roles of the existing directors in office to ensure aims of the Group.
that there continues to be a balanced board in terms of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity.
The Committee reviews the senior leadership needs of the Group to enable it to compete effectively in the marketplace and advises the Board on succession planning for executive director appointments, although the Board itself is responsible for succession generally.
PAUL WALSH The Nomination Committee has standing items that it considers regularly Chairman of the Nomination Committee under its Terms of Reference, for example, the Committee reviews its 24 November 2015 own Terms of Reference annually, or as required, to reflect changes to the Code or as a result of changes in regulations or best practice.
54 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 SUCCESSION PLANNING AND DIVERSITY and mentoring development programmes for executive and senior The Company adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure managers in the Group to help mould the potential leaders of for the appointment of new directors and senior executives with due the future.
regard to diversity and gender.
Prior to making an appointment, the Nomination Committee will evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES independence, experience and diversity on the Board and, in the light DIRECTORS of this evaluation, will prepare a description of the role and capabilities Particulars of the directors in office at the date of this Report are listed on required, with a view to appointing the best placed individual for the pages 40 and 41.
In accordance with the Code, each director will retire role.
In identifying suitable candidates, the Nomination Committee: and submit himself or herself for election or re-election at the 2016 AGM.
uses open advertising or the services of external advisers to On 16 July 2015, we announced that Ireena Vittal and Nelson Silva facilitate the search had been appointed to the Board on that date, and that Sir Ian Robinson considers candidates from different genders and a wide range will not seek re-election at the 2016 AGM and will retire from the of backgrounds Board and its committees at the conclusion of that meeting.
As considers candidates on merit and against objective criteria further announced on 24 September 2015, Andrew Martin will step ensuring that appointees have sufficient time to devote to the down from the Board on 1 December 2015 and on the same day position, in light of other potential significant commitments Johnny Thomson will be appointed to the Board.
ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR Accordingly, Ireena Vittal, Nelson Silva and Johnny Thomson will During the year, the Committee focused on succession planning seek election at the 2016 AGM.
for both executive and non-executive directors and, in doing so, it considered the tenure, mix and diversity of skills and experience of RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS existing Board members and those of prospective Board members in In the year ended 30 September 2015, the Group delivered an the context of Group strategy.
Consequently, the Committee identified increase of 2.8% in Group underlying profit before tax from that it would be beneficial for prospective non-executive candidates to 1,159 million to 1,192 million and an increase of 1.3% in Group have gained their experience in fast growing and emerging economies reported profit before tax from 1,144 million to 1,159 million.
where there are opportunities for the Group to continue to expand.
A Return of Cash, equating to 56 pence per share, was paid In its search for prospective non-executive directors, the Board to shareholders on 29 July 2014.
The Return of Cash and retained Egon Zehnder International EZI as recruitment consultants.
associated Share Capital Consolidation are described further EZI is an independent executive search firm which has no other on page 56 of our 2014 Annual Report, which can be found at connection with the Company.
The Committee agreed the process, timetable and mandate for EZI The Return of Cash is not included in the dividend table below.
so as to ensure that prospective candidates satisfied the Committees A summary of the dividends on ordinary shares for the year ended brief.
Ireena Vittal and Nelson Silva were identified by the Nomination Committee as part of the external search process conducted by EZI 30 September 2015 compared with 2014 is shown below: and were subsequently recommended to the Board for appointment on Year Dividend Pence per share the basis that they met the criteria required, including having sufficient 2015 Interim 9.8 time to discharge the requirements of the role.
2015 Final recommended 19.6 2015 Total 29.4 10.9% increase on 2014 New directors receive tailored inductions supervised by the Chairman 2014 Interim 8.8 in his capacity as Chairman to the Board.
Further information on the 2014 Final 17.7 induction process may be found on page 45.
2014 Total 26.5 During the year, the Nomination Committee also considered and made recommendations to the Board in respect of the following matters: The 2015 interim dividend of 9.8 pence per share 2014: 8.8 pence was paid to shareholders on 27 July 2015.
Sir Ian Robinson stepping down as SID with effect from 1 October 2015 and being succeeded by Don Robert on the same day, together Payment of the recommended final dividend, if approved at the 2016 with Sir Ians retirement from the Board and its committees at the AGM, will be made on 22 February 2016 to shareholders registered at conclusion of the Companys 2016 AGM the close of business on 22 January 2016.
The shares will be quoted Andrew Martin stepping down as Group Chief Operating Officer, ex-dividend from 21 January 2016.
Europe & Japan with effect from 1 December 2015 During the year, the trustees of each of the employee benefit trusts Dominic Blakemore stepping down as Group Finance Director with which operate in connection with the Companys share plans waived effect from 1 December 2015 and his appointment as Group Chief their rights to receive dividends on any shares held by them.
Details Operating Officer, Europe from that date of the trusts can be found on page 57 of this Report.
The amount of the appointment of Johnny Thomson as Group Finance Director from dividends waived during the year ended 30 September 2015 in relation 1 December 2015 in succession to Dominic Blakemore to the trusts was 11,815 2014: 20,677.
5 COMING YEAR As at the date of this Report, there were 13,038,606 ordinary 10 8 The Committee recognises the importance of planning for the future pence shares held in treasury for the purpose of satisfying the and of having a succession planning policy designed to progressively Companys obligations under the Companys employee equity incentive bring new skills and different perspectives to the Board which schemes.
Shares held in treasury are not entitled to receive dividends.
complement the experience of existing directors with the aim of Therefore, 128,372 worth of dividends were not paid during the maintaining an appropriate balance.
financial year in relation to treasury shares.
There is a wealth of talent within our organisation and, together with A dividend reinvestment plan is available to eligible shareholders.
the Board, the Committee will continue to offer its support to coaching Details can be found on page 152.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 55 Corporate governance GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED 2014.
The programme recommenced on 31 July 2014 and SHARE CAPITAL subsequently completed on 10 August 2015.
GENERAL From 1 October 2014 to 16 June 2015, 20,333,739 ordinary shares At the General Meeting held on 11 June 2014, members voted in 5 of 10 8 pence each were repurchased and subsequently cancelled favour of the Companys proposals to return approximately 1 billion for a consideration of 223,679,739 million including expenses.
to shareholders by way of a cash payment of 56 pence per ordinary From 17 June to 10 August 2015, a further 9,552,807 ordinary share of 10 pence each held as at the record time of 6.00pm on 7 July 5 shares of 10 8 pence each were repurchased for a consideration 2014.
The cash return was accompanied by a share consolidation 5 of 103,762,111 million including expenses and subsequently whereby shareholders received 16 ordinary shares of 10 8 pence each transferred to be held in treasury for the purpose of satisfying the in the Company for every 17 ordinary shares of 10 pence each held at Companys obligations under employee equity incentive schemes.
This share capital reorganisation was effective and the 5 5 The total number of ordinary 10 8 pence shares repurchased by 10 8 pence shares were admitted to trading on the London Stock the Company from 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2015 for Exchange from 8 July 2014.
Full details of the Return of Cash and a consideration of 327,441,850 million including expenses was Share Capital Consolidation were set out in a Circular to shareholders 29,886,546 representing 1.8% of the ordinary shares in issue dated 19 May 2014, which is available on the Companys website at on 1 October 2015.
As announced on 30 September 2015, from www.
1 October to 23 November 2015, a further 4,345,656 ordinary 5 As at the date of this Report, 1,656,777,382 ordinary shares of 10 8 5 shares of 10 8 pence each were repurchased for a consideration pence each of which 13,038,606 are held in treasury have been of 46,753,677 million including expenses and subsequently issued, are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock transferred to be held as treasury shares for the purpose of satisfying Exchange.
The total voting rights attaching to the issued ordinary the Companys obligations under employee equity incentive schemes.
share capital excluding treasury shares at the date of this Report is Returns to shareholders continue to be an integral part of our business 1,643,738,776.
In addition, the Company sponsors a Level I American model and it is the Boards intention to continue to maintain strong Depositary Receipt programme with BNY Mellon, under which the investment grade credit ratings by returning any surplus cash Companys shares are traded on the over the counter market in the to shareholders.
form of American Depositary Shares.
At the 2016 AGM, a special resolution will be proposed to renew the During the year ended 30 September 2015, 2,578,304 options were directors limited authority to repurchase ordinary shares in the market, exercised and 1,602,612 awards released pursuant to the Companys last granted at the 2015 AGM.
The directors consider it desirable for share option schemes and long term incentive plans.
Of those options these general authorisations to be available in order to maintain an exercised and awards released, 3,424,337 were satisfied by the efficient capital structure whilst at the same time retaining the allotment of ordinary shares with the remaining being satisfied by flexibility to fund infill acquisitions.
way of the reissue of 756,579 treasury shares.
A further 4,345,656 The authority sets the minimum and maximum prices which may be treasury shares have been used to satisfy awards under these schemes paid and it will be limited to a maximum of 10% of the Companys since the end of the financial year to the date of this Report.
issued ordinary share capital calculated at the latest practicable date There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
Any purchases of capital of the Company other than certain restrictions which may from ordinary shares will be by means of market purchases through the time to time be imposed by law, for example, insider trading law.
In London Stock Exchange and any shares purchased may be cancelled accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, or placed into treasury in accordance with the Companies Acquisition certain employees are required to seek the approval of the Company of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003. to deal in its shares.
ISSUE OF SHARES The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders At the 2016 AGM, the directors will ask shareholders to renew the that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or authority last granted to them at the 2015 AGM to allot equity shares voting rights.
representing approximately one third of the issued ordinary shares The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by calculated at the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Notice of AGM the section 551 authority and, in accordance with The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to which the Investment Association Share Capital Management Guidelines, it is party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control the directors again propose to extend this by a further one third of the of the Company following a takeover.
Companys issued ordinary share capital, provided that such amount shall only be used in connection with a rights issue.
If approved, the More detailed information relating to the rights and obligations authority will expire no later than 15 months from the date on which attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, in addition to those the resolution is passed, or at the conclusion of the AGM to be held conferred by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, in 2017, whichever is the sooner.
which are available on the Companys website as well as on pages 24 and 25 of the Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2007.
The limited power granted to the directors at the 2015 AGM to allot The 2007 Annual Report is available on the Companys website at equity shares for cash other than pro rata to existing shareholders www.
expires no later than 4 May 2016.
Subject to the terms of the section 551 authority, the directors recommend that this authority should be REPURCHASE OF SHARES brought into line with the new Statement of Principles on pre-emption On 27 November 2013, the Company announced its intention to rights issued earlier this year by the Pre-emption Group and supported commence a 500 million share repurchase programme, to be by the Investment Association and the Pensions and Lifetime Savings executed over the 12 month period to the end of 2014.
If granted, this authority will give the programme was temporarily suspended following the announcement directors the ability until the AGM to be held in 2017 to issue on 14 May 2014 of the 1 billion Return of Cash and Share Capital ordinary shares for cash, other than pro rata to existing shareholders, Consolidation until after completion of this transaction on 29 July in connection with a rights issue or up to a limit of 5% of the issued ordinary share capital calculated at the latest practicable date prior to 56 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 the publication of the Notice of AGM and, in accordance with the EMPLOYEE POLICIES AND INVOLVEMENT Principles, the directors propose to extend this by a further 5% of The Group places particular importance on the involvement of its the Companys issued ordinary share capital calculated at the latest employees, keeping them regularly informed, through informal bulletins practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM, provided and other in-house publications, meetings and the Companys internal that the additional authority would only be used for the purpose of websites, on matters affecting them as employees and on the issues an acquisition or a specified capital investment which is announced affecting their performance.
Since 1996, those Group businesses contemporaneously with the issue or which has taken place in the in the European Economic Area EEA have been represented on preceding six month period and is disclosed in the announcement the Compass European Council CEC, which provides a forum for of the issue.
exchanging information and engaging in consultation on the Groups performance and plans, and relevant transnational issues.
The Groups In line with best practice, the Company has not issued more than CEC Agreement terminated in December 2012.
As reported previously, 7.5% of its issued ordinary share capital on a non-prorated basis over the Company continues to negotiate a new CEC Agreement through a the last three years.
The directors have no present intention to issue Special Negotiating Body, comprising employee representatives from ordinary shares, other than pursuant to the Companys employee each of the countries in which the Group operates within the EEA.
equity incentive share schemes, and this authority will maintain the Companys flexibility in relation to future share issues, including any Permanent UK employees are normally invited to join the Companys issues to finance business opportunities, should appropriate defined contribution pension scheme, Compass Retirement Income circumstances arise.
Savings Plan CRISP, on the completion of two years service this includes any service that may have transferred across under the Details of repurchases into treasury shares and the reissue of treasury Transfer of Undertakings Protection of Employment Regulations shares as well as issues of new shares made during the year, together 2006 TUPE.
Nigel Palmer, a current with details of options granted over unissued capital, are set out in employee of the Group, is chairman of the trustees.
The other four note 23 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 128 to 130. trustee directors are UK based employees of the Group, two of whom have been nominated by CRISP members.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS The following major shareholdings have been notified to the Company Those UK employees who transferred from the public sector under TUPE have been eligible to join the Compass Group Pension Plan the Plan, as at 30 September 2015 and up to the date of this Report.
a defined benefit pension arrangement which is otherwise closed to new % of Compass % of issued Group PLCs entrants.
However, under the Governments revised guidance for Fair 1 1 capital voting rights Deal for staff pensions, the expectation is that the Group will in future Blackrock, Inc. 9.99 9.99 participate in the relevant public sector pension scheme and close the Invesco Limited 4.95 4.95 Plan to future new entrants.
The Plan also has a corporate trustee.
Massachusetts Financial Services Company 10.07 10.07 Phillip Whittome is the independent chairman.
There are a further six trustee directors, five of whom are either UK based employees or former 1 At the date of disclosure.
employees of the Group three of whom have been nominated by Plan Since the disclosure date, the shareholders interests in the Company members, and the sixth is an independent trustee director.
The Company became subject to the automatic enrolment regulations The number of shares held by the directors as at 30 September 2015 for its workforce in the UK on 1 November 2012, but deferred its can be found on page 76 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
staging date for automatic enrolment of eligible employees to 2 January 2013 as permitted by the regulations.
Both the Plan and CRISP are compliant arrangements under these regulations and have been EMPLOYEE SHARE TRUSTS registered as such.
All new UK employees who meet the statutory The Compass Group Employee Share Trust ESOP and The Compass requirements, and who are not immediately entered into the Plan Group Employee Trust Number 2 CGET were established on or CRISP, are automatically enrolled into the National Employment 13 January 1992 and 12 April 2001 respectively in connection with Savings Trust NEST.
The Groups compliance with the auto-enrolment the Companys share option plans.
The Compass Group Long Term regulations, and the performance of NEST, are kept under regular Incentive Plan Trust LTIPT was established on 5 April 2001 in review by the Groups Pensions Auto-enrolment Governance Committee.
connection with the Companys long term incentive plans.
Details of all employee equity incentive schemes are set out in the Directors Permanent employees outside of the UK are usually offered Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 77.
The trustees of the ESOP, membership of local pension arrangements if and where they exist LTIPT and CGET hold 11,601 2014: 38,743, 16,198 2014: 16,198 and where it is appropriate to have Company sponsored arrangements.
and nil 2014: nil ordinary shares of the Company respectively.
Employees are offered a range of benefits, such as private medical The Compass Group Executive Option Share Trust and the Compass cover, depending on the local environment.
Priority is given to the Group Executive Share Trust were established on 15 and 22 February training of employees and the development of their skills.
Employment 2010 respectively in relation to the operation of equity incentive of disabled people is considered on merit with regard only to the ability schemes in Australia.
No ordinary shares are held by these trusts of any applicant to carry out the role.
Arrangements to enable disabled as at 30 September 2015 2014: nil.
people to carry out the duties required will be made if it is reasonable to do so.
An employee becoming disabled would, where appropriate, be offered retraining.
AWARDS UNDER EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES Details of awards made during the year and held by executive directors The Group continues to operate on a decentralised basis.
This provides as at 30 September 2015 are set out in the Directors Remuneration the maximum encouragement for the development of entrepreneurial Report on pages 59 to 77. flair, balanced by a rigorous control framework exercised by a small Details of employee equity incentive schemes and grants made during head office team.
Local management teams are responsible for maintaining high standards of health and safety and for ensuring that the year ended 30 September 2015 to, and extant awards held by, employees are disclosed in note 24 to the consolidated financial there is appropriate employee involvement in decision making.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 57 Corporate governance GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Group charitable donations m EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS Our Code of Ethics was developed in consultation with the CEC and 2015 7.9 the Institute of Business Ethics and sets out clear standards of 2014 6.5 behaviour that we expect all of our people to demonstrate and adhere Since 2004, shareholders have passed an annual resolution, on a to.
The Code of Ethics, which is part of our CBC, underpins our social, precautionary basis, to approve donations to EU political organisations ethical and environmental commitments and sends a clear message to and to incur EU political expenditure as such terms were defined our stakeholders of our commitment to responsible business practice.
under the then relevant legislation not exceeding a monetary limit The 10 principles of the United Nations UN Global Compact, to approved by shareholders.
The Board has consistently confirmed that which we are a signatory, underpin our own Code of Ethics.
This UN it operates a policy of not giving any cash contribution to any political initiative encourages companies to make human rights, labour party in the ordinary meaning of those words and that it has no standards, environmental responsibility and anti-corruption part of intention of changing that policy.
Our annual Communication on Progress can be viewed at www.
No material amount of corporate funds or paid employee time has been utilised during the year for political activities and, in accordance Our people are instrumental to our success: we respect and value the with the Companys CBC, employees must not engage in any form of individuality and diversity that every employee brings to the Group.
We lobbying or have contact with political representatives, government base our relationship with our employees on respect for the dignity of employees or public interest groups unless they are doing so legitimately the individual and fair treatment for all.
and adhering to internal control processes.
Further information As at 30 September 2015, there were 515,864 2014: 503,537 regarding the CBC can be found on page 50 of this Annual Report people employed by the Group average number of employees including and on the Companys website at www.
directors and part-time employees of whom 294,042 were female The directors propose to renew the authority granted at the 2015 AGM 2014: 281,981 and 221,822 were male 2014: 221,556.
Of these, for the Group to make political donations and incur political expenditure 807 were senior managers 634 male, 173 female 2014: 575 male, as such terms are defined in sections 362 to 365 of the CA 2006 until 187 female which include members of our global leadership team and the Companys next AGM, which they might otherwise be prohibited individuals who are statutory directors of the corporate entities whose from making or incurring under the terms of the CA 2006 and which financial information is included in the Groups consolidated accounts would not amount to donations in the ordinary sense of the word.
In terms of the Companys Board, as at 30 It is proposed to maintain the limit of such authority at 100,000.
September 2015 there were 12 directors, nine of whom were male and three female.
Prior to any appointment to the Board, the Nomination Committee gives due regard to diversity and gender with a view to CREST appointing the most suitable candidate for the role.
The Companys ordinary shares and sterling Eurobonds are in CREST, the settlement system for stocks and shares.
We seek to create a positive, open working environment wherever we operate.
Our employee policies are set locally to comply with local law within an overall Group framework and we monitor our employee DISCLOSURES REQUIRED UNDER UK LISTING RULE 9.8.
4 There are no disclosures required to be made under UK Listing Rule 9.8.
4. satisfaction and engagement through a number of key performance indicators, details of which can be found on pages 38 and 39 of the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic Report.
SHAREHOLDER SERVICES Details of services provided to shareholders can be found in the We also consider the concerns of wider communities where we operate, Shareholder Information section on pages 152 and 153 and on the including national and local interests, utilising our relevant expertise to Companys website.
help contribute to the wellbeing of communities which are appropriate to our business objectives.
Furthermore, the Group supports the rights of all people as set out in the UN Universal Declaration of Human AGM Rights UN Declaration and considers carefully before doing any The Notice of Meeting setting out the resolutions to be proposed business in countries that do not adhere to the UN Declaration.
at the 2016 AGM, together with explanatory notes, is set out on pages 154 to 159 of this Annual Report and is also available at www.
The directors consider that each of GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REPORTING the resolutions is in the best interests of the Company and the The Company is required to state the annual quantity of emissions shareholders as a whole and recommend that shareholders vote in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from activities for which the in favour of all of the resolutions.
Group is responsible, including the combustion of fuel and the operation of any facility.
Details of our emissions during the year ended On behalf of the Board 30 September 2015 are set out within the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic Report on pages 36 and 37 and form part of the Directors Report disclosures.
Further details of the actions which the Group is taking to reduce emissions can also be found in our online Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
MARK WHITE General Counsel and Company Secretary DONATIONS AND POLITICAL EXPENDITURE 24 November 2015 Charitable objectives support the Companys CR strategy and have Compass Group PLC primarily focused on improving the environment, education, health and Registered in England and Wales No.
4083914 wellbeing, community engagement and responsible business practice.
Donations have included employee involvement through fundraising and financial support.
58 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The success of your Company is driven by a continued focus on growing revenue in a sustainable and profitable manner.
Accordingly, revenue and profit remain key measures in our annual bonus plan.
ANNUAL STATEMENT PERFORMANCE IN 2014-2015 The continued success of the business has been driven through focus DEAR SHAREHOLDER on organic revenue growth and increasing the operating margin to On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 2014-2015 deliver sustained value for our shareholders.
We have seen excellent Annual Remuneration Report which sets out our philosophy and policy performance in North America and have delivered good results across for directors remuneration and the activities of the Remuneration the business despite some challenges in the Offshore & Remote sector Committee for the financial year ended 30 September 2015. and some of our emerging markets.
Accordingly, revenue and profit remain key performance measures in our annual bonus plan.
The Report is divided into four sections: i this Annual Statement: ii the Governance Summary: iii the Companys Remuneration Strong free cash flow generation sustains our progressive dividend Policy the Policy : and iv the Annual Remuneration Report on the policy, permits an ongoing share buyback programme, provides implementation of the Policy in the year to 30 September 2015. cash for further investment in the business and therefore remains At our 2015 AGM, shareholders approved amendments to the a performance measure in both our short and long term incentive plans.
With Return on Capital Employed ROCE also as a performance Companys Remuneration Policy and the new rules for the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
During our consultation process, we confirmed measure for the LTIP, we maintain the focus on the efficient and targeted investment of this cash.
that our philosophy remained simple and unchanged.
We continue to maintain an approach that positions our remuneration moderately.
Shareholders have benefited from this consistent delivery of strategy.
The changes that we made were done to ensure that we also remained During the last 12 months, we have been able to reward shareholders competitive.
In the nine years of Richards leadership, there had been through a progressive dividend policy and our 2013 500 million no significant changes to our incentive levels, though over the same share buyback programme which completed in August 2015.
As period the executive team had delivered great value to shareholders announced by the Company on 30 September 2015, a further in the form of outstanding Total Shareholder Return TSR growth, 4,345,656 shares have been repurchased and held as treasury shares a progressive dividend and the 2014 Return of Cash.
and have been used to satisfy the Companys obligations under the Shareholders approved: Companys employee equity incentive reward schemes between 1 October and 23 November 2015. increasing the annual incentive opportunity for our Group Chief Next May, Richard Cousins will have completed 10 years as Group Executive from 150% to 200% of salary, in line with that for other FTSE 50 CEOs Chief Executive.
Under his leadership, the Company has delivered great value to shareholders and we believe that proper succession adjusting the LTIP opportunity for all of our executive directors excluding the Group Chief Executive to 200% of salary planning will ensure this continues.
The strength of our internal succession planning has been demonstrated through the appointment adjusting the LTIP opportunity for the Group Chief Executive to 250% of salary of both Dominic Blakemore to lead our important European business in succession to Andrew Martin, and Johnny Thomson to succeed In addition, to reflect best practice and ensure alignment with Dominic Blakemore as Group Finance Director.
shareholders, any shares delivered under these higher awards are subject to a two year holding period post vesting.
Shareholders interests were also further safeguarded with the renewal and extension of circumstances under which malus and clawback might be applied.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to take this opportunity to thank shareholders for their support for these resolutions.
The resolutions adopting the revised Policy and implementation were approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM by 90.79% and 92.47% respectively.
Shareholders will have the opportunity to vote on the Annual Remuneration Report for 2014-2015 at our 2016 AGM.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 59 Corporate governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 2014-2015 REMUNERATION REVIEW CONCLUSION As stated in our Policy and confirmed to shareholders last year, The Committee believes that the current executive remuneration maintaining our historic moderate approach has continued to be at strategy has and continues to work well both in the near term and the centre of our deliberations and we continue to seek to pay sensible over the longer term in motivating and retaining our executive team base salaries against the market and to provide shareholders with as as well as supporting the delivery of superior returns to shareholders.
high a degree of visibility as we can for the year ahead.
In normal Therefore, the principles underlying our executive remuneration years, executive directors salaries are reviewed annually in January philosophy remain unchanged, namely a moderate approach which and our expectation is that most directors would be eligible for pay enables our executives remuneration to reflect business performance.
awards in line with our employees in the relevant market.
We believe that, as a result of the changes to our remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM, the total opportunity We have typically appointed new executive directors at pay levels for our executives is now more closely aligned with the rest of the below the market rate and then moved their pay up to reflect FTSE 50, where Compass is an established member.
The Committees experience and performance in the role.
Johnny Thomsons intent is that the Policy approved at the 2015 AGM will remain in place appointment as Group Finance Director is his first role as a PLC for the next three years when, in accordance with the CA 2006 and director.
His salary on appointment will be 575,000 per annum.
His the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and performance will be measured over the coming year, but we anticipate Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the 2013 Regulations, further increments in his base pay ahead of market movement over the policy to apply for the next three years will be submitted to the next two to three years to align his pay better with that of his shareholders at the 2018 AGM for their approval.
peers, subject of course, to his performance in the role.
Johnny will be receiving support with the relocation of himself and his family back to The pages which follow give shareholders a full and clear disclosure the UK of 50,000.
His bonus and LTIP opportunities are in line with of the Companys intent and operation of director remuneration and, the Policy at 150% and 200% respectively.
When Dominic Blakemore at the 2016 AGM, an advisory vote will be submitted to shareholders becomes Group Chief Operating Officer, Europe on 1 December 2015, on the 2015 Annual Remuneration Report.
he will receive an increase of 6.66% in his base annual salary, which I recommend the following Governance Summary, Policy Report and reflects his new role and responsibilities and takes into account his Annual Remuneration Report to shareholders.
Neither Dominic nor Johnny will be eligible for a salary increase in January 2016.
Andrew Martin will continue to receive his current salary and benefits to 31 December 2015, during which time he will be supporting the transition of his responsibilities to Dominic Blakemore.
Thereafter, he will receive a sum which is in lieu of notice equivalent to his CAROL ARROWSMITH contractual entitlement based on 12 months base salary, target Chairman of the Remuneration Committee bonus and benefits.
This is in line with his service contract which was 24 November 2015 entered into in 2007 and includes the payment of on target bonus in the calculation of payment in lieu of notice, as detailed in the Policy section of this Report and on page 75.
In the light of Andrew Martins outstanding contribution to the Company over the last 11 years, the Committee exercised the discretion provided in the LTIP rules to enable the final LTIP award, which vests in 2017, to be exercised over the full number of shares if the performance conditions are satisfied in full and to release him from his obligations to hold any shares delivered in 2017 for a further two years.
On 16 July 2015, we appointed Ireena Vittal and Nelson Silva as non-executive directors, both of whom will be paid in line with the approved Policy.
The fee for our Chairman, Paul Walsh, was increased from 475,000 to 500,000 per annum on 1 October 2015.
This is the first increase since his appointment as Chairman in February 2014.
Sir Ian Robinson will receive no remuneration or payment when he retires from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM.
I would like to thank Sir Ian for his chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee.
During the year, the management of Compass engaged Kepler Associates to conduct a review of the target and range setting framework and methodologies for both its short and long term incentive plans.
The results of this review were shared and discussed in detail with the Committee.
The conclusions reached were that, although Compass performance ranges look narrow when compared with other FTSE companies, in fact the narrowness of the ranges ensured tight alignment with performance and was delivering the right outcomes for the Company and shareholders, whilst remaining motivational for the executives.
60 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR GOVERNANCE SUMMARY The key activities of the Committee during the year ended 30September 2015 were: THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Board sets the Companys Remuneration Policy and the a review of the draft Directors Remuneration Report DRR for Remuneration Committee the Committee is responsible, within 2013-2014 following consultation with major shareholders and the authority delegated by the Board, for determining specific a review of the 2014 AGM voting results remuneration packages and the terms and conditions of employment determination of the extent to which the 2013-2014 performance for the members of the Executive Board, which comprises the measures for the long term incentive and bonus plans were executive directors and other senior executives.
The Committee achieved ensures that the members of the Executive Board are provided with annual review of directors share ownership against the Companys the appropriate incentives to enhance the Groups performance and agreed policy and guidelines to reward them for their personal contribution to the success of the review of salary proposals for the Executive Board effective from business.
The Committee reviews the remuneration arrangements 1January 2015 for Group employees whose salaries exceed a specified level and determination of proposed bonus targets for 2014-2015 administers the Companys share incentive plans.
The Committee determination of proposed targets under the LTIP and other also determines the Chairmans remuneration, although the Board incentive schemes operating below executive management level itself determines the level of fees paid to the non-executive directors.
for 2014-2015 No directors are involved in determining their own remuneration.
review of the Companys remuneration practice to ensure that the The Committee maintains an active dialogue with shareholder overall remuneration structure continues to promote the Companys representatives and its full Terms of Reference are set out on the long term business strategy Companys website at www.
regular reviews of performance under Group-wide share plans and approval of any discretionary matters for individuals below The Committee consists entirely of independent non-executive executive director level directors, as defined in the Code.
agreement to the proposed compensation packages for senior management leaving the Group including that for Andrew Martin COMMITTEE COMPOSITION determination of the remuneration package elements for the The Committee comprises Carol Arrowsmith, Chairman, and all of the executive directors and the fees for the Chairman: and other non-executive directors in office at the date of this Report.
The annual review of Terms of Reference for the Committee Remuneration Committee met six times during the year and directors attendance can be found in the table below.
STRUCTURE AND CONTENT OF DRR MEETINGS ATTENDANCE As for last year, this DRR has been prepared on behalf of the 1 Name Attendance Board by the Committee in accordance with the requirements of the CA 2006 and the 2013 Regulations.
The current Policy was approved Carol Arrowsmith 6 of 6 by shareholders at the Companys 2015 AGM and it is intended John Bason 6 of 6 Susan Murray 6 of 6 that this Policy will remain in place for three years.
Although there 2 Don Robert 4 of 6 is no requirement to do so, the Committee has, in the interests of Sir Ian Robinson 6 of 6 transparency, good governance and emerging best practice, published 3 Nelson Silva 3 of 3 the Policy in full for ease of reference.
To the extent that changes have 2,3 Ireena Vittal 2 of 3 been made to the Policy since last year, these are merely to ensure that the content of the Policy remains relevant to the financial year under 1 The number of meetings attended out of the number of meetings which each director was eligible to attend.
review: in all other respects, the Policy remains unchanged.
The next 2 Unable to attend Committee meetings due to unforeseen circumstances.
In each two sections of the DRR cover the following matters: instance, the directors read the papers of the meeting and discussed their comments with the Committee Chairman prior to the meeting.
the Companys intended remuneration policy from 5 February 3 Ireena Vittal and Nelson Silva joined the Board on 16 July 2015.
2015 for the next three years, including each of the components of directors remuneration the Policy Report Biographical details of the current members of the Committee are how the Policy approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM was set out on pages 40 and 41.
The General Counsel and Company implemented in the year ended 30September 2015 the Annual Secretary acts as the Secretary to the Committee.
Details of advisers Remuneration Report to the Committee can be found on page 76.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee attends the AGM to respond to any The information set out on pages 59 to 77 of this DRR represents the shareholder questions that might be raised on the Remuneration auditable disclosures referred to in the auditors report on pages 80 Committees activities.
to 82 as specified by the UKLA and the 2013 Regulations, save for the TSR graph: Group Chief Executives remuneration history and remuneration percentage change tables: spend on pay table: details of advice provided to the Committee and statement of shareholder voting.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 61 Corporate governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT REMUNERATION POLICY The voting outcome at the 2015 AGM in respect of the DRR As set out in the Annual Statement, the Policy set out on pages 62 to for the year ended 30 September 2014 is set out on page 77 68 was approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM of the Company.
and reflected strong private and institutional shareholder Resolution 2 to adopt the Policy received 90.79% of the votes cast in support.
Major shareholders were consulted regarding changes favour of the resolution.
Although not a requirement, the Committee to the Remuneration Policy which took effect following approval has included the Policy in this years Report for ease of reference and by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
No changes are proposed to in the interest of transparency.
The underlying principles of the Policy the Policy this year and, as such, it is intended that the next vote remain unchanged, however, the Dilution Limits graphs on page 65, on the Companys Remuneration Policy will be put to shareholders the Illustrations of the Application of our Remuneration Policy graphs at the Companys 2018 AGM.
on page 66, the tables on page 69 and, where appropriate, references to page numbers have been updated to ensure that they remain Shareholders will be invited to approve the Annual Remuneration relevant to the year under review.
Report for the year ended 30 September 2015 which will be a non-binding advisory vote at the Companys 2016 AGM.
In line with the Resolution approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM, it is intended that the Policy will remain in force for three The Committee will continue to be mindful of the interests of years.
In accordance with the CA 2006 and the 2013 Regulations, shareholders and other stakeholders, and welcomes shareholder the Committee will next submit the policy to shareholders at the feedback on any issue related to executive remuneration.
The current Policy is also available at www.
REMUNERATION POLICY AND COMPONENTS The Committee reviews the Companys remuneration philosophy and structure to ensure that remuneration supports the Companys strategic objectives, is in line with best practice and can fairly reward individuals for the contribution that they make to the business.
In doing this, we have regard to the size and complexity of the Groups operations and the need to motivate and attract employees of the highest calibre.
We have tried to develop our policy to maintain stability in the executive team and to ensure appropriate positioning against our comparator groups.
Overall, we believe that the Policy is structured so that the executive directors are fairly rewarded, with the aim to keep reward at or around median and in line with appropriate benchmarks for the markets in which the Company operates.
We consider our approach to be moderate and that it will stand the test of time.
The Group has more than 500,000 employees in over 50 different jurisdictions, which means that formal consultation with employees in respect of remuneration is impracticable.
However, the Committee considers general pay and employment conditions of all employees within the Group and is sensitive to these, to prevailing market and economic conditions and to governance trends when assessing the level of salaries and remuneration packages of executive directors and other members of the Executive Board.
The total remuneration package links corporate and individual performance with an appropriate balance between short and long term elements, and fixed and variable components.
The Policy is designed to incentivise executives to meet the Companys key objectives, such that a significant portion of total remuneration is performance related, based on a mixture of internal targets linked to the Companys key business drivers which can be measured, understood and accepted by both executives and shareholders, with whom we consulted during 2014 when the Policy was being formulated for shareholders approval and appropriate external comparator groups.
The Committee considers that the targets set for the different components of performance related remuneration are both appropriate and sufficiently demanding in the context of the business environment and the challenges with which the Group is faced as well as complying with the provisions of the Code.
The Committee has the discretion to amend certain aspects of the Policy in exceptional circumstances when considered to be in the best interests of shareholders.
Should such discretion be used, this will be explained and reported in the DRR for the following year.
62 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 COMPONENT PARTS OF THE REMUNERATION PACKAGE The key components of executive directors remuneration for the period from 5 February 2015 and beyond the Policy Period are summarised below: Component and link to strategy Operation of the component Maximum opportunity Performance measures BASE SALARY Base salaries are reviewed annually with any Whilst there is no prescribed None.
increases normally taking effect on 1 January formulaic maximum, any increases Reflects the individuals of each year.
Salaries are appropriately will take into account prevailing role, experience and benchmarked and reflect the role, job size market and economic conditions contribution.
Set at levels to and responsibility as well as the performance and the approach to employee pay attract and retain individuals and effectiveness of the individual.
of the calibre required to lead the business.
Significant increases may occur when an executive director progresses in the role: gains substantially in experience: there is a significant increase in the scale of the role: has been recruited on a salary below the market median.
Where changes in responsibilities or significant variances to the market exist, these will be appropriately explained.
BENEFITS AND PENSION Benefits include, but are not limited to, The cost of providing these None.
To provide a competitive healthcare insurance for executive directors and benefits can vary in accordance their dependants, limited financial advice, life with market conditions, which level of benefits.
will, therefore, determine the maximum value.
These are offered to executive directors as part of a competitive remuneration package.
For the Companys defined contribution pension scheme or Executive directors are invited to participate cash allowance, the maximum in the Companys defined contribution pension annual contribution is 35% of scheme or to take a cash allowance in lieu of base salary.
The target award for executive Performance is measured ANNUAL BONUS The annual bonus is earned by the achievement of one year performance targets set by the directors excluding the Group over the financial year.
Incentivise and reward Chief Executive is 75% of base Performance measures Committee at the start of each financial year the achievement of and is delivered in cash.
salary, with a further maximum of are determined by the stretching one year key 75% of base salary available for Committee each year and performance targets set by The Committee retains the discretion to adjust enhanced performance.
0% of the may vary to ensure that they the Committee at the start the bonus outcomes to ensure that they reflect bonus pays out for below threshold promote the Companys long of each financial year.
In particular, performance but increases on a term business strategy and adjustments may be made for acquisitions and straight line basis to target payout.
Bonus measures dependent on The target award for the Group The bonus measures and Adjusted Free Cash Flow AFCF are subject to the caveat that AFCF should not be affected by Chief Executive is 100% of base their percentage weightings salary, with a further maximum of may vary, depending upon Board approved capital expenditure or other special or irregular timing differences.
a directors area of 0% of the bonus pays out for responsibility.
A supplementary financial underpin also applies below threshold performance but such that the amount payable pursuant to the Bonus measures may increases on a straight line basis achievement of the non-Profit Before Interest include, but are not limited to target payout.
and Tax PBIT measures may not exceed the to, profit, revenue and cash on target payment unless the threshold Group flow metrics.
Strategic PBIT measure has been achieved.
However, the overall The annual bonus is subject to malus and or metrics would always be clawback in the event of discovery of a material substantially weighted to misstatement in the accounts or in the financial performance assessment of a relevant performance condition measures.
or where the action or conduct of a participant amounts to fraud or serious misconduct or Annual bonus targets are set has a detrimental impact on the reputation with reference to internal of the Group.
budgets and analyst consensus forecasts, with maximum payout requiring performance well ahead of budget.
Details of the specific measures applying to each element of the bonus for the year being reported on and the following financial year are shown in the Annual Remuneration Report on pages 71 and 72.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 63 Corporate governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Component and link to strategy Operation of the component Maximum opportunity Performance measures LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN An annual conditional award of ordinary shares Awards may be made with the Performance is measured in the capital of the Company which may be following maximum levels: over three financial years.
LTIP earned after a single three year performance Incentivise and reward Performance measures Group Chief Executive: 250% period, based on the achievement of stretching executive directors for the are AFCF, improvement Other executive directors: 200% performance conditions.
delivery of longer term in ROCE and TSR, each For performance measures financial performance and Calculations of the achievement of the targets measure applying to one other than TSR, 0% of the shareholder value.
are independently performed and are approved third of an award.
award vests for below threshold by the Committee.
In order to ensure continued Relative TSR is measured performance, increasing to 50% Share based to provide alignment between executive directors and relative to the companies vesting on a straight line basis alignment with shareholder shareholders interests, the Committee also comprising the TSR for achievement of on target interests.
reviews the underlying financial performance comparator group at the performance, increasing to of the Group and retains its discretion to adjust start of the period the maximum vesting on a straight ADJUSTED FREE CASH FLOW vesting if it considers that performance is constituent members of line basis for achievement of AFCF unsatisfactory.
the FTSE 100, excluding maximum performance.
The generation of cash is In respect of awards made from 2014-2015 financial services fundamental to the ongoing The element of an award based on onwards, executive directors will be required to companies.
success of the Group and relative TSR will vest in full for top hold vested LTIP shares net of any shares sold the use of AFCF as an LTIP For awards made prior to quartile performance achievement to meet tax and social security liabilities for a performance measure 7 February 2013, 50% of and 25% of that element of the period of two years post vesting.
any award was based on award will vest if performance is at Dividend equivalents may be accrued on AFCF over the three year the median.
Awards will vest on a RETURN ON CAPITAL the shares earned from any awards after performance period and straight line basis between median EMPLOYED ROCE 5 February 2015.
50% on the Companys and top quartile performance In parallel, ROCE supports TSR over the same period achievement.
No shares will be Malus and clawback rules operate in respect the strategic focus on relative to the companies released for this element of an of the LTIP.
The Committee may decide at any growth and margins through comprising the TSR award if the Companys TSR time before an award vests, or for a period ensuring that cash is comparator group at the performance is below the median.
of three years after an award vests, that any reinvested to generate start of the relevant period.
participant will be subject to malus and or appropriate returns.
clawback in the event of discovery of a material LTIP targets are set with misstatement in the accounts or in the reference to internal budgets RELATIVE TOTAL assessment of a relevant performance and analysts consensus SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR condition, or where the action or conduct forecasts, with maximum The third performance of a participant amounts to fraud or serious payment requiring measure of TSR provides misconduct or has a detrimental impact on performance well ahead direct alignment between the reputation of the Group.
the interests of executive directors and shareholders.
Awards are delivered in shares.
However, the Details of the targets for rules contain excepted provisions to deliver LTIP awards vesting and value in cash if necessary for example, granted are set out as because of securities laws, subject to the required in the Annual discretion of the Committee, determined at Remuneration Report on any time up to their release.
In the event of a change of control, any unvested awards will vest immediately, subject to satisfaction of performance conditions and reduction on a time apportioned basis.
The executive directors Remuneration Policy differs from that of other members of the Executive Board solely in respect of quantum of the various components and remuneration.
Members of the wider leadership team receive each of the components of remuneration awarded to the executive directors.
The wider employee population of the Group will receive remuneration that is considered to be appropriate in relation to their geographic location, level of responsibility and performance.
64 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 CLOSED INCENTIVE PLANS SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES The LTIP described in the table on page 64 is the primary form of In order that their interests are linked with those of shareholders, equity incentive for executive directors.
There are no outstanding directors are expected to build up and maintain a personal awards to executive directors made prior to 2010 under the former shareholding in the Company.
long term incentive plan, being The Compass Group Long Term Under the guidelines, the Group Chief Executive is required to hold a Incentive Plan.
personal shareholding equal to the value of twice his base salary.
Other executive directors are required to hold a personal shareholding equal DILUTION LIMITS to the value of one and a half times their base salary, and members All of the Companys equity based incentive plans incorporate the of the Executive Board a personal shareholding equal to the value of current Investment Association Share Capital Management Guidelines their base salary.
Non-executive directors are required to hold a Guidelines on headroom which provide that overall dilution under all personal shareholding equal to the value of their base fee.
plans should not exceed 10% over a 10 year period in relation to the For executive directors, the guideline shareholding may be achieved by Companys issued share capital or reissue of treasury shares, with retaining shares received as a result of participating in the Companys a further limitation of 5% in any 10 year period for executive plans.
The guidance specifically excludes the need to make a The Committee monitors the position regularly and prior to the making personal investment should awards not vest.
Non-executive directors of any award, to ensure that the Company remains within these limits.
are expected to purchase shares equating to a minimum value of one Any awards which are required to be satisfied by market purchased third of their net of tax fee each year until the guideline is met.
The shares are excluded from such calculations.
On 30 September 2015, required level of shareholding is expected to be achieved within a four the Company held 8,796,228 treasury shares.
During the financial year period commencing from date of appointment.
year ended 30 September 2015, 756,579 treasury shares were Directors shareholdings are reviewed annually by the Remuneration utilised for the purpose of satisfying the Companys obligations under Committee to ensure that directors are on course to achieve their the Groups employee equity incentive schemes.
As at 30 September guideline shareholding within the period required.
However, if it 2015, the Companys headroom position, which remains within current becomes apparent to the Committee that the guideline is unlikely to Guidelines, was as shown in the charts below: be met within the timeframe, then the Committee will discuss with the director a plan to ensure that the guideline is met over an acceptable 10% IN 10 YEARS 5% IN 10 YEARS timeframe.
The granting of future LTIP awards to an executive director will be conditional upon reaching the appropriate threshold in the 3 required timeframe.
3 Details of the interests of directors in shares and equity incentives 1 are set out on page 76, together with the extent to which each of the 2 directors has complied with the guidelines as at 30 September 2015.
LTIP 1.20% Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 65 Corporate governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Each of the bars is broken down to show how the total under each ILLUSTRATIONS OF APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY scenario is made up of fixed elements of remuneration, the annual The graphs below show an estimate of the remuneration that could be bonus and the LTIP.
received by executive directors under the Policy set out in this Report.
Each bar gives an indication of the minimum amount of remuneration payable, remuneration payable at target performance and remuneration payable at maximum performance to each director under the Policy.
RICHARD COUSINS DOMINIC BLAKEMORE ILLUSTRATION OF PACKAGE ILLUSTRATION OF PACKAGE Maximum 24% 34% 42% TOTAL 6.0M Maximum 28% 31% 41% TOTAL 3.1M Target 37% 27% 36% TOTAL 3.8M Target 43% 23% 34% TOTAL 2.0M Minimum 100% TOTAL 1.4M Minimum 100% TOTAL 0.9M 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 5.0 5.5 6.0 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 1 GARY GREEN JOHNNY THOMSON ILLUSTRATION OF PACKAGE ILLUSTRATION OF PACKAGE Maximum 29% 30% 41% TOTAL 3.9M Maximum 29% 30% 41% TOTAL 2.8M Target 44% 23% 33% TOTAL 2.6M Target 44% 23% 33% TOTAL 1.9M Minimum Minimum 100% TOTAL 1.1M 100% TOTAL 0.8M 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 FIXED ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION ANNUAL BONUS LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN The scenarios in the above graphs are defined as follows: Minimum performance Target performance Maximum performance FIXED ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION Base salary as at 30 September 2015 Estimated value of benefits provided under the Remuneration Policy Cash supplement in lieu of pension of 35% of base salary ANNUAL BONUS 0% 50% 100% payout as a % maximum opportunity 2 LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 0% 54% 100% vesting as a % maximum opportunity 1 Note that Gary Greens elements of pay are converted into sterling with an exchange rate of $1.5482 1 as used elsewhere in the Annual Report.
2 Based on AFCF and ROCE performance measures vesting at 50% of maximum and the TSR measure paying out at 62.5% of maximum midway between threshold and maximum payout.
66 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE AGREEMENTS The Committee will apply the same remuneration policy during the It is the Companys policy that executive directors have rolling Policy Period as that which applies to existing executive directors when service contracts.
considering the recruitment of a new executive director in respect of all The current executive directors service contracts contain the key elements of remuneration, that is: salary, benefits, pension and short terms shown in the table below: and long term incentives.
It is envisaged that the maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted to a new executive SERVICE CONTRACT KEY TERMS BY PROVISION director would be within plan rules and identical to the intended policy Provision Detailed terms maximum opportunity for existing executive directors and the Group REMUNERATION Base salary, pension and benefits Chief Executive.
The recommended maximum awards permissible Company car or cash allowance under the LTIP are 200% and 250% of base salary in respect of the Private health insurance for director and dependants bonus and LTIP opportunity per annum respectively.
However, in Life assurance Financial planning advice exceptional circumstances, the rules allow for a maximum of 400% 25 days paid annual leave of base salary to be utilised for the LTIP opportunity.
Participation in annual bonus plan, subject to Other arrangements may be established specifically to facilitate plan rules Participation in LTIP, subject to plan rules recruitment of a particular individual, albeit that any such arrangement CHANGE OF No special contractual provisions apply in the event would be made within the context of minimising the cost to the CONTROL of a change of control Company.
The policy for the recruitment of executive directors NOTICE PERIOD 12 months notice from the Company during the Policy Period includes the opportunity to provide a level 6 months notice from the director 12 months from of compensation for forfeiture of bonus entitlements and or unvested Richard Cousins long term incentive awards from an existing employer, if any, and the TERMINATION Payment in lieu of notice equal to: additional provision of benefits in kind, pensions and other allowances, PAYMENT 1 2 months base salary such as relocation, education and tax equalisation, as may be required Pension supplement in order to achieve a successful recruitment.
Any arrangement 1 0% of base salary in respect of benefits All of the above would be paid in monthly instalments, established specifically to facilitate recruitment of a particular subject to an obligation on the part of the director to individual would be intended to be of comparable commercial value mitigate his loss such that payments will either reduce, or and capped as appropriate.
The quantum, form and structure of any cease completely, in the event that the director gains new buyout arrangement will be determined by the Committee taking into employment remuneration.
account the terms of the previous arrangement being forfeited.
RESTRICTIVE During employment and for 12 months after leaving COVENANTS The buyout may be structured as an award of cash or shares.
However, the Committee will normally have a preference for replacement awards The historic policy on the payment of bonus on termination, which was to be made in the form of shares, deliverable no earlier than the in place prior to June 2008, was the provision of a payment, at par or previous awards.
Where an executive director is appointed from either target, of bonus in respect of the notice period, where the Company within the Company or following corporate activity reorganisation, the exercised its right to make a payment in lieu of notice.
Messrs Cousins, normal policy would be to honour any legacy arrangements in line with Green and Martins service contracts are based on this historic policy.
the original terms and conditions.
After careful consideration, the Committee concluded that it would not The policy on the recruitment of new non-executive directors during the be in shareholders interests to migrate such contracts onto the policy Policy Period would be to apply the same remuneration elements as for in place since June 2008.
Dominic Blakemore and Johnny Thomsons the existing non-executive directors.
It is not intended that variable service contracts fully comply with the policy in effect from June pay, day rates or benefits in kind be offered, although in exceptional 2008.
All executive directors service contracts impose a clear circumstances such remuneration may be required in currently obligation to mitigate such payment should a departing executive unforeseen circumstances.
director take on new employment or receive alternative remuneration.
The Committee believes the obligation to mitigate adequately The Committee will include in future Annual Reports details of the addresses the issue.
implementation of the Policy as utilised during the Policy Period in respect of any such recruitment to the Board.
All of the executive directors service contracts, with the exception of that of Johnny Thomson who will be appointed to the Board on 1 December 2015, were entered into before 27 June 2012 and have not been modified or renewed on or after that date.
As such, remuneration payments or payments for loss of office that are required to be made under them are not required to be but are consistent with the Policy.
Johnny Thomsons service contract fully complies with the Policy.
Whilst unvested awards will normally lapse, the Committee may in its absolute discretion allow for awards to continue until the normal vesting date and be satisfied, subject to achievement of the attendant performance conditions.
In such circumstances, awards vesting will normally be prorated on a time apportioned basis, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 67 Corporate governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Any such discretion in respect of leavers would only be applied Subject to a cap on the maximum amount of fees payable to any by the Committee to good leavers where it considers that continued non-executive director of 125,000 per annum, an additional fee of participation is justified, for example, by reference to prior performance 22,000 per annum is payable where a non-executive director acts as to the date of leaving.
The malus and clawback provisions would Chairman of either the Audit or Remuneration Committee and 12,000 continue to apply in the event that any such discretion was exercised.
is payable to the Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
An additional fee of 27,000 per annum is also payable to the director Details of Andrew Martins exit arrangements are set out on page 75. nominated as Senior Independent Director.
Non-executive directors are Service contracts outline the components of remuneration paid not eligible for pension scheme membership, bonus, incentive arrangements or other benefits, save reimbursement of travel costs.
to the individual but do not prescribe how remuneration levels may be adjusted from year to year.
Non-executive directors have letters of engagement setting out their The senior executives who are members of the Executive Board, and duties and the time commitment expected.
They are appointed for an initial period of three years, after which the appointment is renewable who are referred to in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements on page 99, have similar service contracts.
at three year intervals by mutual consent.
In accordance with the Code, all directors offer themselves for annual re-election by shareholders.
The executive directors have served on the Board for the periods Details of non-executive directors appointments, which are terminable shown below and have service agreements dated as follows: without compensation, are set out in the table below, together with the Length of Board dates on which their appointments have been formally revised: service as at Date of contract 30 Sep 2015 Total length of Original date of Letter of service as at Dominic Blakemore 12 December 2011 3 years, 7 months Non-executive director appointment engagement 30 Sep 2015 Richard Cousins 22 November 2007 9 years, 5 months Carol Arrowsmith 1 Jun 2014 14 May 2014 1 year, Gary Green 27 November 2007 8 years, 9 months 4 months Andrew Martin 27 November 2007 11 years, 6 months John Bason 21 Jun 2011 10 May 2011 4 years, Johnny Thomson will be appointed to the Board on 1 December 2015 pursuant 7 May 2014 3 months to a service agreement dated 23 September 2015.
Susan Murray 11 Oct 2007 11 Oct 2007 8 years 16 Mar 2010 8 May 2013 CHAIRMAN Don Robert 8 May 2009 8 May 2009 6 years, The fee for the Chairman is reviewed annually by the Committee with 8 May 2012 5 months any increase taking effect on 1 October the date was changed from 11 Mar 2015 1 July so as to align the review of the Chairmans fees with that of Sir Ian Robinson 1 Dec 2006 1 Dec 2006 8 years, the non-executive directors fees.
In addition to his annual fee, the 21 Sep 2009 10 months Chairman is paid a cash sum in lieu of provision by the Company of 14 Nov 2012 a car and chauffeur for use on Company business.
The Chairman Nelson Silva 16 July 2015 16 July 2015 3 months is not entitled to any benefits in kind and is not eligible for pension Ireena Vittal 16 July 2015 16 July 2015 3 months scheme membership, bonus or incentive arrangements.
The Date on which appointment was formally revised.
Chairmans appointment is terminable without compensation on six months notice from either side.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The fees for the non-executive directors are reviewed and determined by the Board each year to reflect appropriate market conditions.
No increase was effected during the year under review.
The fees for the year ended 30 September 2015 comprised a base fee of 84,000 per annum, which includes membership of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
68 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION IN DETAIL FOR THE YEAR ENDED In the year ended 30 September 2015, Mr Cousins received 2% salary 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 and 38% bonus more than the equivalent amounts for the year ended 30 September 2014.
He received 4.76% more in taxable benefits in TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR 2014-2015 than in the previous year.
The average percentage changes The performance graph below shows the Companys TSR performance for all full-time equivalent employees based in the UK were 0.96% against the performance of the FTSE 100 over the seven year period increase, 22% decrease and 7.3% increase respectively.
The FTSE 100 Index has been chosen as employee workforce was chosen as the most suitable comparator group a broad equity market index of which the Company has been a as Mr Cousins is based in the UK and pay changes across the Group constituent member throughout the period.
vary widely depending on local market conditions.
However, the nature of Mr Cousins global role and responsibilities makes meaningful TOTAL RETURN INDICES COMPASS V FTSE 100 comparisons with any group of employees difficult and due caution SEPTEMBER should be exercised in this regard.
400 RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The following table sets out the amounts paid in share buybacks, 300 dividends and total employee costs for the years ended 30 September 2014 and 2015.
2015 2014 Change Dispersals m m % 200 1 Share buybacks 328 280 17.1 2 Dividends paid 457 444 2.9 3 Return of Cash Nil 1,000 100 100 4 5 Total employee costs 7,959 7,794 2.1 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 COMPASS FTSE 100 1 During the year ended 30 September 2014, 11.3 million shares were repurchased in completion of the 400 million buyback programme announced on 21 November 2012 and 18.2 million shares were repurchased under the 500 million buyback announced on 27 November 2013.
A further 30.09 million shares were repurchased under the 500 million buyback during the year ended 30 September PAY FOR PERFORMANCE 2015.
The 500 million buyback completed on 10 August 2015.
The total number The Committee believes that the executive director remuneration policy of shares purchased under the 500 million buyback was 48,291,944.
A further 4,345,656 million shares were repurchased from 1 October 2015 up to the date of and the supporting reward structure provide a clear alignment with the this Report.
Shares repurchased by the Company from 17 June 2015 onward have strategic objectives and performance of the Company.
To maintain this been held in treasury and used to satisfy the Companys obligations under the relationship, the Committee constantly reviews the business priorities Companys employee equity incentive schemes.
Shares held in treasury are not eligible to participate in dividends and do not carry any voting rights.
and the environment in which the Company operates.
The table below 2 The total dividend paid during the year ended 30 September 2014 was shows Richard Cousins total remuneration over the last seven years 444 million and share capital in issue on that date was 1,674 million ordinary and his achieved annual variable and long term incentive pay awards shares.
The total dividend paid during the year ended 30 September 2015 was 457 million and share capital in issue on that date was 1,657 million ordinary as a percentage of the plan maxima.
The full year dividend per ordinary share for the year ended 30 September Annual variable 2015 increased by 10.9%.
element: award LTIP vesting 3 The Company returned 1 billion to shareholders in July 2014, accompanied by a Single figure payout against rates against share capital consolidation, comprising a return of 56 pence per ordinary share prior of total maximum maximum to such consolidation.
remuneration opportunity opportunity 4 Total employee costs for continuing and discontinued operations includes wages Richard Cousins 000 % % and salaries, social security costs, share-based payments and pension costs for all 1 2015 5,325 88.7 79 employees, including directors.
The average number of employees, including 2 2014 6,298 87.3 100 directors and part-time employees in continuing and discontinued operations, 3 during 2015 was 515,864 2014: 503,537 restated.
2 LTIP indicative vesting amount of 3.643 million was disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report.
3 LTIP indicative vesting amount of 2.960 million was disclosed in the 2013 Annual Report.
4 LTIP indicative vesting amount of 2.451 million was disclosed in the 2012 Annual Report.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 69 Corporate governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION The table below sets out in a single figure the total amount of remuneration, including each element, received by each of the executive directors in office for the year ended 30 September 2015.
2 Salary increases of 14.3%, 2%, 3% and 3% for Messrs Blakemore, Cousins, Green and Martin respectively were implemented on 1 January 2015.
3 Taxable benefits comprise healthcare insurance, limited financial advice, life assurance and car benefit.
4 Details of the performance measures and weighting as well as achieved results for the bonus and LTIP components are shown below.
5 LTIP 2015: amount shown is the vesting value as at 24 November 2015 the date of vesting of LTIPs that have become receivable as a result of the achievement of conditions relating to performance in the three years ended 30 September 2015, calculated in accordance with the 2013 Regulations.
6 LTIP 2014: amount shown is the indicative vesting value on 26 November 2014.
The actual value subsequently received by Messrs Cousins and Martin, based on a sale price of 1064.2037 pence on 28 November 2014, was 3,657,881 and 1,662,137 respectively.
On 28 November 2014, Messrs Blakemore and Green disposed of 53,866 and 150,000 shares respectively at 1064.2037 pence each: had they sold their vested awards in full, they would have received 1,222,046 and 2,070,046 respectively.
Theoretically, if all of the directors had chosen to sell their 2014 LTIP award in full, this would have equated to a combined total of 8,612,110, or 34,017 more than the indicative value reported.
7 Pension: a supplement of 35% of base salary is paid in monthly instalments in lieu of pension participation.
The annual rate of base salaries of the executive directors in office for the year ended 30 September 2015 were: Director Base salary Effective date Increase Reason Dominic Blakemore 600,000 1 January 2015 14.3% Progression in the role: gain in experience Richard Cousins 1,014,354 1 January 2015 2% Benchmarked v comparator group Gary Green US$1,241,337 1 January 2015 3% Benchmarked v comparator group Andrew Martin 669,500 1 January 2015 3% Benchmarked v comparator group The annual rate of base salaries of the executive directors in office on 1 January 2016 are: Director Base salary Effective date Increase Reason 1 Dominic Blakemore 640,000 1 December 2015 6.66% Changes in responsibility and role Richard Cousins 1,044,785 1 January 2016 3% Benchmarked v comparator group Gary Green US$1,294,000 1 January 2016 4.24% Benchmarked v comparator group 2 Johnny Thomson 575,000 1 December 2015 Benchmarked v comparator group 1 As announced on 24 September 2015, Dominic Blakemore will be appointed Group Chief Operating Officer, Europe on 1 December 2015.
As a result of a change in his role and responsibilities, Mr Blakemore will be awarded a 6.66% increase in his base annual salary from that date.
2 Johnny Thomson will be appointed to the Board on 1 December 2015.
Prior to the appointment being made, the Committee asked PWC to perform a benchmarking review of salaries for peer roles in FTSE 50 companies.
In line with the Policy, the Committee adopted a moderate approach when determining the level of remuneration to be paid, having regard to the findings of the benchmarking report and, bearing in mind that it will be Mr Thomsons first role as a Group Finance Director of a listed company.
The salary on appointment has been set at 575,000 per annum, which is below the median for comparable FTSE 50 roles with the aim of making incremental increases if considered appropriate to reflect experience and progression in the role and to bring Mr Thomsons base salary in line with that of his FTSE peers.
Mr Thomson will be entitled to a relocation allowance from Brazil to the UK of 50,000.
His bonus and LTIP opportunities are in line with the Policy at 150% and 200% of base salary respectively.
Non-executive directors receive fees only, which are shown on page 75, together with the Chairmans fees and benefits.
The aggregate total amount of remuneration received by all directors in office during the year ended 30 September 2015 is shown below: 2015 2014 000 000 Executive directors 13,924 16,579 Chairman and non-executive directors 1,064 1,002 Total 14,988 17,581 70 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 2014-2015 BONUS PERFORMANCE MEASURE OUTCOMES The financial targets for the bonus for the year ended 30 September 2015, and the extent to which they were achieved, were as set out below.
The achievement of targets is calculated on a straight line basis between Minimum and Par target and between Par target and Maximum.
As was the case for previous years, the measurement of the achievement of the AFCF and PBIT results is based on the underlying outcome achieved in the financial year, so that charges, such as those related to the Emerging markets and Offshore & Remote restructuring announced on 29 July 2015 EM & OR charge, are usually excluded.
1 Financial measures Minimum Par target Maximum Achieved 2 PBIT 1,274m 1,300m 1,326m 1,327m 3 AFCF 710m 724m 738m 738m Revenue growth 3.4% 4.4% 5.4% 5.6% 1 Financial measures for 2014-2015 bonus purposes are all set at 2015 budget rates, not actuals.
2 PBIT is underlying Profit Before Interest and Tax.
3 AFCF is Adjusted Free Cash Flow.
HSE improvement 2014-2015 Target 2014-2015 achieved Target achieved Lost Time Injury Rate 4.91 4.36 Yes Food Safety Incident Rate 0.35 0.34 Yes The resultant percentages against each of the bonus measures achieved by each executive director are shown below: Dominic Blakemore Richard Cousins Gary Green Andrew Martin % of performance % of performance % of performance % of performance Measure target achieved target achieved target achieved target achieved 1 PBIT 48.7 55 48.7 55 59.4 60 38.65 55 AFCF 15 15 15 15 2 MAWC 15 15 4.33 15 3 ORG 25 25 25 25 25 25 24.72 25 4 4 5 HSE 0 5 0 5 5 5 5 Total 88.7 88.7 94.4 72.7 1 Messrs Blakemore, Cousins, Green and Martins entitlements to any bonus related to the achievement of Group PBIT were exceptionally reduced to exclude the costs, as well as the benefits, borne and delivered during the year of the EM & OR charge, such that the Group PBIT element of the bonus payment was reduced.
2 MAWC is 12 months Average Working Capital balance.
3 ORG is Organic Revenue Growth.
4 Messrs Blakemore and Cousins entitlements to any bonus related to the achievement of HSE related targets were reduced to zero to recognise that the Group had suffered three fatalities during the year, one in Argentina and two in the USA, which had occurred whilst each employee had been at work, albeit that management were not considered to be culpable, but this recognises the seriousness with which the Company takes HSE outcomes.
5 HSE for the North American business is measured through PBIT.
Mr Green waived 2.5% of his bonus to recognise that the North American business had suffered two fatalities during the year, which had occurred whilst each employee had been at work, albeit that management were not considered to be culpable, but this recognises the seriousness with which the Company takes HSE outcomes.
BONUS PAYOUT The outcome of the annual bonus for the year ended 30 September 2015 was due to the strong underlying financial performance aligned with the delivery of the Groups long term strategy.
The table below shows the resulting payout to each executive director in office during the year in such capacity: 2014-2015 bonus payment as % of base salary Value of bonus Dominic Blakemore 133.02% 798,120 Richard Cousins 177.36% 1,799,058 Gary Green 141.65% US$1,758,292 Andrew Martin 109.09% 730,391 No discretion was applied by the Committee in respect of directors bonuses for the year under review.
The rules of the current annual bonus plan do not include any deferment of payment of any element of the same.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 71 Corporate governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 2015-2016 BONUS PERFORMANCE MEASURES The annual bonus elements for executive directors for the year ending 30 September 2016 are: 7 Measure Dominic Blakemore Richard Cousins Gary Green Johnny Thomson 1 2 1 2 PBIT 55% 55% 60% 55% AFCF 15% 15% 3 3 MAWC 15% 15% 4 5 4 5 ORG 25% 25% 25% 25% 6 HSE 5% 5% 5% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 1 PBIT split between Group PBIT and PBIT for region of responsibility Mr Blakemore: 5% Group 50% Regional, Mr Green: 5% Group 55% Regional.
3 MAWC for region of responsibility.
4 ORG for region of responsibility.
6 HSE for the North American business is measured through PBIT.
7 Johnny Thomson will become the Group Finance Director on 1 December 2015.
The Committee has set the targets for the annual bonus plan for the year ended 30 September 2016 but has chosen not to disclose the details in this Report, as it is the opinion of the Committee that it may be seriously prejudicial to the interests of the Company to do so, and our major competitors do not disclose their targets or projected forecasts.
However, the specific targets and the extent to which the targets have been met will be disclosed in next years Report.
LONG TERM INCENTIVE AWARDS During the year ended 30 September 2015, executive directors received a conditional award of shares which may vest after a three year performance period which will end on 30 September 2017, based on the achievement of stretching performance conditions.
The maximum levels achievable under these awards are set out in the table below: 1 LTIP award Face value of award Director as a % of base salary 000 Dominic Blakemore 200% 1,200 Richard Cousins 250% 2,536 Gary Green 200% 1,497 Andrew Martin 200% 1,339 1 Face value of award as at the date of grant on 6 February 2015 based on the market price of 1145.00 pence per share on that day.
In accordance with the Companys Share Ownership Guidelines, executive directors are required to hold vested awards for a period of two years following vesting so as to further strengthen the long term alignment of executives remuneration packages with shareholders interests and, if required, to facilitate malus and clawback.
As detailed on page 75, at the discretion of the Committee and in view of his exceptional past performance, Mr Martins award granted on 6 February 2015 will be permitted to vest in 2017, subject to the achievement of corporate performance targets, and he will be released from his obligation to hold the vested award for two years thereafter.
The table below sets out the performance measures for the awards: Definition of measure Weighting Adjusted FCF Adjusted FCF includes capital expenditure, net interest and net tax spend but excludes discontinued activities, acquisition spend, disposal proceeds, and unusual or irregular timing differences.
ROCE achievement The definition aims to measure the underlying economic performance of the Company.
ROCE is calculated using constant currency values for the underlying operating profit, net of tax at the underlying rate for the year, and after profit relating to non-controlling interests.
The capital employed figure excludes the post-employment benefit asset liability, net of deferred tax, impaired goodwill, amortised intangibles arising on acquisitions and the net assets relating to non-controlling interests.
TSR Performance compared to that of constituent members of the FTSE 100 excluding financial services companies.
TSR is the aggregate of share price growth and dividends paid assuming reinvestment of those dividends in the Companys shares during the three year performance period.
In setting the performance targets, the Committee considers internal budgets and the Groups strategic plan, market expectations and general economic conditions.
The table opposite shows the targets against which performance has been measured to determine the vesting of the grant of awards for the year ended 30 September 2015 and forms part of the Policy detailed in the Policy Report on pages 62 to 68.
72 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 TARGETS FOR AWARDS VESTED IN RESPECT OF THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 AFCF AND ROCE TARGETS AFCF TARGET Level of performance Vesting % of each component AFCF Threshold 0% 2,246m Maximum 100% 2,482m ROCE TARGET Level of performance Vesting % of each component ROCE Threshold 0% 17.9% Median 25% 19.6% TSR TARGET Level of performance Vesting % of each component Below Median 0% Median 25% Upper Quartile 100% The table below shows the targets against which performance will be measured to determine the vesting of the grant of awards for the year ending 30 September 2016 and forms part of the Policy detailed in the Policy Report on pages 62 to 68.
TARGETS FOR AWARDS MADE IN THE YEAR ENDING 30 SEPTEMBER 2016 AFCF AND ROCE TARGETS AFCF AND ROCE TARGETS Level of performance Vesting % of each component AFCF ROCE Threshold 0% 2,220m 18.71% Par target 50% 2,337m 19.21% Maximum 100% 2,454m 19.71% TSR TARGET Level of performance Vesting % of each component Below Median 0% Median 25% Upper Quartile 100% Such awards are intended to be made on 25 November 2015.
The vesting of the shares under each performance condition is independent.
Therefore, the total vesting amount is based on the relevant percentage achievement for each performance measure.
Awards vest on a straight line basis between Threshold and Par and between Par and Maximum.
If performance under a component does not reach the Threshold level, vesting for that component will be nil.
At the end of the performance period, the Committee will review the underlying financial performance of the Company and retain its discretion to adjust vesting if it considers that financial performance is unsatisfactory.
The Committee will review annually whether the measures and targets described above remain appropriate and challenging.
Calculations of the achievement of the targets will be independently performed and approved by the Committee.
The Committee will retain discretion to adjust for material events which occur during the performance period and will make full and clear disclosure of any such adjustments in the DRR, together with details of the achieved AFCF, ROCE and TSR performance, as determined by the above definitions, at the end of the performance period.
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN PERFORMANCE 85% of the TSR, 78% of AFCF and 74% of the ROCE performance measures were achieved at the end of the three year performance period, such that 79% of the LTIP awards made during the 2012-2013 financial year vested.
Shares will be delivered to individuals following the release of the preliminary results for the year ended 30 September 2015.
2012-2013 LTIP PERFORMANCE PERIOD ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 AND VESTED 24 NOVEMBER 2015 Performance conditions Value of shares TSR % vested AFCF % vested ROCE % vested Number of Number of on vesting date 1 Director on maturity on maturity on maturity shares awarded shares vested 000 Dominic Blakemore 85% 78% 74% 92,664 73,203 791 Richard Cousins 85% 78% 74% 248,517 196,327 2,120 Gary Green 85% 78% 74% 142,728 112,754 1,218 Andrew Martin 85% 78% 74% 125,481 99,128 1,071 1 TSR ranking was 25th in its comparator group.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 73 Corporate governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The table below sets out the percentage of each LTIP award made to executive directors within the last five years which has vested and the percentage of each extant award, had it vested on 30 September 2015: TSR % vested on maturity or ROCE % vested AFCF % vested Year of award Maturity date Performance conditions indicative vesting percentage on maturity on maturity 2010-2011 1 Oct 2013 TSR AFCF 96.1% n a 100% 2011-2012 1 Oct 2014 TSR AFCF 100% n a 100% 2012-2013 1 Oct 2015 TSR AFCF ROCE 85% after 36 months 74% after 36 months 78% after 36 months 2013-2014 1 Oct 2016 TSR AFCF ROCE 67.9% after 24 months 32% after 24 months 22% after 24 months 2014-2015 1 Oct 2017 TSR AFCF ROCE 51.3% after 12 months 0% after 12 months 29% after 12 months AFCF targets for each of the last three years are shown within note 24 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 130 to 134.
EXTANT EQUITY INCENTIVE AWARDS HELD BY EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Details of all existing equity incentive awards as at the date of this Report, including the awards conditionally made under the long term incentive plans to the executive directors in office during the year ended 30 September 2015, are shown in the table below.
One third of each award granted from 7 February 2013 is based on a three year AFCF target, one third on a ROCE improvement target and one third on growth in the Companys TSR relative to the FTSE 100, excluding its financial services constituents.
Aggregate gross gains realised by Messrs Blakemore, Cousins, Green and Martin were 8,612,110 in the year ended 30 September 2015.
The closing share price at the time of release of their awards was 1064.00 pence per share.
The market price on 24 November 2015, the date of vesting of the award made on 12 February 2013, was 1080.00 pence per share.
All awards were granted for nil consideration.
The highest mid-market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year ended 30 September 2015 was 1223.36 pence per share and the lowest was 924.40 pence per share.
The year end price was 1053.00 pence per share.
As detailed on page 75, at the discretion of the Committee in view of his exceptional past performance, Mr Martins award granted on 6 February 2015 will be permitted to vest in 2017, subject to the achievement of corporate performance targets, and he will be released from his obligation to hold the vested award for two years thereafter.
74 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 PENSIONS At 30 September 2015, there were no executive directors actively participating in any Compass Group defined benefit pension arrangements and none of the executive directors were accruing additional entitlement to benefit under any arrangements that existed prior to their appointment as executive directors.
Dominic Blakemore, Richard Cousins and Gary Green each receive a salary supplement equal to 35% of their base salaries in lieu of pension.
Andrew Martin has, since 6 April 2006, received a salary supplement equal to 35% of his base salary and has waived all rights to his final salary pension, money purchase pension and unfunded unapproved pension relating to his employment prior to that date.
Johnny Thomson will receive a salary supplement equal to 35% of his base salary in lieu of pension.
EXIT PAYMENTS No executive directors left the Company during the year ended 30 September 2015 and therefore no payments for compensation for loss of office were paid to, or receivable by, any director 30 September 2014: nil.
No payments other than regular pension benefits which were commenced in previous years were made during the year ended 30 September 2015 to any past director of the Company.
As announced on 16 July 2015, Sir Ian Robinson will step down from the Board and its committees at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
Other than the fees payable to Sir Ian for the period up to 4 February 2016, no remuneration or payment has been or will be made to him in connection with his ceasing to be a director of the Company.
In accordance with section 430 2b of the CA 2006 430 2b, a statement to this effect will be posted on the Companys website as soon as reasonably practicable following the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
As further announced on 24 September 2015, Andrew Martin will step down from the Board on 1 December 2015.
Mr Martin will receive his current salary and benefits, as well as bonus for the transitional period from 1 October 2015 to 31 December 2015 during which time he will be supporting the transition of Mr Blakemore.
Thereafter, he will receive a sum equivalent to his contractual entitlement based on 12 months base salary, on target bonus and pre-determined benefits in lieu of notice.
Mr Martins service contract was entered into in 2007 and included the payment of on target bonus in the calculation of his contractual entitlement.
Service contracts entered into since summer 2008 do not contain any element of bonus in contractual entitlements in the calculation of payment in lieu of notice.
The Remuneration Committee has also decided that it is appropriate to exercise its discretion, in view of his exceptional past performance, to allow Mr Martins final LTIP award granted on 6 February 2015 to vest in 2017, subject to the achievement of corporate performance targets, and he will be released from his obligation to hold the vested award for two years thereafter.
A 430 2b statement will also be posted on the Companys website in connection with Mr Martin ceasing to be a director of the Company as soon as reasonably practicable after 1 December 2015.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Executive directors may take up one non-executive directorship outside of the Group subject to the Boards approval, provided that such appointment is not likely to lead to a conflict of interest.
It is recognised that non-executive duties can broaden experience and knowledge which can benefit the Company.
Dominic Blakemore, Richard Cousins and Andrew Martin received fees of 127,235, 81,818 and 60,000 during the year in respect of their directorships of Shire plc, Tesco PLC and easyJet plc respectively, which they were permitted to retain.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Chairman, Paul Walsh, had a letter of engagement dated 19 June 2013 in respect of his original appointment as a non-executive director for a period of three years from 1 January 2014.
Mr Walsh became Chairman at the conclusion of the AGM on 6 February 2014.
He received a base fee of 81,000 per annum initially, increasing to 475,000 per annum on his appointment as Chairman.
In addition, 50,000 plus VAT per annum is paid in lieu of the provision by the Company of a car and chauffeur for use on Company business.
Following consideration by the Committee during the year ended 30 September 2015, the Chairmans fee of 475,000 per annum, which was set at the time of his appointment, was increased to 500,000 per annum with effect from 1 October 2015.
Details of amounts received by Paul Walsh during the year ended 30 September 2015 are shown below: 1 Fees Benefits 2015 2014 Chairman 000 000 000 000 Paul Walsh 475 50 525 368 1 Benefits comprise payment in lieu of the provision by the Company of a car and chauffeur for use on Company business.
Details of the fees paid to each of the non-executive directors in office for the year ended 30 September 2015 are set out below: 2015 2014 000 000 1 Carol Arrowsmith 106 34 John Bason 106 103 Susan Murray 96 93 2 Don Robert 84 81 2 Sir Ian Robinson 111 121 3 Nelson Silva 18 3 Ireena Vittal 18 Total 539 432 1 Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2014.
2 Sir Ian Robinson stepped down as the SID on 1 October 2015 and was succeeded by Don Robert.
The respective changes will be reflected in the fees disclosed in the 2016 Annual Report.
3 Appointed to the Board on 16 July 2015.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 75 Corporate governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES AND DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES In order that their interests are linked with those of shareholders, directors are expected to build up and maintain a personal shareholding in the Company as set out in the share ownership guidelines as described on page 65 of the Policy.
The Committee reviewed and noted that the guidelines were satisfied by all directors in office during the year.
The interests of the directors in office during the year ended 30 September 2015 in shares and share incentives are shown in the table below: Beneficial Conditional Shares held Shares held LTIP holdings LTIP holdings Compliance with as at 30 Sep as at 30 Sep as at 30 Sep as at 30 Sep Shareholding shareholding 1 2 3 Director 2015 2014 2015 2014 required guidelines Carol Arrowsmith 7,503 4,035 n a n a 1 x John Bason 10,823 10,714 n a n a 1 x 4 Dominic Blakemore 60,966 275,556 285,586 1.5 x Richard Cousins 1,515,815 1,515,815 679,428 801,673 2 x Gary Green 365,819 471,725 395,133 458,864 1.5 x 5 5 Andrew Martin 500,000 611,764 348,171 387,414 1.5 x Susan Murray 12,234 12,234 n a n a 1 x Don Robert 28,235 28,235 n a n a 1 x Sir Ian Robinson 14,117 14,117 n a n a 1 x 4 Nelson Silva 8,200 n a n a 1 x 4 Ireena Vittal n a n a 1 x Paul Walsh 21,411 11,411 n a n a 1 x 1 Following the Return of Cash and associated Share Capital Consolidation of 8 July 2014 whereby 17 ordinary shares of 10 pence each were replaced by 16 new ordinary shares 5 of 10 8 pence each in the Company.
2 As a multiple of base salary or fee.
3 Requirement to achieve within four year period commencing from date of appointment.
4 Dominic Blakemore was appointed to the Board in February 2013.
Ireena Vittal and Nelson Silva were appointed to the Board in July 2015.
Mrs Vittal and Mr Blakemore are intending to progressively build up their share ownership in the Company.
5 As detailed on page 75, at the discretion of the Committee, Mr Martins LTIP award granted on 6 February 2015 will be permitted to vest in 2017, subject to the achievement of corporate performance targets and in view of his exceptional past performance, and he will be released from his obligation to hold the vested award for two years thereafter.
Interests shown include the interests of connected persons.
There were no changes in directors interests between 30 September 2015 and 24 November 2015.
REMUNERATION OF OTHER SENIOR EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT A number of senior executives and the executive directors comprise the Executive Board.
These key management roles influence the ability of the Group to meet its strategic targets.
The Committee has regard to the remuneration level and structure of this group whose total remuneration including salary and other short term benefits, target or par bonus and the expected value of long term incentives is summarised in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements on page 99.
REMUNERATION ADVICE The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive, together with Robin Mills Group Human Resources Director and Harriet Kemp Director of Group Reward & People Processes, are normally invited to attend each Committee meeting and provide advice and guidance to the Committee other than in respect of their own remuneration for which they are not paid a fee in addition to their salaries from the Company under their service contracts.
Details of the members of the Committee who served during the year ended 30 September 2015 are set out on page 61.
The Committee also has access to detailed external information and research on market data and trends from independent consultants.
During the year, the Company retained , LLP PWC to advise on compensation related matters, including undertaking a benchmarking exercise in respect of the remuneration of the Chairman and non-executive directors and of the Executive Board including the Group Chief Executive, for which it received total fees based on hours spent of 39,900 2014: 50,350.
Alithos Limited Alithos provided information for the testing of the TSR performance conditions for the Companys LTIP awards, for which it received fixed fees of 24,000 2014: 24,000.
It also provided the TSR performance graph for the Directors Remuneration Report, for which it received a fixed fee of 500 2014: 500.
Alithos was appointed by the Company in 2002 and PWC was appointed in 2007 renewed in 2011.
Both appointments were made with the approval of the Committee following a selection exercise.
Alithos did not provide any other advice or services to the Company during the year.
PWC provided services globally which comprised pension, expatriate, internal audit, merger and acquisition, due diligence, tax and other consultancy advice.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it received during the year was objective and independent, based on the experience of its members generally, including Carol Arrowsmith, Chairman of the Committee, who was formerly a remuneration consultant with Deloitte LLP and Susan Murray who has experience of being a member of the remuneration committees of other quoted companies, including one as chair of the committee.
76 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 SHAREHOLDER VOTE ON 2014 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The table below shows the voting outcome at the AGM held on 5 February 2015 for the 2014 Remuneration Policy binding vote and Annual Remuneration Report advisory vote : Number of votes % of Number of votes % of Total number of Number of votes 1 For & Discretionary votes cast Against votes cast votes cast Withheld Remuneration Policy 1,094,017,323 90.79 110,932,945 9.21 1,204,950,268 55,045,261 Annual Remuneration Report 1,152,726,748 92.47 93,900,199 7.53 1,246,626,947 13,362,779 1 A vote withheld is not a vote in law.
90.79% of the binding votes cast were for the approval of the Remuneration Policy, with 9.21% against 4.56% of the total number of votes cast abstained.
Of the advisory votes cast for the Annual Remuneration Report, 92.47% were for the Resolution, with 7.53% against 1.07% of the total number of votes cast abstained.
The Committee welcomed endorsement by shareholders and took steps, wherever practicable, to understand shareholders concerns when withholding their support.
The Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM remains in force and will not be voted on by shareholders until the 2018 AGM.
However, at the 2016 AGM, shareholders will be invited to vote on the Annual Remuneration Report for 2014-2015.
On behalf of the Board CAROL ARROWSMITH Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 November 2015 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 77 Financial statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 79 D irectors responsibilities for 115 Short term and long term borrowings STATEMENTS consolidated and Parent Company 117 Derivative financial instruments 94 Segmental reporting financial statements 122 T rade and other payables 98 Operating costs 80 Independent auditors report 123 P rovisions 99 Employees 124 Post-employment benefit obligations CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 100 Financing income, costs 128 Share capital 83 Consolidated income statement and related gains losses 130 Share-based payments 84 Consolidated statement 101 Tax 134 B usiness combinations of comprehensive income 103 Discontinued operations 135 R econciliation of operating profit 85 C onsolidated statement 103 Earnings per share to cash generated by operations of changes in equity 105 Dividends 87 Consolidated balance sheet 135 Reconciliation of net cash flow 105 Goodwill to movement in net debt 88 Consolidated cash flow statement 107 Other intangible assets 136 C ontingent liabilities 88 R econciliation of free cash 108 Property, plant and equipment 137 Capital commitments flow from continuing operations 109 Equity accounted investments 137 O perating lease and concessions 89 Accounting policies 110 O ther investments commitments 110 Trade and other receivables 137 Related party transactions 111 IFRS 11 restatement 137 Post balance sheet events 114 Inventories 138 E xchange rates 114 Cash and cash equivalents 139 Details of related undertakings of Compass Group PLC 78 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Annual Report and Accounts complies with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR of the United Kingdoms Financial IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE Conduct Authority and the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 in FINANCIAL STATEMENTS respect of the requirements to produce an annual financial report.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in The Annual Report and Accounts is the responsibility of, and has accordance with applicable law and regulations.
been approved by, the directors.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial balanced and understandable and provides the information statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, Union EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the business model and strategy Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK the consolidated financial statements have been prepared Accounting Standards.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Under company law the directors must not approve the financial Standards IFRS statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole Group and Parent Company financial statements, the directors the Annual Report and Accounts includes a fair review of the are required to: development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation select suitable accounting policies and then apply them taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks consistently: and uncertainties that they face make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: On behalf of the Board for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in MARK WHITE the Parent Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis General Counsel and Company Secretary 24 November 2015 unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 79
