SECTORS AND SERVICES BESPOKE SOLUTIONS FOR OUR CLIENTS AND CONSUMERS We segment our markets into sectors, and sub-sectors, and believe this strategy is an important driver of our success.
It encourages the necessary specialisation, ownership and client focus.
We have a portfolio of business to business B2B brands which we use to differentiate our offering to best meet the needs of our clients and consumers.
This approach allows us to develop sector best practices and market leading innovations that are delivered by our teams around the world.
BUSINESS & INDUSTRY GROUP REVENUE % We provide a choice of quality, nutritious and well balanced food for employees during their working day.
In addition, where clients seek broader service 5 offerings, we can deliver a range of support services 4 to the highest standard, at the best value, on an 1 international scale.
3 HEALTHCARE & SENIORS We are specialists in helping hospitals in the public and private sectors on their journey of managing efficiency 2 and enhancing quality across a range of services.
With a significant presence in the growing senior living 1. BUSINESS & INDUSTRY 38% market, we also provide services to residential homes 2.
HEALTHCARE & SENIORS 22% and home meal delivery services.
DEFENCE, OFFSHORE & REMOTE................. 11% EDUCATION From kindergarten to college, we provide fun, nutritious dining solutions that help support academic achievement at the highest levels.
Our simple set of commitments Eat, Learn, Live helps us to educate young people about how to have a happy, safe and healthy lifestyle while contributing to a sustainable world.
SPORTS & LEISURE Operating at some of the worlds most prestigious sporting and leisure venues, exhibition centres, visitor attractions and major events, we have an enviable reputation for providing outstanding hospitality and true service excellence.
DEFENCE, OFFSHORE & REMOTE Through our established health and safety culture, we are a market leader in providing food and support services to major companies in the oil and gas and mining and construction industries, operating in some of the most demanding environments in the world.
For our defence sector clients, we are a partner that meets the challenges of running efficient operations outside areas of conflict.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 7
