Strategic report STRATEGY FOR GROWTH A DISCIPLINED APPROACH TO GROWTH We have a consistent and sustainable strategy.
We are committed to delivering shareholder value by providing food and support services to a growing outsourced market.
Our principal aim is to grow organically and with discipline.
We supplement this growth with small to medium sized infill acquisitions where they deliver new expertise or help us build scale in our existing geographies.
FOCUS ON FOOD Food is our core business and it accounts for 83% of our annual revenue.
Our teams of award winning chefs, nutrition and health and safety experts allow our clients to focus on their own business needs by outsourcing this responsibility to us, while our size and experience enable us to provide the best quality, most cost effective food offer.
GEOGRAPHIC SPREAD MAP CULTURE SECTORISED APPROACH We have operations in over 50 countries.
We speak one common MAP language.
We segment the market and customise This diversifies our revenue sources and All our employees use a simple our offering to ensure we are giving our allows us to serve multinational businesses, framework to drive performance across clients and consumers innovative and ensuring consistency of quality, service the business.
This framework helps us market leading dining solutions.
We have and standards across their organisations.
focus on a common set of business a diverse portfolio of B2B brands and drivers, whether it is winning new are able to offer a wide range of dining business in the right sector on the right solutions to best meet our clients needs.
terms MAP 1, increasing our consumer participation and spend MAP 2, or managing labour costs and overheads MAP 4 and 5.
DRIVING ORGANIC TOPLINE GROWTH MAP 1: CLIENT SALES AND MARKETING MAP 2: CONSUMER SALES AND MARKETING In North America, we continue to deliver exceptionally strong A contributor to organic revenue growth is like for like volume, net new business and in emerging markets we have been able to which is heavily influenced both by the number of people at a harness the structural shift to outsourcing, growing significantly clientssite and by macroeconomic conditions.
We are making against a backdrop of tough economic conditions.
In Europe & good progress with intelligent marketing programmes and training Japan, we have invested in sales and retention and, as a result, schemes as we work hard to attract and satisfy ourcustomer the region has returned to growth.
base with strong consumer propositions.
This focus, combined with a more benign macroeconomic environment in many of our markets, resulted in positive volume growth.
14 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 KPIs Read more on pages 16 and 17 SCALE As we continue to grow, our scale enables us to achieve our goal of being the lowest cost, most efficient provider of food Risks service.
This underpins our competitiveness Read more on pages 31 to 33 and enables us to deliver sustainable growth over time.
GENERATING EFFICIENCIES MAP 3: COST OF FOOD MAP 4: IN UNIT COSTS MAP 5: ABOVE UNIT OVERHEADS Food makes up around one third of In unit costs are made up predominantly of Having reduced costs considerably, ourcosts.
In addition to the benefits labour.
We focus on getting the right people when MAP was first introduced, by of our scale in food procurement, we in the right place at the right time.
By creating a simpler organisational model are able to manage food costs through using labour scheduling techniques and with fewer layers of management and less careful menu planning and by rationalising improving productivity, we are able to bureaucracy, we now strive to leverage the number of products we buy and the deliver the optimum level of service in the those gains by maintaining costs at a suppliers we buy from.
constant level whilst still growing revenue.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 15
