DIRECTORS REPORT Computacenter plc is incorporated as a public limited company Companys Dividend Policy can be found with the Finance Directors and is registered in England with the registered number 3110569. report on page 45.
Computacenter plcs registered office address is Hatfield Avenue, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, AL10 9TW.
The Companys registrars are Dividends are recognised in the accounts in the year in which they Equiniti Limited who are situated at Aspect House, Spencer Road, are paid, or in the case of a final dividend, when approved by the Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
As such, the amount recognised in the 2015 accounts, as described in note 11 to the accounts, is made up of last years The Directors present the Directors report, together with the audited final dividend 13.1 pence per share and the interim dividend 6.4 accounts for the year of Computacenter plc and its subsidiary pence per share.
companies the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Pages 1 to 85 of this Annual Report and Accounts are incorporated The Companys Articles of Association set out the procedures for by reference into the Directors Report that has been drawn up and governing the Company.
A copy of the Articles of Association, which presented in accordance with English company law, and the liabilities were not amended during the reporting period, is available on of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the the Companys website www.
The limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules LR 9.8.
4C, the information to be included in the Annual Report and DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS AUTHORITY Accounts, where applicable, under LR 9.8.
4, is set out in this Directors The Directors who served during the year ended 31 December 2015 were report, with the exception of transactions with related parties, which Tony Conophy, Philip Hulme, Greg Lock, Brian McBride, Mike Norris, John is set out on page 130 note 32 to the Financial Statements.
Ormerod, Peter Ogden, Minnow Powell, Regine Stachelhaus and Philip Yea.
Biographical details of each director, as at 31 December 2015, are STRATEGIC REPORT given on pages 54 and 55.
The Companys Articles of Association require The Companies Act 2006 requires the Group to prepare a Strategic at each AGM that those Directors who were appointed since the last AGM Report, which commences at the start of this Annual Report and retire, as well as one-third of the Directors who have been the longest Accounts up to page 53.
The Strategic Report includes information serving.
The Board has decided, in accordance with the Code, that all about the Groups operations and business model, financial Directors, with the exception of Philip Yea, will retire at each forthcoming performance throughout the year and likely developments, key AGM and offer themselves for re-election.
The Nomination Committee performance indicators, principal risks and information regarding has considered the re-election of each Director and recommends their the Groups sustainable development plan.
Further details on the Committees recommendations for the re-election of the Directors are set out in the Notice of AGM, as is the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE brief Curriculum Vitae of each Director, which collectively illustrate the Under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2, the Company is required skills and experience that the Directors bring to the Board.
At the 2016 to include a Corporate Governance report within the Directors report.
AGM, Mr Yea will offer himself for election to the Board for the first time Information on our corporate governance practices can be found in following his appointment in June 2015. the Corporate Governance report on pages 56 to 61, and the reports of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees on pages Subject to applicable law and the Companys Articles of Association, the 66 to 84, all of which are incorporated into the Directors report by Directors may exercise all of the powers of the Company.
The Companys reference, as explained previously in this Directors report.
Articles of Association provide for a Board of Directors consisting of not fewer than three, but not more than 20 Directors, who manage MANAGEMENT REPORT the business and affairs of the Company.
The Directors may appoint This Directors report, together with the other reports, forms additional or replacement Directors, who shall serve until the following the Management Report for the purposes of Disclosure and AGM of the Company, at which point they will be required to stand for Transparency Rule 4.1.
A Director may be removed from office by the Company as provided for by applicable law, in certain circumstances set RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS out in the Companys Articles of Association, and at a general meeting of The Groups activities resulted in a profit before tax of 126.8 million the Company, by the passing of an Ordinary Resolution provided special 2014: 76.4 million.
The Group profit for the year, attributable to notice has been given in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006. shareholders, amounted to 103.1 million 2014: 55.1 million.
Ahead of changes to dividend taxation which will take effect on 6 April 2016, Members have previously approved a resolution to give the Directors we are pleased to announce a second interim dividend for 2015 the authority to allot shares, and a renewal of this authority is proposed at Second Interim Dividend of 15.0 pence per share, in lieu of a final the 2016 AGM.
This authority allows the Directors to allot shares up to the dividend for 2015.
The second interim dividend for 2015 will be paid maximum amount stated in the Notice of AGM approximately one-third of on 5 April 2016. the issued share capital.
In addition, the Company may not allot shares for cash unless pursuant to an employee share scheme without first The dividend record date is set on Thursday 24 March 2016, and the making an offer to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shares will be marked ex-dividend on Wednesday 23 March 2016.
This is known as rights of pre-emption.
A resolution to allow a has been agreed with the London Stock Exchange, given that these limited waiver of these rights was passed by the members at last years dates fall outside its normal dividend procedure timetable.
At the Companys 2015 AGM, members also approved a resolution giving delegated authority allowing the Company to make market Following the payment of a first interim dividend for 2015 of 6.4 pence purchases of its own shares, up to a maximum of 10 per cent of the per share on 16 October 2015, the total dividend per share for 2015 Companys issued share capital, subject to certain conditions including will be 21.4 pence per share.
The total dividend per share for 2014 price of purchase, amongst others.
Each of these standard authorities was 19.8 pence per share for those shares in existence immediately will expire on 30 June 2016, or at the conclusion of the Companys 2016 after the Share Consolidation.
The Board has consistently applied the AGM, whichever is the earlier.
The Directors will seek to renew each of the Companys Dividend Policy, which states that the total dividend paid authorities at the 2016 AGM, and full details are provided in the Notice will result in a dividend cover of 2 to 2.5 times.
Further detail on the of AGM.
As at 29 February 2016, none of these authorities approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM have been exercised.
62 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES The Company has executed deeds of indemnity with each of the Directors.
These deeds contain qualifying third party indemnity provisions, indemnifying the Directors to the extent permitted by law and remain in force at the date of this report.
The indemnities are uncapped and cover all costs, charges, losses and liabilities the Directors may incur to third parties, in the course of acting as Directors of the Company or its subsidiaries.
DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS The Board has put in place a process whereby the Directors are required to notify the Company Secretary of any situations appointments, holdings or otherwise, or any changes to such, which may give rise to an actual or potential conflict of interest with the Company.
These notifications are then reviewed by the Board and recorded in a register maintained by the Company Secretary and, if appropriate, are considered further by the Directors who are not conflicted in the matter, to if deemed appropriate authorise the situation.
The register of notifications and authorisations is reviewed by the Board twice a year.
Where the Board has approved an actual or potential conflict, it has imposed the condition that the conflicted Director abstains from participating in any discussion or decision affected by the conflicted matter.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company, at the start and end of the reporting period, were as follows: As at 1 January 2015 or date of As at 31 December 2015 appointment Number of Number of Number of Number of ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares Beneficial Non-Beneficial Beneficial Non-Beneficial Executive Directors Mike Norris 1,142,157 1,288,939 Tony Conophy 1,786,915 2,025,177 Non-Executive Directors Greg Lock 500,000 30,000 400,000 25,885 Philip Hulme 11,067,582 9,877,815 12,996,593 10,741,526 Peter Ogden 27,994,474 777,572 31,802,071 881,249 Minnow Powell 1,340 Regine Stachelhaus Philip Yea 8,000 Between 31 December 2015 and 29 February 2016 there have been no changes to the interests detailed above.
Save as disclosed in this report and the Remuneration Committee report, no Director has any interest beneficial or non-beneficial in any share or loan capital of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
MAJOR INTERESTS IN SHARES In accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5, between 1 January 2015 and 31 December 2015 the Company was notified of the following disclosable interests in its issued ordinary shares: Percentage of total Name of Major Shareholder voting rights held Jethou Holding Company Ltd 16.35 Peter Ogden 7.1 Schroder Investment Management Ltd 5.33 Investec Asset Management Ltd 4.95 As announced by the Group on 30 March 2015, it was notified that Sir Peter Ogden had on 26 March 2015 transferred 100 per cent of the voting ordinary shares in Jethou Holding Company Ltd to certain adult members of his family for nil consideration.
Note: Between 31 December 2015 and 9 March 2016, the Company was notified by Schroders Investment Management Ltd that its percentage of total voting rights held had decreased to 4.856%.
An updated list of the Companys major shareholders is available at www.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND RIGHTS ATTACHING TO ORDINARY SHARES As at 29 February 2016, there were 122,657,970 fully paid ordinary shares in issue, all of which have full voting rights and are subject to restrictions on transfer as set out in the Companys Articles of Association, and additionally in respect of: certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws or regulations such as those related to insider dealing: and the Companys Share Dealing Code, whereby the Directors and designated employees require approval to deal in the Companys shares.
The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled, subject to applicable law and the Companys Articles of Association to: have shareholder documents made available to them, including notice of any general meetings of the Company: and to attend, speak and exercise voting rights at general meetings of the Company, either in person or by proxy.
63 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Company is not aware of any arrangements between At the year-end, the options remaining outstanding under these 5 shareholders which may result in restrictions on the transfer schemes were in respect of a total of 30,000 ordinary shares of 7 9 of securities or other voting rights.
During the year options over 300,000 shares were exercised and no options over shares lapsed.
Additionally, there were 292,944,196 deferred shares in issue.
The Company also operates a Performance Share Plan PSP to Pursuant to the Companys share schemes, there are two employee incentivise employees.
During the year, 690,807 ordinary shares of 5 trusts which, as at the year-end, held a total of 2,199,711 ordinary 7 pence each were conditionally awarded 2014: 780,051 shares.
9 5 shares of 7 pence each, representing approximately 1.79 per At the year-end, awards over 2,279,008 shares remained outstanding 9 cent of the issued share capital.
The rights attaching to each of the under this scheme 2014: 2,673,423 shares.
During the year, awards Companys ordinary shares and deferred shares are set out in its over 487,335 shares were transferred to participants and awards over Articles of Association.
During the 2015 financial year, no ordinary 597,887 shares lapsed.
In addition, the Company operates a Sharesave shares in the Company were issued for cash to satisfy the exercise of scheme for the benefit of employees.
As at the year-end, 3,957,127 options exercised under the Companys outstanding option schemes.
options granted under the Sharesave scheme remained outstanding During the year, the trusts purchased a total of 1,305,163 shares in 2014: 4,025,176. order to ensure that the maturities occurring pursuant to these share option schemes could be satisfied.
In the event that shares are held CORPORATE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND POLITICAL by these trusts before being transferred to employee participants DONATIONS pursuant to the schemes then, in line with good practice, the Trustees The Board recognises that acting in a socially responsible way do not exercise the voting rights attaching to such shares.
The benefits the community, our customers, shareholders, the Trustees also have a dividend waiver in place in respect of shares environment and employees alike.
Further information can be found in which are the beneficial property of each of the trusts.
the report on pages 48 to 53 and covers matters regarding health and safety, the environment, equal opportunities, employee involvement In the event that another entity or individual takes control of the and employee development.
During the year, the Group did not make Company, the employee share schemes operated by the Company any political donations to any political party or organisation and it did have change of control provisions contained within them that would not incur any political expenditure within the meaning of Sections 362 be triggered.
Participants may, in certain circumstances, be allowed to 379 of the Companies Act 2006. to exchange their existing options for options of an equivalent value over shares in the acquiring company.
Alternatively, the options EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES may vest early, in which case, early vesting under the executive The Group acknowledges the importance of equality and diversity schemes will generally be on a time-apportioned basis and under and is committed to equal opportunities throughout the workplace.
the Sharesave scheme, employees will only be able to exercise their The Groups policies for recruitment, training, career development options to the extent that their accumulated savings allow at that and promotion of employees, are based purely on the suitability of time.
The Company was granted authority at its Annual General the employee and give those who may be disabled equal treatment to Meeting on 19 May 2015, to make market purchases of up to 12,265,797 their able bodied colleagues.
Where an employee becomes disabled, 5 ordinary shares of 7 pence each.
This authority will expire at subsequent to joining the Group, all efforts are made to enable that 9 the 2016 AGM, where approval from shareholders will be sought to employee to continue in their current job.
However if, due to the renew the authority.
During the period no shares were purchased specific circumstances, it is not possible for an employee to continue for cancellation.
in their current job, they will be given suitable training for alternative employment within the Group or elsewhere.
SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS AND RELATIONSHIPS Details regarding the status of the various borrowing facilities used The Group monitors and regularly reviews its policies and practices by the Group are provided in the Finance Directors review on pages 39 to ensure that it meets current legislative requirements, as well as its to 47.
These agreements each include a change of control provision, own internal standards.
The Group is committed to making full use of which may result in the facility being withdrawn or amended upon a the talents and resources of all its employees and to provide a healthy change of control of the Group.
It is also not extraordinary within our environment that encourages productive and mutually respectful business sector for our longer term Services contracts to contain working relationships within the organisation.
Policies dealing with change of control clauses that allow a counterparty to terminate the equal opportunities are in place in all parts of the Group, which take relevant contract in the event of a change of control of the Company.
account of the Groups overall commitment and also address local regulatory requirements.
The Company does not have any agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or Gender split across the Group employment resulting from a change of control on takeover, except Male Female that provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans may cause options and awards granted to employees under share schemes and Percentage of Directors of the Company 87.5% 12.5% plans to vest on a takeover.
Percentage of persons who are senior managers of the Group 81.6% 18.4% FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Percentage of employees in the Group 77% 23% The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are discussed in the Finance Directors review on pages 39 to 47.
The table directly above is incorporated by reference into the EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES Strategic Report at pages 1 to 53 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Company operates executive share option schemes and a performance-related option scheme for the benefit of employees.
During the year, no options were granted under the executive share option schemes.
64 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT AUDITOR The Group is committed to involving all employees in significant Following an audit tender process carried out by the Company in 2014, business issues, especially matters which affect their work and Ernst & Young LLP stepped down from its role as the Groups statutory working environment.
A variety of methods are used to engage with Auditor with effect from the 2015 AGM.
A resolution to appoint employees, including team briefings, intranet, email and in-house KPMG LLP as Auditor of the Group was approved by the Companys publications.
The Group will use one or more of these channels to shareholders at the Companys 2015 AGM.
A resolution to reappoint brief employees on the Groups performance and the financial and KPMG LLP as the Auditor of the Group will be put to shareholders at the economic factors affecting the Groups performance.
the Group operates a Save As You Earn SAYE share scheme, which is open to eligible employees, where employees are encouraged to save RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT WITH CONTROLLING SHAREHOLDERS a fixed monthly sum for a period of either three or five years.
Upon Any person who exercises or controls on their own or together with maturity of the scheme at the end of the relevant savings period, any person with whom they are acting in concert, 30 per cent or participants can purchase shares in the Company at a price set at more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters the commencement of the savings period.
The primary method used at general meetings are known as controlling shareholders.
The to engage and consult with employees is through team briefings, Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules now require companies where managers are tasked with ensuring that information sharing, with controlling shareholders to enter into a written and legally discussion and feedback happen on a regular basis.
binding agreement a Relationship Agreement which is intended to ensure that the controlling shareholder complies with certain The development of employee skills and careers, as well as the independence related provisions.
The Company confirms that it has communication of the Groups goals, are driven by our e-FACE tool.
undertaken a thorough process during the reporting period to review Annual assessments via our e-FACE tool are a formal requirement of whether it has any controlling shareholders.
Following this process, all managers.
it was determined that there was no requirement on the Company to enter into a Relationship Agreement with any of its shareholders.
The Employee consultative forums exist in each Group country to Company confirms that this remains the case as at 31 December 2015, consult staff on major issues affecting employment and matters but will keep the matter under review.
of policy, and to enable management to seek the views and opinions of employees on a wide range of business matters.
Should there DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITOR be cross-jurisdictional issues to discuss, a facility exists to engage In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of a European forum made up of representatives from each country the persons who is aDirector at the date of approval of this report forum.
The Group regularly reviews the performance of its employees confirms that: through a formal review process, in order to identify areas for to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no development.
Managers are responsible for setting and reviewing information relevant to the preparation of their report of which personal objectives, aligned to corporate and functional goals.
The the Groups Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps aDirector might reasonably be Board closely oversees and monitors management skills and the expected to have taken, to be aware of relevant audit information development of talent to meet the current and future needs of the and to establish that the Groups Auditor is aware of that Group.
The Board directly monitors and reviews closely, succession information.
and plans for developing identified key senior managers.
BUSINESS ETHICS A Group Ethics policy is now in place, which commits its employees to the highest standards of ethical behaviour in respect of customers, suppliers, colleagues and other stakeholders in the business.
The policy includes a requirement for all employees to report abuses or non-conformance with the policy and sets out the procedures to Mike Norris Tony Conophy be followed.
Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director GOING CONCERN 11 March 2016 Computacenters business activities, business model, its strategic goals and its performance are set out within the Strategic report on pages 1 to 53.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are set out within the Finance Directors review on pages 39 to 47.
In addition, notes 25 and 26 to the Financial Statements include Computacenters objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
The Directors have, after due consideration, a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for a period of twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements as set out from 90 to 138 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual Financial Statements.
