CASE STUDY CLOUD DELOITTE As a global professional services company, Deloitte needs to continually evolve its client offerings.
To minimise time to market and enable its practitioners, the firm wanted to leverage the agility and efficiency benefits of the cloud.
PRIVATE As a first step on its journey towards an optimal cloud delivery model, Deloitte needed to deploy a private cloud environment as part of its Smart Datacenter initiative.
To help build both the new datacenter, which is located in Germany, and the new private cloud platform, Deloitte recognised that Computacenter, with its extensive IT transformation expertise, would be the best partner for the project.
CLOUD TO Computacenter and Deloitte took the lead on the transformation, sourcing, designing and deploying a range of physical and virtual technologies that underpin Deloittes Private Cloud Reference Architecture.
It also migrated more than 1,000 terabytes of data and all company applications to the new cloud environment, which underpins core business processes at Deloitte.
INCREASE AGILITY Dr Christine Haupt Director of Consulting Services, Computacenter Businesses and IT departments are under increasing pressure to transform in order to drive growth and efficiency.
With cloud services at the forefront of this digital transformation, we deliver the ability to connect the business directly to IT and for IT to understand how its services directly influence market share and profits in driving new ways of working, delivery and productivity.
Computacenter understands that the right balance of public, private and hybrid cloud solutions will enable organisations to gain a unique advantage for their users and business from cloud services.
22 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Using its industrialised processes, Computacenter helped remove With support from Computacenter, we were able risk and complexity from the datacenter transformation, while also to accelerate our adoption of cloud services.
new datacenter provides Deloitte with an agile IT The new datacenter will help Deloitte establish an optimal cloud environment that will support the business and delivery model, including hybrid services, which will enable its users to work more effectively and flexibly.
The private cloud provides our client base as they continue to grow.
on-demand capacity that can be scaled to meet business and client demand, helping to minimise time to market and maximise Dr. Dietmar Schler, CIO competitive advantage.
