Peter Ogden Non-Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Nomination Age: 54 Age: 58 Age: 68 Committee Board Member Attendance: 9 9 Board Member Attendance: 9 9 Board Member Attendance: 8 9 Age: 68 Committee Membership: N, R Mike graduated with adegree Tony has been amember of Peter founded Computacenter Board Member Attendance: 9 9 in Computer Science and the Institute of Chartered with Philip Hulme in 1981 and Mathematics from East Anglia Management Accountants was Chairman of the Company Greg is a Non-Executive Director University in 1983.
He qualified with until 1998, when he became a of United Business Media plc.
Computacenter in 1984 as Semperit Ireland Ltd and Non-Executive Director.
Prior He has more than 45 years asalesman in the City office.
then worked for five years to founding Computacenter, experience in the software and Following appointments at Cape Industries plc.
He he was a Managing Director of computer services industry, in senior roles, he became joined Computacenter in Morgan Stanley and Co. including seven years as Chief Executive in December 1987 as Financial Controller, Chairman of Kofax plc and 1994, with responsibility for rising in 1991 to General four years as Chairman of all day-to-day activities and Manager of Finance.
From 1998 to reporting channels across he was appointed Finance 2000, he was General Manager Computacenter.
Mike also led and Commercial Director of of IBMs Global Industrial sector.
the Company through flotation Computacenter UK Limited Greg also served as a member on the London Stock Exchange with responsibility for all of IBMs Worldwide Management in 1998.
Mike was awarded an financial, purchasing and Council and as a governor of the Honorary Doctorate of Science vendor relations activities.
from Hertfordshire University In March 1998 he was appointed in 2010.
Committee Membership Key A Audit Committee N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee 54 GOVERNANCE 5.
Regine Stachelhaus Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Age: 67 Audit Committee Chairman andChairman of the Age: 60 Board Member Attendance: 9 9 Age: 61 Remuneration Committee Committee Membership: A, N, R Committee Membership: A, N, R Age: 61 Board Member Attendance: 9 9 Philip founded Computacenter Board Member Attendance: 9 9 Committee Membership: A, N, R with Peter Ogden in 1981 and Board Member Attendance: 4 5 Regine is a member of the worked for the Company on Minnow is a Non-Executive Board of SPIE Paris and a afull-time basis until stepping Director and Chairman of the Philip is a Non-Executive member of the Supervisory down as Executive Chairman in Audit Committee of SuperGroup Director of Vodafone Group Board of Covestro AG and 2001.
He was previously aVice Plc and was a Director and plc, Aberdeen Asian Smaller Covestro Deutschland AG.
President and Director of the chaired the Audit Committee Companies Investment Trust She has been on the Board Boston Consulting Group.
of Tui Travel Plc from 2011 plc and Greene King plc.
of Directors at E. ON SE, a to 2014.
Minnow spent 35 Heisalso a trustee of the major energy company years with Deloitte where he Francis Crick Institute.
included in the Eurostoxx became a Partner in 1985.
He 50 index, where she had a is a Chartered Accountant and He has significant previous broad range of operational was a member of the Auditing Executive Management responsibilities including for Practices Board for six years.
experience, having served as Legal & Compliance, Group the Chief Executive of 3i Group Procurement, Group Human plc between 2004 and 2009.
Before Prior to this, he was also the that, she worked for several Finance Director at Diageo plc, years as Vice President, and played a substantial role Imaging and Printing Group in the merger to create Diageo of HP Germany.
inhis role as Finance Director of Guinness plc.
