CASE STUDY MOBILE NHS WORCESTERSHIRE Pierre Hall Director of Solutions, Computacenter Throughout the last year, we have concentrated our strategy on two pivots.
Firstly, we are successfully deploying our mobility solution to our clients who are using the platform to deliver critical digital front line customer engagement and services.
Secondly, we are ensuring that our Enterprise Mobility solution keeps pace with the rapid change taking place with our key technology vendors in the mobile solutions marketplace.
Computacenter works with us to achieve our goals.
By optimising our IT systems and services, we can ensure the best outcomes for our staff and patients.
James Longmore MOBILE ICT Director for Worcestershire Acute Hospitals NHS Trust 26 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Digitalisation is changing the nature of the NHS and healthcare services across the UK.
To enable greater efficiency and better patient care, Worcestershire Acute Hospitals NHS Trust wants to make patient data more accessible for its clinicians at the point of care.
To help prepare its IT infrastructure for a digital age, Worcestershire Acute Hospitals NHS Trust, which delivers services to 550,000 people, partnered with Computacenter.
MAKING SMARTER DIGITAL CHOICES The trust has signed a shared five-year Managed Services contract, which covers user and infrastructure support for more than 9,000 NHS employees across 160-plus sites, including eight hospitals and 66 GP surgeries.
Computacenter is also helping Worcestershire Acute Hospitals NHS Trust transform its datacenter operations and virtualise and mobilise workplace IT.
This will help facilitate new digital initiatives, such as an electronic prescribing and administration system that will provide staff with access to clinical apps at the point of care.
Computacenter will draw on its industrialised processes and proven methodologies to streamline core IT services, such as problem, asset, capacity, security and build management, as part of the contract.
Thanks to the partnership, NHS hospitals, health centres and GP surgeries in Worcestershire will be able to provide a more responsive and efficient service to thousands of patients.
