CASE STUDY NGSD VISA EUROPE NGSD Enabling our people to be productive and effective is at the heart of our digitisation efforts.
It doesnt just impact how we work, but how we interact with others and the devices that we use.
Dave Sherry Head of IT at Visa Europe 24 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 VISA TRANSFORMS IT SUPPORT Visa Europe wanted to adopt a more digitised approach to providing IT support services to its users in multiple geographies.
As well as introducing new delivery channels and self-service options, the company wanted to make it easier for employees to access IT support while on the move.
With a diverse user base, Visa Europe needed a flexible solution that would not only encourage employee engagement when resolving IT issues but also increase service desk efficiency.
As part of Visa Europes IT transformation strategy they signed up to Computacenters Next Generation Service Desk NGSD offering.
NGSD, which went live to 3,400 users in 25 locations in April 2015, provides a consumer-like, user-centric experience with anytime, anywhere IT support delivered via an intuitive portal.
A development hothouse and tailored employee communications helped maximise awareness and adoption, with more than 1,700 visits made to the NGSD portal on day one.
NGSD has transformed IT support at Visa Europe, encouraging users to embrace digital channels and self-service options.
In the space of a week, online interactions with the service desk went from zero to 40 per cent.
These interactions included more than 200 online chats, which contributed to a drop in call volumes of 25 per cent.
By providing a richer, more user-centric support experience, Visa Europe will be able to increase employee productivity and engagement with IT issues and queries being resolved more quickly and effectively.
Steve Rayner Group Service Innovation Director, Computacenter The move to digital has gained pace and is now the top priority for our customers.
NGSD is being developed to enable users further by the addition of a consumer like request experience using what is known about the role and individual to pre-select products and auto-authorise.
Customers are increasingly impressed with the NGSD Mobile App, enabling the support experience to travel with their employees.
The broad adoption of NGSD into multiple business types reinforces this need to provide a great digital user experience across our entire market.
