Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Directors report Group directors report for the year ended 31 December 2015 The directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The review of the business, future developments and outlook, as well as specific disclosures in relation to employee policies, are contained within the strategic report and are incorporated into the directors report by cross-reference.
Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company and its subsidiaries and financial risk management policies are given innotes 33 and 34 to the financial statements.
In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules LR 9.8.
4C, the information to be included in the annual report and accounts, where applicable, under LR 9.8.
4, is set out in this directors report, with the exception of the information set out in the table below, which can be found at the location specified.
Listing Rule Information Location LR 9.8.
4 4 Details of long term incentive schemes as required by LR 9.4.
3, regarding information Pages 63 to 64 of the directors about the recruitment of a director remunerationreport LR 9.8.
4 11 Details of contracts for the provision ofservices to the Company by a  Page 60 of the directors remuneration report LR 9.8.
4 14 Details of transactions with  Page 120 note 35 to the accounts General information Countrywide plc is a public limited company, listed on the London Stock Exchange, incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The registered address of the Company is included in note 1 to the financial statements.
Dividends The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 10.0 pence net per share.
Subject to approval at the AGM, the dividend will be paid on 5 May 2016 to shareholders on the register at 29 March 2016.
Together with the interim dividend of 5.0 pence net per share paid on 9 October 2015, the total dividend in respect of the year is, therefore, 15.0 pence net per share 2014: 24.0 pence net per share, inclusive of a special dividend of 9.0 pence net per share paid in September 2014.
Capital structure Details of the issued share capital are shown in note 26 to the Group financial statements on page 110 of this annual report.
The Company hasone class of ordinary share which carries the right to one vote at a general meeting of the Company and has no right to fixed income.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are provided in note 27 to the Group financial statements.
Shares held by the Group Employee Benefit Trust abstain from voting.
Purchase of the Companys own shares Further to the shareholders resolutions passed at the Companys AGM held on 30 April 2014, during the first quarter of 2015 the Company purchased 1,465,000 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 14,650, and representing 0.66% of the Companys called up ordinary share capital, for a consideration of 6,773,000.
The reason for the purchase was to improve the return available to shareholders and enhance earnings per share.
All shares purchased by the Company during 2014 and 2015 were then used to settle the IPO options vesting in March 2015.
At the end of the year, the directors had authority, under a shareholder resolution approved at the AGM on 29 April 2015, to make one or more market purchases of its ordinary shares, limited to: a maximum number of 21,506,296 ordinary shares: a minimum price exclusive of expenses of the nominal value: and a maximum price of 5% above the average market value for the preceding five business days or the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venues where the purchase is carried out at the relevant time.
This authority expires at the conclusion of the AGM on 27 April 2016.
As a routine matter, the Company will be seeking to have this authority renewed at the 2016 AGM.
Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 67 Corporate governance Directors report continued Substantial shareholdings At 24 February 2016, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this annual report, the Company had been notified of the following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights in the issued share capital of the Company.
Shareholder Number of shares % holding Oaktree Capital Management 65,196,855 29.68 Franklin Templeton Investment Management 24,564,302 11.18 Fidelity Worldwide Investment 23,333,447 10.62 Harris Associates LP 13,127,700 5.98 Jupiter Asset Management 7,910,494 3.60 Relationship agreement with controlling shareholders Any person who exercises or controls on their own, or together with any person with whom they are acting in concert, 30% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of a company are known as controlling shareholders.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules require companies with controlling shareholders to enter into a written and legally binding agreement which is intended to ensure that the controlling shareholder complies with certain independence provisions.
The agreement must contain undertakings that: a transactions and arrangements with the controlling shareholder and or any of its associates will be conducted at arms length and onnormal commercial terms: b neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will take any action that would have the effect of preventing the listed company from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules: and c neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution which isintended or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Listing Rules, on 19 March 2013, the Company entered into such an agreement the Relationship Agreement with, among others, OCM Luxembourg Castle Holdings S. R. L. and OCM Luxembourg EPF III Castle Holdings S. R. L. together, the Oaktree Shareholders who currently have a combined total holding of approximately 29.68% of the Companys voting rights but who, during the course of 2015, did by virtue of our buyback programme have a holding exceeding 30%.
Under the terms ofthe Relationship Agreement, Oaktree have agreed to the independence obligations contained in the Relationship Agreement.
The Board confirms that, since the entry into the Relationship Agreement on 19 March 2013 until 25 February 2016, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this annual report: i the Company has complied with the independence provisions included in the Relationship Agreement: and ii so far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions included in the Relationship Agreement have been complied with byOaktree and their associates.
As there are no controlling shareholders of the Company other than the Oaktree shareholders if and when they have an interest exceeding 30%, there is no need for the Relationship Agreement to require the Oaktree shareholders to procure compliance by any third parties with the independence provisions of the Relationship Agreement.
Appointment and removal of directors Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
The Company may, by special resolution, remove anydirector before the expiration of their period of office.
Powers of the directors Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company willbe managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Amendment of Articles The Articles may be altered by special resolution, in accordance with the Companies Act.
Directors and directors interests The directors of the Company who were in office during the year and up to the date of the signing of the financial statements are disclosed onpages42 to 43 and their interests in the shares of the Company are disclosed on page 64.
Directors indemnities The Company has made qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as defined in the Companies Act 2006 for the benefit of its directors during the year: these provisions were in force during the financial year and remain in force at the date of this report.
68 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Auditor and disclosure of information to auditor All directors at the date of approval of this annual report confirm that: so far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the directors have taken steps that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of any such information.
The auditor,  LLP, has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to reappoint  LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Corporate governance The Companys statement on corporate governance can be found in the corporate governance statement on pages 44 to 45 of this annualreport.
The corporate governance statement forms part of this directors report and is incorporated into it by cross reference.
Going concern The Board seeks to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
In order to satisfy themselves that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, the directors have reviewed detailed assumptions about future trading performance and cash flow projections within the Groups current three-year plan.
This, together with available market information and the directors knowledge and experience, has given them the confidence to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Post-balance sheet events Particulars of important post-balance sheet events of the Company are set out in note 36 to the Group financial statements on page 120 ofthis annual report and are incorporated into this directors report by cross-reference.
Greenhouse gas GHG emissions GHG emissions data for the year 1 January to 31 December Tonnes of CO e 2 2015 2014 Scope 1 Controlled vehicle fleet 5,175 6,725 Scope 2 Electricity and heat purchased for own use 12,422 16,237 Tonnes of CO e m revenue 23.9 32.7 2 CO e is a universal unit of measurement used to indicate the global warming of GHG expressed in terms of the global warming potential of one unit of carbon dioxide.
2 We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in August 2013.
We have used the operational control consolidation method.
These sources fall within our consolidated financial statements, but exclude non-wholly owned subsidiaries and joint ventures.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition and emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2015 to calculate the above disclosures.
AGM notice Accompanying this report is the notice of the AGM which sets out the resolutions for the meeting, together with an explanation of them.
By order of the Board Gareth Williams Company secretary 25 February 2016 Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 69
