HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Financial reporting Effectiveness of the external audit process During the year the Audit Committee reviewed accounting papers prepared by management and considered, with input from the external auditors, the During the year, the Committee assessed the external Auditors performance and effectiveness through a questionnaire completed by Audit Committee appropriateness of the main accounting policies estimates and judgements made in preparing the statements.
The key matters that the Committee members and the Groups senior finance team.
The output from the process was reviewed and discussed by the Audit Committee and with the external considered in reviewing the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 are set out below.
The Committee also considered the external Auditors experience and expertise, the extent to which the audit plan had been met, the robustness and perceptiveness of work performed on key accounting and audit judgements and the content of its audit reports, whilst noting some of the observations Financial reporting area Judgement and assurance considered made.
The Committee was satisfied with the effectiveness of the external audit process.
Impairment of goodwill, tangible The Committee considered the carrying value of goodwill, intangible and tangible assets by comparing the and intangible assets book value of each asset with its recoverable amount.
The Committee reviewed the reasonableness of cash Auditor independence flow projections which were based on the latest Board approved budget and the long term growth and discount The Group meets its obligations for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the external Auditors through the Audit Committee, whose terms rate assumptions underpinning the calculations.
The Sandwich Factory model was subject to particular scrutiny of reference include a requirement to consider and monitor the level of non-audit work performed by the external Auditor, to ensure such objectivity as this business is most sensitive to changes in the underlying assumptions.
The Committee also challenged and independence is safeguarded.
There is an established policy concerning the types of non-audit services the external Auditors should not carry the carrying value and amortisation rate of the customer relationship intangible asset acquired through the out to avoid compromising their independence and these include internal accounting or other financial services, executive or management roles purchase of Benson Park Limited and also considered, in light of recent FRC guidance in this area, the separate or functions and remuneration consultancy.
The Chair of the Audit Committee is consulted prior to awarding to the external Auditors any non-audit disclosure of the amortisation charge on the face of the income statement.
After thorough discussion and review services in excess of 30,000. of the external auditors reports to the Audit Committee, the Committee agreed with managements judgement.
During the year the Audit Committee reviewed and considered the following factors to assess the objectivity and independence of Ernst & Young LLP: Acquisitions Benson Park During the year, the Group acquired Benson Park, a supplier of premium British cooked poultry, for 17.7 million, The Auditors procedures for maintaining and monitoring independence, including those to ensure that the partners and staff have no personal or net of cash acquired.
The Committee reviewed managements proposed accounting treatment and the valuation business relationships with the Group, other than those in the normal course of business permitted by UK ethical guidance.
methodology which was based on internal due diligence work and reports by external advisers and consultants.
The Auditors policies for rotation of the audit partner every five years, and regular rotation of key audit personnel.
The current audit partner was selected The allocation of the purchase price, between tangible assets, the acquired customer relationship intangible by Ernst & Young LLP for the year ended 31 March 2013 and the current senior manager has been in place since the year ended 31 March 2009. asset and goodwill was subject to particular scrutiny.
The external auditors also challenged the key assumptions The nature of non-audit work undertaken during the year and its approval in accordance with the Audit Committees guidelines for ensuring independence.
used in the allocation methodology.
The Committee, after a thorough review of all the information, agreed with A report from Ernst & Young LLP confirming that they have adequate policies and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and managements approach to allocation of the purchase price.
Commercial accruals The Committee reviewed the level of commercial accruals for rebates, discounts and promotional activity at the balance sheet date.
The level of commercial accruals is viewed by the Committee, management and the external Details of the non-audit work and fees paid during the year are set out below: auditor as an area of particular sensitivity requiring a degree of commercial judgement.
The Committee also noted Non-audit fees 000 the Financial Reporting Councils recent guidance on complex supplier arrangements.
After reviewing the level of accruals and the intra-year movement, including the impact on profit and considering the work of internal audit in Tax advisory services 16 verifying the underlying contractual arrangements, particularly with key customers, the Committee supported Other services 32 managements assumptions and accounting treatment.
Total Non-Audit Fees 48 Biological assets In accordance with IAS 41 biological assets are valued at fair value in the Group balance sheet, with the net valuation movement disclosed separately on the face of the income statement.
The valuation of biological Total Audit Fees 190 assets was deemed, by the Committee and management, to be an area requiring particular focus this year due Ratio of Non-Audit Fees to Audit Fees 0.25:1 to the 9 per cent fall in the average pig price compared to the previous year.
The Audit Committee reviewed managements proposed accounting treatment and was satisfied that the standard had been fairly and The work undertaken by the external Auditors during the year and the safeguards considered by the Audit Committee to address any threats to consistently applied and the required disclosures made in the financial statements.
independence included the following: i The Auditors provided limited tax advice.
Their audit objectivity and independence was safeguarded through the use of a separate tax partner.
Risk Management and internal control ii Ernst & Young LLP advised the Company on a number of corporate transactions during the year.
Following a tender for this type of work in the year The Committee conducted its annual review of the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk management systems through the work ended 31 March 2012, and given the nature of the work during the following years the Committee concluded that Ernst & Young LLP were best of internal audit, the external auditors Control Themes and Observations Report on the Groups financial control environment, following their audit placed to carry out this work.
Their audit objectivity and independence was safeguarded through the use of a separate corporate transactions partner and through review and challenge of monthly Board reports.
The Committee also reviewed the Groups whistleblowing and bribery prevention policies.
and prior approval by the Chair of the Audit Committee on a case-by-case basis.
The Committee reviewed the work performed by the Group Risk Committee during the year to gain assurance over the risk management framework The Audit Committee is aware of, and sensitive to, Investor body guidelines on non-audit fees and the policy of awarding non-audit services is kept in place across the Group which is designed to identify, evaluate and mitigate risk.
The Committee was satisfied that this framework is operating effectively.
under review to ensure that the correct balance is maintained between the Group realising cost-effective benefits from the accumulated knowledge and experience of Ernst &Young, whilst also making sure that their audit independence and objectivity is maintained.
The Audit Committees concerns Internal Audit were demonstrated by the appointment of  in 2013 to manage tax compliance.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the performance and effectiveness of the Companys Internal Audit activities.
The Audit Committee reviewed and approved the annual Internal Audit plan and received regular updates on progress on meeting the plan objectives at each of its meetings Following consideration of the performance and independence of the external auditors at its meeting in May 2015, the Audit Committee recommended during the year.
The internal audit approach takes into account the overall Group risk framework, as well as risks specific to individual operations.
The to the Board that the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys external Auditors should be proposed to Shareholders at the 2015 Annual plan set out at the beginning of the current year was achieved.
Internal Audit findings together with responses from management were considered by General Meeting.
the Audit Committee and where necessary challenged.
The Audit Committee also reviewed progress by management in addressing the issues identified on a timely basis.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the internal audit function is operating effectively.
During the course of the year Internal Audit performed a core financial controls review at all sites and also reviewed specific Group non-financial risk areas.
Overall no material control failings were identified, however, recommendations were raised where necessary at specific sites to strengthen existing Mark Reckitt processes and controls, and follow-up audit visits carried out at the majority of sites to ensure that agreed corrective actions were being actioned.
Chair of the Audit Committee 18 May 2015 External auditors Ernst & Young LLP has been the Groups auditor since 1972.
The Audit Committee assesses annually the qualification, expertise, resources and independence of the auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditors.
The Committee periodically reviews the tendering of the external audit function, the last being in 2008.
Subject to ongoing satisfactory performance of the external Auditors, the Committee expects to retender the external audit during the year ending 31 March 2017 to ensure that a new audit appointment takes effect at the end of the current audit partners five-year term.
Ernst & Young LLP will not be invited to participate in this process due to the length of their tenure as the Groups Auditors and observing the spirit of recent Corporate Governance guidance and EU regulation.
The Audit Committee also approves the terms of engagement and remuneration of the external Auditors and monitors their independence.
52 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 53 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT LETTER FROM THE CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and is responsible for considering the skills, knowledge, experience and Dear Shareholders, gender for the Board to operate effectively and to give consideration to succession planning.
On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committees annual report on Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2015.
The report sets out the Groups remuneration policy and gives details of the remuneration paid to Executive and Non-Executive Directors for The Nomination Committee is chaired by Martin Davey and includes the Non-Executive Directors Steven Esom, Kate Allum, Mark Reckitt from 1 May their services to the Company during the year.
The report also sets out how remuneration policy will operate in the year to 31 March 2016.
2014 and John Worby until 31 July 2014.
Overview of remuneration for the last financial year Role of the Committee As highlighted in the Chairmans statement on pages 6 and 7, Cranswick made excellent progress in meeting its strategic objectives during the year.
The Committee meets at least once a year, it reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and considers the optimal level of independence Adjusted profit before tax increased by 10.6 per cent to 57.8 million: Adjusted earnings per share were up 9.5 per cent to 92.1 pence: and the dividend and diversity of skills, knowledge, experience and gender required for the Board to operate effectively.
It is responsible for considering and making per share was 6.3 per cent higher at 34.0 pence.
recommendations to the Board on new appointments of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
It also gives due consideration to succession planning in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group and the skills and expertise needed within the Board The challenging bonus targets set by the Remuneration Committee were linked to the stretching 2015 Group budget.
As stated on page 63, performance and senior management in the future.
in the year was above the highest target level and so the maximum bonus of 150 per cent of salary was awarded.
Activities of the Committee The 2012 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP award, which is due to vest in June 2015, is estimated to achieve 91.1 per cent of the Earnings Per Share EPS The Committee met on one occasion in the year ended 31 March 2015 to consider the following matters: target and 83.2 per cent of the Total Shareholder Return TSR target, resulting in an overall share award of 87.1 per cent.
This is reflected in the table the structure, size, composition and diversity of both the Board and its Committees: on page 62. succession planning for the Group and senior executives: the diversity policy for the Group: and During the year the Committee awarded nil-cost share options under the LTIP scheme to the senior executives, including the Executive Directors.
The the Committees Terms of Reference to ensure they reflect the Committees remit.
number of shares awarded to each Executive Director was equivalent to 100 per cent of base salary, based on the market value of the Companys shares at the date of award.
These awards are reflected in the table on page 65.
The Boards commitment to succession planning and diversity can be demonstrated by the report in the Corporate Social Responsibility statement on pages 36 to 41, where we highlight the training taking place in the Group from an apprenticeship scheme to graduate development and then through As reported last year, the pay award to the Executive Directors on 1 May 2014, was 2.7 per cent.
This is reflected in the table on page 62. to managerial progression including a seminar on Breaking into the Boardroom which was specifically aimed at women within the business.
Board retirements The Committee has reviewed the diversity policy which provides for equality and fairness, recognising and respecting individual strengths and differences.
Bernard Hoggarth and John Worby retired from the Board after the Annual General Meeting AGM in July 2014.
The policy enables all employees and prospective employees to be treated in the same way.
Whilst the Board and Nomination Committee respects the benefits of diversity and supports it in its approach to external recruitment and internal appointments, it is not considered appropriate or necessary to set Up to the date of his retirement, Bernard Hoggarth continued to receive his salary and benefits.
The Committee agreed that he should be classed as a any specific or measurable targets.
All appointments are made on individual merit regardless of gender, ethnicity or religious beliefs.
The Groups principal good leaver and therefore would be entitled to a bonus in line with the other Executive Directors, prorated to the date of his retirement.
The Committee concern is to ensure that all candidates have the appropriate skills, knowledge and experience, to fulfil the role.
also agreed that, in accordance with the rules of the LTIP scheme, as approved by the Shareholders last year, he would remain in the scheme with his existing awards being prorated to the date of his retirement.
Details of payments made to Bernard Hoggarth are set out in the table on page 63.
It is pleasing to report that females represent 34 per cent of the total workforce and 29 per cent of senior managers and executives.
Further details of the breakdown of the female and male employees can be found on page 39.
John Worby received fees of 17,000 to the date of his retirement.
The Committee also considered this year, in conjunction with the whole Board and as part of the strategic review of the business, the appointment No termination payments were made to either of these Directors.
of further senior executives to support the Executive Directors as the Group continues to expand.
This consideration included the appointment of a Chief Operating Officer who will sit below Board level but above the other senior executives.
Annual General Meeting Voting As shown on page 67, 27.2 per cent of the Shareholders voted against the Directors Remuneration Policy and the comments made in respect of this Board changes included: the Directors do not have a minimum shareholding requirement of 200 per cent of base salary and there are no claw back provisions for the As detailed in last years annual report both Bernard Hoggarth and John Worby retired from the Board after the Annual General Meeting in July 2014 LTIP.
The Committee has taken note of these comments and a revised policy is to be put to the Shareholders at the AGM in 2015, which in particular and Mark Reckitt joined the Board, after a process which included using an independent external search consultancy, on the 1 May 2014. proposes changes to the operation of the LTIP, details of which are noted below.
Re-election Remuneration for the 2016 financial year All current Directors will be standing for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors Remuneration Policy report was subject to a binding Shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
However, the Remuneration Committee is proposing to change the framework of the current LTIP, which is due for renewal in 2016.
The updated scheme will incorporate feedback received The Board has set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting its reasons for supporting the re-election of the Directors at the forthcoming Annual from Shareholders and align it with current market practice and the remuneration policies of similar sized companies in the FTSE 250.
Their biographical details on pages 44 and 45 demonstrate the range of experience and skills which each brings to the benefit of AGM we will seek Shareholder approval for a revised Directors Remuneration Policy together with a new form of LTIP rules.
The new set of rules for the LTIP scheme will include: The Chair of the Nomination Committee will attend the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on a normal maximum award to the Executive Directors of 150 per cent of base salary currently 100 per cent : the Committees activities.
a two-year post vesting holding period: and a claw back and malus policy for misstatement, performance error or misconduct by a participant.
On behalf of the Board The current performance criteria based on EPS and TSR will remain.
The Committee recently benchmarked the Executive Directors remuneration against Cranswicks peer group.
As a result of this exercise, and taking into account the change in roles and responsibility of the Executive Directors, the following base salary increases have been awarded which will be applicable Martin Davey from 1 May 2015: Chair of the Nomination Committee Director Award Rationale 18 May 2015 Adam Couch 4.8% to 590,000 Increased work load due to the Chairmans reduction in time commitment.
Jim Brisby 14% to 390,000 Change in role from Sales and Marketing Director to Commercial Director, following the retirement of Bernard Hoggarth in July 2014.
Responsibility has now increased to include all commercial activities across the Group.
Mark Bottomley 2.6% to 390,000 Martin Davey 2.6% With a reduction in time commitment his salary was agreed at 300,000.
The standard pay increase of 2.6 per cent is consistent with the benchmark for the 2.9 per cent average award to other senior executives, and average awards across the Group of up to 3 per cent taking into account local practices and regional variations in pay and conditions.
54 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 55 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED LETTER FROM THE CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Remuneration for the 2016 financial year continued The current remuneration policy, including amendments which are subject to Shareholder approval at, and will be effective from, the 2015 AGM on 27 July The 2016 bonus targets are based on the stretching Group budget for the year taking into account the challenging and competitive sector in which 2015, is set out below.
Remuneration arrangements currently in place reflect the policy agreed at the 2014 AGM.
The Board considers that the targets should not be disclosed due to their commercial sensitivity.
The targets will be declared retrospectively in the 2016 Annual Report, provided they are not considered commercially sensitive at that time.
The Executive Directors will be Link between policy, strategy and structure entitled to receive up to 150 per cent of base salary if the maximum target is met.
Cranswicks remuneration policy is principally designed to attract, motivate and retain Executive Directors and senior executives to execute effectively its corporate and business strategy in order to deliver annual operating plans and sustainable year-on-year profit growth, as well as to generate and Minimum shareholding preserve value to its shareholders over the longer term without encouraging excessive levels of risk taking.
The principles and values that underpin the The Remuneration Committee has also recommended that the Executive Directors hold shares in the Company worth at least 200 per cent of base remuneration strategy are applied on a consistent basis for all Group employees.
It is the Groups policy to reward all employees fairly, responsibly and salary currently 100 per cent of net salary, with the holding to be built up over a five-year period.
by reference to local market practices, by providing an appropriate balance between fixed and variable remuneration.
Remuneration disclosure The remuneration package is in two parts: This report complies with the requirements of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as a non-performance part represented by basic salary including pension and benefits : and amended in 2013 the Regulations, the principles of the 2012 and 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code and the Listing Rules of the Financial a significant performance related element in the form of a profit related bonus and share-based awards.
The details of individual components of the remuneration package are set out below: The report contains three separate sections: the Chairmans letter and the Annual Report on Remuneration both of which will be subject to an advisory Purpose and vote at the AGM: and the Directors Remuneration Policy which is subject to a binding shareholder vote at the AGM.
Element of pay Operation Performance metrics Maximum entitlement link to strategy Base salary To provide a market Set competitively to reflect the Any increase is based on There is no prescribed The policy report: competitive base individuals skills, experience individual performance, maximum increase.
sets out the different elements which make up the Executive Directors remuneration: salary to attract and and responsibilities.
change in role and the Base salaries will move explains how each component operates: and retain executives.
in line with the RPI and details the performance metrics which underpin each element of remuneration.
Periodic reviews of market rates.
consideration of the level of pay awards for other The Annual Report on Remuneration discloses how the policy for executive remuneration has been applied during the year.
Base salaries are reviewed annually employees.
Every three and take into account inflation and years the base salary will Summary performance and any changes take be benchmarked against The Remuneration Committee will continue to monitor the Executive remuneration policy to ensure that it is correctly aligned with the Groups business effect from 1 May.
Every three years market rates.
The objective is to ensure sure that the financial interests of the Executive Directors, other senior management and employees are a review is carried out, with external aligned with the achievement of the Groups objectives.
The Remuneration Committee considers the policy set out in this report, to be an appropriate advisers, to benchmark the salaries one, which aims to properly reward performance in line with the Companys business objectives and growth and delivery of enhanced Shareholder value.
and to ensure they remain competitive.
On behalf of the Board Pension To provide a Executive Directors are entitled to N A Pension entitlement is framework to save non-contributory membership of limited to 20 per cent for retirement.
the Groups defined contribution of base salary.
pension scheme with the employers contribution set at up to 20 per cent of Steven Esom each Executive Directors base salary.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 18 May 2015 Alternatively, at their option, Executive Directors may have contributions of the same amount paid to them in cash, in lieu of pension, subject to the normal statutory deductions.
In some cases there are payments of pension contributions in lieu of salary.
Benefits To provide market Market competitive benefits principally N A Benefits will move in line competitive benefits comprise health insurances, personal with market rates.
as part of the tax advice, pensions advice and remuneration Company car allowance.
Additional benefits might be provided from time to time if the Committee decides payment of such benefits is appropriate and in line with market practice.
56 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 57
