Strategic report Segmental review Retail We are already in the enviable position of being the leading player across estate agency and lettings in the UK market and in Retail we will leverage our scale and incredible expertise todeliver significant future growth.
Sam Tyrer Managing director, Retail demand for good properties with more than Operating review HIGHLIGHTS 15 applicants per available property.
In the Estate Agency: the number of properties LaunchPad our innovative tablet Midlands there was a mixed supply across coming to market did not meet our forecast the regions.
Midlands West and East were technology speeds properties to in 2015 and overall exchanges were 9% stable, while Midlands Central and North down on 2014.
Demand was also subdued market and streamlines operations hadfewer rental properties compared to 2014. with the number of potential homebuyers Monthly rent in the East of England saw the Continued selective and registered down 7% year on year at 912,000, second highest increase in the country up strategic acquisitions although we did see some evidence of 5.8% while the Midlands and Wales grew improving demand towards the end of the Multiple awards, including The Sunday by 2.8% and 1.8% respectively.
We continued to improve productivity and Scotland, rental properties remained in Times Lettings and Estate Agency and agreed sales on a higher proportion short supply and rent only increased by 2.5%.
ofour new instructions in the year.
of the Year Despite this, the number of applicants remained The new instructions market remained high in the North with an increase from eight New Starts programme continues extremely competitive with the pure play online to ten applicants for each available property.
to build profitability agents being the most visible.
This resulted We remain committed to using the leading in our average instructed fee decreasing by portals Rightmove and Zoopla whilst also 3% despite our improved customer proposition giving our customers the widest possible and market appraisal focus.
exposure to other digital platforms, including Lettings: the market was stable through our own websites.
2015 and demand continued to outstrip We also improved the customer experience by: supply, with more than twelve people registering an interest in every property.
introducing innovative tablet technology Weagreed 42,600 lettings in 2015 with LaunchPad which has dramatically prime properties being let most quickly.
improved productivity by improving the speed of taking properties to market: The Countrywide Rental Index, published monthly, has shown that the rent for new improving landlord retention through letsincreased by 4.1% nationally in 2015 improved customer service and increased reflecting the continued strong demand resource in our property management inthis sector.
andcustomer care teams: and Supply in the South of England started enhancing our online tools.
Our landlord recovering in Q4 and by the end of the year portal has made it easier for clients to do was back at the 2014 level.
In addition, monthly business with us and tenants are now also rents increased most in the South West able to complete referencing online.
up6.2%, demonstrating that there is still 24 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Acquisition remains an important part of Plans for 2016 Outlook ourstrategy and during 2015 we acquired The Retail business unit has a combined force With a stable interest rate outlook and some 27 businesses, including a number of large of 4,800 people across 822 branches and improvement in new build numbers, the level businesses and brands.
We aim to increase 61 brands, giving us a unique opportunity of transactions in the market is expected to our market presence in areas where we todelight our customers and enhance their grow gradually into 2016.
With our continued areunder-represented and, in 2015, we property experience whether they are a focus on growing market share, we expect to significantly increased our presence in the landlord, tenant, vendor or potential buyer.
Liverpool region with the acquisition of two We have focused on ensuring our business businesses, Clive Watkins and Sutton Kersh.
structures are set up to deliver the ambitious The largest acquisition of 2015 was the plans we have for 2016, all of which put the JohnFrancis network of 21 branches in customer at the heart of what we do and South Wales, which has given us great scope help us to double the size of our business to expand and develop this market.
KPIs Total income m Adjusted EBITDA m House exchanges number Residential properties under management number 254.5 43.3 50,396 60,272 -4% -26% -9% 7% 265.7 58.6 55,422 60,272 254.5 56,204 50,396 49,356 231.7 43.3 44,640 37.5 2013 2014 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2015 Case study Landlord retention During 2015 a decision was made to be much more proactive in terms of contacting landlords at various stages of their customer journey.
The objective of this contact strategy was not only to reduce customer attrition but also to identify touchpoints where we could enhance our service delivery and embed this into the business through coaching anddevelopment.
The customer care team was established in the North by Kerry Tipper, who set some clear targets and objectives around an effective contact strategy, a more robust complaint handling process and strengthening the relationship and working practices between the property management centres and the branches they supported.
The customer care team is five strong and makes regular calls to new and long-standing Countrywide landlords in order to understand any issues and address them before they escalate.
The results this team has delivered are tangible and year on year our landlord retention has increased by Kerry Tipper 48%.
Following the success of this initiative the concept has been extended to other parts of the country.
Where complaints have arisen we have used our customer feedback Kerry Tipper, director of customer care, says: 'The decision to set up in a constructive manner to adapt working practices where necessary a customer care team has been hugely beneficial.
We hadinsufficient and also coach our teams to handle complaints more effectively and focus on the retention of occupied units and our approach to complaints more consistently.
handling was inconsistent and at times notconciliatory enough.
'The key to the success of this team has been the relentless focus on 'We mapped the customer journey and agreed that contacting landlords communication with our customers and then using this feedback in four months into a tenancy meant that we were more likely to pick up aconstructive manner to develop our people and our business. '
issues before they became complaints.
Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 25 Strategic report Segmental review continued London Our plans are ambitious for London, Europes largest property market.
We plan to capitalise on this growth opportunity using our stable of strong brands, our unparalleled distribution network and our brilliant people.
Graham Bell Managing director, London JohnD Wood and Hamptons.
Despite the HIGHLIGHTS Operating review market for house sales over 2million being 2015 saw a significant amount of change Successful acquisitions last year down by 26% year on year, Countrywide with the creation of a new London business London, as a whole, outperformed the market Greene & Co, John Curtis, Vanet unit.
Servicing the largest and one of the with 2 million plus sales down 6% from most diverse residential property markets Property Asset Management 437 to 409, demonstrating the strength of inthe world, Countrywides London business these brands and our network.
Total 2015 Lettings fees grew year on year unit has been divided up into four business annual revenues across the London division areas, each focusing on distinct segments: to 56 million with tenancies were 3% higher than in 2014, with profits Bairstow Eves & Mann, Mid-market and Growth, growing 3% 8% lower due to the additional cost base Premier and City, and Hamptons International.
taken on as a result of the acquisitions and Significant growth in the London It now has more than 250 branches which new branch openings.
The impact of the incorporate over 420 sales and lettings residential sales pipeline, up year depressed upper end of the housing market, operations across 20 high street brands, and on year by 22% combined with house price inflation in Outer 2,600 people who generated 178 million London and the mid-market, meant that our ofincome in 2015 and 34 million of Strong performance in premium house average sales fee increased by 5%.
The breadth of our offer in London, sales above 2 million, outperforming total lettings fees grew year on year by 1%, coupled with the strength and robustness the mix of lettings between Central London the London residential sales market ofmarket-leading brands, give us a great and Outer London resulted in the average platform for growth over the next few years.
A strengthening economy, low interest rates and new Government schemes aimed at Preparation for growth helping first-time-buyers continued to support In 2015, we continued with our strategy demand in the core London market in 2015. ofmaking acquisitions in sectors of the However, the supply of housing stock was market where we identify growth opportunities.
restricted, with a 6% fall in the number of Acquisitions in the year included Greene & Co, homes coming onto the market.
As a result a leading business in the mid-market in of this demand and supply imbalance, prices NorthLondon, John Curtis in Harpenden across London continued their upward path, andWheathampstead, as well as Vanet Property albeit at a more modest rate than in 2014, Asset Management, based in Docklands.
tofinish the year at 507,000, and the number Wealso opened new Hamptons branches of sales in the capital fell by 10% from 2014 inEarlsfield and Headington.
Rents increased by 4.7% over 2015 acquisitions and new branches have performed to finish the year at an average of 1,292 in line with expectations so far.
have added to our sales and lettings growth in the mid-market and our wider London As predicted the first half of 2015 was quiet lettings revenues grew by 9% as a result in the lead up to the general election in May.
ofan increase in our lettings footprint from In addition to this, the 2014 stamp duty branch expansion and the acquisition changes resulted in a noticeable slowdown ofspecialist lettings businesses.
in the sales market at the upper end throughout 2015.
This is an area where Countrywide is aleading player with brands including 26 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Our International department grew in 2015 Outlook affordability.
This trend will play well to our with affiliations established in the Algarve, diversified network strength across all sectors Whilst it remains to be seen if the EU Portugal: Costa Blanca, Spain: Tuscany and and regions of the London property market.
referendum will have an impact on Central Umbria, Italy: and Valais Canton, Switzerland.
London house sales, we expect to see a The London lettings market is a robust one Hamptons international have the largest gradual improvement in sales transactions andis continuing to evolve and grow.
29% of UK-based international property portal inthe upper end of the London sales market households rent in London compared to 18% containing over 100,000 listings and over in 2016, as vendor and purchaser expectations nationally and people are increasingly on the 7,000 international partner offices.
Growth in transactions and move, in and out of the capital.
London now number has been as high as 130,000 in prices in the Outer London regions should represents 34% of the UK rental market by peak season.
In mid-2015 John D Wood & Co. continue, as people move from central areas number of lets.
To service this demand, further launched an international offering, working to wider London boroughs and commuter expansion of our London-based lettings with the already established Hamptons zones when buying or trading up, driven by business remains a priority.
KPIs Total income m Adjusted EBITDA m House exchanges Residential properties number under management number 178.0 34.2 11,819 14,588 3% -8% -11% 16% 178.0 37.1 13,338 14,588 12,954 35.5 172.6 34.2 11,819 12,600 166.0 10,640 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Case study Old Church Park development, Romford NU Living is a design-led innovative developer with an ethical stance, committed to putting customers first.
All NU Living profits are reinvested to fund regeneration and development of exemplary, affordable new homes.
The NU Living Old Church Park development in Romford is a development of one and two bedroom apartments, many with gated parking.
Each apartment is comprehensively equipped to fulfil the demands of modern living.
With great rail and bus links owners can easily commute to London and the City.
Romford itself is a thriving town where many successful businesses are located and the QueensHospital is also close by.
In April 2015 Steve Lillistone, business development director, and his Countrywide Residential Development team received an instruction to market Phase 3 of Old Church Park, Romford.
Steves aim was to host a very successful launch on behalf of the developer and his first step was to devise asite-specific launch plan, and join up all the relevant teams from within Countrywide.
Steve brought a number of his colleagues together to ensure that Linda Faucher, sales and marketing director of NU Living, said: 'It became hecould produce a full service solution for his client.
He met with obvious to us that we would probably need to release further units his colleagues from the East London and Essex-based networks of onthe launch day given the amount of interest in the development. '
Countrywide estate agents Abbotts and Bairstow Eves to discuss the marketing plan for the properties.
Next he brought in John Taylor, area The Countrywide Financial Services team was also on site on the manager of Countrywide Financial Services for North and East London.
launch day to ensure that it could assist NU Living applicants with He also spoke with the relevant Countrywide Lettings teams to ensure their mortgage applications.
that any buy-to-let investors could receive advice on the launch day.
'We have worked with NU Living since 2010: I am delighted that we Steves approach meant the whole team knew what steps would need co-ordinated services from other parts of Countrywide to ensure we to be taken to deliver a successful launch for our client.
delivered the best possible service to our client, ' said Jon Taylor, area The lead up to the launch took just under two weeks, during which manager, Countrywide Financial Services.
'Out of all the applications Abbotts and Bairstow Eves worked tirelessly to ensure they delivered we made, 20 of them were through the Government-backed Help to a highly successful sales and marketing campaign around the launch Buy scheme. '
of the Old Church Park development.
The development was sold out due to the reservations taken over the On the launch day in May 2015, 18 plots out of 84 were released by launch weekend and the ongoing marketing over the following few NU Living.
The Countrywide marketing efforts were apparent as the weeks.
This was a great result for both NU Living and for Countrywide.
queue started to build from 5.45 am.
