HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Net risk after PRINCIPAL RISKS mitigation Low risk Increasing Medium risk Unchanged High risk Decreasing AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Strategic risks Impact Mitigation Operational risks Impact Mitigation Deterioration in the UK economy may adversely The Group offers a range of products across premium, The Group faces the risk of significant incidents such Robust business continuity plans are deployed across the CONSUMER BUSINESS affect the activity levels of consumers and the Groups standard and value tiers which it is able to flex in response as fire, flood or loss of key utilities, which could result Groups sites and appropriate insurance arrangements are DEMAND CONTINUITY immediate customers, leading to a fall in demand for to customer and market demands.
Pork remains an in prolonged disruption to its sites, adversely impacting in place to mitigate any resulting financial loss.
Potential the Groups products and ultimately adversely impacting extremely competitively priced and sought after product.
business disruption is minimised through multi-site on the Groups financial performance.
operations across many of the Groups key product lines.
The success of the Group is dependent on attracting Across the Group strong recruitment processes, RECRUITMENT and retaining quality, skilled and experienced labour, competitive remuneration packages and ongoing training The Group trades in highly competitive markets which The Group maintains and develops strong working COMPETITOR AND RETENTION staff and senior management.
and development plans are in place.
Specifically for senior tend to operate without long term contracts.
Product relationships with its customers.
This is supported by ACTIVITY OF WORKFORCE management, robust succession planning is also in place.
innovation and changing consumer trends provide a delivering high levels of service and quality products and by constant challenge to the future success of the Group the continued focus on product development and innovation.
and its ability to compete effectively.
A breach of health and safety legislation may lead to The Group conforms to all relevant standards and HEALTH reputational damage and regulatory penalties, including regulations, and adopts industry best practice across its Commercial risks Impact Mitigation AND SAFETY restrictions on operations, damages or fines.
All sites are subject to frequent audits by internal teams, customers and regulatory authorities to ensure A significant proportion of the Groups revenues are The Group continually looks for opportunities to expand RELIANCE ON standards are being adhered to.
generated from a small number of major customers.
its customer base across all product categories and works KEY CUSTOMERS Loss of all or part of the Groups business with one closely with customers to ensure service, quality and new or more of these customers would adversely impact product developments are of the highest standard.
on the Groups financial performance.
A significant infection or disease outbreak may result in The Groups pig farming activities, and other farms from DISEASE AND the loss of supply of both pig or poultry meat or the inability which third party pig and poultry meat is ultimately INFECTION WITHIN to move animals freely, impacting on the supply of key raw sourced, have a broad geographical spread to avoid The Group is exposed to risks associated with the pricing The Group has a trusted long-standing farming supply base materials into the Groups sites.
reliance on a single production area.
In addition, robust PIG HERD PIG MEAT and availability of pig meat.
An increase in pig prices, or a which is complemented by supply from the Groups sites vaccination and pig herd operating procedures mitigate POULTRY FLOCK PRICING AND lack of availability of pig meat would adversely impact on Wayland Farms and Wold Farms.
These arrangements the risk of common diseases and infections.
AVAILABILITY the Groups financial performance.
help to mitigate the risks associated with pig price volatility and supply.
OF SUPPLY The Group is subject to the risks of product and or The Group ensures that all raw materials are traceable FOOD SCARES raw material contamination and potential health related to original source and that the manufacturing, storage PRODUCT industry-wide food scares and issues.
Such incidents may and distribution systems of both our sites and our Financial risks Impact Mitigation lead to product recall costs, reputational damage and suppliers are continually monitored by experienced CONTAMINATION The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on borrowings The Group deploys effective currency hedging regulatory penalties.
and well trained technical teams.
INTEREST RATE, and to foreign currency risk on purchases particularly of arrangements to mitigate risks associated with foreign CURRENCY, charcuterie products from the European Union.
Each site has access to the Groups the Group needs continued access to funding for both overdraft facility and bank balances are monitored on LIQUIDITY AND current business and future growth.
All term debt is arranged centrally and CREDIT RISKS appropriate headroom is maintained.
As the Group grows businesses may be acquired based Rigorous due diligence reviews are carried out in advance BUSINESS on inaccurate information, unachievable forecasts or of any new business acquisition, using internal and ACQUISITIONS without appropriate consideration being given to the specialised external resources where required.
32 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 33 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DRIVERS FOR GROWTH Learning and development Sharing heritage We have made substantial investment in Partnerships with independent, artisan employee development to empower our teams producers have helped to steer the direction to continue to drive Cranswicks success.
From our first collaboration with significant project is Growing our own which Martin Heap in sausage production in 1995 to includes our increasingly popular graduate our most recent partnership with Gill Ridgard at training scheme which gives new starters the the Yorkshire Baker, our food heroes have made opportunity to build a wide range of skills a significant contribution to our growth and and experience, laying the foundation for development.
They continue to influence recipe further development within the Group.
development, support training and transfer of specialist skills and help us to build and maintain important trade relationships.
For more information on our strategy and business model see pages 20 to 25 INVESTING IN THE BEST PEOPLE Our success is built on our people, who form an integral part of our business.
We pride ourselves in creating a supportive but entrepreneurial environment, which allows both individuals and the business to prosper.
34 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 35
