HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION REDUCTION DECREASE IN IN WASTE LIKE-FOR-LIKE RELATIVE 33% 3% CORPORATE SOCIAL TO LANDFILL CARBON FOOTPRINT RESPONSIBILITY We consider Corporate Social Responsibility from This was an increase of 102 audits or 33 per cent carried out 159 supply chain audits to assure for the development of Version 7 of the BRC our Stakeholders perspective in terms of: customers on the previous year, reflecting increased supply the safety, traceability, quality and provenance Global Food Standard.
Our Group Technical and consumers: producers and suppliers: people: chain surveillance following recommendations of the raw materials we use within our business.
Director is chairman of the technical committee environment: and the community.
made in the Elliott Report, and we are pleased responsible for the review and development to report that over 90 per cent of these audits During 2014 Professor Chris Elliott completed his of the BMPA Pork Schemes, the assurance, We believe that a committed approach to all were completed to the full satisfaction of our investigation into food fraud for the government traceability and product quality standards aspects of Corporate Social Responsibility customers and other business stakeholders.
and identified eight pillars of recommendations that sit behind the Red Tractor logo displayed CSR will benefit our stakeholders and will that included the need for more effective on pork and pork meat products.
strengthen our business, facilitating future We recently celebrated our 94th consecutive management and policing of supply chains.
We promote best practice Grade A rating against the British Retail response we have restructured our GTS team to Farms and producers CSR and shared learning.
The Group CSR Policy Consortium BRC Global Standard for Food ensure we have specialists for the approval and During 2014 our Preston and Norfolk sites clearly defines our core values and aspirations.
This record of technical compliance maintenance of our supply chains for farms, meat, collectively processed in excess of two million The Group CSR committee meets at least three stretches back to 2005 and is one that we ingredients, packaging and service providers.
The pigs, equivalent to 40,000 pigs per week times a year, is chaired by the Group Finance believe to be sector leading.
Four of our sites scope of approval covers food safety, technical up 8 per cent on the previous year.
Both Director, who is also a member of the executive Preston, Norfolk, Riverside and Continental management, traceability and provenance.
sites are also key suppliers of pork to the committee, and each of the key functions of Fine Foods achieved an A rating, the highest Professor Elliott visited Cranswick to discuss Groups further processing sites and other Human Resources, Health & Safety, Environment level of certification awarded by the BRC which his recommendations and review some of the food manufacturing companies.
They are and Technical are represented.
is reserved for those sites achieving Grade A procedures and systems we have in place: strategically placed in two of the UKs largest compliance by unannounced audit.
pig breeding and rearing regions.
Close Our core values are to: I SPENT A DAY WITH THE TECHNICAL TEAM AT THE CRANSWICK supply chain proximity ensures that animal manufacture great quality food, which is In addition to the BRC compliance of our sites LAZENBY SITE IN HULL.
I WAS DEEPLY IMPRESSED WITH transportation times from farm to abattoir safely produced in technically and legally and their food safety and quality management THE KNOWLEDGE, PROFESSIONALISM AND ETHOS OF THE are minimised with resulting welfare and compliant facilities: systems, many of our pork products fully comply with ENTIRE TEAM I MET.
A HUGE AMOUNT OF TIME, EFFORT AND food mile reduction benefits.
The map below prioritise food safety and legislative the Red Tractor Assurance Scheme and the British RESOURCES HAVE BEEN DEDICATED INTO DELIVERING FOOD provides an overview of farm location and compliance in all our technical and Meat Processors Association BMPA Pork and Pork PRODUCTS OF THE HIGHEST QUALITY FROM A SUPPLY CHAIN distance from our two processing sites: commercial decisions: Meat Product standards.
This compliance gives WITH THE HIGHEST INTEGRITY.
promote technical innovation, product quality consumers the confidence that our products are: PROFESSOR CHRIS ELLIOTT, 12 FEBRUARY 2015 Preston, near Hull and compliance across our business: produced within an assured supply chain: to 35% within 25 miles drive Research and Development R&D specified standards: and traceable all the way back We are addressing the wider challenges 55% within 40 miles innovation through excellence in food to farm.
Compliance integrity is challenged by third associated with preventing DNA cross 66% within 50 miles science and food sector technology: party announced and unannounced audits.
We contamination during the manufacture of 73% within 60 miles engage with industry stakeholders to remain also produce organic products that are subject single species products in multi-species at the forefront of legislative, food safety, to an in-depth traceability review carried out factories and we have been proactive in agribusiness and other technological by independent auditors, working on behalf supporting the BMPA and the Food Standards Norfolk developments which may have an of The Soil Association.
Agency FSA in their work with industry 46% within 25 miles CRANSWICK TAKES ITS ETHICAL impact on our business: and stakeholders.
We have an extensive risk-based 86% within 40 miles undertake all our business in an Our exacting internal technical and retailer DNA screening programme for raw materials 90% within 50 miles RESPONSIBILITIES TOWARDS ITS environmentally sustainable way.
policy compliance audit programme undertook used and finished products produced by our 95% within 60 miles 961 separate audits in the last twelve months.
During 2014 Cranswick carried out Customers and consumers This is an increase of 167 audits or 21 per cent 787 DNA speciation tests on our raw materials EMPLOYEES, CUSTOMERS, SHAREHOLDERS, We aspire to be the manufacturer of choice that on the previous year.
The programme identifies and finished products, and all proved to be is renowned for technical integrity, compliance, non-compliance and proactively highlights best compliant to the stated species.
We also spent More than 20 per cent of the British pigs we SUPPLIERS, PRODUCERS AND THE food safety, product quality and innovation.
We practice and shared learning across the Group: 1.8 million up 8.5 per cent on the laboratory process are bred and reared by our Wayland supply private label and branded products to this continuous improvement underpins our screening of our products and raw materials and Wold farms businesses.
the major UK retailers, restaurant groups and technical performance.
food service customers as well as supplying Many of the pigs supplied to Cranswick are pork to other manufacturers.
We also have a Responsible procurement Ethical standards reared to higher welfare standards associated rapidly growing export business.
Many of our We are committed to ensuring the integrity We monitor ethical standards with our sites with outdoor bred or outdoor reared production customers consider us to be their key supplier and traceability of raw materials, including undergoing unannounced SEDEX Members methods.
Approximately 50 per cent of those or category champion and a preferred partner meat, ingredients and packaging, we use Ethical Trade Audits SMETA every other processed by Preston, and 75 per cent by Norfolk on key technical initiatives and projects.
in the manufacture of our products.
625 raw year: these are supported by our own ethical are reared to the exacting requirements of the material suppliers and 4,318 products and verification audits.
We have recently become RSPCA Freedom Foods welfare standard.
The Our production facilities are some of the associated specifications are approved and AB members of SEDEX Supplier Ethical Data balance of those processed are reared indoors best invested and most efficient in the UK controlled centrally by Group Technical Services Exchange and will require our top 100 suppliers in full compliance with the Red Tractor BMPA and include the most modern and efficient GTS.
Suppliers are approved by either an to register with SEDEX and make their ethical Quality Assured Pork BQAP welfare standards.
pig abattoir in the country.
Our facilities independent third party audit, such as the data visible to us, enabling us to drive ethical undergo exacting technical audits carried out BRC Global Standard for Food Safety, or by standards within our supply chain.
The introduction of the Welfare of Animals at the by independent auditing bodies, customers, audits carried out by members of the GTS team.
Time of Killing legislation WATOK mentioned government authorities and our own technical Expectations of our suppliers are clearly laid out Several members of the Cranswick technical in last years report was postponed by the compliance teams.
In the year ended 31 March in our Technical Conditions of Supply and audit team represent the Group on trade association government.
This will require standard operating 2015 we hosted 412 separate external frequency is based on risk assessment, supply technical committees.
Our Group Technical procedures for all animal welfare related compliance audits and associated technical chain threat analysis, and previous supply Compliance Controller also represented the processes from time of arrival to slaughter.
inspections, many of which were unannounced.
In the last twelve months we have BMPA on the BRC working group responsible 36 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 37 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Farms and producers continued We have enhanced our Human Resources HR Experience is provided in production, technical, Health & Safety TOTAL EMPLOYEES It will also require all operatives carrying strategy this year and it has been incorporated NPD, sales, marketing and finance alongside We are committed to high standards of Health out these procedures to have a certificate of into our CSR and overall strategic plan to a specially designed training programme that & Safety, which are an integral part of our competence.
We are well placed to meet these underpin our vision and purpose.
We aspire for encourages self-awareness and effectiveness.
Our annual improvement programme requirements when the legislation is introduced.
our people to be the best and we are committed is fully endorsed by the Board and sponsored to inspiring and developing a multi-skilled and This year we received over 200 applications by our insurers.
Health & Safety training is 34% The Business Benchmark on Farm Animal motivated workforce.
The HR strategy includes for our graduate programme and we hope to applied equally to temporary agency workers Welfare BBFAW report was launched in CSR initiatives for attracting and retaining offer roles to six individuals.
Our graduates are as well as permanent employees.
The report talented individuals who have key skills which are key people in the first stage of our succession provides an account of how animal welfare vital to delivery of our long term business goals.
planning and supporting their successful The Board regularly reviews accident and claims 66% is being managed by leading food companies development is vital to the long term success statistics.
The Group Health & Safety team around the world.
The development of the We encourage our employees to express their of our business.
We have joined the corporate implement and monitor new initiatives across Benchmark is funded by Compassion in World views via Works Councils or Union membership.
partnership with Hull University Business sites to maintain excellent standards of Health Farming and World Animal Protection and Employees have a Worker Representative, School, sharing our commitment to regional & Safety.
Monthly accident statistics are global investor Coller Capital.
The BBFAW is who may be a Union Representative, to air regeneration and the role business teaching monitored using an industry leading web-based Male 3,267 designed to help drive higher farm animal their views on internal committees.
We want can play in improving local prosperity, recording system.
This allows analysis of each welfare standards in the worlds leading food our employees to feel valued and we view them wellbeing and competitiveness.
accident and monitors control measures that Female 1,678 businesses.
It is the first global measure of as critical stakeholders in our business.
As a have been introduced to prevent recurrence.
The animal welfare standards and we were graded result of a staff survey a variety of initiatives Health and wellbeing system includes a tracker to guarantee closure in tier 2 which is industry leading for the pork have been implemented which have bolstered In 2014 the Company participated in a customer of required actions in the required time period.
the trust and engagement of employees.
led initiative to promote health and wellbeing MAIN BOARD to employees.
The NHS Smoking Cessation Van The Group Health & Safety team is led by To download a copy of the report please visit We are committed to implementing a training came to sites and staff were counselled about the Group Health & Safety Manager with the Info Centre at www.
com and click and development strategy that delivers the dangers of smoking and offered effective the assistance of two Group Health & Safety on the 2014 report.
workforce capabilities, skills and competencies 14% stopping strategies.
We offered free fruit to Coordinators.
All sites have a dedicated Health through its apprenticeship scheme, graduate employees during break times, held fitness & Safety Manager to provide the highest The Cranswick agricultural team is also working development programme and management classes on sites and delivered occupational standards of Health & Safety management.
All OUR PEOPLE with several retailer specific pig producer training courses.
Succession planning is actively health talks and assessments for staff.
Health & Safety employees hold the appropriate groups on rearing systems, breed development, managed, and employees are given career National Examination Board in Occupational welfare, sustainability, environment and ethical opportunities which support staff retention Ethical standards Safety and Health NEBOSH qualification.
Projects include: and a sustainable and stable business.
We employ the only UK, Internal Social Systems collaborating with Bishop Burton Agricultural Auditor registered by the International Register With the increasing complexity of equipment 86% College on animal behaviour and welfare: Apprentices of Certified Auditors IRCA.
All sites are audited and the legislation surrounding its design and DEVELOPMENT researching links between animal feed and There are currently 32 apprenticeships in place, annually and we are a member of Supplier use, the engineering team has been trained pork eating quality: and in engineering, butchery, stockmanship and Ethical Data Exchange SEDEX.
We are at the in machinery safety and any new machinery Following the recruitment Male 6 developing industry best practice guidance administration.
We are particularly proud of forefront of best practice in conducting annual introduced to the business will not be used of a Group Learning and on the use of antibiotics.
our butchery apprenticeship scheme which, ethical audits both at our own sites and those unless compliance with the latest Certificate of Female 1 Development Manager in July we understand, is the only one of its kind in of our labour providers.
Performance is judged Conformity CEE regulations has been checked.
2014, we introduced a structured To ensure we remain at the forefront of pig the UK, concentrating on developing butchery against the Gangmasters Licensing Act 2004, and comprehensive suite of health and welfare developments we have skills and a deep understanding of the meat the Ethical Trading Initiative and retailer Training Company representation on the BMPA Pig Meat production process.
We continue to focus on ensuring Providing appropriate training to all employees SENIOR MANAGERS AND EXECUTIVES Committee, Red Tractor Welfare Committee, that ethical standards are being maintained is key to the success of the Groups Health & the Pig Health & Welfare working group Representatives from Cranswick are part of the throughout our supply chain.
All new employees undertake During the last financial year, 70 and the Real Welfare Committee.
team developing the Trailblazer Apprenticeships, a Health & Safety induction course including individuals, representing 15 per cent working with the Industry Skills Partnership for Equality and diversity fire safety, manual handling, task and machinery of our management cohort, participated Our commitment to quality, resource, traceability Food and Drink, to create new food production Encouraging the principles of equality and diversity training in their working environment.
We also 29% in first line manager skills training and the resulting high level of compliance apprenticeship programmes.
These programmes are key to the successful and inclusive culture provide ongoing Health & Safety training or joined a talent and leadership is reassuring to our stakeholders.
We are will enable apprentices to gain cross-functional that lies at the heart of our business.
We also delivered training committed to the highest possible standards of skills that will be positively recognised across training is provided for all employees, reiterating agency staff are task trained to safe systems programmes on project management, technical management, food safety, traceability the industry.
the importance of equal opportunities and best of work for any equipment or task they work on.
the Language of Leadership, Breaking and the provenance of the raw materials we practice behaviours.
The site HR managers This training is documented and signed off 71% into the Boardroom specifically aimed use and the products we produce: with ongoing Graduate development have been trained in equality and diversity by the employee and the trainer.
We have at women within the business and investment in our sites, people and processes we A number of students have been sponsored principles to roll these out to all middle and senior suitable systems for communicating Health lean management training programmes.
are well equipped to deal with future challenges.
through their final year at university with a management teams.
All employment decisions, & Safety and training for our non-English In 2015 we will complete the secured role with us when they have completed including recruitment and internal promotions, speaking workforce.
implementation of a new Group-wide Male 354 People their education.
This year, three students from are based on merit, qualification and abilities and appraisal process to develop and cement We are committed to introducing, developing Harper Adams University worked in our Technical are not influenced or affected by an employees All our sites have achieved British Standard Female 144 key behaviours centred on our key and maintaining the key systems and processes and New Product Development NPD teams.
race, colour, nationality, religion, sex, marital status, 18001: Occupational Health & Safety strategic themes of: Quality, Value, required to underpin the effective delivery of We believe the Cranswick graduate programme is family status, sexual orientation, disability or age.
Benson Park, a poultry Innovation and People.
Training plans our Group-wide employment strategy.
unique within the industry and this year we have processing site in Hull, acquired in 2014, and succession planning targets will be sought to raise our profile and the apprenticeships The business employs 4,945 people, up from has been integrated into the Group Health directly linked to the appraisal process.
we can offer young people.
the previous year of 4,627, and we hired 3,156 & Safety management programme.
38 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 39 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Health & Safety continued As we grow, so do our aspirations and we target We have been measuring our carbon footprint The Company accepts that there is a Working with young people WASTE TO LANDFILL TONNES Audits to reach beyond environmental compliance and since 2008 and have made good progress in requirement to disclose the carbon footprint We have supported a number of initiatives Calendar year to 31 December Annual internal Health & Safety audits are our commitment to operate our business in a reducing both our absolute and relative carbon separately in the following categories: within local schools in careers weeks, including 2014 1,016 carried out to measure the Health & Safety more sustainable way.
This philosophy resulted footprints, exceeding the initial target of 20 per mock interviews with Year 10 students and standards at each site to confirm that each in Cranswick being awarded the Meat & Poultry cent reduction by 2010.
We have rebased our Emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide from: 2013 1,526 hosting a Dragons Den style exercise.
We also site achieves the required standard and to Processing Awards Environmental Initiative of targets, from the 2010 baseline, to further i combustion of fuel and operation of facilities: partner with educational establishments to 2012 3,103 provide an action plan for the following twelve the Year in both 2014 and 2015 by a panel of reduce our carbon footprint 30 per cent by 2020. and offer work experience placements throughout months.
In 2015 we will continue to improve our industry peers.
ii purchase of electricity, heat, steam and cooling.
Water Health & Safety standards and reduce accident Organic growth and recent acquisitions have Water use across the Group has fallen in frequency.
Key to this is behavioural safety Managing the impact of our business activities increased our absolute carbon footprint which The way the business is set up makes it Our HR team is working with the Humber absolute terms by 7.7 per cent during this period of employees and we have developed a on the environment has never been more includes Cranswick Gourmet Pastry, Riverside, our impracticable to distinguish between the two Local Enterprise Partnership LEP Food Sector whilst the usage per tonne of product has also behavioural safety system, which highlights important.
It is therefore incumbent on all farming activities and a three-month contribution categories: however the bulk of the emissions Skills Task Force to secure funding to enable dropped by 10.7 per cent.
Compared to our base our workers attitude to risk and hazard: early our key stakeholders to accept and engage from Benson Park.
The overall figure rises from would be from electricity and gas, which the Humber area to promote employment in the year of 2008, our water use per tonne of product indications from this project are very positive.
in initiatives to reduce our energy, water 84,844 tonnes of CO e in 2013 to 94,088 tonnes are monitored.
We are developing a proposal for a 2 has dropped by 24.5 per cent, comfortably and waste, understand how sustainability in this reporting year up 10.9 per cent.
The Humber Food Campus HFC, aimed at promoting exceeding our commitment to the FHC2020.
Incidents improves our business model and profitability, relative carbon footprint increase by 7.4 per cent Energy employment in the food sector.
The HFC would The Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and whilst providing the opportunity to be more to 0.248 tonnes CO e per tonne of sales.
Despite the fall in worldwide oil prices which be a virtual campus bringing together employers 2 WATER USE PER TONNE OF PRODUCT Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RIDDORS competitive in an ever tightening market place.
has reduced the cost of energy by 2.3 per cent, and training providers across the region to Calendar year to 31 December on a like-for-like basis were in line with the The like-for-like figures contrasts the our energy consumption increased by 3.5 per cent develop a Humber brand to attract inward previous year.
Overall, there was a slight We continue to rollout the International Standards performance of those businesses which during the year reflecting more accurate reporting, investment.
The HFC will work alongside the - 10.7% reported increase in RIDDORS following Organisation ISO 14001 Environmental Standard comprised the Group in 2010.
In the year site extensions and increased production.
Our sites Humber Gold Standard for schools involvement the new sites which joined the Group in the across the Group with a further three sites having to 31 December 2014, our absolute carbon within the Group are continually challenged 2014 in career development.
The total number of recorded successfully attained accreditation, taking the Group footprint rose by 9.5 per cent to 82,198 tonnes to conduct reviews of energy use and this has 2013 2.71 accidents in 2014 was 14 per cent lower and total to ten accredited sites.
The remaining sites are of CO e compared to 75,059 tonnes of CO e resulted in substantial investment across a number Junior sports team sponsorship 2 2 2012 2.78 the Accident Incident Ratio accident against working towards the standard and are expected to in calendar year 2013 reflecting the organic of our manufacturing facilities including: energy During the year we have encouraged young number of employees reduced by 16 per cent be compliant by the end of the next financial year.
growth of the core business.
The relative carbon efficient production machinery: energy reduction people to be more active, and have sponsored a TOTAL WATER CUBIC METRES in 2014, compared to 2013.
All sites continue footprint continues its downward trend, falling technology: and automated monitoring and number of junior teams across a range of sports.
Calendar year to 31 December to carry out first class accident investigations Formal Environmental Permitting by the by 2.6 per cent to 0.225 tonnes of CO e. targeting equipment.
As previously reported, Not only do we provide kits for teams, but we 2 which are monitored by the Group Health & Environment Agency becomes necessary when climate change agreements are in place for all also take an active role during the season by - 7.7% Safety Manager.
production capacity at a site reaches specified Group sites under the second phase of this scheme.
ABSOLUTE CARBON FOOTPRINT TONNES CO E 2 levels.
A further two of the Cranswick sites have 824,942 2014 Calendar year to 31 December grown to the point where permits are required Waste disposal Summary ACCIDENTS PER 1,000 EMPLOYEES 2013 893,489 100,000 and subsequently applications have been Working with our waste management partners, We are committed in the long term to operate Calendar year to 31 December 2012 845,570 submitted in order that the two sites adhere we now dispose of 92 per cent of our total our businesses according to a strong set of 8.5 to the Environmental Permitting Regulations.
waste either by converting to refuse derived environmental and sustainable values and 2014 Community Once approved, this will take the number of 80,000 fuel RDF, recycling or anaerobic digestion.
0.9 We have a responsibility to the communities sites operating under permit conditions within volume of recycled metal, cardboard and plastic 9.8 in which we operate.
Around 78 per cent of our 2013 the Group to six.
has risen by 16 per cent to 34 per cent of our On behalf of the Board 0.9 employees live within ten miles of their place total waste stream.
We are in early but positive 60,000 of work and we encourage our businesses to 12.5 With the introduction of the New Energy Saving discussions with Tamar Energy with a view to 2012 2013 2014 2012 engage with their local communities in various 1.6 Opportunities Scheme ESOS Regulations, the diverting the bulk of our food waste to power ways, including offering students in local schools Like-for-like Group Cranswick Group have decided to go beyond the Anaerobic Digestion Plants which Tamar Energy career opportunities and work experience.
We Total RIDDOR requirements of the regulations and commit to intend to build across the country.
Mark Bottomley encourage staff to become involved in charitable continual improvement in our drive to reduce Finance Director RELATIVE CARBON FOOTPRINT activities.
Our CSR commitment is for each site It is with great sadness that we have to report our energy use.
This is a pre-requisite of the ISO 18 May 2015 WASTE DISPOSAL ROUTES PER CENT TONNES CO E PER TONNE SALES to have one charity to which they wish to donate 2 that just before our year end there was a fatality 50001 Energy Management System and, as such, Calendar year to 31 December Calendar year to 31 December and for there to be support for one national on one of the farms.
The causes of this accident we have committed to rolling out this standard 57.8 charity by the Group as a whole.
We offer our deepest across the business.
0.30 RDF 57.1 sympathies to the family and friends of the Cranswick continue to raise money for local and individual concerned.
Carbon footprint 34.0 Recycling national charities: The carbon footprint, expressed as a tonne of 30.4 0.25 At site level including charity bike rides and Environment carbon dioxide equivalent CO e, is an aggregated 2 8.2 golf tournaments.
One site raised over 51,000 Customer and consumer focus on the total of the individual site figures.
It includes all site Landfill during the course of this reporting period.
12.5 environment and sustainability has grown energy, f-gas usage, Company and privately owned At a Group level involvement with Help for 0.20 and the Groups environmental aims are being transport, air travel and waste.
It is calculated using 2012 2013 2014 2014 2013 Heroes through the Red Lion Brand helps realigned to meet common shared goals.
The DEFRAs guidelines and a standard set of conversion that business contribute all of its post-tax environmental section Greenthinking of the factors for Company reporting.
Like-for-like Group profits to Forces charities.
uk shows Other charitable donations made by the that progress against the 2020 target to reduce business during the year totalled 24,000. our carbon footprint remains on track.
40 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 41 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Cranswicks approach to governance is outlined in the following report, which sets out how it integrates the key principles of the five sections of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : leadership: effectiveness: accountability: remuneration: and relations with Shareholders.
In line with the development of the business, the governance framework is kept under close review to ensure that shareholders interests are safeguarded and to sustain the long term success of the Company.
The Boards main role is to support the executive team, providing guidance and advice to complement and enhance the work the team performs.
The Board consistently challenges processes, plans and actions and exercises a degree of rigorous enquiry and stimulates intellectual debate.
This serves to promote continual and sustained improvement across the business.
Following on from the successful, externally facilitated, Board evaluation in 2013, an internal evaluation was carried out in the year under review.
This process confirmed that the Board was operating effectively with a positive and open culture.
Further details on this Board evaluation process are set out on page 47.
The Board Committees performed effectively during the year.
The Nomination Committee focuses on succession planning at both Board and senior executive level.
The Remuneration Committee reviews Executive Director remuneration, ensuring that remuneration arrangements support the Companys strategy.
The Audit Committee monitors the financial challenges the Group faces in a highly competitive industry and the risk management processes it develops enables the Group to deliver its strategic objectives and to protect THE BOARD IS COMMITTED TO PROMOTING its reputation.
AND MAINTAINING A HIGH STANDARD Cranswick remains committed to sharing its vision with its Shareholders in an open and transparent way, by maintaining regular dialogue OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE WHICH and through effective communication.
As Chairman I believe that continued engagement IS FUNDAMENTAL TO ITS ABILITY TO with our Shareholders is highly beneficial and helps us to build a greater understanding of, and enables us to better respond to, our DISCHARGE ITS DUTIES TO SHAREHOLDERS investors views, opinions and concerns.
AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS, SAFEGUARD ITS REPUTATION AND SUPPORT THE Martin Davey Chairman SUCCESSFUL LONG TERM DEVELOPMENT 18 May 2015 OF THE GROUP.
42 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 43 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS MARTIN DAVEY ADAM COUCH MARK BOTTOMLEY JIM BRISBY MARK RECKITT STEVEN ESOM KATE ALLUM Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Commercial Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Biography Martin, who is a chartered Adam has over 24 years experience Mark joined Cranswick as Group Jim joined Cranswick 19 years ago Mark joined Cranswick as a Steven joined Cranswick as a Kate joined Cranswick as a accountant, has been with Cranswick in the food industry joining the Financial Controller in 2008 and was as a sales and marketing executive.
Non-Executive Director on Non-Executive Director in 2009 Non-Executive Director in July 2013. for the past 30 years, joining the operational side of the Fresh Pork appointed Finance Director in 2009.
In 2004 he was appointed Sales and 1 May 2014.
Mark is a chartered and is the Senior Independent She is the former Chief Executive of Company as Finance Director in business of Cranswick in 1991.
He is a chartered accountant and has Marketing Director of Cranswick accountant and is Chair of the Audit Non-Executive Director and Chair First Milk Limited and also a former 1985.
He led Cranswicks entry onto He was appointed to the Board as several years experience in the food Country Foods plc, a major Committee.
He was Group Strategy of the Remuneration Committee.
head of the European supply chain the Stock Exchange in 1985 and was Managing Director of the Fresh Pork production sector where he has held subsidiary of Cranswick, and he Director of Smiths Group plc from He has held a number of senior for McDonalds.
appointed Chief Executive in 1988. business in 2003 and then became a variety of senior finance roles.
has been an integral member February 2011 to April 2014, positions within the food sector He became Chairman in 2004 and Chief Operating Officer in 2011.
He of the team that has grown the and was additionally Divisional including Executive Director of has continued in this role on a was appointed to the role of Chief business over the years.
He was President, Smiths Interconnect from Food at Marks & Spencer plc which part-time basis from 1 September Executive in August 2012.
Adam was appointed Sales and Marketing October 2012 to April 2014.
Prior followed twelve years at Waitrose, 2013.
He is also Chair of the also a committee member of the Director in 2010 and Commercial to joining Smiths, Mark was interim the last five years of which he was Nomination Committee.
British Pig Executive between Director in 2014.
Managing Director of Green & Managing Director.
Blacks Chocolate and before that the Non-Executive Chairman for the he held a number of finance and British Retail Consortium trading, strategy roles at Cadbury plc before the Ice Organisation and Advantage being appointed its Chief Strategy Travel Centres.
Mark is also a Non-Executive Director of JD Wetherspoon plc, where he is Chair of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Committee Membership Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee GROUP DIRECTORS PIG REARING FRESH PORK COOKED MEATS PREMIUM COOKED POULTRY BACON, SAUSAGE AND PASTRY CONTINENTAL PRODUCTS SANDWICHES AND INGREDIENTS FOOD CENTRAL Charles Bowes John Fletcher Ian Fisher Jason Key Darren Andrew Norman Smith Nick Anderson Chris Aldersley Glenn Dams Stuart Kelman Paul Gartside David Park Kate Maxwell Rollo Thompson Gary Landsborough Andrew Caines Barry Lock Andy Jenkins Daniel Nolan Simon Ravenscroft Marcus Hoggarth Nick Mitchell Clive Stephens Gill Ridgard Graeme Watson James Pontone Nick Tranfield Drew Weir Malcolm Windeatt Neil Willis Steve Westhead 44 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 45 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION e P k c S n s e u i a o c R n p c r CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Board is committed to adopting and maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
Principles are applied at Board level and cascade throughout Effectiveness the organisation.
Board focus during the year Board agendas are set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and with the assistance of the Company Secretary.
The Company Principles of good governance Secretary maintains a twelve-month rolling programme of agenda items to ensure that all matters reserved for the Board and other key issues are The adoption and maintenance of good governance is the responsibility of the Board as a whole.
This report, together with the Audit Committee Report, considered at the appropriate time.
on pages 50 to 53, the Nomination Committee Report, on page 54, and the Remuneration Committee Report, on pages 55 to 67, describes how the Board applies the principles of good governance and best practice as set out in the Code which can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website During the financial year, key activities of the Board included: www.
Strategy Governance and risk Formally reviewing strategy in September, with follow up sessions Recommending the 2013-14 final dividend and approving the 2014-15 Compliance statement throughout the year.
The Directors consider that the Company has, during the year ended 31 March 2015, complied with the requirements of the Code other than with Code Receiving presentations from operational management on future Approving the Groups full year and interim results.
1.2 for April 2014 in that, prior to Mark Reckitt joining the Board on 1 May 2014, the number of Independent Non-Executive Directors was strategic opportunities.
Reviewing the principal financial and non-financial risks to which the less than half the Board, excluding the Chairman.
The Board now has an equal number of Independent Non-Executive Directors and Executives Directors, Considering potential acquisition opportunities and other Group is exposed.
The Board believes that it has the appropriate blend of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to support the business.
Participating in and receiving a report on the annual Board The Board will continue to ensure an optimal level of relevant skills experience and diversity amongst its members, appropriate to support the future Approving the acquisition of Benson Park in October 2014. performance evaluation.
Reviewing quarterly Health & Safety updates.
Reviewing the Directors conflict of interest register.
The Directors have reviewed the financial statements and, taken as a whole, consider them to be fair, balanced and understandable, providing sufficient Approving updated terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration and appropriate information for Shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee and Nomination Committees.
provide guidance to the Board to assist in reaching this conclusion.
Performance and monitoring People and succession Leadership Board composition Reviewing monthly reports on performance from the Chief Executive, Appointing Mark Reckitt as an independent Non-Executive Director and From 1 August 2014 to 31 March 2015, since the retirement of Bernard Hoggarth and John Worby, the Board consisted of an Executive Chairman, Finance Director and Commercial Director.
Chair of the Audit Committee.
a Chief Executive, two other full-time Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors.
All Non-Executive Directors are deemed to be independent.
Receiving updates and proposals on senior management appointments Further biographical details on each Director can be found on pages 44 and 45.
Reviewing reports from the Chairs of the Audit, Nomination and and succession planning.
The composition of the Board is reviewed annually by the Nomination Committee to ensure there is an effective balance of skills, experience and knowledge.
Approving capital expenditure proposals over 1 million.
Role of the Board The Board leads the Group and during the year directed, developed and implemented strategy and monitored its operating performance.
It is collectively responsible and accountable to Shareholders for the long term success of the Company.
To enable the members of the Board to discharge these responsibilities, they have full and timely access to all relevant information and Board meetings are held at several of the Groups production facilities allowing the Directors to review the operations and meet the management teams of those particular sites.
All Directors have allocated sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Division of Board responsibilities Board Activity Chairman Chief Executive Officer in 2014-15 Chairing Board meetings and setting Board meeting agenda in Developing the Groups strategy with input from the rest of the Board consultation with the CEO and Company Secretary.
Leading the performance evaluation of the Board and ensuring Leading implementation of the Groups strategy.
its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
Leading the business and chairing the Executive Management Committee.
Sponsoring and promoting the highest corporate governance Managing the day-to-day business of the Group.
Bringing matters of particular significance or risk to the Chairman for Ensuring all Directors are able to maximise their contributions discussion and consideration by the Board where appropriate.
Providing a sounding board for the Chief Executive on key business decisions and challenging proposals where appropriate.
Director inductions Meeting with major shareholders on governance matters and being On appointment, all Directors receive a comprehensive introduction to the Groups activities and a tailored induction covering their duties and an alternate point of contact for Shareholders on other matters.
They are also provided with the opportunity for ongoing training.
This ensures that they stay up-to-date with relevant legislative changes and the general business environment.
Directors can obtain independent advice at the expense of the Company.
Senior Independent Director Company Secretary Supporting the Chairman, leading the Non-Executive Directors and Acting as secretary to the Board and each of its Committees.
Conflict of interest providing a means by which Shareholders may raise concerns which Ensuring the Company complies with all governance matters.
The Board has completed its annual review of the register relating to potential conflicts of interest with its Directors and confirms that no such conflicts exist.
normal channels have failed to resolve.
Appointment and removal is determined by the Board.
Board performance evaluation Non-Executive Directors Following last years external evaluation, the Board this year, led by the Chairman, carried out an internal evaluation of its performance and that of its The Non-Executive Directors bring experience and complementary skills to the Board, aid constructive debate and challenge during Board discussions Committees under a system based on a questionnaire circulated to all Directors which was used to facilitate a Board discussion.
Based on the evaluation and help develop strategy with an independent outlook.
The Board considers the Non-Executive Directors to be independent in accordance with the exercise the Board concluded that it, and its Committees, were working effectively and a small number of improvement actions were agreed which included: definition highlighted in the Code.
Developing a more focused implementation plan for strategic initiatives.
Improving the timeliness of information flow to the Board.
Executive Committee Increasing the frequency of the Boards formal appraisal of Group risks from one to three times each financial year.
An Executive Committee, consisting of the Executive Directors and senior executives from the business, meets frequently to discuss operational and commercial matters affecting the business.
These meetings also provide a forum for the Executive Directors to share the Boards strategic aims and The Chairman has evaluated the performance of individual Directors.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive objectives with senior colleagues across the business.
The Executive Committee reports to the Board.
Director, meet, without the Chairman present, to appraise his performance.
46 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 47 For more information on our strategy and business model see pages 20 to 25 l e d e e s v n s o i a a o G n n d P y e M g r o f e n o t i r a t r o m t r S i a n n g c e HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Effectiveness continued The Chair of the Remuneration Committee will attend the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on the Directors biographies and membership of the various Committees are shown on pages 44 and 45.
The formal terms of reference for the Board Committees Committees activities.
together with the terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys Registered Office and at the Annual General Meeting.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Martin Davey and includes Steven Esom, Kate Allum and Mark Reckitt.
Board meetings The Board held eight scheduled meetings during the year and in addition a number of other meetings and conference calls were convened for specific The Committee meets at least once a year and reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and is responsible for considering and making business matters.
All Directors are expected to attend the Annual General Meeting, scheduled Board meetings and relevant Committee meetings unless recommendations to the Board on new appointments of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
It also gives full consideration to succession planning they are prevented from doing so by prior work or extenuating personal commitments.
Where a Director is unable to attend a meeting they have the in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group relating to skills and expertise needed on the Board opportunity to review relevant papers and discuss any issues with the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
Following the meeting the Chairman, and from senior management in the future.
or Committee Chair as appropriate, also briefs any Director not present to update them on key matters discussed and decisions taken.
Details of the Committees activities are given in the Nomination Committee Report on page 54.
Details of Board and Committee membership and attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings are set out below: The Chair of the Nomination Committee will attend the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on the Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Committees activities.
Number of Number of Number of Number of possible Actual possible Actual possible Actual possible Actual Board members meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings Accountability During 2014-15 attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended Risk Management and internal control The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control, which safeguards the Shareholders investment and the Executive Directors Groups assets, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system provides reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement Martin Davey 8 8 1 1 or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Adam Couch 8 8 The Group operates within a clearly defined organisational structure with established responsibilities, authorities and reporting lines to the Board.
Mark Bottomley 8 8 The organisational structure has been designed in order to develop, plan, execute, monitor and control the Groups objectives effectively and to ensure 1 Jim Brisby 8 7 that internal control is embedded in the operations.
Non-Executive Directors As noted in the Audit Committee Report on pages 50 to 53, the Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control and Risk Steven Esom 8 8 4 4 6 6 1 1 Management systems and reported to the Board that the business maintains a sound Risk Management control system and that it was not aware Kate Allum 8 8 4 4 6 6 1 1 of any significant deficiency, or material weakness, in the system of internal control.
2 Mark Reckitt 6 6 3 3 6 6 1 1 The Board confirms that the key ongoing processes and features of the Groups internal, risk-based, control system have been fully operative throughout Former Directors the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
3 Bernard Hoggarth 2 2 Financial reporting 4 John Worby 2 2 2 2 2 2 The Group prepares an annual budget and half year re-forecast that are agreed by the Board.
Operational management is required to report monthly to the Board on financial performance.
The use of standard reporting by all Group entities, ensures that information is presented in a consistent way which Footnotes: facilitates the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
All site directors and finance heads are required to sign an annual confirmation that 1.
Jim Brisby missed the July 2014 meeting due to a prior personal commitment.
their business has complied with the Groups accounting policies and procedures.
Mark Reckitt was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 May 2014.
He was appointed Chair of the Audit Committee on 31 July 2014 succeeding John Worby.
Bernard Hoggarth retired from the Board on 31 July 2014.
John Worby retired as a Non-Executive Director and as Chair of the Audit Committee on 31 July 2014 following the end of his nine-year term.
A separate Remuneration Report is set out on pages 55 to 67 and provides details of the Groups remuneration policy and how it has been implemented, 5.
The Company Secretary attended all Board and Committee meetings.
All Directors attended the Annual General Meeting in July 2014. together with the activities of the Remuneration Committee during the year.
Board Committees Relations with Shareholders Audit Committee The Board attaches great importance to maintaining good relationships with all Shareholders who are kept informed of significant Company developments.
The Audit Committee comprises the independent Non-Executive Directors and has been chaired by Mark Reckitt since 31 July 2014 and prior to that Presentations are made by the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Commercial Director, to analysts and institutional Shareholders on the half John Worby, the Groups former Senior Independent Director, chaired the Committee.
Mark Reckitts biography which sets out his relevant skills and year and full year results and Company strategy.
A similar presentation is made to Shareholders attending the Annual General Meeting.
Significant matters experience can be found on page 45. relating to the trading or development of the business are disseminated to the market by way of Stock Exchange announcements.
The Companys Annual and Interim Reports and Stock Exchange announcements can be found on the Groups website.
The Audit Committee has overall responsibility for monitoring the integrity of financial statements and related announcements and all aspects of internal control.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year: two of these meetings involve a review of the Groups interim and full year The views of Shareholders, expressed during meetings, are communicated by the Chairman or the Chief Executive, as appropriate, to the Board as a financial statements.
Through this process the Boards Executive and Non-Executive Directors are able to gain a sound understanding of the views and concerns of the major Shareholders.
The Chairman, Chief Executive or the Finance Director discusses governance and strategy with major Shareholders from time to The work, responsibilities and governance of the Audit Committee are set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 50 to 53. time.
Other Directors are available to meet the Companys major Shareholders if requested.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to listen to the views of Shareholders, particularly if they have concerns which contact with the Chairman has failed to resolve, or for which such contact The Chair of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on the is inappropriate.
Principles of corporate governance and voting guidelines issued by the Companys institutional Shareholders and their representative Committees activities.
bodies are circulated to and considered by the Board.
The Board also welcomes the attendance and questions from Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting which is also attended by the Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises the independent Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Steven Esom.
Martin Davey, Adam Couch and Mark By order of the Board Bottomley attend the meetings of the Remuneration Committee by invitation and in an advisory capacity.
No Director attends any part of a meeting at which his own remuneration is discussed.
The Executive Directors determine the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee recommends to the Board the policy for executive remuneration and determines, on behalf of the Board, the other terms and conditions of service for each Executive Director.
It determines appropriate performance conditions for the annual cash bonus and long term incentive schemes Malcolm Windeatt and approves awards and the issue of options, in accordance with the terms of those schemes.
The Remuneration Committee also, in consultation with Company Secretary the Chief Executive, monitors the total individual remuneration package of senior executives including bonuses, incentive payments and share option 18 May 2015 and other share awards.
The Remuneration Committee has access to advice from the Company Secretary and from external advisers who provide detailed analysis of executive remuneration in comparable companies.
Details of the Committees current remuneration policies are given in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 55 to 67.
48 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 49 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Chairmans overview Role of the Committee I am pleased to report on the activities of the Audit Committee during the year ended 31 March 2015.
The Committees primary role is to assist the Board in providing effective governance over the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting, Risk Management and internal control systems.
It is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and considering whether This report sets out: accounting policies are appropriate.
It reviews the Companys internal controls and risk management systems, and approves and reviews the activities, the role, composition, activities and responsibilities of the Audit Committee: plans and effectiveness of both the Groups internal and external auditors.
a summary of the meetings of the Audit Committee during the year: the significant issues related to the financial statements: The Audit Committee terms of reference, which are reviewed and approved by the Board annually, will be available for inspection at the Companys the Committees oversight of the Groups Risk Management and internal control systems: and Registered Office and at the Annual General Meeting.
the respective roles and effectiveness of the internal and external audit processes.
Composition of the Audit Committee The Committee met four times during the year and invited the Companys Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Finance Director, Group Financial Controller The Audit Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors.
Membership of the Committee and attendance during the year are set out on page 48 and Head of Internal Audit to attend the meetings along with the external audit partner and senior manager.
The Committee also held separate private of the Corporate Governance Statement.
All members of the Committee have extensive managerial experience in large complex organisations and meetings with external and internal audit.
have a wide range of financial, commercial and operational expertise.
It is a requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Code that at least one Committee member has recent and relevant financial experience.
Mark Reckitt, the Committee Chairman, meets this requirement.
The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the financial results for the full year and half year and the interim management statements, including applicable accounting policies, key judgement areas and going concern assumptions.
The Committee also reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts Activities of the Committee taken as a whole to ensure they are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the necessary information for Shareholders to assess the Companys The Committee is required to meet at least three times a year and its agenda is linked to the Group financial calendar.
The Company Chairman, Chief performance, business model and strategy.
Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit and representatives of the external auditors are invited to attend each meeting.
The Company Secretary also attends the meetings as secretary to the Committee.
Both the external auditors and the Head of Internal Specific areas of focus during the year included: Audit have the opportunity to access the Committee, without the Executive Directors being present, at any time, and the Committee formally meets impairment review of goodwill, intangible and tangible fixed assets: with both the external auditors and internal audit independently, at least once a year.
the accounting treatment and disclosure of the Benson Park Limited acquisition: the quantum and appropriateness of commercial accruals: and Principal responsibilities of the Audit Committee the accounting treatment and disclosure of biological assets.
The Committees principal responsibilities include reviewing and monitoring: the integrity of the Groups financial statements: The Committee reviewed internal audits terms of reference and work plans and oversaw the Groups relationship with the external auditors including the Groups accounting policies: scope, fees and work performed.
The Committee was satisfied with the performance of the Groups internal audit function and the external auditor.
the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, internal control and risk management systems: The Committee also considered the timing of the tender of the external audit contract and has agreed that this will take place during the year ending the effectiveness of the internal audit function in the context of the Companys overall risk management system: 31 March 2017, which is when the current audit partners tenure will end.
the effectiveness, scope, cost and independence of the Groups external auditor: and the Companys whistleblowing and anti-bribery policies.
On behalf of the Board The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the removal, appointment or reappointment of the Groups external auditors.
The Committee also reviews its terms of reference annually and makes recommendations to the Board for any appropriate changes.
Fair, balanced and understandable Mark Reckitt In addition, at the request of the Board, the Audit Committee has reviewed and reported to the Board that it is satisfied that the financial statements Chair of the Audit Committee taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, 18 May 2015 business model and strategy.
In order to give this report the Audit Committee carried out a number of additional procedures including: obtaining confirmation from the relevant preparers of the various parts of the annual report that they had reviewed the fairness and completeness of their sections: ensuring a thorough verification process had been completed: consideration of the Annual Report & Accounts in the context of the Audit Committees knowledge and experience of the business: holding discussions with both internal and external audit: and reviewing and discussing a paper from the Group Finance Director outlining issues to consider and why he believed the Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable.
The Board and the Committee understand that fair should mean reasonable and impartial, balanced should mean even-handed in terms of being positive and negative and understandable should mean simple, clear and free from jargon or unnecessary clutter.
50 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 51
