Strategic report Our strategy In 2015 we completed a fundamental review of our strategy, analysing our markets, our performance and our customers, to define where and how we will win in the future.
As a result we are focused on three key areas: delivering a better, more personalised customer experience: creating an internal environment for great people to flourish: and aligning our portfolio to where the growth is.
From 2015 To 2020 Pockets of brilliance in customer The most recommended company service in the property sector Business processes that work for Differentiation through the quality us but not always our customers of our people and our multichannel experience to deliver personal connection, convenience and tailoredcustomer journeys Our customers People attrition levels in line with industry Recognised as one of the best places norms high across the industry to work in the UK Engaged customer-facing people, but Training and professional development challenges around tools to do the job that is the envy of the industry High performance culture Our people Largest, most diversified UK property Double the size of the business company, operating in residential and Increased resilience to residential commercial markets transaction market cycles with c. 50% from Commercial and Lettings Aligned to the demand-side drivers offuture growth Our portfolio Evidence from our top performing branches already demonstrates how a great experience for our customers and our people drives commercial success.
For example, analysis across our 2015 network showed that the top 10% of branches compared to Countrywide average : achieved 10% market share growth and were more profitable: had the best Net Promoter Scores and 40% fewer vendor withdrawals: and were driven by 2x people retention and 40% longer average tenure.
These top 10% performing branches were across brand, region and price point, demonstrating the huge opportunity for us to share bestpractices to create lasting differentiation from competitors.
10 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Our customers Our 2020 ambition to be the most recommended company in the property sector means putting customers at the heart of our business.
In 2015, we carried out our largest piece of customer research ever 3000 people to identify their unfulfilled needs and sharpen our customer segmentation this insight will be the foundation for everything we do as we centre the business around our customers.
Deliver what we say Personalise our 1 2 we are going to do customersjourney Trust, reliability, efficient communication, personal Property transactions are often complicated and emotional connection the same core needs are common across journeys, and all customers are different.
We need to better customer segments, and the industry as a whole is not understand each customer at the start of their journey so delivering consistently.
We will be known for delivering that our services and engagement style match their needs.
We are investing in our recruitment We will tailor the journey to give customers more choice model, our training, and our IT infrastructure to deliver choice of product, choice around how they interact abetter customer experience across all our channels.
with us, and choice in where they value support and Our breadth of services provides a strong platform where they want to take more control themselves.
tosupport customers throughout their whole property journey.
It is essential we deliver great communications at key handover points as theyavail ofservices across the Group during their propertyjourney.
Differentiate in Measure the 3 4 multichanneloffering right things Customer expectations for digital solutions are set by In a competitive marketplace, the reputation of our people leaders outside of our sector.
The future is not a binary and our brands is what drives customers to choose us ahead choice between online and offline success requires of others to partner with them in their property journey.
multichannel enablement and human support with the We are rolling out Net Promoter Score NPS at branch, customer at the centre.
We stepped up our investment regional and business unit level, which is core to how we indeveloping new digital features which will go live in manage and reward our people.
Our strategic ventures group has identified key upward trend in business areas where NPS is established.
investment partnership opportunities for us which will beannounced in 2016.
Customers at the heart of our business Annual Report 2015 Countrywide plc 11 Strategic report Our strategy continued Our people Great people plus a great environment will deliver a world-class experience for our customers.
It is only by investing in our people and ensuring they have the right tools todotheir jobs in a safe, positive and developmental environment that we can be recognised as one of the best places to work in the UK.
Developing a high Developing and Our great people 1 2 3 performance culture training our talent To be the most recommended company Great people only flourish with great leaders.
New apprenticeship and graduate recruitment intheproperty sector, our people need to To enable our leaders to be effective, we held schemes are in place across the Group beconnected to our purpose, be inspired a series of events with our top 100 leaders withparticularly successful programmes tobe the best they can be, and feel valued, in November and December 2015 to provide insurveying and conveyancing, alongside engaged and committed to providing a them with the tools and techniques to lead City & Guilds accredited training for employees brilliant and personalised customer experience.
their teams, focusing on driving performance.
This includes theopportunity of sponsorship to achieve To expect this of our people they need to have In 2016, we have plans to roll out the recognised professional qualifications that a great experience from the moment they programme to the wider leadership team are relevant to our sector.
We provide full consider joining Countrywide and throughout to enable a consistent approach to visibility of who we are and expertise we their career with us.
From recruitment to performance management.
have through our online Register of Property onboarding to training, we will engage our Agents www.
The Register people at every single touchpoint of this provides assurance that our people meet journey to communicate our values, deepen therequisite standards of professionalism their understanding of customer needs and that our customers will expect when we set expectations of excellence.
Read more on our sustainability page 36 12 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Our portfolio Our growth agenda is aligned with demand-side trends, addresses areas where we are under-represented andreduces cyclical exposure to UK residential property sales.
Our goal is to double the size of the business by 2020, by focusing on: Financial Services London Retail 1 2 3 Grow existing customer value Become market leader Double our profits in lettings We are the UKs largest single In sales, we are no.
1 in upper and lower The private rental sector now represents mortgagebroker bands, but no.
2 in 350k1 million 60% of all moves, compared to 37% ten largest market segment years ago There is a huge opportunity for us to fulfil potential value of our existing customer London is 21% of the countrys private We have headroom for growth in a fragmented base, particularly in remortgages rental sector: we grew Lettings 40% in the market and a proven acquisition model last three years but our share is still 5% Financial Services is one of the main ways Regain lost share in estate agency we can maintain a customer relationship Opportunities to increase penetration of We will strengthen our multichannel between transactions, growing customer mortgages, insurance and conveyancing offerand better align our marketing lifetime value by tailoring product offering and service to withvendor needs meet the needs of our London customers Investment in people and processes will drive better conversion of opportunities toinstructions and lower withdrawal rates Land and 4 5 Commercial 6 Cities newhomes Capitalise on Countrywide Residential Become a top five UK player Strong record in acquisitions DevelopmentSolutions The market is likely to consolidate and 2015 acquired businesses in key CWRDS opportunities wehave a strong platform offering ideal citiesincluding Nottingham, Birmingham Recognised need for new homes and opportunities for growth and Manchester Government drive to build c. 250k new Strengthening Commercial increases 2016 M&A pipeline is strong with homes per year ourmix of recurring revenues imminent acquisitions in key city locations There are few genuinely vertically Synergies with residential, especially integrated players in the land and inCWRDS newhomes space We have expertise from land sourcing, planning and valuation support, through todownstream sales, lettings handover and property management 13
