Strategic report Our markets A look back over the past twelve months and a look forward to what 2016 has instore.
The sales market of 2015 The rental market of 2015 A look forward to 2016 2015 was year of two halves, the second Rents for newly let homes continued to grow Risks and opportunities in 2016 being much busier than the first.
Figures in the UK in 2015 albeit at a slower pace Looking forward to the rest of 2016, there is from the Land Registry show that the number than in 2014.
Average UK rents grew by a raft of new issues to deal with, all creating of housing transactions was down 7% in the 3.1% in 2015 taking the average monthly risks and opportunities in the housing market.
first six months of 2015 against the previous rent to 919.
Rents rose in all regions of the Economic conditions are hugely important and year.
The latest data to the end of October country with the East of England seeing the we have seen the pace of economic growth shows a drop of 6% compared to 2014 and highest growth, 6.5%, and the Central London pick up and then wane in 2015 asthe UK the full year is expected to reflect a decline market seeing the smallest with 0.5% growth.
struggles to get a more balanced recovery.
The global economy cannot beignored The slowdown in growth in Central London uncertainty in China led the Chancellor to From June 2015 mortgage approvals for house inpart indicates the continuing pressures talk of nasty cocktails of events which could purchases began to pick up, a precursor to facing that market.
It is more influenced by derail the UK recovery in2016.
And then the growth in the number of transactions later global demand and the uncertainty in the there is the Brexit debate will Britain leave on, with the number of mortgage approvals global financial markets has led to subdued the EU and will that mean more austerity tending to feed into transactions about two demand.
Additionally, sustained rental butwith higher interest rates?
Halfway through the year, growth during 2012 and 2013 has made datafrom the Royal Institution of Chartered Central London look expensive in comparison The answers will become clear in due Surveyors began to show the ratio of sales to fringe locations.
Greater London as a whole course, but it is not all gloomy.
There is more tostock starting to rise, highlighting that also saw a slowdown in its growth but rents Government policy aimed at housebuilding demand for property was outpacing the still rose by 4.7%.
As rents have risen in with new housing zones dotted across the number of homes on the market.
recent years, tenants have increasingly taken country and the extension of Help toBuy, advantage of cheaper areas in Outer London including the very generous 40% deposit For Countrywide the pick-up in activity after or further afield in the commuter belt.
London Help to Buy scheme, whichshould the summer coincided with a drop-off in the help to stimulate buyer activityand number of homes for sale.
2015 ended with Falling numbers of homes available to rent boosttransactions.
22% fewer homes on the market with stock and increasing demand from tenants were scarcity continuing to drive vendor expectations the defining features of the rental market Higher interest rates are upwards.
Just 4% of sellers reduced the price over the course of last year, putting upward notsuchathreat to owners of their home in December, the smallest number pressure on rents.
This imbalance between Interest rates are expected to increase towards in any month since the late 2013 boom.
supply and demand has intensified competition the end of the year but it is unlikely to cause for homes in the market.
The average property many problems in the housing market.
There A strong start to 2016 points to further price is now let within 20 days of being instructed, are few signs of mortgage distress and more and volume growth over the rest of theyear.
two days quicker than in 2014. than half of owners will not be affected by rate Although we expect the number of transactions changes because they either own outright or to continue growing, we should not get carried 2016 holds complications for the sector as are on a fixed rate loan.
There are still a number ofhurdles such the Government sets its sights on boosting be derailed by floods of distressed sales.
as: the tighter regulations oncredit which homeownership.
The additional 3% stamp And even when rates do rise the likelihood have made mortgages lessaccessible: the duty charge, stricter regulation and changes isthey will do so very slowly and wont go issue of affordability, particularly in London to tax relief from 2017 onwards will all take above 3%.
Even allowing for a widening and the South: and also the likelihood of their toll on investor sentiment and impact ofmortgage margins that keeps mortgage interest rates rising atsome point in the behaviour.
With stock at a premium, the smaller rates low by historical standards, it keeps future.
But, overall, the story for transactions landlords who decide to sell up will add opportunities alive for new transactions.
looks positive, if still alittle uncertain.
upward pressure to rents, although any rises will be tempered by affordability pressures.
16 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements But what about the buy-to-let andinvestor market?
LONDON LEAVERS Buy to let lending has been supporting the market while movers have been absent since As the gap between prices in London Almost 90% of households leaving London 2008.
In Q3 2015, lending to investors was and the South East has grown, so has the moved to other areas in the South of up 10% compared with just a 0.4% increase temptation for Londoners to cash in on England a total of 53,000 homes, up in lending to owners.
Returns on property record house prices and move out of the from 33,500 in 2014.
That has always have been better than other investments on capital.
With expectations of future house been the most common place for rental yield alone.
But with expected capital price growth inLondon easing, many Londoners to move to, but increasingly growth in the equation, actual returns have chose 2015 to make their move.
they are searching out homes in areas been much higher.
further away, particularly inrelatively It is part of the natural cycle that households more affordable markets in the Midlands The addition of a 3% stamp duty surcharge move as their priorities change.
In 2015 the number of will reduce yields, but yields are still above are lots of reasons why: schools, lifestyle, homes bought by Londoners in the returns on other safe assets, so it is not clear more flexible working and many more.
Midlands increased by 165%, while whether that alone will dissuade new entry.
In2015 63,000 Londoners acted on inthe North it increased by 90%.
Choices are more likely to be affected by these and bought homes outside the expectations of future price growth and the capital, a two-thirds increase onthe The flow of Londoners purchasing homes availability ofthe extra cash up front.
Many were in their outside of the capital will continue to 30sand 40s in search of more space characterise the market in 2016 and The effect on yields is spread geographically and adifferent lifestyle, but 2015 saw a drive growth in the commuter belt.
due to differences in house prices.
But even large number of first-time buyers moving AsLondoners make their moves, they in London, where prices and hence the stamp out too.
Affordability in London is more will support price growth in the South.
duty bills are highest and yields are affected constrained than ever, so many who want most, that does not mean that demand will to buy their first home are looking to less collapse.
Indeed it presents opportunities expensive areas outside of the city.
London Help to Buy will support demand for new property and, with Londons economy and its house prices so London leavers South Midlands North Wales Scotland far ahead of other parts of the country, there Homes bought in 2014 33,500 2,000 2,000 200 450 is still high demand for rental homes, making Homes bought in 2015 53,000 5,300 3,800 250 850 it an attractive income-generating asset.
Year-on-year increase 58% 165% 90% 25% 89% Average price 2015 415,000 180,000 171,000 182,000 173,000 Where London Help to Buy is affordable to local buyers Affordable Unaffordable Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 17
