Strategic report How we run our business We manage the Group through four customer-centric business units: SOLD London Retail Defined in one business unit, recognising Bringing our sales and lettings distinct characteristics of London market businesses together Our London business unit BU consists of approximately We are the UKs only national estate agency, selling 400 Estate Agency and Lettings operations, spread approximately 1 in 15 properties, and we are across250 physical locations.
also the UKs largest letting agent.
Read more in our segmental review Read more in our segmental review page 24 page 26 What makes us different... Local brands, national Supporting customers through Operating as one talent pool the end-to-end property journey operatingmodel We are involved from property search through We actively encourage leaders moving We have a network of over 50 Retail to placing the key in the purchasers hand and between business lines to build their brands with local heritage plus shared beyond.
We aim to help customers sell or let careers and strengthen both their support infrastructure e. g. centralised faster with higher odds of the transaction relationships and knowledge through onlinemarketing and regional property going through smoothly through providing referrals and enable integrated solutions management centres to capture scale financial services, surveys and conveyancing to meet our customers needs.
benefits and enable branches to focus as well as a joined-up approach for buy-to-let.
This also generates significant cross-sell Retail and London operating strategies revenue from Retail and London into are tightly aligned: best practices are Financial Services and B2B, and there is transferred, selective back-office more to go for if wecan truly operate as infrastructure is shared, and a few one Countrywide.
brands span both Retail and London e. g. Bairstow Eves.
14 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Financial Services B2B Includes surveying, conveyancing, Clear and distinct mortgage, insurance commercial and a unified Land & and protection business NewHomes team We have a dedicated network of over 650 mortgage consultants operating under the Countrywide brand, As one of the largest property businesses serving corporate andinMortgage Intelligence we own one of the most clients in the UK, we serve most major lenders, investors, successful networks in the UK with over 400 advisors.
house builders, commercial businesses, corporations, local authorities and housing associations.
Read more in our segmental review Read more in our segmental review page 30 page 28... makes us stronger Leveraging our Acquisitions Diversification data and insight We have a track record of identifying Countrywide is the most diversified Our scale and breadth of offering gives us and executing acquisitions, ranging pure UK property services firm.
unique data sets on property trends and from consolidation of small medium-size customer behaviour, which we integrate Broadening our business mix has lettings agencies through to expanding and analyse through a central research helped us reduce reliance on a volatile into new markets e. g. entering commercial and analytics team.
transactions market, while retaining via acquiring Lambert Smith Hampton.
operational gearing to capitalise on This data powers strategic decisions We look to drive operational synergies any upside.
at national and branch level, as well as quickly, while celebrating the best providing distinctive research content practices and best people of companies to raise our profile as a leading voice we acquire, to continually strengthen the in the industry.
Read more on our markets page 16 Annual Report 2015 Countrywide plc 15
