HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DRIVERS FOR GROWTH INVESTED IN OUR RETURN FACILITIES OVER ON CAPITAL Maximising returns Shareholder value All twelve of our UK sites are BRC Grade A We have spent 38 million on earnings enhancing THE LAST 5 YEARS EMPLOYED approved.
The Hull fresh pork operation is acquisitions over the last three years.
137M 17.0% USDA approved and both primary processing facilities are Chinese export approved.
In the current year, as part of our strategy of diversification, we acquired premium cooked We spent 21 million on our infrastructure during the year, Continued investment in these facilities ensures poultry producer, Benson Park, for 17.7 million, that we have sufficient capacity headroom to meet further broadening our product range and bringing total capital expenditure to 137 million over the our growth aspirations and that we provide a safe customer base.
The acquisition has made a last five years.
This investment is reflected in the quality of and secure working environment for our workforce.
positive contribution to revenues and earnings in the period following acquisition.
our production facilities, which are some of the most efficient, In the prior year, we acquired the Wayland and safe and well invested in the sectors in which we operate.
Wold Farms livestock businesses for 14.4 million securing our UK premium pork supply chain.
For more information on our strategy and business model see pages 20 to 25 MAXIMISING INVESTMENT VALUE Targeted acquisitions and continued investment in our operating facilities have enabled us to provide innovative, high quality, good value food solutions to our customers from some of the most efficient food production facilities in the UK, driving growth in profitability and Shareholder value.
16 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 17 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION MARKET OVERVIEW The UK food market is currently undergoing some of the SIGNIFICANT CHANNELS TO MARKET most dynamic changes in recent history.
Our diverse product portfolio, wide ranging customer base and excellent product OPPORTUNITIES innovation skills ensure we are able to respond to these changes and deliver products to meet our customers needs.
IN OUR CORE DELIVERING NEW FOOD EXPERIENCES TO AN EXPANDING MARKET MARKETS Whilst the UK economy continues to improve, The food on the move category, which comprises consumer behaviours have fundamentally grab and go retail as well as coffee shops, shifted both in terms of buying behaviours and has grown significantly over the last four years.
RETAIL FOOD TO GO MANUFACTURING consumption patterns.
As consumers benefit We have made good progress in these areas and from wage increases and a lower cost of living, have developed a strong portfolio of sandwiches the impact on the food market is marked.
and gourmet pastry ranges to service these channels.
We have also accessed new channels The retail market is reporting deflation for including retailer cafes and front of store chillers The retail sector remains challenging The Food to Go category continues to As well as building our relationships the first time against a backdrop of continuous to extend the reach of our products.
with deflation evident across the industry.
perform strongly in both retail and travel directly with retailers, we work with other growth, driven partly by falling commodity Over 75 per cent of Group revenue is sectors.
Our emphasis is on providing added food processors to provide great quality prices across the total food chain, but also a The Benson Park acquisition also supports our from our retail customer base and we value solutions and product innovation.
We ingredients and solutions to extend the trading environment which remains extremely plans to grow food on the move.
Benson Parks have relationships with all of the major have historically concentrated on the travel reach of our products.
A significant focus competitive with well publicised price wars premium cooked poultry is used as a component UK food retailers providing a balanced sector but new business wins in channels for these suppliers is in the food to go and and the major multiples losing market share for sandwiches and other portable food revenue stream.
We have strengthened our such as in store restaurants and hot food food on the move sectors and the Benson to the discount retailers.
solutions by leading coffee shop chains, food core trading partnerships with long term counters provide new revenue streams.
Park acquisition is a fundamental pillar service operators and food manufacturers.
trading agreements and achieved listings Premium cooked poultry products form of growth in this dynamic category.
Though there is topline deflation, in core with new premium retail customers over a significant part of this channel and categories such as bacon and sausage, premium We are working with a number of specific the last twelve months which reinforces Benson Park allows us to extend our tiers are growing strongly.
This trend supports customers in the pub and restaurant sectors to the breadth of our retail customer base.
our focus on the development of premium improve product quality, including projects such The Groups focus on innovation and new category products.
as better breakfast and the emerging trends product development continues to provide around pulled pork and other premium proteins.
differentiation for our retail customers.
Consumer behaviours have also shifted, with a move from big trolley shops to more top up and This work ties into the forecast that the convenience shopping.
The development of the UK consumer will move from eating around multiple convenience channel as well as the 35 per cent of calories out of home in 2014 resurgence of the symbol group and wholesale to over 50 per cent by 2019. channels highlights this trend.
The continued CONVENIENCE growth of online shopping is an area of focus Our ongoing focus on product quality together FOOD SERVICE EXPORT as we make our product ranges more relevant with continued emphasis on innovation, & ONLINE to consumers in this sector.
will help to ensure we successfully grow our business in the rapidly changing UK We have identified two key drivers of growth food market.
As consumers are increasingly moving The trend for eating out of home is As the UKs leading exporter of British on which the business is clearly focused.
towards top up shops, we are actively forecast to continue to grow as disposable pork, we continue to develop trade The improving economy has encouraged updating our strategy for developing income rises.
Sales in the food service channels to drive strong growth.
Business the continued growth of food on the move the convenience business.
This requires sector continue to perform strongly has developed through the export of and eating out of home.
The growing out of a different approach to product and we have a clear targeted strategy primal pork cuts, but we are increasingly home market is now worth over 80 billion.
development and a new way of servicing which enables us to build strong trading focusing on developing sales of added the supply chain.
We have won new relationships.
Our emphasis is on adding value lines, further building our reputation contracts within the convenience sector value and creating a point of difference for premium, added value formats across over the last twelve months in all of our in product quality for food service the globe.
We continue to build our key categories.
In addition, the business operators and our team of chefs continue relationships with Chinese companies is focused on aligning our core product to work with our customers on menu through our dedicated business offers to ensure they are tailored to development to ensure innovative development manager based in Shanghai.
the growing trend of online shopping.
18 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 19
