Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Objectives For many years we have been single minded in the pursuit of the Groups objective of achieving long term, low risk growth in net asset value and in prudently growing our rental income and dividends.
Net asset value per share Dividends per share p 90 90 80 70 80 60 50 70 40 30 60 20 10 0 50 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Strategy Our strategy for achieving our objectives has three principal elements: Management of our property portfolio to maximise net rental income and thereby enhance capital values Identification and completion of value enhancing development opportunities within our portfolio Identification and completion of new property acquisitions which have the potential, through development or otherwise, for long term enhancement to net asset value In pursuing this strategy we take the view that property is a long term business which does not always fit conveniently into the annual reporting cycle.
Development opportunities, in particular, can take many years from first idea to first letting and will often involve substantial investment over a period of years before any gain is achieved.
We carefully monitor our exposure to ensure that the impact on our resources remains manageable.
Business model The main activity of the Group, as carried on through its subsidiary companies, is investment in commercial, industrial and residential property in the UK and also on the eastern seaboard of the USA.
The Group generally holds its properties for the long term in order to generate rental income and capital appreciation although in the right circumstances any property could be available for sale.
The Group operates a substantially outsourced business model.
Day to day management of the Groups properties in the UK is carried out by Highdorn Co. Limited and Freshwater Property Management Limited.
These companies also provide the staff who carry out all of the UK functions of the Group.
Further details of the relationship with these companies are set out in Note 17 to the financial statements.
Similar arrangements with local managing agents operate in the USA.
Managing risk Whilst retaining an entrepreneurial culture, the Group has a low appetite for risk.
This underpins our approach to all aspects of the business and is appropriate to our strategic objective of delivering long term, low risk growth in net asset value per share.
Above and right: 164 Shaftesbury In relation to financial instrument risk, the Group operates a cautious financial policy on a nonAvenue, speculative and long term basis in order to enable the Group to carry on its business in confidence London WC2.
The Group aims to ensure that the cost of capital is kept to a minimum through Page 4 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report continued the maintenance of its many long standing relationships with leading banks and other financial institutions.
The Group seeks to minimise the risk of sudden or unexpected rises in finance costs by way of fixed rate debt and financial derivative instruments whilst retaining some flexibility in relation to short term interest rates.
As explained in Note 1 g to the financial statements, the Group does not hedge account.
Note 16 to the financial statements details the Groups exposure to the various financial instrument risks.
Managing risk has been central to the success of the Group over many years and in particular gearing has been kept at a relatively low level for the property industry: currently gearing is 16.4%.
The Board recognises that, in common with all companies, it can only have limited control over many of the external risks which it faces.
The largest of such uncontrollable factors is the economic cycle which has a major impact on the demand for and price of property and the ability of the Group to achieve its strategic objectives.
The principal risks facing the Group are described in the following paragraphs together with the steps which are taken to mitigate and manage them.
External risks Economic outlook In both the UK and the USA overall economic growth now seems to be more firmly established.
In the UK, conditions remain supportive of steady growth although this is not the case in every region and in all sectors.
Low inflation rates and modest growth in wages have improved consumer confidence.
However the prospect of a referendum on the UKs membership of the EU in the next two years has introduced an unwelcome element of uncertainty.
The present crisis in Greece risks an economic slowdown in the Eurozone, which is the UKs principal trading partner.
This is the background which provides both opportunities and risks for our residential tenants and for the businesses of our commercial tenants and their demand for space.
We seek to mitigate and manage such risk by: Continuous monitoring of the economic outlook Continued maintenance of low gearing Rigorous tenant covenant checks including independent assessments for major lets.
In the case of smaller properties we undertake such checking as is appropriate Availability of finance on acceptable terms The UK property finance market has shown positive development with a greater availability of debt finance at lesser margins and an improving appetite for risk.
Nevertheless any reduction in the availability of finance for property at an acceptable cost and for an appropriate period would adversely affect the Groups ability to undertake acquisitions and major schemes of redevelopment and refurbishment.
We seek to mitigate and manage this risk by: Monitoring funding trends and the development of banking regulations Sustaining relationships with our principal financing partners, both banks and other lending institutions Ensuring that the maturities of major loan arrangements are spread over a period of years Movements in currency rates of exchange With over 20% by value of the Groups property portfolio located in the USA, the Group is at risk Above and right: from adverse movements in the sterling dollar exchange rate.
Page 6 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report continued We mitigate and manage this risk by: Funding US assets by US dollar borrowings and local retained earnings.
This means that the impact of movements in the exchange rate is limited to accounting adjustments in the Groups consolidated accounts.
The overall impact on the results for the current year is immaterial: an accounting gain of 13.7 million arises in reserves on the re-translation of the opening net book value of assets in the USA Regulation Regulations aimed at the control of residential rental levels or shorthold tenancy arrangements could have an adverse impact on the Group.
Similarly increased regulation on environmental matters could impose additional costs.
We seek to mitigate and manage this risk by: Careful monitoring of developments in legislation with the help of our professional advisers Catastrophic events The operations of the Group could be adversely affected by a significant catastrophe such as fire, cyber-attack, civil disturbance or terrorism which could result in the loss of any of our principal buildings or offices and the records therein.
Page 8 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 We seek to mitigate and manage this risk by: Insuring buildings with third parties Physical building security Fireproof storage of leases and other documents of title Dispersal of business critical IT systems Tenant default Tenant default constitutes a risk to income and, ultimately, to capital value.
The multi-tenanted nature of the portfolio, with rental income derived from numerous properties, provides a natural measure of protection against the risk of individual default.
In addition, we seek to mitigate and manage this risk by: Seeking tenants with strong covenants Credit checks on new tenants including independent assessments for major lets Careful monitoring of tenants showing signs of financial stress Opposite page Internal risks and below: Regional concentration in UK portfolio Beacontree Plaza, Within the UK the majority of our properties are situated in and around the London area.
In recent Reading, years the increase in value of our UK portfolio has been almost entirely derived from the London Berkshire.
Page 9 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report continued area which has enjoyed a period of well publicised growth.
Any slowdown in the London market could significantly reduce the net annual revaluation uplifts in the UK portfolio.
Changes in aggregate property value have a direct impact on the net worth of the Group.
We seek to mitigate and manage this risk by: Continuing to invest in the USA Regular monitoring of the property market for opportunities not just in London but throughout the UK Regular professional revaluations by our independent surveyors in the UK and USA Acquisitions The Group seeks well priced acquisitions which will meet the strategic objective of adding long term, low risk growth in net asset value.
There is a risk that an inappropriate or ill-judged acquisition could destroy value.
We seek to mitigate and manage this risk by: Rigorous pre-acquisition screening of all buying opportunities and appropriate due diligence Development The Group continues to seek development opportunities principally from within the portfolio and also elsewhere.
Development provides an opportunity to enhance income and net asset values but carries risk as to planning, construction timing, costs and letting.
We seek to mitigate and manage these risks by: Rigorous screening of all development opportunities including external professional advice and, where appropriate, market research Focusing on a limited number of developments at any one time Close monitoring of active developments People The Group relies heavily on the involvement of key directors in both strategic and day-to-day affairs.
Loss of this involvement could be disruptive to business.
Above & right: Strand Palace Hotel, The Strand, London WC1 Page 10 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 We have sought to mitigate and manage this risk by: The appointment of two new directors from the next generation of the Freshwater family The appointment of Mr Aaron Mendy Bude as a new non-executive director Investment properties A professional valuation of all of the Groups properties was carried out at 31 March 2015.
The UK properties were valued by Colliers International, Chartered Surveyors.
In the USA, properties were valued by Joseph J. Blake and Associates Inc. and Metropolitan Valuation Services Inc. both of which are Certified General Real Estate Appraisers.
The table below shows a summary of the valuation of our investment property at 31 March 2015: Valuation Percentage March 2015 change m in year Commercial property UK 850.1 22.4% USA 52.7 24.6% Residential property UK 594.4 13.4% USA 365.4 26.2% Total 1,862.6 20.2% This year the percentage change in the valuation of our USA properties shown above has been significantly increased in sterling terms as a result of changes in currency rates of exchange.
In underlying dollar terms our USA commercial property increased by 12.8% and our USA residential property by 14.0%.
Whilst the percentage changes shown above are, in the main, attributable to net surpluses arising on revaluation they also include movements resulting from purchases, capital expenditure, disposals and, as mentioned above, changes in currency rates of exchange.
This is shown in the analysis overleaf: Above and left: Apple offices, 90 Hills Road, Cambridge.
Page 11 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report continued 2015 2014 m m Opening valuation 1,546.7 1,407.5 New acquisitions 35.0 26.1 Additions to existing properties 8.4 21.7 Disposals 4.7 1.8 1,585.4 1,453.5 Revaluation gain 229.7 119.6 Foreign exchange gain loss 40.1 26.4 Closing valuation 1,855.2 1,546.7 In this table and in the financial statements, the total valuation of 1,862.6 million 2014 1,550.2 million has been reduced by an amount of 7.4 million 2014 3.5 million relating to lease incentives, as required by accounting standards see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.
Overall the net UK valuation surplus is 15.5% 2014 9.0%.
We have seen a continuation of the trend of recent years with residential property values in London, particularly Central London showing significant growth.
There has also been more modest growth in the regions.
Our UK commercial portfolio increased by 154.0 million and of this total 94.0 million arose from the active management of a small number of major properties: Africa House: following successful redevelopment and completion of letting to a single tenant.
Strand Palace Hotel: following the settlement of a long running rent review.
Cromlech House: reflecting work done to improve development potential.
We continue to see weakness in the values of some provincial offices and elements of our care home portfolio.
Our USA properties have produced a revaluation uplift in dollar terms of 13.4% which is significantly more than the previous year 2014 7.4%.
This growth has been evident throughout our portfolio with those properties in New York once again doing particularly well.
Improvements in net operating income, yield compression and specific local factors have all contributed to the revaluation gain.
Above and right: Langlands House, Harlow, Essex.
Page 12 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Analysis by property type Property UK Property USA Residential Residential Commercial 365.4m Commercial 594.4m 850.1m 52.7m Commercial Property UK Commercial Property USA Industrial Retail Care Homes 34.1m 2.9m Offices Land & 11.8m Offices 49.8m Development 332.8m 38.1m Leisure 73.8m Retail 359.5m Analysis by location UK Valuations USA Valuations North & Wales & Scotland Pennsylvania Greater West 56.7m 37.1m London 58.3m Baltimore New York 1,124.1m 21.2m Midlands & 206.2m East Anglia 82.9m New Jersey 33.5m South East 122.5m Boston 47.7m Florida 72.4m Page 13 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Acquisitions We have over many years accumulated a major property holding at the eastern end of Oxford Street, W1, close to the new Crossrail station.
This year we completed the acquisition of the final property providing us with a substantial contiguous holding with frontages on Oxford Street, Berwick Street and Wardour Street.
This area has significant potential for increases in rental value arising from improved transport links following completion of Crossrail which is scheduled for 2018 19.
Results for the year The profit before taxation for the year ended 31 March 2015 amounts to 271.9 million 2014 164.5 million.
The result includes a net valuation gain of 229.7 million arising on investment properties 2014 119.6 million.
The table below shows the performance of our core rental business before and after valuation movements: 2015 2014 m m Total rental and related income from investment property 129.0 112.2 Property operating expenses 70.1 68.8 Net rental and related income from investment property 58.9 43.4 Profit on disposals of investment property 12.0 11.3 Administrative expenses 11.8 10.5 Net operating profit before net valuation gains 59.1 44.2 Net valuation gains on investment property 229.7 119.6 Net financing expense income 16.9 0.7 Profit before taxation 271.9 164.5 Total rental and related income from investment property has benefitted by a total of 8.8 million in respect of rental arising on Africa House since completion of letting in July 2014, from the increased rental on The Strand Palace Hotel and a full years rental arising from Bucks Landing, a USA property acquired late in the last financial year.
In addition, prior years rent on The Strand Palace Hotel totalling 7.9 million has also been included following agreement of the rent review.
Above and left: Marsh Wall, London E14.
Opposite page: 611 West 158th Street, Manhattan, New York.
Page 15 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report continued Our programme of refurbishment and re-letting vacant residential units has continued to produce increases in the rent roll.
Within the remainder of the UK portfolio overall rental income has remained broadly flat with increases being offset by commercial vacancies and difficult operating conditions at some of our care homes.
The USA has seen general rental growth and improvement in letting.
As in recent years, the profits on disposal are almost entirely derived from leasehold extensions and enfranchisements in the UK.
Reductions in expectations for future interest rates have produced negative fair value movements of 5.5 million 2014 11.1m gain relating mainly to fixed rate loans.
Net interest costs increased in the year by 1.1 million.
Earnings per share This year has seen continued growth in earnings per share which now stands at 13.68.
14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Underlying profit The profit reported in the financial statements has for some years included property revaluation movements and fair value adjustments to financial instruments.
In addition to this measure of performance we also focus on underlying profits which do not include these valuation items.
Underlying profits for the last two years are set out below: 2015 2014 m m Profit before tax per the income statement 271.9 164.5 Property valuation surplus 229.7 119.6 Financial instruments fair value adjustments 5.5 11.1 Adjustment to measurement of disposal profits 1.7 1.2 Underlying profit before tax 49.4 35.0 Underlying profit represents that element of our reported results which has actually been realised and is not dependent on valuation judgements.
It represents the performance of our core rental business together with disposal profits which tend to fluctuate from year to year.
This years underlying profit includes the prior year rental of 7.9 million arising from The Strand Palace Hotel rent review which will not recur in future years.
It is our underlying profit which generates the cash we use to re-invest in the business and to pay dividends and taxes.
Gearing Gearing, the ratio between our borrowings and the value of our total assets, is 16.4% 2014 17.6% for the Group as a whole.
In the UK the ratio is 8.3% whilst in the USA, where each property is financed separately on a ring-fenced basis, it is 42%.
Page 16 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 It has long been fundamental to our strategic approach to avoid the higher level of risk which is associated with excessive levels of gearing.
It is Group policy to maintain cash deposits and undrawn facilities at levels which will enable a swift reaction when opportunities arise.
At 31 March 2015 cash deposits amounted to 52.3 million 2014 59.1 million and undrawn facilities were 48.8 million 2014 35.0 million.
Shareholders funds At 31 March 2015 shareholders funds amounted 1,333.6 million, an increase of 20% on last years figure of 1,110.5 million.
Shareholders funds have grown in recent years as follows: 1600 1400 1200 1000 800 600 400 200 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Dividend The proposed total dividend for the year of 88p per share represents an increase of 7.3% 2014 82p.
Outlook In his introduction on page 2 the Chairman has set out the general political and economic issues which provide the background against which the business will be conducted in the coming year.
Within the business our focus will continue to be the enhancement of our overall rent roll in order to increase both income and capital growth.
Opposite page, above and left: 25 Worship Street, London EC2.
Page 17 million Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report continued In the UK we are actively considering a number of significant schemes of redevelopment which we hope to bring to fruition over the coming years.
The most advanced of these schemes is the development of a 395 bed hotel for Travelodge on our Cromlech Street site on the eastern fringes of the City of London which is likely to commence in the coming year.
Shortages of both residential and office accommodation in central London are likely to ensure that market prices will show continued growth.
It is to be hoped that signs of upward movement in property values outside London and the South East will continue as local markets benefit from the general growth in business activity.
Commercial properties in smaller provincial towns and cities continue to suffer from weak demand and increased vacancy rates.
It remains an on-going challenge to establish revenue generative uses for such properties.
In the USA we continue to seek suitable acquisition opportunities and to re-finance existing properties on more advantageous rates.
It is a very competitive market with many buyers seeking similar opportunities, but we are rigorous in our approach and prepared to take time to select the right transactions where we can identify opportunities to enhance rental income and capital value.
Employees As mentioned above, day-to-day activities are outsourced to management companies who are responsible for the provision of the services of the staff on which we rely to run the business.
As part of the arrangements with the management companies in the UK, those individuals engaged on the Groups affairs hold joint employment contracts but the management companies retain sole responsibility for setting recruitment, employment, training, health and safety, diversity and human rights policies for their staff.
Whilst the Group supports and encourages good practice in all of these areas, detailed responsibility for the establishment and execution of such policies lies with the management companies.
As a result, this report does not contain the kind of information mentioned in The Companies Act 2006 s414C 7 b ii and iii.
So far as health and safety is concerned, the Board recognises the importance of ensuring that our properties provide a safe and healthy environment for all users.
With this in mind the Board has requested that the management companies ensure that: All its employees receive appropriate training in the identification and management of health and safety risks.
Every employee is required to be familiar with health and safety policies and has responsibility for ensuring that they are followed in their area of work Regular cyclical risk assessments are undertaken by external consultants on all properties for which the Group has responsibility.
A dedicated team is tasked with resolving issues raised by such assessments and with monitoring policy compliance An annual presentation is made to ensure that awareness of the importance of this issue continues at the highest level within the Group.
All Directors of the Company are male and no new recruitment to the Board is planned which would cause this to change in the near future.
Community The Group has long recognised the importance of supporting the communities in which we operate.
Many companies encourage and facilitate their employees to donate their time and efforts to community projects: because our staffing is outsourced this route is not available to us.
Our support therefore takes the following forms: Above: Donations, largely to educational charities: this year the donations amounted to 150,000 611 West 158th 2014 150,000 Street, Manhattan, New York.
Page 18 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Dividends on donated shares: following the donation some years ago to charities of shares representing 6.3% of the capital of the Company, dividend payments in the year of 847,000 2014 919,000 have passed to charitable companies Environment As mentioned above, all the staff engaged in the business and who control our buildings are provided by management companies.
We do not have responsibility for the greenhouse gas emissions related to the employment of those people.
The green house gas emissions arising from our let properties are the responsibility of our tenants.
In consequence, we have no disclosures to make in relation to greenhouse gas emissions and therefore this report does not contain information of the kind mentioned in the Companies Act 2006 s414C 7 b i.
However, when we undertake new developments or major schemes of refurbishment we strive to achieve the highest environmental standards consistent with the nature of the building and the scheme being undertaken.
For example Africa House, our most recently completed major scheme, achieved a BREEAM excellent rating and included environmental features such as a bio-mass boiler, rainwater harvesting, bio-diverse planting and facilities to encourage cycling to work.
The scope for enhancing the environmental standards across the majority of our properties is limited.
In the main they were constructed before the advent of modern standards and it would be neither practically nor economically feasible to undertake a complete upgrade to meet modern requirements.
However, we do take the opportunities which arise each year as part of programmes of repair and refurbishment to improve the energy efficiency of our buildings and the plant therein.
During the year we were pleased to receive a Gold Award from the British Council of Shopping Centres for the quality of the improvements undertaken at our retail centre in Newton Aycliffe, County Durham.
By order of the Board M R M Jenner Company Secretary Top & left: Award winning Aycliffe Town Centre, Newton Aycliffe, County Durham.
