performance March 2016 as stock made with less cheese & whey expensive milk is sold.
Whey realisations have also fallen and this has contributed to lower reported million 2014 15 2013 14 margins in this business.
In addition we have adjusted our aged accruals in line revenue 274.4 264.6 with the Grocery Supply Code of Practice.
product group profit 33.1 39.3 margin 12.1% 14.9% cathedral city continues to grow Before exceptional items and amortisation of market share acquired intangibles Total retail cheese market sales were unchanged over the year although Share of the total retail volumes fell by 3%.
Cheddar accounts for cheese market by value more than half of all retail sales.
Cathedral Cathedral City City continued to grow market share, recording flat volumes and 5% sales growth.
According to IRI, retail sales of 11% Cathedral City exceeded 280 million.
Sales of competing cheddar brands have continued to decline.
Taken together the Other 89% next three largest cheddar brands totalled Source: IRI 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015 141 million, down over 20%.
We continue to develop new products Dairy crest produces and markets in the Cathedral City range.
Products cathedral city, the UKs leading launched in earlier years such as cheese brand, as well as the Selections, Chedds, Spreadable Cathedral premium Davidstow cheddar brand.
City and Baked Bites have all prospered.
milk from around 400 farmers in This year we have moved outside of cornwall and Devon is made into cheddar for the first time and have selected cheddar cheese at our Davidstow Red Leicester and Double Gloucester for a creamery in cornwall.
The cheese new Selections variety pack.
We have also is then matured for an average of 11 extended the brand into flavoured cheeses.
months at our purpose built nuneaton In addition to bringing exciting new facility before being cut, packed and products to the market we have continued distributed to customers.
We have to support Cathedral City with television two cheese packing operations: a and other media advertising and with an highly automated facility at nuneaton, appropriate promotional programme.
Warwickshire, and a plant at frome, Dairy Crests second cheese brand, Somerset capable of producing more Davidstow, has slightly strengthened its complicated packs for innovative market share.
We also continue to supply products such as cathedral city Marks & Spencer and Waitrose with chedds and Selections.
Whey is produced as a by-product During the year we have carried of cheese making.
This is currently out a comprehensive category strategy dried and sold to food manufacturers.
project, Dairy for Life, which will form the make demineralised whey powder and However we are developing a foundation for future innovation, marketing , a lactose based new facility at Davidstow that will and category merchandising for both of prebiotic.
Both products are used in the manufacture demineralised whey our cheese brands.
On the back of this, manufacture of infant formula for which powder and , in addition to the Cathedral City range there is growing demand across the world.
a lactose based prebiotic developments referred to above, we have We expect commercial manufacture of Reported revenue for the year ended worked with customers to cross-promote both products to start later this year.
31 March 2015 grew by 4% to 274.4 Cathedral City and jacket potatoes and During the year we entered into a million.
However product group profits fell to create a video of how to make a great strategic partnership with Fonterra, the back by 16% to 33.1 million and margin cheese sauce with Cathedral City.
market and sell our products on our behalf As is usual in this business, falling milk Growth based on top quality cheese and is also providing valuable technical prices have led to a short-term pressure from a highly efficient supply chain and engineering support.
The maturation process The investment we have made in recent means that we sell cheese made with milk times in our cheese business has created a business with great potential purchased around 11 months before the a highly efficient supply chain that Our Cheese and whey business has wellsale takes place.
Falling sales realisations produces top quality products.
invested facilities, and strong brands with have now led to lower milk prices but enviable market positions.
It remains well there is a time lag before this is reflected making ingredients for infant formula placed to generate attractive growth.
in the costs of stock that is being sold.
will provide additional growth We expect this margin squeeze to reverse We are investing a total of 65 million at in the second half of the year ending 31 our Davidstow creamery in Cornwall to 16 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 16th biggest grocery brand in Britain Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 17 Strategic report PeRFORMAnCe COnTInueD 18 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 volumes and values fell by 4%.
Within the Spreads & butters overall category, butter sales grew volume by 2% with unchanged values, driven by supermarket own label butter sales million 2014 15 2013 14 growth, whereas spreads volumes and values both fell by around 8%.
revenue 170.0 177.4 Clover performed in line with the product group profit 33.8 16.8 spreads market and Country Life margin 19.9% 9.5% Spreadable, which now accounts for Before exceptional items and amortisation of nearly 60% of total Country Life sales, acquired intangibles grew sales by 2% and outperformed Share of retail butter and the butter market.
However Country Life spreads market by value block butter sales fell as a result of lower Other 7% promotional activity.
Dairy Crest Retailer We continue to innovate and support own our brands.
Clover was awarded Which label magazines Best Buy in the spreads 17% 16% category Source: Which February 2015 Arla 35% and Clover Lighter than Light is firmly established as a lower fat alternative.
Unilever 25% Our comprehensive category Source: IRI 52 weeks ended 28 March 2015 strategy project, Dairy for Life, will form the foundation for future innovation, We make butter at our Severnside marketing and category merchandising dairy in Gloucestershire and pack for both Clover and Country Life.
On butter and make spreads in Kirkby, the back of this project we have worked merseyside.
We have two key brands, with one customer to install freestanding clover a dairy spread and country refrigerators for butters and spreads next Life spreadable and block butter.
to their instore bakeries and with another We also produce frylight one calorie on a cupcake challenge.
cooking spray in erith, Kent, and Frylight one calorie cooking spray, have several secondary brands in the a brand we purchased in 2011, has spreads category.
performed strongly with sales up 22% Reported revenue for the year ended compared to last year.
This brand has 31 March 2015 fell by 4% to 170.0 million.
responded well to increased marketing However profits from the Spreads and support and has the potential to grow butters product group increased sharply further.
In future we expect to report it as by 101% to 33.8 million, resulting in a one of our key spreads and butter brands margin of 19.9% 2014: profit 16.8 million, alongside Clover and Country Life butter.
Lower raw material prices and reduced overheads following the Driving efficiency, generating cash consolidation of packing onto one site both With all our packet butter and spreads contributed to the improved performance.
manufacturing now on one site, we expect In addition we have adjusted our aged to be able to drive efficiencies in this accruals in line with the Grocery Supply business and lower our manufacturing Code of Practice.
We expect to use some of the manufacturing savings to increase our market decline slows butter in growth marketing expenditure to grow and protect The butter and spreads market continued our share of this high-margin category.
to decline during the year.
However the We would also expect to see this business pace of decline fell from that recorded in improve its cash generation in future years the year ended 31 March 2014.
Across as capital expenditure falls back to more the category as a whole, both market normal levels.
101% profit increase from the Spreads and butters product group Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 19 Strategic report PeRFORMANCe CONTINUeD Sale of Dairies operations Dairies On 6 November 2014 Dairy Crest agreed to sell its Dairies operations to Mller for 80 million in cash on completion.
The million 2014 15 2013 14 sale has been approved by shareholders but remains subject to the approval of the Revenue 881.6 944.8 Competition and Markets Authority.
Product group profit 1.8 18.8 Margin 0.2% 2.0% A difficult year for the whole UK Before exceptional items and amortisation of dairysector acquired intangibles A global surplus of milk and high Dairy Crest processes and delivers production in the UK has led to a steep fresh conventional, organic and fall in realisations of milk and other dairy flavoured milk to major retailers, commodities.
Although we and others middle ground customers such as in the UK dairy sector have reduced the smaller retailers, coffee shops and price we pay dairy farmers for their milk, hospitals and residential customers.
the profitability of our Dairies operations The Dairies product group includes has fallen significantly and excluding revenues and profits from these property profits we recorded a trading loss operations.
It also includes revenues in the year.
and profits from one of our four key brands, FRijj, the countrys leading Property profits remain strong ready to drink flavoured milk brand as As residential and middle ground sales well as cream and milk powders.
reduce we close and sell distribution We operate three modern dairies at depots.
Property selling prices have Severnside, Chadwell Heath and Foston remained high and profits from selling where we pack milk into polybottles.
properties included in the Dairies We also have a glass bottling dairy at product group were 17.6 million 2014: Hanworth and a specialist cream potting 18.2million.
In addition we have around 64 operational depots from which Growing FRijj sales we deliver milk to residential and certain FRijj is the leading brand in the ready to middle ground customers.
Finally we also drink flavoured milk market.
This market run an ingredients operation that helps grew by 4% in the year ended 31 March balance seasonal milk supplies by drying 2015 and, buoyed by growth from sales to surplus milk and selling skimmed milk the food service and convenience sectors, powder.
We aim to minimize throughput FRijj sales increased by 7%.
During the in this business to lessen our exposure to year we redesigned the packaging and commodity markets.
The raw milk that we purchase from farms contains more cream than the milk Continued cost savings that we sell to customers.
We use some of We have continued to reduce costs in the surplus generated during the bottling this business.
Key initiatives have been process to make bulk butter which is a wider use of lighter weight polybottles, transferred to our Spreads and butters distribution savings and an ongoing business at market prices.
The balance of programme of depot closures to reflect surplus cream is sold by our ingredients declining residential demand.
Overall operation either as bulk butter or cream.
residential sales fell by 11% compared to Reported revenue fell by 7% to 881.6 the year ended 31 March 2014. million 2014: 944.8 million.
Both sales In addition we announced that we volumes and realisations were lower than would further rationalise our Dairies last year.
Dairies product group profits fell operations and consult with employees to 1.8 million from 18.8 million.
Profits regarding the closure of our glass bottling from selling surplus properties included dairy in Hanworth, West London and our in the Dairies product group were 17.6 specialist cream potting facility in Chard, million 2014: 18.2 million.
We anticipate that Chard will have adjusted our aged accruals in line close later in 2015 and Hanworth in 2016. with the Grocery Supply Code of Practice.
7 % growth in FRijj sales 20 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 21 Strategic report PERFORMANCE CONTINUED understanding of how Dairy Crest and Operational efficiency Milk Procurement the services we offer are perceived by Our contracted hauliers maintain their our farmers.
This unique survey was well focus on improving efficiency within The year ended 31 March received with the results highlighting the the milk collection operation whilst also 2015 was a year of two dramatically opportunities for greater segmentation delivering environmental improvement and different periods.
The first part of the within our core communication activity meeting a range of service targets for our year saw milk prices at record highs both for content and method of delivery.
with intense competition amongst The feedback identified both what we The on-going vehicle fleet replacement milk processors for milk supply.
In the do well as a business and where there is programme will result in lighter vehicles second half of the year, dairy markets scope for us to improve.
Our operational with greater capacity.
Exploratory work is collapsed as milk production soared performance scored very highly with the also been done with new milk pumping on the back of higher prices and consistent achievement of high service equipment to reduce pollution and favourable weather conditions.
This levels being recognised as a key benefit.
noise and to further develop automatic resulted in milk prices falling at an milk sampling equipment to reduce the Electronic communication is a focus as unprecedented scale andspeed.
we develop Farm Connect, our interactive We continue to work closely with farmer website.
This provides our farmers Milk supply our haulage and milk testing partners to with key management information about We have managed to achieve a balanced ensure that our milk sampling and testing their milk supply together with news about supply of milk, by carefully monitoring procedures are effective and robust at Dairy Crest and the dairy sector.
production levels and customer demand.
every stage of the raw milk supply chain.
The independent White Gold farm Successful new farm recruitment activity advisory service, which is fully funded during the year has been scaled back Looking ahead by Dairy Crest, has been expanded for the short term with our priority being We are committed to working in to include a series of new initiatives to develop our existing milk fields.
The partnership with our farmers to ensure to benefit our farmers.
These include comprehensive service package we offer that together, we are best placed to take MilkWell to improve herd health and to our farmers has enabled us to maintain advantage of market opportunities.
In our welfare through better data recording, our focus on quality and efficiency at a Davidstow milk field we are launching a WaterWell to analyse water consumption time when milk prices have been under new farm standards package to recognise and Safe&Well to provide guidance on significant pressure.
This partnership the work our farmers in the South West health and safety for key farm tasks.
The approach delivers key benefits to our are doing in preparation for the production Safe&Well initiative encompasses routine business and our farmers, including of demineralised whey powder.
In our health checks for our farmers and was the long term sustainability of our direct milk fields serving the liquid market, we launched during our summer agricultural milk supply, which is fundamental to will further develop our portfolio of supply shows programme, where we offered ourbusiness.
contracts to recognise the diverse range free on the spot health assessments to of business models so we can continue to ourfarmers.
Standards and support offer flexibility and choice.
Our office based advisors within the Farm We will continue our support of Milk supply contracts Business Centre together with our regional the Governments Voluntary Code of Our service package supports our team of Farm Business Managers are the Practice for milk supply contracts, having core offer of a fair and competitive milk primary contacts for our farmers.
During been the first milk processor to fully price and range of contract options.
We the year they have undertaken a number embrace this since the launch in 2012. continue to work closely with DCD to of practical farm training programmes We are supporting DCDs work to review explore opportunities for new contract to enable them to provide more structural changes to their organisation, options that meet the requirements of comprehensive support and guidance.
including their application to achieve DPO both our farmers and our business.
Our Animal health and welfare remains a Dairy Producer Organisation status.
This innovative formula pricing mechanism key priority as we work with our farmers followed a comprehensive evaluation of continues to be very popular with our to promote best practice and continually the constitutional implications for their farmers with over 20% opting to have a improve milk quality and production members, carried out through funding they proportion of their milk priced in this way.
Raising awareness of the secured through the Defra Dairy Fund.
At the start of the year we responded to challenges the dairy sector faces from Global volatility in dairy markets had farmer feedback for greater simplicity with animal disease and the eradication a huge impact in 2014 and is expected the launch of a new Simplifed Formula programmes that are in place, is one area to continue to be a critical factor going contract which proved very popular.
We have worked closely with forward.
We and our farmers also have We continue to consider variations Dairy Crest Direct DCD, the independent to deal with any challenge brought about to our core contracts, looking at the organisation representing our farmers, to by the end of European milk quotas.
compositional quality of milk for our engage veterinary support as part of our By working together with DCD and our cheese business and for larger supply communication and training programmes.
farmers, we can help ensure that our volumes.
businesses are in the best place to meet In addition, we are working with DCD Listening to our farmers the challenges we face and ensure we to consider the opportunity for a contract During the summer of 2014 we deliver a sustainable supply of top quality based on the Dairy Futures market, commissioned an independent research British milk for our customers.
with the aim of providing farmers with project The Voice of the Farmer.
different options to help manage future The objective was to gain a greater marketvolatility.
22 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 Corporate Responsibility Our future success depends on our ability to meet a range of pressing environmental Winner FT Finalist IGD Presidents FT Corporate and social needs 2014 Cup Responsibility Company of that is why Corporate theYear 2014 Responsibility CR is so important to us.
We use Business in the Communitys achieve a top rated 5star score, up I congratulate Dairy Crest CR Index to integrate responsible from 4 last year.
During the year we for achieving its ranking business practice into our mainstream increased our focus on community and look forward to business operations.
It provides a initiatives such as engaging with robust framework to systematically young people aswell as developing a working together to create measure and manage our progress programme to help improve safety on a fairer society and a more and allows us to compare the results farm for our supplying farmers.
sustainable future we are achieving with those of other More information on recent Stephen Howard, responsible businesses.
awards can be found in our CR online We are delighted that Dairy report.
This includes the progress Chief Executive, BITC Crest has again come out top in the the business has made against its Business in the Community BITC sustainability pledges.
In addition we are only one of a handful of participants to http: ourcommitments.
co. uk in company cars operated by Dairy Crest for business travel is also Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Report included.
Minor losses of refrigerants used in cooling equipment have been In line with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 converted to tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent and are included for Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 our completeness.
greenhouse gas GHG emissions are quantified below.
Scope 2 emissions data includes material sources of purchased electricity used at manufacturing sites, depots and offices.
Green House Gas Emissions for 1 April 2014 We employ a per tonne of milk intake denominator as the most to 31 March 2015 effective measure of relative performance.
This measure is routinely employed for our manufacturing operations and is employed here as an 2014 15 2013 14 intensity measure for our business as a whole.
Scope 1 89,377 87,256 Tonnes CO e 2 Consistent with the GHG Protocol emissions from biologically sequestered carbon are reported separate to the other Scopes.
These Scope 2 77,612 74,646 Tonnes CO e 2 comprise emissions from combustion of biomass fuel at our creamery in Total Scope 1 Davidstow that significantly reduce Scope 1 emissions from fossil fuels.
166,989 161,902 Tonnes CO e 2 and 2 Emissions from combustion of biomass fuels are not included in the emissions intensity ratio reported above.
kg CO e per tonne 2 Absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions increased in 2014 15 by 3% with Intensity ratio 78.58 74.71 of milk intake an associated 5% increase in intensity ratio compared to the previous year.
Although the emissions reductions activities described elsewhere in Emissions from this report page 24 delivered significant reductions in relative energy used 22,192 27,619 Tonnes CO e 2 biomassfuel in both manufacturing operations and transport, a number of key factors impacted emissions performance: We follow the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard to calculate emissions from the combustion of fuels Scope 1 i Reduced output from biomass boilers at Davidstow mid-year and from purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling Scope 2.
Carbon necessitating increased use of fossil fuel.
This contributed 1% increase emission factors are used to convert each activity that gives rise to GHG in Scope 1 emissions and is evident in the reduction in emissions from emissions to a carbon dioxide equivalent CO e using the latest UK 2 biomass.
Steam output from the biomass boilers returned to normal high Government conversion factors for Company Reporting.
The GHG data reported relates to emissions from activities in the ii Increased operation of Severnside dryer to produce milk powder operational control of Dairy Crest Group plc from 1 April 2014 to 31 March influenced by commercial drivers in the milk sector.
This resulted in 2015 consistent with our financial reporting period.
increased use of natural gas at Severnside leading to 2% increase in Scope 1 emissions.
Scope 1 emissions data includes material sources of fossil fuels used iii 11% increase in the UK Governments Carbon Emission Factor for at manufacturing sites and depots and road fuel used in the transport electricity supplied from the public grid.
This results in a 4% increase in and distribution of intermediate and finished products.
Road fuel used Scope 2 emissions despite a 6% reduction in imported electricity.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 23 Strategic report 8% sent to landll PERFORMANCE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Environment 0% our aim Dairy Crest is reducing water usage by 20% We have since 2007 8 increased our target to 30% by 2020 renewable energy used in manufacturing the design of our plastic milk bottles so As a leading dairy to more than 20% by 2020. they are now on average 13% lighter.
In manufacturer and processor By looking at our transport network, 2014 15 we reduced our total packaging we are on course to reduce its carbon footprint by 9% a total reduction of 20% we are aware of global intensity by 10% by 2020 vs 2013 14 levels.
since 2010. trends and we are We have achieved approximately a 7% In 2014 15 we also helped lead the determined to play an active reduction since 2007.
We have reduced the IGDs collaborative Working on Waste distance driven by our primary vehicles by household food waste campaign.
role in tackling climate approximately 150,000 miles, saving over change, reducing waste and 1,200 tonnes per year of CO emissions.
2 looking after our natural We work with our dairy farmers to resources.
assess their carbon footprint using a Carbon Trust certified emissions tool.
During Water 2014 15, the proportion of milk supplied from Parts of the UK have less water available Climate change farms using this tool increased to 27%.
We per person than some southern European Dairy Crest is committed to reducing and want 50% of our farmers to have completed countries.
We therefore need to look to controlling greenhouse gas emissions this by the end of 2016. make best use of the water available to us associated with our direct operations and Each year we provide a voluntary as well as reducing the amount we use.
report via CDP formerly the Carbon In 2014, we commenced a major All of our manufacturing sites use Disclosure Project describing our project to reduce freshwater abstraction assessment and monitoring tools to greenhouse gas emissions management at Severnside, the largest user of water identify energy reduction projects.
In 2014 we achieved our across our manufacturing network.
In 2014 15, we delivered over 50 highest ever score.
Investment will enable recovery of over projects to reduce electricity and energy 500 million litres of processed water per use, including installing digital controls Waste year.
We are employing similar technology on the boilers at Kirkby and investing in We aim to reduce waste at every point at Davidstow.
high quality and efficient compressed air in our supply chain.
Where waste is Dairy Crest is on track to meet our at Severnside.
These two projects will unavoidable, we always look for ways target of reducing water usage by 20% reduce CO emissions by over 800 tonnes of diverting it from landll for beneficial against a 2007 8 baseline by the end of 2 peryear.
We have increased our target to a Against our target of reducing Our aim is for zero waste to go to landfill 30% reduction by 2020. carbon emissions from energy used in by 2015.
By the year end we diverted 92% We are promoting water stewardship manufacturing by 30% by 2020 against of operational waste from landfill and we are with our dairy farmer suppliers through 2007 levels we have achieved a 16% focusing on key residual waste streams to WaterWell, our innovative on-farm water reduction.
To push ourselves further, this year we We also consider materials used in committed to increase the proportion of our packaging.
This year we improved 24 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 We have cut our CO e emissions by 2 16% since 2007 92% landll avoidance Marketplace made with 40% less sugar.
The range Ethical supply We are committed to is available in two flavours, Choc-aIn 2013 we updated our comprehensive creating healthy, tasty Chocolate and Seriously Strawberry, ethical supply policy.
The policy which can in 471ml bottles.
Each bottle sports a be found at www.
co. uk extends enjoyable products, making distinctive, refreshed blue FRijj logo.
our vision and values across a diverse and it easier for consumers to The launch demonstrates our extensive supplier base.
commitment to the Department of Healths Dairy Crest aims to exceed best Responsibility Deal.
practice around quality, animal welfare, traceability, allergies and product recalls.
Healthier choices Milk Race Through our team of Direct Supply Dairy Crest is proud to make healthy and To highlight the health-giving properties of Managers and the White Gold nutritious products.
We have continued milk and strengthen the dairy sectors links accreditation service, we work with to invest in our healthier ranges, driving with the sporting world, this year, through farmers to ensure animal welfare is of the sales through promotions, advertising and Dairy UK, we once again sponsored the highest standard possible and the milk we innovation.
Consumer IRI data shows that Milk Race, held in nottingham on 25th buy is of an exceptionally high quality.
the lower fat and added value variants May 2014.
We can trace milk and raw materials of our brands achieved a collective retail from farms and suppliers through sales value of 58 million in 2014 15, a to finished product and within our slight decline from 61.3 million in 2013 14. manufacturing plants we utilise tools such Cathedral City lighter, continues as Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points to lead the lower fat branded Cheddar HACCP, and Quality Monitoring Plans market, recording a retail sales value of QMP to identify hazards and put systems 32.1 million, bigger than the next three and controls in place to ensure critical rival brands put together.
Our lower fat spreads Clover lighter, Our quality management systems are Clover lighter than light, Utterly Butterly regularly reviewed and audited by our lightly, Country life lighter and our Clover own technical teams and by third parties Additions range have a collective retail Innovation to ensure they comply with industry sales value of 25.6 million.
Work started on our 4 million dedicated standards.
In addition to an internally Frylight, our one calorie cooking spray, Food Innovation Centre on the Harper audited programme, each manufacturing enjoyed another impressive year with sales Adams University campus.
The site is accredited to the British Retail growth of over 20%.
Today the brand has partnership with Harper Adams University Consortium Standard and by an a retail sales value of about 22 million.
provides a link into leading agriculture and independent auditing body.
A real highlight, in February 2015 we food research and will help us to continue launched a new range of FRijj milkshakes to develop healthy products.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 25 Strategic report PERFORMAnCE | CORPORATE RESPOnSIBIlITY COnTInUED Workplace Number of accidents reportable to the HSE incl 3 day lost time accidents Progress against 3-year strategy 147 123 77 76 We offer 49 38 all staff a 09 10 10 11 11 12 12 13 13 14 14 15 free health I took one of the health assessments at the Royal check Days lost Cornwall Show and I think this campaign to encourage farmers 4,122 to think about their health and 2,984 also the safety of their holdings is really welcome.
1,999 George Eustice MP, Farming Minister 1,630 1,248 1,209 has a free health MOT at the Royal Cornwall Show 09 10 10 11 11 12 12 13 13 14 14 15 focus being placed on encouraging Farm Health & Safety programme At Dairy Crest we are staff to engage in near miss reporting In 2014, we expanded this service to our committed to ensuring that and behavioural conversations so that dairy farmers.
Our occupational health we can continue to make workplaces team provided a free health check to 219 the safety of all of our safer.
Against our target of having a farmers at local shows, including the Royal employees, franchisees, 100:1 ratio of near miss and behavioural Cornwall Show, and our regular farmer contractors and other conversations versus all types of accidents meetings.
by 2018, we achieved a ratio of 127:1 by people affected by our the end of March 2015.
Wellbeing days activities is an integral part Some key activities have included a Since March 2014, we have been running of managing our business.
250 prize draw we hold each quarter for special wellbeing days across all of drivers in our secondary and residential our manufacturing sites and depots, operations that have not had an at fault addressing heart health, mental health, Safety first collision.
At all locations we promote sleep and healthy eating.
Significantly We believe such a strong, proactive our Stop, Think, Assess, Review these four topics were chosen after our commitment, which goes beyond STAR principles to help our staff stay occupational health advisors analysed the legislative requirements, contributes to accident free.
Finally, aware that driving results of the staff health screenings they our business performance by reducing in winter weather can potentially be more conducted in 2013. the risk of injuries and drives continuous hazardous, this year we issued all of our As a result of our proactive approach improvement and engagement.
professional drivers with a Winter Driving to employee wellbeing we were delighted We have made excellent progress Guide.
to have been shortlisted for the 2014 Bupa against our zero tolerance of unsafe Workwell Engagement and Wellbeing working practices and by the end of Wellbeing at work Award and were named as Waitroses March 2015 we had reduced our Accident Dairy Crest is proud to take a proactive overall Treating People Fairly supplier of Incident Rate, including Riddors and over approach to looking after employees the year.
three day lost time accidents, to 588 from health, which we believe results in a the 1,027 base line set in 2013.
This 43% happier, more engaged and productive reduction means we are well on the way to workforce.
Through our in-house achieving our challenging target of a 50% occupational health team we provide all reduction in Accident Incident Rate by staff with the opportunity of having a free 2018, against the 2013 baseline.
the years highlights include Chard who Since introducing this free service, and achieved more than 1,000 days without including the mandatory health checks for a lost time accident, and our nuneaton staff performing specific roles, by the end Prepack operation achieved 987 days.
of March 2015 we had carried out 6,422 Challenging the behaviour of staff health related checks across the business.
has been key to our success, with much 26 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 Community Powered by Dairy Crest 100,000 contribution to the Princes Countryside Fund business.
An independently conducted Movement to Work.
Dairy Crest staff Our community programme evaluation showed that the majority feel pledged to offer 80 young people 80 hours supports four key areas: more confident about their future in the of work experience by June 2015.
By April dairy sector as a result of participating.
looking after the We are also long term supporters of Dairy Crest supports community countryside, promoting Open Farm Sunday.
On 8 June 2014, educational programmes, including healthy living, supporting over 300 farms opened their gates to the food science placements at Reading public to demonstrate food production and Nottingham Universities.
We also education and employability methods.
support Festomane, a manufacturing and and engaging with local engineering festival in Gloucestershire.
Promoting healthy living This year we ran a competition for schools Dairy Crest always promotes healthy to create a new avour FRijj milkshake as living.
Through Meals on Wheels, staff well as a career day at a local dairy farm.
Looking after the countryside voluntarily deliver healthy, fresh food to This year staff helped at schools In 2014 we were delighted to announce the most vulnerable in our communities.
careers sessions through IGDs Feeding the Princes Countryside Fund as our staff During winter 2014, we also donated over Britains Future programme.
By the end of March 2015, we had visited a charity partner, building on the relationship 8,500 litres of milk and enough Frylight total of 8 schools and reached over 200 the charity already has with our Country to make over 30,000 meals to Crisis, the youngpeople.
Dairy Crest has also signed up to set up by HRH The Prince of Wales in 2010, the females in factories ambassador aspires to a healthy, economically vibrant Supporting education and campaign by appointing a female champion countryside an aspiration supported by employability to visit secondary schools and talk about Dairy Crests vision and values.
We want to encourage young people manufacturing as a career option.
In addition to contributing 100,000 into the food and manufacturing sector.
to the Fund, staff raised money Through the IGDs Feeding Britains Future Local community programme through activities including cycling and programme, employees have helped This year staff have supported over 124 baking challenges.
In March 2015 we over 140 young people nd employment local causes through volunteering, product co-sponsored a racing day at Ascot.
In 2014, we hosted local donations and financial donations.
Through the Fund, we support unemployed youngsters at Davidstow the Princes Dairy Initiative, offering to help with CV-writing skills.
For the tailored support to vulnerable small and first time, 6 youngsters then completed medium sized dairy farms.
As part of two weeks work experience at the site.
the programme non-aligned farmers Every candidate had the opportunity to participate in a series of practical gain a professional food hygiene and workshops delivered locally by dairy sector preparationcerticate.
216 farmers have enrolled on the We worked with M&S to deliver programme since 2012 and all are still in their youth unemployment programme, Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 27 Strategic report PeRfORMANCe CONTINueD Financial review Revenue Product group Adjusted earnings m profit per share m pence 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 Before exceptional items Before exceptional items, and amortisation of amortisation of acquired Overview acquired intangibles: intangibles and pension includes associates interest Dairy Crest has continued to make progress in difficult trading conditions Total dividends Gearing Cash generated per share % from operations and 2014 15 saw an important step pence m in delivering against our long term strategy.
In November 2014 we announced that we had agreed to sell our Dairies operations to Mller.
The sale has been approved by shareholders but remains subject to the approval of the CMA.
Completion of this sale will deliver a step-change in delivering our strategy of creating a value-added, streamlined business with reduced exposure to commoditised markets and the ability to deliver future growth both organically and through acquisitions.
Overall, the financial performance of the Group during the year has been satisfactory.
The performance of the operations we expect to retain, namely Cheese and whey and Spreads and butter the 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 15 Retained business has been strong with revenue and product 14 group profits up 0.5% and 19.3% respectively and a fully costed margin of 15%.
However, profits in our Dairies operations have reduced markedly in the year reflecting strong competition in liquid milk markets and sharp falls in commodity realisations.
Net debt history Net debt m left scale Net debt EBITDA We have continued to invest in the businesses we are retaining.
500 3.0 multiples right scale Our investment at our spreads site at Kirkby enabled us to close Crudgington during the year and the new demineralised whey and 450  facilities at Davidstow, which are nearing 2.5 400 completion, will increase future whey returns.
Having completed these investments, the businesses to be retained will run out of 350 2.0 five well-invested, efficient processing sites.
2015 2014 Change Change Product group revenue m m m The sale includes the FRijj brand and bulk butter manufacture Cheese and whey 274.4 264.6 9.8 3.7% and the Dairies supporting overhead structure to Mller for 80 Spreads and butter 170.0 177.4 7.4 4.2% million, payable in cash, on completion.
This includes the factories Other 3.8 4.2 0.4 9.5% at Foston, Chadwell Heath and Severnside.
It also includes the Retained business 448.2 446.2 2.0 0.4% Hanworth glass bottling site, where Dairy Crest has consulted with Dairies 881.6 944.8 63.2 6.7% employees on the sites future, and the depot distribution network.
Total external revenue 1,329.8 1,391.0 61.2 4.4% Dairy Crest will retain full ownership of the closed dairies at Totnes and Fenstanton, its Chard site and a number of previously closed Revenues from our Retained business increased marginally which depots and will sell these in the future.
represents a good performance in categories experiencing price deation.
In particular, Cathedral City has had another strong Under the terms of the sale agreement the two companies will year with revenue up by 5%.
Conversely, our Dairies operations also enter into a supply agreement whereby Mller will sell bulk have seen some volume declines along with significant price butter to Dairy Crest for five years.
In addition Dairy Crest will deation and overall revenue has reduced by 6.7% in the year to provide certain transitional IT services to Mller.
2015 2014 Change Change Product group profit Dairy Crest will continue to be responsible for the dened benefit m m m pension obligations in relation to the closed Dairy Crest Group Cheese and whey 33.1 39.3 6.2 15.8% Pension Fund.
Spreads and butter 33.8 16.8 17.0 101.2% Retained business 66.9 56.1 10.8 19.3% Any consideration payable by Mller is subject to upward or Share of associate 0.3 0.3 n a downward adjustments for variances from agreed levels of Dairies 1.8 18.8 17.0 90.4% working capital, capital expenditure and the profitability of Dairy Total product group profit 68.7 75.2 6.5 8.6% Crests Dairies operations and will also be adjusted to reect Remove share of profits made on the sale of properties included in the transaction associate 0.3 0.3 n a that are sold by Dairy Crest before completion.
Acquired intangible amortisation 0.4 0.4 Mller has the ability not to complete their purchase of our Dairies Group profit on operations should there be a material deterioration of more than operations pre- 20 million in the agreed level of profitability of Dairy Crests exceptional items 68.3 74.5 6.2 8.3% Dairies operations before completion.
At this time we do not anticipate that there will be such a material deterioration in the profitability of our Dairies operations before completion.
Mller Overall Group product group profit before interest, acquired may also not complete if any of our four dairies are inoperable intangible amortisation and exceptional items fell by 8.6% to 68.7 when completion is due.
However, product group profit of the businesses we are retaining grew by 19.3% to 66.9 million.
The sale constitutes a Class 1 transaction for Dairy Crest pursuant to the Listing Rules.
Shareholder approval was received on 23 Cheese and whey profits reduced somewhat after a very strong December 2014. year ended 31 March 2014 as the cost of sales reected milk cost increases in that year and whey realisations softened in the Following shareholder approval for the sale, we are separating second half of the year ended 31 March 2015.
Lower milk input our Dairies operations, including the relevant IT systems, from costs during the year ended 31 March 2015 have resulted in the the rest of the business.
This creation of a stand-alone Dairies cost of cheese in stock falling.
However, due to the maturity prole operation is necessary for completion of the sale but also ensures of cheese, this will not be fully reected in reduced cost of goods that supporting overhead costs are fully transferred along with the sold until the second half of the year ending 31 March 2016. underlying business.
Furthermore, it results in both the retained business and the Dairies business staying focussed on delivering Spreads and butter profits were higher following a difficult 2013 14 their plans until such time as the sale completes.
principally as a result of signicantly lower cream input costs.
Because the sale remains conditional upon approval from the Overall margins in the retained businesses increased from 13% CMA it was not, at 31 March 2015, considered to have met the in 2013 14 to 15% in 2014 15.
These margins are stated after highly probable criteria required under IFRS 5 in order for the allocating all costs including central administrative overheads of Dairies business to be classied as held for sale.
will be kept under review as the CMA continues its review of the transaction.
Dairies profits fell despite lower milk input costs, reecting the competitive marketplace and signicantly lower dairy commodity realisations.
Within this, profits from the sale of closed depots were marginally lower at 17.6 million 2014: 18.2 million.
The Dairies business stabilised somewhat in the second half of the year and losses before property profits reduced from 11.9 million in the first half to 3.9 million in the second half.
However, Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 29 Strategic report PERFORMANCE | FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED 2015 2014 Change Change the dairy sector remains challenging and contract renewals and Profit before tax m m m continued weak commodity returns will continue to put pressure Total product group profit 68.7 75.2 6.5 8.6% on our Dairies operations in 2015.
Although we retained our Finance costs 8.1 9.9 1.8 18.2% contract to supply Morrisons for a further three years following a Adjusted profit before tax 60.6 65.3 4.7 7.2% competitive tender, the volumes we expect Morrisons to purchase Amortisation of acquired have reduced by around one third from March 2015. intangibles 0.4 0.4 Exceptional items Exceptional items 36.3 10.4 25.9 Pretax exceptional charges in the year totalled 36.3 million Other finance expense 2014: 10.4 million.
Cash exceptional operating costs reduced to pensions 1.8 0.3 1.5 19.8 million 2014: 20.8 million.
Reported profit before tax 22.1 54.2 32.1 59.2% Exceptional charges of 16.7 million were associated with the final Adjusted profit before tax before exceptional items and consolidation of Spreads and butter production at Kirkby along amortisation of acquired intangibles decreased by 7% to 60.6 with the installation of a bulk butter churn at Severnside and the million.
This is managements key Group profit measure.
Reported creation of a new innovation centre at Harper Adams University.
profit before tax of 22.1 million represents a 32.1 million The Crudgington site was closed in December 2014 and any decrease from 2014 predominantly due to the higher level of further exceptional costs associated with the completion of the exceptional items incurred in 2015.
Innovation Centre will be more than offset by future exceptional profit from the sale of the Crudgington production site.
Taxation The Groups effective tax rate on continuing operations fell slightly Exceptional costs of 3.4 million relate to the investment in to 14.0% 2014: 14.6%.
The effective tax rate continues to be demineralised whey and .
These relate below the headline rate of UK corporation tax due to property predominantly to incremental site costs incurred as a result of the profits on which tax charges are offset by brought forward capital significant works being undertaken, for example additional site losses or roll-over relief.
These projects remain on track for completion later in 2015.
Group profit for the year The reported Group profit for the year was 22.1 million 2014: In September 2014 we announced the future closures of our glass 54.2 million.
bottling site at Hanworth and our specialist cream potting facility at Chard.
11.8 million of exceptional charges have been made in Earnings per share respect of these closures of which 9.2 million are non-cash asset The Groups adjusted basic earnings per share from continuing write downs and accelerated depreciation.
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations, which includes Further exceptional costs of 4.3 million have been charged in the impact of exceptional items, pension interest expense and respect of the proposed sale of our Dairies operations.
These the amortisation of acquired intangibles, amounted to 15.0 pence include costs associated with the transaction, predominantly 2014: 35.8 pence.
professional fees as well as costs relating to the separation of the Dairies business into a standalone entity.
Dividends We remain committed to a progressive dividend policy and have Finance costs continued to deliver against that policy by increasing our proposed Finance costs of 8.1 million reduced by 2 million in the year dividend.
The proposed final dividend of 15.7 pence per share reecting some capitalised interest on the major projects at Kirkby represents an increase of 0.3 pence per share a 1.9% increase.
and Davidstow as well as the repayment of 27 million of loan Together with the interim dividend of 6.0 pence per share 2014: notes in April 2014 that were at effective xed rates of 4.97%.
5.9 pence per share the total proposed dividend is 21.7 pence per Interest cover excluding pension interest, calculated on total share 2014: 21.3 pence per share.
The final dividend will be paid product group profit increased to 8.5 times 2014: 7.6 times.
on 6 August 2015 to shareholders on the register on 3 July 2015.
Other finance expenses, which are derived by applying the Dividend cover of 1.8 times is within the target range of 1.5 to 2.5 discount rate to pension scheme assets and liabilities at the start times 2014: 1.9 times.
of each financial year, increased to 1.8 million 2014: 0.3 million.
These amounts are dependent upon the pension scheme position Pensions at 31 March each year and are volatile, being subject to market The latest full actuarial valuation of the closed dened benefit uctuations.
We therefore exclude this item from headline adjusted pension scheme was performed at 31 March 2013 and resulted in profit before tax.
an actuarial deficit of 105 million taking into account the one-off contribution of 40 million we made to the scheme in April 2013.
30 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 During the year ended 31 March 2015 the Group paid 13 million Proceeds from property disposals remain strong.
In the year cash contributions into the scheme in line with the new schedule ended 31 March 2015 these totalled 21.1 million 2014: 25.1 of contributions agreed with the Trustee in March 2014.
of contributions will continue for the year ending 31 March 2016 before increasing to 16 million for the year ending 31 March 2017.
Net debt Net debt includes the xed Sterling equivalent of foreign currency During the year the focus of the Trustee and the Group has been loan notes subject to swaps and excludes unamortised facility to reduce the schemes exposure to equities in line with the fees.
derisking ight path agreed as part of the 2013 actuarial review.
The proportion of assets excluding insurance held in higher risk Net debt increased from 142.2 million at 31 March 2014 to higher return type assets has reduced from 75% at March 2014 to 198.7 million at 31 March 2015, somewhat higher than was 61% at March 2015. anticipated due to the working capital movements and higher capital expenditure referred to above.
However the ratio of net The reported deficit under IAS 19 at 31 March 2015 was 41.4 debt to EBITDA at 31 March 2015 remained within our target million a decrease of 16.3 million from March 2014.
Looking ahead, we expect net debt to returns have been strong during the year and have offset a further fall by at least 20 million in the year ending 31 March 2016 mainly reduction in the discount rate used to measure liabilities.
We as a result of reduced capital expenditure.
continue to stick to a derisking programme that targets a selfsufficient scheme by 2019 requiring returns at that point of only At 31 March 2015, gearing being the ratio of net debt to 0.5% above gilt yields.
Cash flow Borrowing facilities Our ambition is for the business to generate strong free cash The Group has 145 million loan notes outstanding which mature ows in future years and we are making good progress towards between 2016 and 2021 and a 170 million plus 90 million this target.
Pension contributions have reduced from levels seen revolving credit facility expiring in October 2016.
We expect to in previous years and lower milk input costs have reduced the renance our revolving credit facility in 2015. value of cheese stocks.
Capital expenditure, which has been high for several years and peaked this year, will fall signicantly Treasury Policies following the completion of the demineralised whey and galactoThe Group operates a centralised treasury function, which controls oligosaccharide projects in Davidstow in the first half of 2015 16. cash management and borrowings and the Groups financial risks.
Furthermore, the sale of our Dairies operations will reduce The main treasury risks faced by the Group are liquidity, interest exceptional restructuring costs in future years and result in one-off rates and foreign currency.
The Group only uses derivatives to sales proceeds.
manage its foreign currency and interest rate risks arising from underlying business and nancing activities.
Transactions of a In the year ended 31 March 2015 cash generated by operations speculative nature are prohibited.
The Groups treasury activities was 35.3 million 2014: 13.8 million outow.
This includes a are governed by policies approved and monitored by the Board.
working capital increase of 12.8 million albeit there has been a working capital reduction of 27.8 million in the second half of the Going concern year.
Working capital changes reect lower cost cheese stocks The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern offset by the timing of customer receipts and supplier payments basis as the Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate at the end of the year.
Cheese stock valuations should continue to financial resources to continue its operations for the foreseeable decrease in the year ending 31 March 2016 as higher cost cheese future.
In making this statement, the Groups Directors have: is sold and replaced in stock with that made at reduced milk reviewed the Group budget, strategic plans and available facilities: input costs.
Cash generated by operations also reects reduced have made such other enquiries as they considered appropriate: payments to the pension scheme as described above and and have taken into account Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: exceptional cash costs of 19.8 million 2014: 20.8 million.
Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
Cash interest payments amounted to 10.5 million 2014: 14.0 million.
There were no net tax payments or receipts 2014: net Tom Atherton Finance Director receipt of 2.1 million.
20 May 2015 Capital expenditure of 80.1 million 2014: 58.8 million reects the investments at Kirkby, Harper Adams and, in particular, at Davidstow, which together totalled 53.3 million as well as ongoing expenditure elsewhere in the business.
In total capital expenditure was somewhat higher than we anticipated as we took the opportunity to accelerate investment in some other site infrastructure at Davidstow to avoid disruption in the future.
We expect capital expenditure to fall below levels of depreciation once our investment in Davidstow is complete in summer 2015.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 31 Strategic report
