BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND ADVISERS Dairy Crest is led by an experienced Board of Directors, which today comprises two Executive Directors, one Non-executive Chairman and three independent Nonexecutive Directors.
Together, the Executive Directors have over 30 years experience of thebusiness.
The Board sets strategy and monitors progress.
Day-today matters are the responsibility of the Management Board, which today comprises the two Executive Directors, the Company Secretary & General Counsel andfour other senior managers.
Andrew Carr-Locke Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Appointed a Director in 2002 and became Chief Executive in January Appointed as a Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit 2007.
He joined Dairy Crest in August 1991.
He was formally with Committee in August 2009.
A Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Shell UK Ltd.
He is a Trustee for The Princes Countryside Fund a Management Accountants, he has previously held senior finance Non-Executive Director of Howden Joinery Group Plc and a member positions at Courtaulds Textiles, Diageo, Bowater Scott and Kodak of the GLF Schools Board and the Dairy UK Board.
and was Group Finance Director at George Wimpey plc until 2007.
More recently he was Executive Chairman of Countryside Properties.
Tom Atherton He has previously held Non-executive directorships at Royal Mail Finance Director Holdings, Venture Production and AWG and was appointed a Nonexecutive Director of Grainger plc in March 2015.
A Chartered Accountant who has worked for Dairy Crest for over 9 years.
Prior to his appointment to the Board 6.
Sue Farr he served as Director of Financial Control.
He has previously held Non-Executive Director senior finance positions in Logica plc and Thorn plc.
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in November 2011, 3.
Stephen Alexander Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee in November Chairman 2014 and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees in March 2015.
She is a member of the Executive Management Team Appointed as a Non-executive Director in January 2011, as of Chime Communications PLC, a position she has held since 2003.
Chairman in September 2014 and Chairman of the Nomination She has extensive marketing communications experience, having Committee in March 2015.
Prior to being appointed Chairman, served as Marketing Director of the BBC for 7 years, Director of Stephen served as Remuneration Committee Chairman.
He is Corporate Affairs, Thames Television for 3 years and Director of Chairman of Immediate Media Company Ltd and of Rhubarb Food Corporate Communications, Vauxhall Motors.
Sue was appointed a Design Ltd, an Operating Partner at OpCapita LLP and Chairman Non-executive Director and member of the remuneration committee of Look Ahead Care and Support.
Previously Chairman of Maltby of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc in December 2013, a NonCapital Ltd parent company of EMI Group, Chairman of Odeon Executive Director and a member of the Nomination, Remuneration Cinemas, Chief Executive of Hillsdown Holdings Ltd and held senior and Audit Committees of Accsys Technologies PLC in November positions with Allied Domecq PLC and Imperial Foods.
He was also 2014 and a Non-Executive Director of British American Tobacco Senior Independent Director at Devro plc.
She has previously held positions as a Trustee of the Historic Royal Palaces and as a Non-executive 4.
Richard Macdonald Director of Motivcom plc.
Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Non-executive Director in November 2010, as 7.
Robin Miller Senior Independent Director and a member of the Audit Committee Company Secretary & General Counsel # in May 2012 and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in Appointed in April 2008.
He is a solicitor having worked in private November 2014, prior to which he was Chairman of the Corporate practice and in-house in both retail and international manufacturing.
Richard had a 30 year career with the National Farmers Union, serving as Director General for 13 years.
He is a Non-executive Director of Moy Park Limited and the Environment Agency, a Governor of The Royal Agricultural University Cirencester, Vice Chairman of the National Institute of Agricultural Botany and became Chairman of Farm Africa in 2013.
Audit Committee Member Auditor Corporate Brokers Remuneration Committee Member Ernst & Young LLP J. P. Morgan Cazenove Nomination Committee Member Solicitors Jefferies Hoare Govett Corporate Responsibility Eversheds LLP Registered Office CommitteeMember Principal Bankers Claygate House, Management Board Member The Royal Bank of Littleworth Road, # Not a Board Member Scotland plc Esher, Surrey KT10 9PN Rabobank International, LondonBranch Registered in England No.
3162897 Lloyds TSB plc Santander UK plc Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 33 Governance
