DIRECTORS REPORT The Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 together with the UK Listing indemnified by the Company to the extent permitted by company Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs and Listing law.
That indemnity provision has been in place during the year Rules LRs require certain disclosures to be made.
The Strategic and remains in force.
report and the Corporate Governance report at pages 4 to 31 and Disclosure of information to the Auditor: So far as each pages 35 to 44 respectively, together with the details at pages 32 Director in ofce at the date of approval of this Report is aware, and 33 of the Directors in ofce at the date of this Annual Report there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys are expressly incorporated into this, the Directors Report.
External Auditor, Ernst & Young is unaware.
Each of the Directors has taken all steps that they might reasonably be expected to have Going concern: The Group and Companys business activities, taken in order to i make themselves aware of any relevant audit together with factors likely to affect future development, information and ii establish that the External Auditor is aware of performance and position are set out in the Strategic report from such information.
For the purposes of this statement on disclosure pages 4 to 31.
The financial position, cash ows, liquidity position of information to the External Auditor, relevant audit information is and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review on the information needed by the Companys External Auditor in pages 28 to 31 which also form part of the Strategic report.
In connection with the preparation of its report at pages 67 to 70. addition, Notes 30 and 31 to the Accounts include the Group and Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its Political Donations: No political donations or expenditures were capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its made or incurred during the year.
financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
As highlighted in Note 30, the Financial instruments: Details of the use by the Company and Company and Group meet day-to-day working capital its subsidiaries of financial instruments and any related risk requirements through syndicated revolving credit facilities and cash management objectives and policies including hedging policy and to ensure that forecast net borrowings plus a reasonable operating exposure, including to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash headroom are covered by committed facilities which mature at ow risk of the Company in connection with such financial least 12 months after the year end.
At 31 March 2015, effective instruments can be found at Note 30 to the financial statements.
There were no breaches of bank covenants in the year ended 31 March 2015 and projections do not Research and development: The Group has adopted a target of indicate any breaches in the foreseeable future.
Having reviewed delivering 10% of its annual turnover through new product and taken into account Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: development.
Focus continues to be on offering consumers a wide Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, published by the product mix, and especially the development of lower fat variants Financial Reporting Council in October 2009, the Directors are of existing products.
Dairy Crest remains at the forefront of dairy satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate industry developments to reduce packaging waste through resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Employees: At the end of March 2015, the Group employed approximately 4,100 people.
It depends on the skills and Future developments: Future developments are described in the commitment of its employees in order to achieve its objectives.
Strategic report at pages 4 to 31.
Personnel at every level are encouraged to make their fullest possible contribution to Dairy Crests success.
Details of the Group results: The Groups consolidated income statement set Groups employment policies can be found on pages 8 and 9. out on page 71 shows a profit for the financial year of 20.5 million Employees are kept regularly informed on matters affecting them compared with 50.2 million profit in 2013 14. and on issues affecting the Groups performance through a variety of communication tools, including the Group intranet.
Regular Dividends: the Directors are recommending a final dividend of employee surveys enable an understanding of, amongst other 15.7p 2013 14: 15.4p per ordinary share, which if approved, will be matters, the general satisfaction level of employees with their paid to members whose name appears on the register at the close employment, any questions or concerns which employees have in of business on 3 July 2015.
Together, the final dividend and interim relation to the business of the Group, an understanding of the dividend 6.0p per ordinary share paid on 29 January 2015 make effectiveness of management of and communication with total dividends for the year of 21.7p per ordinary share 2013 2014: employees.
Following employee surveys, specic action plans are 21.3p.
drawn up and implemented on a site by site basis to address issues which are raised through the surveys.
Ordinarily, the senior Directors: Details of the Directors of the Company at the date of management team conducts road shows which all employees are this Report are set out at pages 32 to 33. invited to attend.
They provide a forum for, amongst other matters, the communication to employees of the performance of the Directors interests: Details of the interests in the shares of the business of the Group, anticipated future developments, significant Company of the Directors holding ofce at the date of this Report, matters of required focus for the coming period, and the along with those of the Directors who held ofce during the year opportunity for employees to ask questions of senior management.
but retired or resigned from ofce, and their immediate families In light of the proposed sale of the Dairies business, road shows appear in the Remuneration Report on page 57.
Details of the have been temporarily put on hold.
The Group has well-established Directors service contracts and letters of appointment appear in consultation and negotiating arrangements with established trade the Remuneration Report on page 49.
No Director had a material unions.
Employees are encouraged to acquire shares in the Group interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its through participation in the savings-related share option scheme subsidiaries during the year.
Procedures for dealing with Directors Sharesave Scheme.
conicts of interest are in place and are operating effectively.
The Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and Ofcers and those of its subsidiaries.
The Directors, Company Secretary and other Ofcers of the Company and those of its subsidiaries are Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 63 Governance DIRECTORS' REPORT CONTINUED Details of the Scheme are set out in Note 26 to the financial Substantial shareholdings: As at 31 March 2015, the Company statements.
had been notied in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority of Share capital: The authorised and issued share capital of the the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys existing issued ordinary share capital.
Company together with details of movements in the Companys issued share capital during 2014 15 are shown in Note 24 to the Notied financial statements at page 106.
As at the date of this report, percentage of 137,767,777 ordinary 25p shares were in issue and fully paid with Notied No.
of issued share shares capital an aggregate nominal value of 34,441,944.
Invesco Limited 6,934,355 5.007 Rights and obligations attaching to shares: The holders of UBS Investment Bank UBS Group AG 5,333,753 3.890 ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Reports and Accounts: to attend and speak at General Meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
To be During the period 1 April 2015 to 20 May 2015 the Company has effective, electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting been notied by UBS Investment Bank UBS Group AG of a holding instructions must be received at the Companys registered ofce, of 3.996% of the Companys issued share capital.
or such other place in the United Kingdom specified in the relevant notice of meeting, not later than 48 hours before a General Articles of association: Changes to the Articles must be Meeting.
None of the shares carry any special rights with regard to approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in control of the Company.
There are no known arrangements under force from time to time.
which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share significant agreements change of control: A change of transfers or on voting rights.
Shares acquired through Company control of the Company following a takeover bid may cause a share schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue number of agreements to which the Company or its subsidiaries and have no special rights.
are party, to take effect, alter or terminate.
The agreements that are considered significant are as follows: Transfer of shares: Subject to applicable statutes and regulations, there are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on Borrowing facilities Non-compliance with the change of control the holding of any class of shares and no requirements for prior clauses in the Groups funding arrangements, or failure to reach approval of any transfers.
agreement with the parties on revised terms, would require any acquirer to put in place replacement facilities.
Shareholder waiver of dividends: The Company established an employee benefit trust in 1996 which in certain circumstances Supply agreements Certain supply agreements contain holds shares in connection with the Groups employee share provisions whereby on a change of control of the Group, they may incentive plans.
As the registered holder, the voting rights in the be terminable.
Accordingly, a change of control of the Group could shares are exercisable by the trustee.
However, the trustee does result in the need for the Group to source alternative supply for not ordinarily exercise those rights and waives its entitlement to certain materials.
No compensation for loss of ofce: The Company does not Issue of shares: At the AGM on 15 July 2014, shareholders have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide renewed the authority for the Board under the Articles to exercise compensation for loss of ofce or employment resulting from a all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities up to an takeover, except that provisions of the Companys share schemes aggregate nominal amount of 22,786,896. and plans may cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
Purchase of own shares: At the AGM on 15 July 2014, shareholders granted the Company authority to make market Pensions: The Company employs only the Executive Directors.
purchases of up to 13,672,275 of its issued ordinary shares of 25 Most employees in the Group are employed by the Companys pence each, provided that: the minimum price which may be paid main subsidiary, Dairy Crest Limited.
Relevant companies within for any such ordinary share is 25 pence exclusive of expenses and the Group became subject to the automatic enrolment regulations appropriate taxes : the maximum price exclusive of expenses and on 1 April 2013.
Depending on their grade, effective from 1 April appropriate taxes which may be paid for any such ordinary share 2013 employees either enter the auto enrolled pension shall be not more than 5% above the average of the middle market arrangements for the Group which are provided by Zurich or into prices for an ordinary share in the Company, as taken from the the Groups dened contribution pension scheme also provided by London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business Zurich.
The Groups dened benefit pension fund is closed to days immediately preceding the date of purchase.
The Company future accrual and is now in run-off.
It remains under the control of did not exercise this authority during the year and made no market a corporate trustee, Dairy Crest Pension Trustees Limited, the purchases.
Except in relation to a purchase of ordinary shares, the board of which comprises four directors nominated by Dairy Crest contract for which was concluded before this authority expires and Limited and three directors elected by all members.
Its assets are which will or may be executed wholly or partly after such expiry, held separately from those of the Group and can only be used in the authority granted shall expire at the conclusion of this years accordance with the rules of the fund.
The Directors believe it advisable to seek renewal of both of the above-mentioned authorities or replacement of them with suitable alternatives, annually at the AGM.
Approval will be sought from the shareholders at this years AGM to renew the authorities for a further year.
64 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 Greenhouse gas emissions: The Company is required to state the annual quantity of emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from activities for which the Group is responsible, including the combustion of fuel and the operation of any facility.
Details of our emissions during the year ended 31 March 2015 and the actions which the Group has taken to reduce them are set out on pages 23 to 27 and form part of the Directors report disclosures.
Directors responsibility statements: The responsibility statements required under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1 are set out on page 66.
Annual general meeting: The AGM will be held at Eversheds LLP, One Wood Street, London, EC2V 7WS on Tuesday, 14 July 2015 at 12.00 pm.
The Notice convening the meeting will be issued separately, together with details of the business to be considered and explanatory notes relating to each of the resolutions being proposed.
Auditor: Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue as Auditor of the Company.
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Auditor will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors Report from pages 63 to 65 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by Robin Miller Company Secretary & General Counsel 20 May 2015 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 65 Governance
