OUR BUSINESS MODEL Making the most from milk Raw milk Cheese Dairies and Spreads Packaged milk Cream Dairy Crest processes and markets branded dairy products and nutritious fresh milk.
Our business depends on milk and we make sure we use every dropwe buy.
This diagram shows how milk ows through our business and the products we make fromit.
We have three product groups: Cheese & whey, Spreads & butters and Dairies.
Milk procurement Cheese & whey Spreads & butters A sustainable supply of high We process over 400 million Our Spreads & butters quality milk is important to litres of milk into cheese each operation makes packet butter Dairy Crest.
We buy 1.9 year: which is all sourced and dairy spreads from cream billion litres each year directly from dairy farmers in separated from the milk around 1 litre in every 6 Devon and Cornwall and processed by our Dairies produced in Great Britain.
turned into cheddar cheese at operations and vegetable oil.
After the conditional sale of After the conditional sale of our our Dairies operations we Currently we dry the whey that Dairies operations we will make expect our annual milk is produced as a by-product of packet butter from purchased purchasing volumes to fall to making cheese and sell it to bulk butter.
In future we plan to make demineralised whey powder a key ingredient in infant formula.
4 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 Cheese & whey Cheese Whey Dairies Butter Retail Residential Middle ground Skimmed milk powder Potted cream Cream for manufacturing Buttermilk Bulk butter Spreads & butters Dairies Packet butter Our Dairies operations process operations is sold in liquid form, Dairy spreads around 1.4 billion litres of milk through UK retailers, middle each year.
Most is sourced ground customers ranging direct from dairy farmers from coffee shops to hospitals, across the southern half of and direct to consumers England and Wales.
Milk doorsteps by our milkmen.
production is seasonal with Todays consumers prefer to more being produced in the drink lower fat varieties of milk spring, but because our so we separate the cream and consumers want to drink the sell it or churn it into butter.
same amount every day, we turn any surplus milk we have Our Dairies operations also into skimmed milk powder and produce potted cream.
Over 90% of the milk purchased for our Dairies Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 5 Strategic report
