OUR STRATEGY Dairy Crest has a clear Our vision strategy.
We have also We are proud of our links to We want to earn consumers created a strong vision the countryside, our dairy loyalty by providing healthy, heritage and the part they enjoyable, convenient products and robust values for the play in everyday life business which underpin all we do.
Our strategy Progress 2014 15 We constantly innovate, bringing new products to Cathedral City had another good year, growing sales ahead of the To generate 1 retail cheese market.
It has grown to be Britains 16th largest grocery growth by building market and new ways of brand Source: The Grocer, 21 March 2015, up from 18th in March strong positions in working across the business.
2014. branded and added Both Country Life butter and Clover spread saw their sales value value markets We aim to generate cash and fallin a declining butter and spreads market although sales of CountryLife Spreadable grew in the year.
reward shareholders with a FRijj sales grew by 7%.
Frylight one calorie cooking spray continued to grow sales and marketshare.
The brand has responded well to the increased Our key performance indicators investment behind it and has the potential to grow further.
During the year we have carried out a comprehensive category These KPIs are also used as strategy project Dairy for Life which forms the foundation for future innovation, marketing and category merchandising for our key brands.
measures for our Long Term We are investing 65 million at our Davidstow creamery to Alignment Plan LTAP for manufacture demineralised whey and  Directors and senior GOS and expect commercial production of these products to start later in 2015. employees.
See pages 59 to Following the closure of our Crudgington site, we are building a new 60 for more detail.
4 million innovation centre at Harper Adams University in Shropshire, where our innovation team is now based.
To simplify, make Cost reduction remains a key part of our strategy and we have again 2 achieved our target of making cost savings in excess of 20 million in sustainable and the year.
reduce costs Prior to the announcement of the conditional sale of our Dairies operations we announced our plans to close our specialised cream potting facility at Chard, Somerset in 2015 and our glass bottling dairy at Hanworth, West London in 2016.
Both these projects are on track.
We have agreed to sell our Dairies operations.
The conditional sale To generate cash 3 is a positive development for Dairy Crest and the wider UK dairy and reduce risk sector.
Shareholders have approved the sale and the process to obtain regulatory approval is on track.
Completion of the sale will result in Dairy Crest operating from five well invested manufacturing sites.
It willbe a much simpler, more focused, predominantly branded business.
We continue to reduce risk in our closed dened-benefit pension scheme.
During the year we have reduced the schemes exposure to Operational performance pages 16 to 22 equities and other higher-risk asset classes.
Our focus in the year ended 31 March 2015 has been on organic To make 4 growth, typied by our investment in demineralised whey and GOS.
acquisitions where they will generate Financial performance page 28 We have not made any acquisitions during the year ended 31 March2015.
value Corporate responsibility performance page 23 Our values See how we make The most from milk through our integrated business model pages 4 and 5 WE LISTEN WE CREATE Consumers are at the heart of We constantly look for new and Further details of our LTAP pages 54 ourbusiness better ways of doing things and 55 6 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 We aim to meet As we grow, we look after our consumers needs and people and the communities go where this takes us where we work Future priorities Key performance indicators and performance in the year ended 31 March 2015 Our focus will remain on our key brands, Cathedral Deliver progressive dividends with cover between 1.5 and 2.5 times.
City, Country Life, Clover, FRijj and, from 2015 16, In the year ended 31 March 2015 the Board is recommending a Frylight.
We will continue to invest in marketing these brands Grow earnings before interest, tax and depreciation adjusted EBITDA and including advertising, promotions and innovative adjusted profit before tax adjusted PBT.
In the year ended 31 March 2015 adjusted EBITDA fell by 7% and We will work with key customers to build on Dairy for adjusted PBT also fell by 7%.
However adjusted EBITDA and Life and grow the categories in which we operate.
adjusted PBT for the combined Cheese and whey and Spreads and butters product groups which will be the heart of the Working with Fonterra, our selected sales agent, business after a sale of our Dairies operations grew by 15% we will aim to maximise the long term return from and 19% respectively year on year.
our investment in demineralised whey and GOS at Davidstow.
Deliver an acceptable return on capital employed ROCE.
ROCE for the year ended 31 March 2015 was 11.5%, compared to the long term target of 12% 31 March 2014: 13.8%.
Maintain net debt EBITDA within the range 1 2 times.
At 31 March 2015 net debt EBITDA was 1.97 times 31 March 2014: 1.3 times.
Grow our four key brands ahead of the market.
We will continue to seek cost reductions and In the year ended 31 March 2015 three of our four key brands efficiency improvements across our business.
The grew ahead of the market taking into account all sales channels sale of our Dairies operations will significantly reduce 31 March 2014: one key brand grew ahead of the market.
In the complexity of the business and will allow us to addition Frylight has grown ahead of the market for both years.
streamline our future overhead structure and systems.
Cost reduction projects initiated in the year ended 31 March Our investment in whey and GOS is nearing 2015 have again delivered annual benefits ahead of our 20 completion and we expect capital expenditure to fall million annual target.
Achieve revenue targets for products developed in the last 3 years.
We will continue to reduce pension scheme risk, In the year ended 31 March 2015 around 6% of our total revenue initially by further reducing the proportion of higher and 7% of our key brand revenue came from such sales against risk higher return assets in the scheme.
an ambitious target of 10% 31 March 2014: 4% of total revenue: Completion of the sale of Dairies will much reduce our 7% of key brand revenue.
We will continue to work with commodity suppliers and customers to share risk Improve corporate responsibility measures.
In the year ended 31 March 2015 we achieved a score of 5 stars from Business in the Community 31 March 2014: 4.5 stars.
We have the opportunity to make acquisitions that will contribute to growth and strengthen the business.
Before exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and pension interest.
Any acquisitions we do make will have to meet strict criteria.
There is a more detailed review of our performance against KPIs on pages 59 and 60.
WE LEAD WE RESPECT WE CARE We value success and We value our people and are We act responsibly with a passion strive to be the best strongertogether to do the right thing Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 7 St Str ra ategic tegic repor report t
