Strategic objectives Identify RISK REVIEW Safeguarding future returns he board of Debenhams, Heads of function of key risks, including the effectiveness which hasoverall Heads of function are responsible for: of the controls: reporting of risk and responsibility for risk identifying and evaluating the risks that control status: and reliability of management and internal relate to their areas and activities: assurances provided by management.
T control, considers it implementing appropriate controls to important that there should be a manage risks in line with the Groups WHISTLEBLOWING regular and systematic approach to riskappetite: and taking ownership for Two main routes are available to themanagement of risks in order to risks and controls within their area of employees to raise concerns over provide assurance that strategic and responsibility, including the use of malpractices.
The first encourages operational goals can be met and the segregation of duties to protect against employees to talk to their line manager, Groups reputation is protected.
their managers manager or, if still concerned, to call the central human The board has conducted a review of Risk management team resources team directly.
The second the effectiveness of internal controls The risk management team is route is a confidential reporting line and is satisfied that those in place responsible for: developing, where employees can speak to the remain appropriate.
implementing and reviewing the risk Groups anti-fraud team.
If an employee management framework and process: feels that the matter is so serious that To support this system for internal promoting effective risk management itcannot be discussed in any of these control, the Group has a risk atall levels of the Group: encouraging ways, s he can contact the Company management framework figure 1 an appropriate risk culture within the Secretary or the Director of Internal thathighlights the central role that the Group: liaising with other functions that Audit and Risk Management.
The management of risk plays in strategic advise on specialist areas: coordinating Groups policy on whistleblowing and planning and the successful delivery of responses where risks impact more these methods of raising issues are strategic objectives and the fact that thanone area: reporting, escalating published on the intranet and on this process is dependent upon people andcommunicating risk management posters.
The policy is reviewed annually fulfilling their clearly defined roles issues to key internal stakeholders: and by the Audit Committee and any serious andresponsibilities.
providing assurance regarding risk matters identified are raised with the management within the Group.
chairman of the Audit Committee.
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES The board The team also manages corporate RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES The board is responsible for: approving insurance, business continuity planning, Risk identification the risk management policy and related travel risk management and the Risks are identified through a number of framework: setting and communicating whistleblowing line, amongst other things.
These include strategic planning the Groups risk appetite and related exercises, ongoing operational reviews policies: setting the tone and culture Internal audit team by management, project governance for managing risk: providing strategic In relation to risk management, the processes, internal audits, control direction and guidance on risk-related internal audit team is responsible for environment reviews, environmental decision making: ensuring that risk providing independent assessment scanning eg market research and management processes are adopted of:the design, operation and membership of industry bodies, across the whole Group: obtaining effectiveness of the risk management changes to legislation and enterprise assurance on the effectiveness of, and framework and process: management risk management best practices.
compliance with, the risk management framework: reporting on the management of risk to stakeholders: Figure 1: Debenhams risk management framework and signing off public disclosures relating to risk and risk management.
Strategic objectives Report The annual report compliance define risk appetite committee ensures that all governance Executive Committee Audit Committee practices comply with the applicable Risk reporting provisions of the UK Corporate define principal risks Risk management Governance Code.
Risk identication and risk treatment team In addition, the Audit Committee Risk identication Divisions Specialist functions satisfies itself that key risks are Risk evaluation monitored by senior management Evaluate andthe internal audit plan is focusedon high priority areas.
Strategic objectives Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 20 Strategic objectives Treat Strategic report 2-39 In addition to this, an extensive review itsseverity using a risk ranking matrix require to enhance financial and of the organisations risk universe figure 2 for consistency, which considers operational performance and to identify hasbeen undertaken to verify that the degree of change across one or emerging risks or control failures.
allkeyrisks have been identified more key performance indicators.
andtoensure that management Performance is also reviewed by the hasconsidered these as part of Risk treatment board, Executive Committee, Audit  review.
The risk score, derived from the risk Committee, business continuity ranking matrix, is compared to the management committee and health This organisation-wide review is riskappetite matrix figure 3, which and safety committee.
facilitated by the risk management provides guidance on the expected team for each operating division on level of treatment, timeframes and PRINCIPAL RISKS AND anongoing cyclical basis.
The four methods UNCERTAINTIES usedto treat risk are: The risks detailed on pages 22 to 27 are All senior managers participate in the principal risks and uncertainties that theexercise, including the Executive Tolerate take no further action may impact the Groups ability to achieve Committee.
It considers strategy, Treat improve or implement controls its strategic and operational goals.
They objectives and risks to their achievement Transfer via insurance contract are ranked based on overall risk to the together with the existing and new Terminate eliminate re-engineer business.
controls required to mitigate risk.
Risk reporting It should be noted that any system of Management is required to update the The outputs from these processes are risk management and internal control register with any new or emerging risks collated into the risk register and linked isdesigned to manage rather than as they are identified.
together to define the principal risks eliminate the risk of failure to achieve faced by the Group.
These are taken business objectives and can only Risk evaluation into consideration when setting the provide reasonable and not absolute In order to understand the impact annual internal audit plan.
assurance against material specific risks would have on the misstatement or loss.
Group, each risk is evaluated based Individual managers are expected to onthe likelihood of occurrence and define and analyse the reports they Figure 2: Risk ranking matrix Frequency of event occurrence Event will probably occur at least once Frequent 4 4 16 36 64 every year Event will probably occur at least once Common 3 3 12 27 48 every 3 years Event will probably occur at least once Occasional 2 2 8 18 32 every 10 years Event will probably occur less than once Unlikely 1 1 4 9 16 every 10 years 2 2 2 2 1 1 4 2 9 3 16 4 Low Moderate Serious Critical Severity of impact based on specified degrees of change across one or more financial or reputational key performance indicators Figure 3: Risk appetite matrix Treatment Risk acceptance Risk score Risk matrix zone Action Risk response timeframe owner Treat or Head of 1, 2, 3 or 4 Green Limited Optional tolerate 9-12 months department Treat or 8, 9 or 12 Yellow Moderate Optional tolerate 6-9 months Line director Treat, transfer Executive 16, 18 or 27 Orange Significant Yes orterminate 3-6 months Committee 32, 36, 48 Treat, transfer or64 Red Ultimate Yes orterminate 0-3 months Board Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 21
