Strategic report 2-39 MARKET CONTEXT An independent view of the UK retail market background from  Bank MARKET CONDITIONS IN2015 CUSTOMER SENTIMENT UK household cash flow trends appear to be very positive Consumer confidence is high by historical standards Employment and consumer confidence are high, credit is Q1 recorded the highest ever level of the total number of people availableand non-discretionary items such as food and fuel in work and nominal wage growth has accelerated since Q4 2014. aredeflationary.
Other positive factors include nominal wage These factors have translated into positive consumer confidence, growth, an increase in the tax free personal allowance and which returned to a positive reading in January 2014, and has mortgage rates continuing at historically low levels.
More cash, the same spending with a greater appetite to make major purchases Despite this, the pace of total non-food retail sales growth has Confidence to make major purchases has steadily strengthened beenfairly modest and certainly has not accelerated in step with and jumped to a record high in the latest survey July 2015. household budgets.
LFL sales growth has moderated since the However, the data show a widening gap in consumer confidence firsthalf of 2014, running at c 2%.
between higher income and lower income consumers.
Lower income consumers tend to spend a greater proportion of their income, which may explain why sales have not been stronger.
Non-food retail sales vs spending power Consumer confidence gap by income levels 16% 4% 25% 12% 3% 20% 8% 2% 15% 4% 1% 10% 0% 0% 5% -4% -1% -8% -2% 0% Spending power YoY % LHS Non-food LFL RHS Source: CEBR, BRC, Asda Income Tracker Source: GFK Gap between lower and higher income consumers SHOPPER TRENDS CHANNEL SHIFT Retail sales price deflation persists Depressed high street footfall Volume growth in retail sales has decelerated from a peak in Taken together, data from BDO High Street Sales Tracker which mid-2014, while price deflation has persisted.
The non-food exclude online sales and weak BRC store LFLs suggest weak categories which have seen the sharpest level of deflation are footfall and continued share shift to online.
Store-only LFLs have clothing and electrical goods, according to the British Retail been the slowing channel.
Fashion has been particularly weak, Consortium BRC.
and the more buoyant homewares category has begun to slow.
Clothing impacted by tough weather comparatives Alternative areas of consumer spending gaining Kantar Worldpanel data suggest the overall clothing market has Data from Visa and Barclaycard suggest that total spending has been in growth so far in 2015, but that this has been driven by been at a fairly constant growth rate rather than accelerating like volume growth rather than average selling price.
Temperatures household available cash flows.
However, expenditure growth on have been materially below 2014 levels which inevitably affects leisure areas such as eating out andholidays has outstripped spring summer footfall and sales.
The BDO High Street Sales non-food and food retail.
Tracker indicates that monthly sales on the high street since August2014 have generally declined year on year.
