STRATEGY IN ACTION DELIVERING A COMPELLING CUSTOMER PROPOSITION R efocusing our approach t o pr omo ti on s Strategic report 2-39 n 2014 15 we set out a strategic an opportunity to realign our price We are planning more exciting and priority to refocus our approach to architecture.
We invested 30 basis exclusive new product, such as our new promotions and we have made points bps of gross margin in pricing Designers at Debenhams launch this further progress.
Our customers love in these product areas and have seen a season, Nine by Savannah Miller, and I our promotions.
It is part of our positive response in terms of full price Giles Deacons range for our Edition business model to hold regular events sales and market share.
Both of these launches such as our Spectaculars and Blue Cross adopted a multi-channel marketing Sales.
It is what we are known for and As a result of these actions we have strategy and have successfully linked they will continue to form an important increased full price sell-through in into our autumn A match made in part of our strategy.
2014 15 by 7.1% and we have reduced Debenhams campaign.
For Christmas, markdowns by 90 bps.
Our latest we will build on our successful Found But our customers told us there were customer surveys tell us that we are It campaign launched last year.
too many events and they werent continue to offer great quality and value always distinctive enough.
And running for money and we have increased our Debenhams has a strong track record the business with too much stock meant market share in all key categories since ofdeveloping brands and we see we were incurring too much markdown.
we anniversaried our change in opportunity to exploit the potential of As a result, we have focused on the promotional stance, according to some of our power brands.
A number events we are known for and we have KantarWorldpanel data.
of our private label brands generate changed the timing of some events annual turnover in excess of 100 million toalign them more closely with our Black Friday, which is becoming an each and we are looking at ways to grow customers mindset.
integral part of the pre-Christmas these both within our own stores and trading calendar for retailers, works well viaother channels.
We are already Over the past year we have reduced with our existing promotional calendar, selling some of our own brands, such thenumber of days Debenhams is on and we traded it successfully and asFaith, and Designer brands Floozie promotion by a further 17 days: total profitably in 2014. byFrostFrench and Star by Julien days on promotion since we started Macdonald, via third party websites theprocess have reduced by 42.
As Outlook in FY2016 both in the UK and overseas.
planned, our stock levels ended the For the next financial year, we believe yeardown 4.1%.
most of our work relating to the We expect to make further progress in promotional calendar is complete.
increasing full price sell-through and First price, right price However, we will aim to reduce the level reducing markdowns in 2015 16, while At the same time we have reviewed of participation in our promotions continuing to deliver a compelling ourpricing to ensure our prices were further and to optimise promotional customer proposition.
Part of our promotional refocus product categories in childrenswear, involves looking at how we differentiate menswear and home where there was more clearly between prime trading and promotions whilst delivering our new product launches more effectively.
Nine by Savannah Miller launched in August 2015: Hammond & Co. byPatrick Grant has been extended to morestores.
Fewer days on promotion 17 Full price sell-through 7% Giles Deacon has designed a capsule range for our Editionbrand.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 11 LOW RES STRATEGY IN ACTION INCREASING CHOICE THROUGH MUL TI-CHANNEL Bu ilding a more competitive and moreeconomic onlinebusiness Strategic report 2-39 ur ambition is to grow our redesigned checkout has also premium delivery services increasing multi-channel business, contributed to improved conversion 32% over the year.
This improvement sothat online sales reach rates up 10% year-on-year.
contributed to 11.5% growth in online around 30% of our UK EBITDA in 2014 15.
O gross transaction value, Seamless service via anychannel from less than 20% at present.
The online The service we offer to our online and Outlook in FY2016 business is already profitable butour multi-channel customers has been We believe that, from being behind plan is to make it both more competitive substantially improved in the last 12 thecurve in multi-channel customer and more efficient.
In October 2014, we introduced service relative to our competitors, the inour flagship digital store and in our a next day click & collect service from investments we have made have taken customer service systems to support stores: we extended order cut-off times usinto the top quartile of industry online ordering, which has resulted in both for click & collect and next day service.
We are rolling out further service strong progress in 2014 15 in both sales delivery: we introduced nominated day, improvements ahead of peak trading to andprofit.
weekend and evening deliveries: and we ensure that we maintain the momentum extended our Endless Aisle fulfilmentwe have seen in the past 12 months.
As a result of the increasing interfrom-store option.
change between channels, and in line We are launching interest-free credit to with other department stores, we have As a result we traded strongly over help our customers spread the cost of adjusted online sales and profits in this peak, with click &collect increasing its their larger purchases.
We have already and prior years to include those items penetration toalmost 25% of orders extended our order cut-off times ordered online but returned via the and next day services accounting for further, to 9pm for next day click & store channel.
This has no impact on almost half ofour online sales in the collect, and to midnight for next day statutory reported results.
On this seven days leading up to Christmas.
basis, online sales grew 11.4% in 2014 15.
We have made further progress in Our concession partners are also thebalance of the year, with more working with us to meet our delivery Delivering a flagship competitive charges for next day promises and by the Christmas peak onlineexperience delivery to home: a further roll-out around half of concession orders will We migrated onto our IBM Websphere ofin-store service counters: Endless beeligible for next day click & collect platform in 2013 and in the last financial Aisle extension to 150 stores: and and next day delivery services.
year we have made significant progress penetration of click & collect has in improving the online customer continued to increase.
And our overseas online customers in journey.
com is consistently anumber of European countries will in the Top 10 most visited non-food Click & collect is the lowest cost option havethe opportunity to order from retail websites, according to Hitwise.
for us to get product to customers.
 websites Ourservice is free and due to our daily withlocalised content this autumn, We have improved landing pages and deliveries to store via our own delivery withlocal language sites to follow.
navigation in key categories, such as fleet, we now have the infrastructure in furniture, childrenswear, and most place to leverage growth in orders.
We recently some categories in womenshave been trialling ways to encourage wear.
This is both todeliver a more our customers to spend more in store intuitive browsing experience such as while they are collecting their parcels, for Online sales growth online furniture displays by roomset, or example by offering vouchers to spend stronger brand presentation in clothing in stores.
Over the year click & collect and to allow cross-category accounted for 26% of online orders and 11% presentations focused on key calendar we expect the penetration to continue events, such as Christmas, Mothers to grow towards industry averages.
Click & collect penetration Day, Holiday Shop and Backto School.
We have also made good progress Our mobile and tablet first approach inour objective to achieve higher drives everything we do in multirecovery of fulfilment costs, with 26% channel.
More than 40% of online sales nowcome from mobile devices.
Our Online orders from Stronger brand We are taking a mobile mobile devices are presentation first approach to all now more than 40% of andimproved website improvements.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 13 STRATEGY IN ACTION FOCUSING ON UK RET AIL D riving a better re turn from stores Strategic report 2-39 ur stores remain Our findings from talking to our centralto our customer customers clearly showed what other proposition.
We have product areas they would like to buy modern stores in prime from us.
This ledus to establish new O locations and one in four concession partnerships with Sports of the UK population visits Debenhams Direct, Monsoon Kids, Danish group every year.
Our destination departments Bestseller for their younger fashion including beauty, gift and occasionwear brands Only and Jack & Jones and remain central to our customer BHS Lighting, among others.
And this autumn we are offer product that is complementary opening five new stores, in Rugby, toour existing brands.
Wandsworth, Beverley, Bradford andNewport, taking our UK chain We have also added some exciting new to166 stores.
The shift in the UK retail branded food service offers with Costa marketplace towards online shopping Coffee, Patisserie Valerie, Joe & The has presented us with both challenges Juice, Insomnia, Chi Kitchen and Eds and opportunities.
We have challenged Easy Diner.
Customers who use one our store teams to identify inefficient ofour in-store dining options spend space in our existing stores and we have significantly more time and money in investigated different ways to achieve Debenhams than those who do not.
abetter return on this footage, which represents just under 10% of our By the end of the financial year, we had totalUK footage at approximately added new offers into 350,000 sq ft, 1million sq ft. 35% of the space we identified as part of this programme.
Initial results have We asked our customers what they been sufficiently encouraging to move would like to buy from Debenhams that to roll-out from trial stage with a we did not already sell.
We looked at number of our new partners.
service offers which are complementary to our existing mix and cannot easily Outlook in FY2016 bereplicated online.
And we examined We continue to explore new product our own brands to see where there was categories, in order to offer more unsatisfied demand.
For example, we choice to customers through products saw opportunity in casualwear for and services that are complementary 35-50year old customers.
With encouraging progress to date in improving profit The aim of this project is to increase densities, we are identifying profit density in the identified footage opportunities to apply the lessons and dwell time in our stores and results learned to our more productive space so farhave been encouraging.
and to our new stores as well.
New and extended services, For example, we had originally planned brandsand concession trials to open our Bradford store with just We rolled out in-store service one dining offer, but as a result of the countersto support our click & collect feedback from customers and the proposition.
With almost 170 stores in findings of our space programme, the the UKthis is a convenient option for our store will launch with three giving our customers and our preferred channel customers a choice of casual dining New food service foronline deliveries.
One in ten click options in the city centre.
offers include Chi &collect customers spend more than Kitchen and Patisserie 20 while they are in store.
We have By April 2016, as planned, half of Valerie.
Ournew both extended and added to our the1million sqftunder the space Rugby store opened in September.
beauty brands, building on our strength optimisation programme will have in make-up in particular, rolling out been reallocated through our various more counters and services such as initiatives.
Thechanging nature of the brow bars.
retail marketplace is creating a variety Space optimisation ofopportunities with new potential programme Some of our newer brand launches, partners and we remain extremely such as Principles casualwear and confident of reallocting the balance Hammond & Co. by Patrick Grant, have ofthe identified space.
350k sq ft been particularly successful and rolled out to more stores.
Our customers arealways looking for newness, so we New UK stores by Christmas examined the opportunity for our latest Designer launches: Giles Deacon for Edition and Nine by Savannah Miller, 5 which addresses the casualwear opportunity, and have been more confident in store ranging for their initial season.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 15 LOW RES STRATEGY IN ACTION EXPANDING T H E BR AND INTERNA TIONALL Y Accelerating growth in international channels Strategic report 2-39 ebenhams operates both its websites beyond the Republic of markets.
We have a medium-term own and franchised stores Ireland and Denmark.
Aswe are target of 150 franchise stores and overseas and sells product already shipping to more than despite the unstable geopolitical online inmore than 60 60countries worldwide and selling environment wecontinue to see D countries.
Our 11 stores certain of our brands via third party goodgrowth opportunity across inthe Republic of Ireland trade under partnerships in overseas markets, allourmarkets.
Our business thereis clearly untapped potential.
inDenmark, Magasin du Nord, was acquired in 2009 and continues to trade As part of our operational effectiveness In tandem with this, the scope sixstores very successfully under its own programme, we have increased the forinternational online growth is fascia.
In the last 12 months, Magasin has proportion of product that is shipped materialand we have a number of recorded a very strong performance with direct to our international markets, options with regard to the appropriate constant currency like-for-like sales which now accounts for almost half the route to market.
We plan to launch growth of 8.1%, outperforming total.
By reducing handling costs and local language local currency websites arecovering Danish market.
getting product faster to market we in a number of overseas markets this aremaking a significant improvement year, including inmarkets where we do Elsewhere overseas our franchise store in the efficiency of our international not have any store representation.
network has expanded to 70 stores, supply chain.
with new stores opening in the UAE We have entered the Australian market our largest franchise store to date in Outlook in FY2016 with a new multi-channel model, and we Yas Island Mall Egypt, Saudi Arabia, With regards to our own-operated are in discussions with further potential the Philippines, Russia and Romania.
stores, Magasin du Nord is expected to partners, both for a curated Debenhams Aspart of our portfolio management, see continuing momentum in 2015 16 as offer online in markets where this is we have also closed five underthe Danish consumer market continues more appropriate than selling via performing overseas stores.
We will continue to manage ourown website, and for potential the Republic of Ireland business tightly.
wholesaling relationships for certain Online growth opportunity ofour own brands.
This will allow us to Whilst our international online revenues Our franchise representation is still expand in markets where Debenhams is remain relatively small, we have seen principally focused in the Middle East, not currently represented.
For example, further rapid growth in constant South East Asia and Eastern Europe, we have recently agreed terms with currency in 2014 15, despite not yet with good opportunities in existing VinGroup for such an arrangement in having local currency or local language regions as well as in untapped Vietnam.
Overseas revenues 537m International sales participation 19% Our new franchise store in Yas Island, UAE, is our largest international franchise store to date.
Magasin du Nord delivered a strong performance, with good online growth.
International online has untapped potential for Debenhams.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 17 STRATEGY IN ACTION OPERATIONAL EFFECTIVENESS We are building infrastructure that is sustainable and fit for future growth, to enable Debenhams to exploit the continuing channel shifts in retail Strategic report 2-39 IT investment in FY2015 We are installing a single warehouse management system for our distribution 60m centres in Sherburn and Peterborough.
Product shipped direct topartners 47% e are building Our clothing buying teams are structured Changing the flow of stock to stores infrastructure that is by brand.
As an illustration of the withmore frequent distribution and sustainable and fit for opportunity forfuture sourcing replenishment is also enabling us to future growth, to enable efficiencies, wehave benchmarked our testthe removal of offsite stockrooms.
W Debenhams to exploit suppliers andconsolidated the buy the continuing channel shifts in UK retail across key volume lines in the knitwear We continue to restructure our and drive international growth ina cost category, which has generated international supply chain to optimise effective way.
We are mindful stock flows.
For example, we have of the need to maintain separate brand increased direct shipping to our Operating costs increased by 0.6% in identity but will look at further international partners, taking stock from 2014 15 despite the further shift into opportunities to introduce category suppliers via our hub in Singapore rather online and the investment in improved buying across brandswhere appropriate.
than via the UK, which now accounts for online services.
Our focusison extracting 47% of the total.
productivity improvements as a result of We are also replacing our stock the programme of systems investment, management systems, moving to a single Outlook in FY2016 soasto deliver profitable growth.
provider and with the aim of simplifying We will continue to manage costs tightly our warehouse operations to flow stock across the business.
Our new single Investment in systems more efficiently.
Currently, like many of warehouse management system will andsupplychain ourpeers, we have separate pick faces beoperational from spring 2016 and There are two major systems programmes forstores and online orders.
isexpected to deliver benefits from under way, and systems spend has bothreduced picking costs and lower increased to 60 million out of ourtotal Whilst we have put processes in place stockholding.
A single stock view is also capital expenditureof 133 million in toallow us tofulfil from store for online likely to improve stock availability and 2014 15. orders, the move to asingle stock view potentially support our continuing drive willbe a significant support to our to reduce markdown.
We are introducing new buying and multi-channel growth.
merchandising systems, processes Longer term we see opportunities to andpractices in order to allow us more We have also made good progress introduce further automation to our effectively to plan and merchandise inthecurrent year to improve the cost warehouses, which will bring additional ranges across the business as we grow effectiveness of online order fulfilment, cost savings.
Over the period of the inmore geographies andchannels.
with daily store deliveries on our own systems investment programme we aim fleet supporting our click & collect to reduce the fulfilment cost per unit by Equally, we are progressing service, which is our lowest cost delivery 30% to bring us in line with best-in-class.
opportunities to develop sourcing option for customers.
capabilities that recognise the need tomaintain brand identity whilst Other initiatives include the successful maximisingthe efficiency of relocation and integration of our sourcinglocations and factories.
cosmetics fulfilment operation to our distribution centre in Sherburn, enabling the closureof the separate facility.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 19
