DIRECTORS REPORT As required by the Companies Act Information Location in annual report 2006, the directors report of Review of the business, principal Market context, Chief Executives report, Debenhams plc for the year ended  and KPIs KPIs, risk review 29August 2015 is comprised of these Strategy Business model and strategy, strategy pages 82 to 84 and the information inaction found in the sections of the annual Business model Business model and strategy report as detailed in the table opposite, all of which are incorporated Future business developments Chief Executives report, strategy in action into this report by reference.
Greenhouse gas emissions Resources, relationships and sustainability The content of the directors report has Environmental matters, employees and Resources, relationships and sustainability been drawn up and presented in social, community and human rights issues including information about accordance with, and in reliance upon, theCompanys policies in relation to applicable English company law and thesematters any liability of the directors is restricted to the extent prescribed by the Employment policy for disabled persons Resources, relationships and sustainability Companies Act 2006. andemployee engagement throughout theworkforce PROFIT AND DIVIDENDS Gender diversity of the board Resources, relationships and sustainability The profit after tax for the financial year ending 29 August 2015 was 93.5 million 2014: 87.2 million.
The directors by the board who may exercise all the directors stating that the person recommend the payment of a final powers of the Company, subject to the shouldcease to be a director.
Any dividend of 2.4 pence per ordinary provisions of the Companies Act 2006, amendments to the Companys share, to be paid on 22 January 2016 to the Companys Articles of Association Articlesof Association may be made members on the register at the close and any shareholder resolution.
In inaccordance with the Companies ofbusiness on 4 December 2015.
This, accordance with the Companys Act2006 by way of special resolution.
together with the interim dividend of Articles of Association, the directors In accordance with the UK Corporate 1.0pence per share paid in July, gives a shall be no less than two and no more Governance Code all of our directors full year dividend of 3.4 pence per share.
Directors may be will retire at the forthcoming Annual appointed by the Company by ordinary General Meeting of the Company and DIRECTORS resolution or by the board.
A director offer themselves either for election, The following persons were directors of appointed by the board holds office inthe case of Matt Smith and Terry the Company during the period ended only until the next Annual General Duddy, or for re-election, in the case 29 August 2015 and unless otherwise Meeting.
The Company may, by ofall other directors.
An internal stated at the date of this annual report: ordinary resolution, remove any evaluation of the performance of each director from office.
The office of director, the board and its Committees Nigel Northridge adirector shall be vacated if s he has been carried out and the results i resigns or retires ii becomes were positive, confirming that each of Michael Sharp bankrupt or makes an arrangement or the directors continues to be effective Matt Smith appointed 26 January 2015 composition with his or her creditors and demonstrate commitment to his generally: iii becomes physically or orherrole and that the board and its Suzanne Harlow mentally incapable of acting as a committees are operating well and Dennis Millard director and may remain so for more effectively.
Information on the than three months, or by reason of his evaluation and its outcome is on pages Terry Duddy appointed 10 April 2015 or her mental health a court has made 48 and 49 of the corporate governance Peter Fitzgerald an order that prevents the director report.
from acting and in either case, the Stephen Ingham board resolves that his or her office is In addition to the indemnity provisions in Martina King vacated: iv has been absent for more their Articles of Association, the Company than six consecutive months without and the other Group companies have Mark Rolfe the boards permission from meetings entered into a direct indemnity of the board held during that period agreement with each of the directors and Sophie Turner Laing and his or her alternate director if any certain other officers or senior employees resigned31July2015 has not attended in his or her place of the Group.
These indemnities The membership of the board and during that period and the board constitute qualifying indemnities forthe biographical details of the directors resolves that his her office be vacated: purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and aregiven on pages 42 and 43.
The or v receives a notice signed by not remain in force at the date ofapproval of business of the Company is managed less than three quarters of the other this report without any payment having Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 82 Governance 40-85 been made under them.
TheCompany MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS also maintains directors and officers In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6 2, the liability insurance which gives appropriate following investor interests have been cover for any legal action brought against disclosed to the Company pursuant to the its directors.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules as at 29August 2015.
This information was No director had, during or at the end correct at the date of notification.
It should ofthe year, any material interest in any benoted that these holdings may have contract of significance in relation to changed since notified to the Company.
Notification of any changes is not required until the next applicable threshold is crossed.
Percentage VOTING RIGHTS Number of issued If voting on a resolution at any general Shareholder of shares share capital meeting of the Company is on a show Schroders plc 159,058,694 12.96% of hands, every member present in person has one vote and every proxy Milestone Resources Group Ltd 92,652,075 7.55% appointed by one or more members LSV Asset Management 57,470,249 4.68% has one vote regardless of the number of shares held by the shareholder or Old Mutual 55,461,954 4.52% represented by the proxy.
On a poll, Brandes Investment Partners 48,428,810 3.95% every shareholder who is present in JP Morgan Asset Management 41,481,558 3.38% person or by proxy has one vote for every share held by that shareholder, BlackRock Inc 40,626,206 3.31% but a shareholder or proxy entitled to Norges Bank 36,848,505 3.00% more than one vote need not cast all his her votes or cast them all the same Sports Direct International plc has an interest in 128,927,113 shares, representing way.
No member shall be entitled to 10.51% of the issued share capital, via put option contracts expiring in October vote at any general meeting of the November 2016 Company, either in person or by proxy, in respect of any share held unless all The following notifications have been received since 29 August 2015 and up to moneys payable in respect of that 21October 2015: share have been paid.
There are no known arrangements which may Percentage restrict voting rights.
Number of issued Date of notification Shareholder of shares share capital As at 29 August 2015, the Debenhams 31 August 2015 Norges Bank 36,807,390 Below 3% Retail Employee Trust 2004 the 14 September 2015 ING Groep N. V. 67,515,686 5.50% Trust holds 273,537 ordinary shares 17 September 2015 BlackRock Inc 61,477,530 5.01% inthe Company 0.02%.
Any voting orother similar decisions relating to 18 September 2015 ING Groep N. V. 40,515,686 3.30% theshares held by the Trust would be 22 September 2015 BlackRock Inc N A Below 5% taken by the trustees, who may take account of any recommendations SHARE CAPITAL this authority was not utilised by the ofthe Company.
As at 29 August 2015 the issued share Company during the last financial capital of the Company was year, approval will be sought from TRANSFER OF SHARES 1,227,166,813 ordinary shares of 0.01 shareholders at the forthcoming Any member may transfer all or any pence each and 59,685,727 ordinary Annual General Meeting to renew ofhisor her certificated shares by an shares of 0.01 pence each were held in itsauthority to purchase shares in instrument of transfer in any usual form or Treasury.
In addition to the shares themarket for a further year.
This in any form which the board may approve.
trading on the London Stock Exchange, isastandard authority and it is The board may, in its absolute discretion, the Company operates a level 1 theCompanys present intention, decline to register any instrument of American depositary receipt shouldshares be bought back, for transfer of a certificated share which is programme.
Each American depositary them to be cancelled or retained in not a fully paid share although not so as share represents fourordinary shares of treasury pending a subsequent sale, to prevent dealings in shares taking place 0.01 pence each.
The directors on an open and proper basis.
The board shares were transferred out of treasury have no present intention of exercising may also refuse to register the transfer of during theyear to satisfy awards the authority to purchase the a certificated share where the instrument granted under the Companys Companys ordinary shares.
The of transfer is invalid.
There are no known Performance Share Plan.
authority will be exercised only if the arrangements which may restrict the directors believe that to do so would transfer of shares.
At the December 2014 Annual General result in an increase in earnings per Meeting, shareholders authorised the share and would be likely to promote Company to purchase up to 122,613,472 the success of the Company for the ordinary shares in the market.
Although benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 83 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION There are a number of agreements that Itis the Groups policy not to make TOAUDITORS take effect, alter or terminate upon a donations to political organisations Each of the directors of the Company change of control of the Company orindependent election candidates at the time when the directors report following a takeover bid.
Details of the orincur political expenditure.
was approved confirms that: significant agreements of this kind areas follows: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS a so far as the director is aware, Debenhams does not enter into thereis no information needed The multi-currency revolving credit financial instruments for speculative bythe Companys auditors in facility dated 18 June 2014 contains a trade.
Details of financial instrument connection with preparing their provision for mandatory prepayment entered into for underlying risks are report of which the Companys on no less than 45 days prior notice setout in note 22 to the financial auditors are unaware: and tothe Company.
statements on pages 124 to 125. b s he has taken all the steps that The terms and conditions of the 5.25% Information regarding the Groups s heought to have taken as a senior notes due 2021 contain a financial risk management policies is director in order to make herself provision that enables holders of the set out in note21 to the financial orhimself aware of any information notes to require the Company to make statements onpage 121. needed bythe Companys auditors an offer to repurchase all of the notes in connection with preparing the at a price equal to 101% of the EVENTS SINCE YEAR END reportand to establish that the principal amount thereof, plus any Since year end Debenhams has Companys auditors are aware accrued unpaid interest.
opened an International franchise ofthatinformation.
The Companys Performance Share storein Iran and two UK stores in Plan and its Executive Share Option Rugby and Wandsworth.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS Plan contain provisions regarding  LLP has change of control.
Awards under the GOING CONCERN indicated its willingness to continue plans may vest on a change of control, After making enquiries, the directors inoffice and a resolution dealing subject to the satisfaction of any consider that the Group has adequate withits re-appointment as auditors of relevant performance conditions.
resources to continue in operation for the the Company will be proposed at the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Other than the provisions of the have adopted the going concern basis Companys share plans, there inpreparing the financial statements.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING arenoagreements providing for The Annual General Meeting of compensation for directors or CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Debenhams plc will be held at the employees on change of control.
STATEMENT Wellcome Collection, 183 Euston Road, Details concerning the impact on In accordance with the Financial London NW1 2BE on 14 January 2016 at shareoptions and share awards Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and 2.00pm.
The Notice is given, together heldbydirectors or employees in Transparency Rule DTR 7.2.
1, the with explanatory notes, in the booklet theevent of a change of control are disclosures required by DTR 7.2.
2R to which accompanies this report.
setout on page 68 of the directors DTR 7.2.
10 are within the remuneration report.
corporate governance report on pages This directors report was approved 44 to 55 and risk review on pages 20 bya duly appointed and authorised POLITICAL DONATIONS and 21 and are therefore incorporated committee of the board of Directors There were no disclosable expenses into this report by reference.
on21 October 2015 and signed on made during the financial year which behalf by: fall within the definition of a political donation under the Political Parties, PAUL EARDLEY COMPANYSECRETARY 22 OCTOBER 2015 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 84
