Our Key Products Why we focus on this specialist area Key products Animal Use Endocrinology Endocrine disease stems from imbalance in Dogs For the treatment of pituitary-dependent and adrenal-dependent Vetoryl hormone levels, affecting cats or dogs in many hyperadrenocorticism Cushings disease and syndrome.
ways, often requiring lifetime medical attention.
Forthyron Dogs For the treatment of hypothyroidism.
Many endocrine disorders are fatal if not Thyforan diagnosed and treated.
Veterinarians place a high importance on quality of life and often see Levocrine endocrinology as a challenging and interesting Cats For the stabilisation of hyperthyroidism in cats prior to surgical thyroidectomy Felimazole discipline.
and the long term treatment of feline hyperthyroidism.
Dermatology and Care Dermatology represents approximately 20% Canaural Cats For the treatment of otitis externa including the ear mite, Otodectes cynotis.
of veterinarians clinical time and is a major Dogs focus area for the industry.
Best practice Isaderm Dogs For the topical treatment of surface pyoderma in the dog such as acute moist techniques look to adopt more topical products dermatitis hot spots and intertrigo skin fold dermatitis.
as opposed to oral treatments, with the aim of utilising less antibiotics.
Dechras product portfolio is well positioned for this approach.
Malaseb Cats Cats: Medicated shampoo to aid the control and treatment of ringworm due to Dogs Microsporum canis in conjunction with griseofulvin.
Dogs: Medicated shampoo for the treatment and control of seborrhoeic dermatitis associated with Malassezia pachydermatis and Staphylococcus intermedius.
Cats A pH balanced routine ear cleaner.
For the removal of moderate ear wax and CleanAural Dogs debris where the ear drum is intact.
Cats For the treatment of numerous skin and ear conditions.
DermaPet, Dogs Triz, MalAcetic, Malaket and MiconaHex Triz Anaesthesia and Analgesia Perioperative sedation and pain management Vetivex Cattle This product is administered by intravenous infusion for the treatment of are challenging but critical for all patients and Cats dehydration and metabolic acidosis.
It may be used to correct volume depletion form a fundamental part of animal welfare.
Dogs hypovolaemia resulting from gastrointestinal disease or shock.
A comprehensive range of analgesic and Horses anaesthetic products allows veterinarians Cats For restraint and sedation.
Sedator to adapt their protocols to the individual pet Dogs based on their level of discomfort, whilst providing flexible anaesthetic procedures.
Premedication for general anaesthesia or neuroleptanalgesia in Comfortan Dogs combination with a neuroleptic drug.
Atipam Cats Reverses the sedative effects of medetomidine and demedetomidine.
Dogs Dogs Reduces joint discomfort and swelling.
Phycox Horses Cardiovascular Disease As pets increasingly live longer, managing heart Cardisure Dogs For the treatment of congestive heart failure originating from valvular disease efficiently is critical.
This is our only insufficiency mitral and or tricuspid regurgitation or dilated cardiomyopathy.
major product in this category.
34 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 www.
com slugline Strategic Report Why we focus on this specialist area Key products Animal Use Ophthalmology Eye conditions are very common and can Cats For the topical treatment of conjunctivitis associated with staphylococcal Isathal result in severe complications.
suggests that 7% of kittens, 2% to 3% of adult Rabbits cats and 2% to 4% of dogs are presented to Cats Soothes and moisturises the eye.
Lubrithal veterinarians with ocular inflammation.
Dogs Cats For the treatment of superficial bacterial infections of the eyelid Vetropolycin Dogs and conjunctiva when due to organisms susceptible to the antibiotics and Vetroploycin contained in the ointment.
HC Equine Medicine This is a sector in which few animal health Horses For the treatment of musculoskeletal disorders in horses and ponies where the Equipalazone companies specialise.
We target both anti-inflammatory and analgesic properties of phenylbutazone can offer relief, such performance horses and hobby horses and as lameness associated with osteoarthritic conditions, acute and chronic laminitis, have developed a comprehensive range of bursitis and carpitis, and in the reduction of post-surgical soft tissue reaction.
medically necessary products that give us Osphos Horses For the control of clinical signs associated with the bone resorptive processes of access to equine veterinarians.
Horses For intra-articular and intravenous treatment of lameness caused by joint HY-50 dysfunction associated with non-infectious synovitis.
Cats The product is indicated for euthanasia in dogs, cats, horses and cattle.
Somulose Cattle Dogs Horses Domidine Cattle For the sedation and slight analgesia of horses and cattle: to facilitate physical Horses examinations and treatments, such as minor surgical interventions.
Food Producing Animal Products FAP is the largest segment of the global Soludox Chickens For respiratory disease in pigs, chickens and turkeys.
animal health market accounting for almost Pigs 60% of sales.
While there is pressure on Turkeys antibiotic prescribing in the EU and the US, Chickens Treatment of infections caused by bacteria susceptible to amoxicillin.
Octacillin the increased demand for high quality protein Pigs in the rest of the world continues to drive the demand for antibiotics.
Broilers Broilers: Treatment and prevention of respiratory infections caused by Methoxasol Pigs Escherichia coli susceptible to trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole where the disease has been diagnosed in the flock.
Pigs: Treatment and prevention of respiratory infections caused by Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae susceptible to trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole where the disease has been diagnosed in the herd.
Cyclospray Cattle Prevention of infections of superficial traumatic or surgical wounds caused by Pigs micro-organisms sensitive to chlortetracycline.
The product can be used as Sheep part of a treatment for superficial claw hoof infections, in particular interdigital dermatitis foot rot in sheep and digital dermatitis in cattle.
Cats Dexamethasone may be used for the treatment of inflammatory or allergic Rapidexon Cattle conditions.
Dogs Horses Pigs Pet Diets Quality nutrition leads to quality of life for Specific Cats Balanced high quality pet diets for therapeutic use and life stage maintenance pets and veterinarians are best placed to Dogs diets.
With our range of nutritional products, along with licensed and non-licensed medicines, we are able to offer holistic solutions to veterinarians to manage their patients in the most appropriate manner.
