ww Q&A with Ian Page It has been a strong year for Q Dechra: to what do you attribute this success?
Ultimately, it is the delivery of A our strategy.
We have expanded geographically, launched new products, and our core portfolio of products has performed very well.
Looking at it in a little bit more detail, revenue growth in the USA was exceptional at almost 60%.
This is driven both organically, with good performance from our endocrinology and dermatology portfolio, but also with the launch of Osphos, our new equine lameness product.
This has been enhanced by the acquisition of PSPC, which was made in the prior year, where we have seen an excellent market penetration from Phycox and by the introduction of a new endocrine product, Levocrine.
Looking at Europe, our performance What progress are you making on How do you see the outlook for the Q Q has been a little bit more modest with acquisitions?
next year and into the future?
4% growth: however, our companion animal portfolio continues to perform We have made a lot of progress in terms We remain very confident in our A A well even in mature markets.
Our farm of screening acquisitions.
Our market share in our animal products have performed less not a lot of opportunities to consolidate key therapeutic sectors continues well and there has been a little bit of a businesses within our existing markets.
to increase: we continue to screen headwind in the period as we have seen However, we are looking further afield more opportunities to add depth and in prior years: this is again due to focus and looking into new geographies and breadth into our product development on antibiotics resistance issues within new therapeutic competencies.
As I have already outlined, our the marketplace.
We do, however, have geographical strategy is also performing a strong portfolio of products and are I am pleased that we have made a well.
In terms of acquisitions, they investing strongly in this area and do conditional acquisition in a majority stake have been strategic, they will add new expect to turn around the farm animal in Genera, which is a Croatian based therapeutic competencies and will also poor performance in the future.
The principal add new countries to trade in.
Looking it is the revenue growth across the interest in this business is its poultry at current trading we have got every Group that has driven the performance vaccine facility.
We had been negotiating reason to be confident in our future.
with Genera for a number of years to acquire the marketing rights for Europe In terms of geographical expansion, Q and the opportunity became available have you got any more plans?
to us to acquire a majority share.
We I am pleased to report that Canada, see vaccines as a very important way A which we launched in January of this forward to develop our FAP portfolio: year, has performed to our expectations vaccines are the future as we have seen and we have also received orders growth in this section as we are seeing in Poland within the financial year, a decline in antibiotics.
Genera will also which is ahead of schedule.
We have bring to us a low cost manufacturing Watch the Q&A with Ian Page at: established a legal entity in another base and will give us a significant market dechra.
com European country and we hope to share in three new territories: Slovenia, start trading there very soon.
We have Bosnia and Croatia.
So we are pleased increased the number of people in our to have announced the conditional Regulatory Department that look at acquisition of a majority stake in this international registrations as we look to market.
penetrate developing markets and also we hope to enhance our geographical expansion by acquisitions.
48 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 www.
