Product Development Although some products may have a slightly Generating Ideas Entering the Development Phase different path, most novel and generic The Exploring phase begins with identifying The Development phase is the longest products follow a fairly standard process a novel molecule, an opportunity to develop part of the process, potentially taking two or containing five phases, defined as: Exploring, a new formulation for an existing molecule, three years.
After the formulation has been Feasibility, Development, Registration and or an in-license opportunity.
Before initiating a demonstrated to be stable, two to three pilot Launch.
development programme, each opportunity batches are manufactured for use in safety is assessed by market need, market value, studies, efficacy studies and stability testing.
Dechra employs a structured process in therapeutic indications, strategic fit and the For generic products, the batches are used its development pipeline while retaining an likely complexity of the regulatory pathway.
in one or more bioequivalence studies to opportunistic and entrepreneurial approach.
demonstrate that activity will replicate the Focus is given to the Groups therapeutic Making the Chemistry Work pioneer product.
If the studies conducted sectors.
New development opportunities The second phase of the process is during the Development phase demonstrate and in-license opportunities are evaluated for Feasibility, which involves the collection of the required safety, efficacy and chemical strategic fit within these sectors: therapies a range of preliminary data.
When initiating stability of the product, regulatory dossiers outside of the key areas are considered for development of a novel product, the are prepared for Registration Filing.
inclusion in the pipeline if they are novel and correct dose has to be titrated and a stable address medical needs in the veterinary formulation, that can be reliably and consistently From beginning to end, the development market.
For a process can take between three and ten generic product, the pioneer formulation may years before Launch.
A products return on investment can vary: not meet the current regulatory requirements novel developments tend to have a medium and may need to be reformulated.
This phase to long term realisation with attractive is vital prior to initiating the development phase high value returns: generic developments which involves expensive clinical trials or generally have shorter timescales with bioequivalence studies.
returns dependent upon the number of other entrants and our speed to market relative to the competition.
Dechras current development pipeline is a mix of short, medium and long term opportunities.
3 10 years Go Go Go No Go No Go No Go Exploring Development Registration Feasibility Launch CTR Safety Indication s determined Efcacy CTR Formulation CAP Active Pharmaceutical Residues CTR CTR Ingredient API 3 Environmental Dose Titration manufacturer selected Pilot Register Launch Novel Risk Assessment batches Start from scratch Manufacturing site Ecotoxicology Preliminary Safety study selected nished User Safety products Studies Commercially Is there a customer need?
FAP CAP Bioequivalence 2 Pilot Study Studies Formulation batches Register Launch Generic or waiver Is it worth taking Copycat product the development idea forward?
Chemistry CAP CTR Companion Animal Product FAP Clinical Trials Required Food Producing Animal Product Drives timing, New Formulation of products with existing needs stable Laboratory Studies maximum residue limit MRL formulation 38 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 www.
com slugline Strategic Report Product Pipeline A key strategic priority for the Group is the delivery and strength of the pipeline.
The following chart outlines the status of the major projects.
Owing to the nature of product development, the content of our pipeline will change over time as new projects progress from exploratory to development to market or as projects are terminated.
For competitive reasons, exact project details are not disclosed.
Feasibility Development Registration Exploring CAP FAP Equine CAP FAP Equine CAP FAP Equine CAP FAP Equine Dermatological Analgesic for Endocrinology Endocrinology Endocrinology Antibiotic for Endocrinology Antibiotic for and or dental horses treatment for treatment for diagnostic cattle treatment for poultry applications for dogs horses dogs dogs and cats Gastrointestinal Ophthalmology Antiparasitic Cardiovascular Analgesic for Antibiotic for treatment for treatment for for poultry treatment for horses pigs and dogs and cats dogs dogs poultry Dermatology Antimicrobial Antibiotic for Antibiotic for treatment for for pigs and cattle poultry dogs poultry Dermatology Cardiovascular Antibiotic for treatment for treatment for pigs and dogs piglets poultry Antimicrobial Antimicrobial for dogs and for pigs cats Endocrinology treatment for cats Cardiovascular treatment for dogs Gastrointestinal therapy for dogs Analgesic Antiparasitic Dermatology Endocrinology Opthalmology Antimicrobial Cardiovascular Diagnostic Gastrointestinal Stock Code: DPH 39 slugline
