Board of Directors Committee Membership Background Nomination Chairman, Remuneration.
Michael joined the Company as a Non-Executive Director in April 2001, and was appointed Chairman Skills and Experience in July 2002.
He began his pharmaceutical career Michael has extensive board level international with Glaxo and went on to hold a number of senior pharmaceutical experience, having held positions within Schering Plough Corporation.
Non-Executive Director and Chairman roles in a In 1991, he joined Fisons plc and in 1993 was number of healthcare related companies, both appointed to the Board as Managing Director of the private and public, in the UK, Germany and groups pharmaceuticals division.
Furthermore, as a result of Michaels tenure in 1996 following its takeover by RPR.
He also with the Company, he has a detailed knowledge held the position of Chairman of Abcam PLC from and understanding of Dechra.
Michael Redmond R Non-Executive Chairman Committee Membership Background Not applicable.
Ian joined NVS at its formation in 1989 and was an integral part of the MBO in 1997, becoming its Skills and Experience Managing Director in 1998.
He joined the Board in Ian has gained detailed knowledge and experience 1997 and became Chief Executive Officer in 2001. through various positions he has held within the Ian has played a key role in the development of the pharmaceutical and veterinary arena.
He has solid Groups growth strategy.
understanding of how business develops both in the UK and globally.
In particular he has extensive External Appointments experience in M&A and in the successful delivery In October 2010 Ian was appointed as of strategic plans.
Non-Executive Chairman of Sanford DeLand Asset Management.
Ian Page Chief Executive Officer GSK for over 15 years, where she held a number Committee Membership of finance roles including Senior Vice-President, Not applicable.
Finance, of the global vaccines business unit Skills and Experience based in Belgium.
With GSK, Anne-Francoise Anne-Francoise has considerable experience developed her experience in a variety of roles in the pharmaceutical industry covering all including internal audit, corporate planning and finance matters from R&D, manufacturing and commercial finance and between 2003 and 2006 commercial finance as well as corporate finance.
was Vice-President Finance Controller for Europe.
Having worked in international organisations, she Prior to this, she held finance roles with John brings a strong focus on process improvements, Crane, Tetra Pak, ADP and Caterpillar UK.
Anne-Francoise was appointed Chief Financial Officer in April 2013.
Prior to joining the Group, Anne-Francoise worked at GlaxoSmithKline PLC Anne-Francoise Nesmes Chief Financial Officer Committee Membership Background Not applicable.
Tony was appointed Managing Director of DVP EU in May 2012 following the acquisition of Eurovet Skills and Experience Animal Health BV from AUV Holding B. V. He joined Tony has over 25 years experience in the animal the AUV Group in 1993 as Director of Exports, health business and has substantial international having previously worked at Norbrook Laboratories experience as a result of living and working outside and Moy Park.
Tony was promoted to Managing the UK since 1993.
He gained broad experience Director of Eurovet in 1996, becoming the Chief of running an international animal health business Executive Officer of the AUV Group in 2006. with teams in different European countries as Chief Executive Officer of the AUV Group.
Tony Griffin External Appointments is the Board nominated Director responsible for None.
health, safety and environmental matters.
Tony Griffin Managing Director, Dechra Veterinary Products EU 66 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 www.
com slugline Our Governance A Audit N Nomination R Remuneration Chairman Committee Membership Background Audit, Nomination, Remuneration.
Ishbel joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in February 2013.
Prior to this she was Skills and Experience Head of UK Emerging Companies Corporate Ishbel has a broad range of PLC Board experience Finance at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson from 1999 in a variety of roles, including Chairman, Audit to 2005, having previously worked at Hoare Govett Committee and Remuneration Committee and Barclays fide Zoete Wedd.
She has knowledge and understanding of City matters gained over 20 years experience External Appointments as an investment banker, specialising in UK Ishbel is a Non-Executive Director at Dignity plc mid-market corporate finance.
appointed January 2009 and Galliford Try plc A appointed February 2014.
She is also Senior Independent Director at Bonmarche Holdings plc N appointed October 2013.
Ishbel Macpherson Senior Independent R Non-Executive Director and markets crop protection products in more Committee Membership than 125 countries worldwide.
Before joining Remuneration Chairman, Audit, Nomination.
Arysta, Chris spent 20 years in international Skills and Experience management and leadership roles with Syngenta Chris has more than 30 years experience Crop Protection and its predecessor companies.
of the development and marketing of highly regulated products for the agrochemical and External Appointments related industries.
He has extensive international Chris holds a number of non-executive experience, which includes more than ten years directorships including Cibus Global Limited working in Asia and South America.
appointed November 2011, and he is Chairman of Oxitec Limited appointed January 2012 and Background A Plant Health Care PLC appointed July 2012.
Chris joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in December 2010.
He was Chief Executive Officer N and subsequently Chairman of Arysta LifeScience Corporation from 2004 to 2015.
Arysta develops Dr Christopher Richards R Non-Executive Director and 2000.
Prior to this, Julian held senior finance Committee Membership roles at Grand Metropolitan PLC and Imperial Audit Chairman, Nomination, Remuneration.
He is a Fellow of the Institute Skills and Experience of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Julian has considerable financial experience as External Appointments a result of the senior finance roles he has held in Julian was appointed as a Non-Executive Director the pharmaceutical, food, property and brewing at Revolymer PLC in July 2012 and is their Audit sectors over the last 30 years.
He is also a Director, and Background Chairman of the Audit Committee, of the Royal Julian joined the Board in January 2013.
He served Academy of Arts appointed October 2012.
A as Chief Financial Officer of GSK between 2005 and 2011, having previously been appointed N its Senior Vice President, Operations Controller between 2001 and 2005 and as Financial R Controller of Glaxo Wellcome PLC between 1998 Julian Heslop Non-Executive Director Stock Code: DPH 67 slugline
