Strategy in Action: Pipeline Delivery Delivering new products 18 slugline Strategic Report TAF Spray Launch Within our key therapy areas we aim to build a strong and compelling product portfolio with animal health at its heart.
We also want to help our customers by providing tools that will enable them to treat animals more effectively.
Exploring: Six years ago Eurovet searched for a new product in locomotion, one of the key therapy areas in bovine, to support Cyclospray which was at the time the European market leader in antibiotic sprays licensed for digital dermatitis Mortellaros disease in cattle.
We used our existing knowledge and experience to bring a product to the market which would be completely new to the majority of customers.
A small team worked on the business case and, after a number of brainstorm sessions, it was proposed to use an active in the chloramphenicol group.
Feasibility Development: After a number of pilot tests thiamfenicol was chosen.
This molecule had the same characteristics as chloramphenicol but with none of the negative side effects and could be used safely and legally in animals: additionally it is used rarely in humans.
A multi-disciplinary team was formed consisting of pharmacists, veterinarians, and formulation and manufacturing experts.
There was an existing thiamfenicol spray licensed, but in one EU Member State only.
The team was tasked to develop a product with dramatically improved characteristics for EU registration.
These demands for a differentiated superior product resulted in a number of technical requirements, namely: to change the colouring agent from blue to yellow to allow broader market acceptance: to determine the exact formulation of the licensed product, which required skilled laboratory analysis, and the excipients to be used to avoid having maximum residue level MRL issues: the spray characteristic needed to be superior: and the quantity of active delivered every second needed to be within strict specifications.
GO Registration: The authorities of the Reference Member State supported our application for seven target species.
During FOR NEXT-GENERATION WOUND SPRAY WITH the process, communications with the regulatory bodies were THIAMPHENICOL.
EFFECTIVE TREATMENT OF HOOF CLAW INFECTIONS GOLD AND SUPERFICIAL WOUND INFECTIONS.
REGISTERED FOR USE ON CATTLE, HORSES, Launch: TAF Spray is being launched to markets from June SPRAY SHEEP, GOATS, PIGS, MINK AND RABBITS.
The product positioning is GOLDEN YELLOW COLOUR.
as superior to Cyclospray due to the active ingredient being PRECISE SPRAYING.
TAF new to antibiotic sprays in all but one market and the new FOR USE IN UPRIGHT AND INVERTED POSITION.
colour being visible and more consumer friendly.
With high quality spray characteristics, we have gained another brand TAF Spray 28.5 mg g Cutaneous Spray, Clear yellow solution.
REG NR XXXX Active substance: Thiamphenicol 28.5 mg g Excipients: Curcumine E100 0.5 mg g Target species: Horses, cattle, goats, sheep, pigs, mink, rabbits.
Indications for use, specifying the target species: In all target species: reatment of supercial wound infections caused by micro-organisms sensitive to thiamphenicol.
In cattle, goats and sheep: Treatment of infections of the claw and hoof such as foot rot, interdigital dermatitis, digital dermatitis caused by micro-organisms sensitive to thiamphenico Col. n tra-indications: Do not use in known cases of hypersensitivity to the that will strengthen our position in this key therapy area and active substance or to any of the excipients.
Withdrawal period: Meat and offal: horses, cattle, goats, sheep, rabbits: zero days.
Do not use on the udder of lactating animals if their milk is intended for human consumption.
Administration: Spray the solution on the affected area for 3 seconds equivalent to approximately 45 mg thiamphenicol once a day.
Treatment can be repeated depending on the healing process, up to 3 consecutive days.
For optimal use, wounds should be cleaned before application.
Eurovet Animal Health B. V. Handelsweg 25, 5531 AE Bladel, The Netherlands.
To be supplied only on veterinary prescription.
Our sales force is introducing the Sansaw Business Park - Hadnall, Shrewsbury SY4 4AS, UK T 44 0 1939 211200 F 44 0 1939 211201 E info.
com product with the marketing materials supporting the GO FOR GOLD campaign and the technical story.
Initial feedback from the markets is positive as Dechra is bringing an innovative product to the marketplace.
With this strict set-up for product development: brainstorming, multi-disciplinary development team and project planning, we have a proven track record of success in overcoming challenges during the product development cycle, of which the approval of TAF Spray is a recent example.
19 slugline a c b Strategy in Action: Portfolio Focus Focusing on key therapeutic areas 20 slugline Strategic Report Equine Anaesthesia Campaign One of the pillars of Dechras strategy is focus on key therapy areas.
This strategy enables us to broaden our portfolio, deepen knowledge and optimise customer support.
Dechra is recognised by specialists and equine veterinarians as a leading pharmaceutical company in equine anaesthesia.
Sedation and anaesthesia are integral parts of equine veterinary practice and the availability of effective and safe veterinary anaesthetic drugs is of utmost importance.
Every anaesthetic procedure consists of four stages: sedation, induction, maintenance and recovery, each of them with specific characteristics and challenges.
Dechra provides equine veterinarians with an extensive range of products covering each step of the anaesthetic procedure.
Our equine anaesthetic range incorporates sedative drugs Domidine, Sedaxylan, Relaquine, opioids Alvegesic, Morphasol, Buprenodale as well as induction and maintenance agents Anesketin, Myorelax, Iso-vet.
The range is unique in its extent and, as well as being used during anaesthetic procedures, some of the products are also used for control of pain and therefore From the innovators in complement the strong position Dechra has with Equipalazone equine health in the field of equine pain management.
To support veterinarians further during anaesthetic procedures, an Equine Anaesthetic App has been developed in collaboration with a French key opinion leader in equine anaesthesia.
The App is part of the equine anaesthesia A innovative smartphone and tablet application developed to assist equine veterinarians in choosing the optimal campaign and has been built to help equine veterinarians anesthesia protocol.
choose the correct anaesthetic protocols and dosages.
The App highlights Dechras extensive range of products and dedication to equine anaesthesia.
During the last year, sales teams across the EU have been specifically trained in equine anaesthesia and how our portfolio meets customers demands.
With the equine anaesthesia product range, we want Dechra to be seen as the specialist and preferred partner in this therapy area, offering a wide range of high quality products as well as One tool to choose practical solutions and support for the veterinarian.
between different protocols and products.
Many different interventions have a place within modern equine veterinary care.
All these interventions result in a need for different kind Dechra offers a broad range of analgesics and anaesthetics to ease the daily work in this area.
The table below shows our product range, used in different situation.
SPC Text: In this space you can put your country speci c SPC text.
Opta vit et ressi dolorerum is reic tent pelibusam eos unfit repedipist eumqui dolupti untium, odi solorisit of cillorro que of ctatur ratatia conse niminti busdaecum et quametu ritaspi sciassinum es delignim qui invelig nimodit magniti optur re nonsequi in nihit, idebis dolorep eribusant as et prestiatem et et vidella borepudaes audi int quod explitiis eos duciden iendign atibus sum venisquas mint es quas voloris dolut vernatiat qui net eum, omnis quo quam eiunt volorerum conseque repelitatur?
Nequamus ea samus asit maximaxime dolupta turiatius autem ut quam, comnis rate magnit eiuscip sapicie ntiundiasped ma et eniam iliquam ut rem andebit, idus.
Volores sundam fugiati non reperro tem aspisci piciis simus quatur?
Quiderrume nam as ium qui anto excepre hendam ipitibus dit invel incium ame dolenietur, quia consent faccusanda quia non coribus, asperorposa nim re optatur a dolorrum am idem voluptis ut aut pro mil moluptatiis exero qui non rerisqui quas acero omnissit apienihillab inctur re pra ime nis non commolu pitate optate of ctatem quatium aut et verrorias autatur si bero initecatem fugiae porerum quiatque pelignisi imagniscim vent ra volupitatus molupta tassene cepelita volut omnihil ma quuntum quiderspis eum et re ped.
Learn more online Call our equine team dechra.
co. uk 1234567890 For further information contact: Dechra Veterinary Products Limited, Sansaw Business Park, Hadnall, Shrewsbury, Shropshire SY4 4AS Tel: 44 0 1939 211200, Fax: 44 0 1939 211201, www.
com 21 slugline Strategy in Action: Geographical Expansion Establishing ourselves in new territories 22 slugline Strategic Report Canadian Launch Through third party distribution Dechra built a solid foundation in Canada with its core CAP portfolio as well as an assortment of other CAP brands focused in the dermatology and ophthalmology segments.
As part of our geographic expansion, a decision was made to establish a Canadian subsidiary.
After hiring a Country Manager in February 2014 the process began with the incorporation of the Canadian business with offices being established in PointeClaire, Quebec.
With approximately 3,400 clinics practicing companion animal medicine in Canada, it was clear that the team would need to be strategically positioned in order to maximize our return on investment.
Focusing on hiring the best people with strong connections in the industry, five Territory Sales Managers began selling in January 2015.
These field based representatives are supported by an office based Operations Manager and a recently hired Technical Services Veterinarian.
As of April 2015 we are selling exclusively the range of Dechra products.
This transition from third party distribution did not happen without a few bumps in the road but we are now seeing very positive momentum.
In the 2015 financial year the Canadian business achieved sales targets for Vetoryl, This spring ta ke advantage of the Felimazole and the dermatology range and saw strong wide range of Dechra dermatology products.
momentum in the remainder of the portfolio as we came out of our distribution agreements.
While working to build on our established sales foundation, a great deal of emphasis has been put into creating a strong Dechra brand.
Working with members of the global team, we have begun the ongoing process of developing and delivering materials that support our customers and their patients.
Looking forward we will be expanding our geographic reach across Canada by adding additional Territory Sales Managers to support our organic growth with a focus on our core brands.
We have recently received approval for Osphos thereby expanding our portfolio into the Equine segment.
From April 1, 2015 to May 31, 2015 Buy: between $5 00 and $9 99 and receive 5% in f ree products between $1 000 and $1499 and receive 10% in free products $1500 or more and receive 15% in free products PLUS Buy at least 5 di erent products and receive a 2% bonus to your rebate level.
See reverse for eligible product list.
Codes provided on this promo sheet must be used for ordering.
Free product to be selected from eligible product list.
23 slugline Strategy in Action: Acquisition Accelerating our growth 24 slugline Strategic Report Integration of PSPC In May 2014, Dechra acquired the assets of PSPC, Inc. whose principal product was Phycox, a patented nutraceutical prescribed by veterinary surgeons as a supplement for dogs and horses with osteoarthritis and poor joint health.
In addition, a levothyroxine sodium product was in development but had not been commercialised.
In just over a year, Dechra has been able to integrate successfully the existing Phycox brand into the portfolio, as well as bring Levocrine Chewable Tablets levothyroxine sodium to market.
Our initial marketing objective was to increase the adoption of Phycox by new veterinary practices.
We felt this could be accomplished by including Phycox in our quarterly focus, leveraging our customer base and building on our existing Dechra portfolio.
When we acquired PSPC Inc. Phycox had been sold to approximately 5,400 veterinary hospitals.
After 14 months under Dechras umbrella, the number of hospitals which have purchased Phycox has reached 8,400.
We will continue to target new clinics in the 2016 financial year: however, we will also incorporate marketing initiatives to drive more volume through the current 8,400 users.
This dual strategy will rely on the sales organisation to secure a steady influx of new users and the marketing team to provide the programmes and incentives to increase usage among current users.
Initially the commercialisation of Levocrine was a lower priority.
As happens so often in our industry, the market changed when the levothyroxine market-leader experienced severe out of stocks.
This presented a window of opportunity and our ability to move quickly allowed us to establish Levocrine as a viable product in our portfolio.
The PSPC acquisition to date has achieved our financial objectives and has had a positive impact on the awareness of the Dechra brand in the US market.
Additionally, it has strengthened our position in two key market segments, endocrinology and pain management.
The addition of US manufacturing allows more direct control and provides a platform for future growth in the supplement market.
