Our Business Model Explained Product Development and Regulatory Affairs Our integrated and entrepreneurial approach Delivering the Pipeline See our Product Pipeline on to product development aims to deliver new Our product pipeline is critical to our future page 39. products successfully and efficiently in the success.
Our novel and generics projects shortest practical time frame.
are very diverse, with the majority building on our key therapy areas.
We invest when we Two Skilled Teams can identify growth opportunities with a clear The Product Development and Regulatory financial return and competitive advantage, Affairs teams include skilled people with focusing on novel therapies to treat unmet the expertise and experience to navigate needs with intellectual property protection.
the hurdles of the development process.
Our approach aims to ensure we create Located across four locations, project sustainable growth throughout our targeted teams manage the wide range of projects.
Investment in state-of-the-art laboratories in Bladel and Skipton, each with their respective dosage form expertise, provides Product Development and Regulatory Affairs the resources required to develop novel and generic formulations cost-effectively.
Manufacturing Our manufacturing facilities provide a wide and production scale.
We can produce at a competitive price if we were unable to Integrated range of services which delivers the flexibility low, medium and high volumes of almost perform the function in-house.
Approach that the veterinary market requires.
We also all dosage forms to high quality and safety Product Development provide a complete range of products and standards.
We have great flexibility in The Pharmaceutical Development Laboratory services i. e. a one-stop shop for external producing to customer demand.
Dosage is integrated with our production capabilities.
forms include: tablets, capsules, creams, The primary objective is to formulate and ointments, gels, sterile injectables, low and One-Stop Shop validate products for our in-house pipeline, high volume powders and pre-medicated DPM offers an end-to-end service: formulation, which is a major benefit to the Group in feeds.
We can pack into sachets, tubs, method validation, stability testing, licensing order to shorten the time to get a product bags, blister packs, tubes, bottles and jars.
support, flexibility in scale of production and to market.
Our technical expertise and These capabilities are very important for the Manufacturing packaging options to take products to market.
development capabilities are also available to production of veterinary products where our The supply chain for the majority of products is third party customers which helps to secure licensed portfolio comes in many dosage In-house Outsourced short and we offer reliable high service levels.
formats and in various batch sizes.
Relative Our objective is to deliver exceptional quality to human pharmaceuticals, veterinary batch See our Manufacturing Capabilities control throughout.
runs are often very small.
com licensed branded minor products are of such Production Capabilities a small scale that it would be difficult to find DPM has a wide range of capabilities in a third party manufacturer to produce them terms of dosage form, packaging capabilities Supply Chain and Partnerships Strong Dechra Brand Dechra has grown significantly over the past Effective internal ways of working and few years, both through organic growth and strong external partnerships are key to the acquisition, and has developed a number of successful operation of our supply chains different supply chain models to best serve and is supported by our Dechra Values.
our customers with pharmaceutical, care Our ambition is to continue to develop and diets products in worldwide markets.
DVP EU DVP NA and grow scalable supply chain business In-house and outsourced manufacturing models to meet the needs of our dynamic facilities deliver a range of different product business.
Our priority in the short term is to types including solid dose, liquid and sterile implement a global Sales and Operations injectables.
Finished goods are stored Planning process across Dechra to integrate European US and Canadian and delivered to customers using modern our business and drive supply chain Veterinarians Veterinarians warehousing facilities utilising the latest store, performance.
and Wholesalers and Distributors pick and pack technology and processes.
Export Partners Export Partners Stock Code: DPH 29 slugline Supply Chain and Partnerships Commercialise Manufacture Innovate Creating Value Strategic Report Product Development and Regulatory Affairs DVP EU DVP EU is committed to marketing products that support the work of Regulatory Environment veterinarians in many species.
Our Regulatory team understands We are expanding the Dechra brand through newly established the different regulatory subsidiaries within the EU and we will continue to develop our environments in which we international presence through strong relationships with key partners.
operate, specifically the US and Europe as well as other Our Expertise international regulators.
As the We have identified eight core therapeutic sectors where we leverage our regulatory hurdles are increasing, expertise: dermatology, ophthalmology, equine medicine, anaesthesia and we aim to ensure that our staff analgesia, endocrinology, cardiovascular disease, food producing animal are updated and have detailed antimicrobials, and therapeutic and maintenance pet diets.
We strive to anticipate regulatory In order to forge relationships with customers, technical meetings and requirements to avoid delays to seminars are held to provide a face-to-face programme to educate product launches or disruption to veterinarians on our key therapeutic sectors.
Key opinion leaders, at both production.
local and international levels, are recruited for seminars and presentations: additionally, webinars and online interactive educational tools are available on the DVP EU website.
Routes to Market Manufacturing Our customers are principally veterinarians: however, in most territories the route to market is through wholesalers and, in a small number of markets, also through pharmacies.
Our products Third Party Manufacturing are distributed through a combination of channels including direct In addition to manufacturing our own sales, wholesalers and national distributor channels.
products, both Skipton and Bladel generate income through third party manufacturing.
Although the clear focus is on Group manufacturing, third party manufacturing adds value by making full use of our unique capabilities and our installed capacity.
Currently approximately 42% of output by volume is third DVP NA party manufacturing.
DVP NA markets, in the US and Canada, Dechra products for the The external offering includes product companion animal and equine sectors that solve clinical problems and development, formulation, trial help veterinarians treat medical conditions.
manufacturing, validation, production and packaging for both human and Our Expertise veterinary pharmaceuticals.
Our Dechra brand has gained momentum in the US and in Canada, building on our strong reputation for customer service, the quality of an expanding product portfolio, further education programmes on our key Supply Chain and Partnerships areas of specialisation and high quality technical support.
We currently focus on five core therapeutic sectors: dermatology, endocrinology, ophthalmology, equine pharmacy and pain management.
See our Group at a Glance on pages 6 and 7.
Routes to Market Our customers are primarily small animal and equine veterinarians, Read the Strategic Enablers of which there are approximately 90,000, working in 26,000 Q&As on pages 26 and 27. clinics across the US.
In Canada, there are approximately 5,000 veterinarians and 3,400 clinics.
In the US and Canada, veterinarians and clinics are primarily supplied through distributors.
Our sales representatives promote and sell products directly, but also network and visit clinics together with these distributors.
