Strategic Enablers Q&As How do you support Dechras Q1 strategy?
SET members answer the following three important questions in relation to our strategic enablers: Third parties and in-licensing partners Third party manufacturing revenue DPM consists of two manufacturing A1 for Dechras pharmaceutical and care continues to grow, contributing to fixed facilities based in the EU and since May products are also managed by DPM costs absorption and improving our 2014 one in the US.
The majority of to support the supply chain for such margins.
Dechras pharmaceutical products are produced by DPM, providing a much products.
As we aim to reduce our production more reliable and flexible supply chain costs per unit, we continued to invest in The facilities operate to regulatory standards A2 than has traditionally been provided by equipment to reduce wastage, increase and accreditations for Good Manufacturing third parties.
flexibility of speed and batch sizes.
We have significantly have also introduced several new KPIs This set-up provides additional margin expanded our accreditations over recent to improve measurement of our cost opportunities for the Group and greater years to supply product to most significant improvement initiatives.
speed of response when addressing global markets, particularly the US.
During particular market difficulties or opportunities.
this financial year, we obtained FDA approval for Skiptons injections department DPM and the Dechra Product to produce both existing and new pipeline Development team work closely together products for the US market.
Additionally, to bring development projects to fruition MHRA granted approval of our refurbished as early as possible.
In-house scale-up, Liquids, Creams and Ointments department validation and stability studies can all be in Skipton.
carried out faster and at less expense.
Since joining Dechra in 2012, the A1 objectives of Dechra and those of the IT functions within each business unit have changed considerably.
The emphasis across the IT teams is now one of collaboration, with the sharing of knowledge, learnings and solutions which can be used to leverage benefits and efficiencies across Dechra.
IT solutions are now always considered for Group deployment with the aim of standardisation, bringing efficiencies in support and cost whilst providing new technical solutions to the Dechra users and customers.
Q&A with Allen Mellor, Group IT Director The Oracle ERP roll out is a key A2 Strategic Enabler: Technology programme for Dechra and the last financial year has seen a significant change discussion about the Dechra Values Group-wide careers website: all vacancies The primary objective of our People Plan A1 during the annual review meetings.
will be advertised on the site giving a view is to enable the Group to drive innovation, of the breadth of opportunities available customer and shareholder value, Earlier this year we developed an A2 across our global business.
approach for reviewing the performance We recognise that, within a growing and future potential of the talent within A key priority will be the implementation of A3 business, our culture is core to our the organisation, evaluating where our the Human Capital Management system, success.
The Dechra Values were future people and technical leaders are.
automating many currently manual developed in 2011 and, since then, have Understanding our talent map helps processes, creating an opportunity to helped shape our culture as we have drive development activity for individuals, align and improve standard processes grown both organically and through manage succession more effectively and and share HR resources more effectively acquisitions.
identify where we need to recruit new across Dechra.
Managers will have better experience into the Group.
It is also important to drive a culture of access to employee data and employees performance and accountability to deliver Succession plans are now documented will be able to control some of their own our strategic ambitions.
During the last across the Group and we will continue to personal data.
The expected reduction in year, we launched our PDR process to review and monitor these on an annual basis.
the administrative burden for the HR team our office based staff around the globe, will free time to deliver our People Plan.
In our drive to attract talented people we part of which encourages a formal have developed and launched our first 26 26 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 www.
com slugline Strategic Report What have the key highlights What are your priorities for Q2 Q3 for the year been?
Our priorities and focus in the next few A3 years will remain the same.
We will continue to gain further FDA approvals, make strategic investments to increase our capabilities and ensure our Supply Chain is robust and efficient.
To assist in the delivery of our pipeline, DPM will also support the introduction of new products.
A fully integrated Sales and Operations Planning process will ensure the business is ready to adapt to variability in demand.
Additionally, we will start the upgrade of Q&A with Mike Annice, Managing Director, Manufacturing our existing Oracle system as part of the Strategic Enabler: Manufacturing Group-wide Oracle roll out.
in both the management of the programme MPLS network and the emerging Over the forthcoming 12 to 24 months, and our delivery approach.
A dedicated requirements for tablet devices for mobile the IT teams will continue with the Programme Manager has been assigned users within the business.
ongoing deployment and roll out of Oracle to drive the project steering and ensure hand in hand with key business users.
Following a successful pilot of the Microsoft traction is maintained.
The consultancy The next major implementation is not Surface Hybrid PC tablets, the IT Team team has expanded in line with the need scheduled to take place until late 2016, commenced the replacement of laptops.
for multiple delivery streams and the key however, the testing prior to deployment The latest Microsoft devices enable the users have been engaged with the analysis will be a critical factor completed over the ongoing provision of existing legacy and design of business process changes next year in preparation for this key date.
software, controlled security of data and required to implement the Oracle solution.
network connectivity with more convenient, As the Hybrid tablet devices replace In the last quarter, the Oracle Financial lightweight, touch based solutions perfect for progressively all laptops, the opportunities Consolidation solution for the Group was to introduce new, touch friendly solutions presentation of digital content.
delivered, meeting successfully the first to support the mobile workforce will also The one certainty within IT in any business A3 milestone of our roll out.
The team will also continue is that solutions that are available IT also supports the business and identifies with the infrastructure refresh programme.
today may be redundant and obsolete opportunities for efficiency improvements.
As such, identifying the right During the year the IT teams saw the final solutions which will have a critical impact Windows XP machines decommissioned, on the Group will continue to be essential.
the full deployment of the Private Cloud The development of a Group-wide remuneration and reward strategy will aim to create equity in our approach to compensation and benefits across the Group.
This should also ensure that we remain competitive and can attract the best talent to the organisation to meet our resourcing needs in the coming years.
We will assess the effectiveness of the Graduate Development programme and plan for its expansion for 2016 intake.
Finally, we will continue to focus on leadership development including the Senior Executive Team.
Q&A with Katy Clough, Group HR Director Strategic Enabler: People Stock Code: DPH 27 27 slugline
