Our Marketplace The global animal health market was valued at $23.4 billion in 2014, a growth of 4.7% over 2013 at constant currency.
The Global Market Growth Opportunities Dechras International The global animal health market was valued The growth in this segment has been driven Footprint at $23.4 billion in 2014, a growth of 4.7% by the rising demand for animal protein due sales by territory at AER over 2013 at constant currency.
The market to the increase in the global population and is made up of two distinct segments, Food the need for greater farming productivity producing Animal Products FAP i. e. to maximise the use of limited agricultural livestock and Companion Animal Products resources.
CAP i. e. pets, which have different There is, however, downward pressure in financial profiles.
this sector in recent years as regulators have The FAP market is generally based on large increasingly focused on reducing the use of volumes with pressure on margins due to antibiotics due to the potential risk of high levels of competition, whereas the CAP cross-over resistance in humans.
In market delivers higher added value especially particular, the EU has taken actions to with specialist or niche products.
Animal reduce the intensive use of broad spectrum health customers needs vary across the antibiotics in farm animals.
The US also world due to factors such as standards of issued guidance in April 2012 to phase out living, disposable income, cultural differences the use of antibiotics as growth promoters.
including dietary preferences for animal In the Rest of the World, the focus remains Europe 78% protein, pet ownership, pet care standards on increasing food safety, meat quality and US 16% and veterinarians capabilities.
Rest of World 6% Food Producing Animal Customers Products Market The primary customers are veterinarians, Market Size farmers and other major livestock Read about Our Key Products This segment covers products or services integrators.
Products are sold either directly on pages 34 and 35. targeted at reducing the incidence and to large integrators or through veterinarians, spread of disease in livestock.
The global wholesalers and distributors.
Read about our International medicines and vaccines market for FAP Footprint on pages 36 and 37.
Dechra in the Marketplace grew by an estimated 4.8% to $13.8 billion FAP represented 13% of our turnover with in 2014, representing 59% of the overall sales in EU and emerging markets.
range of antimicrobial water soluble powders and injectables, targeted mainly at swine 32 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 www.
com slugline Strategic Report and poultry, supports the prudent use of Dechra in the Marketplace antibiotics.
We offer a broad range of specialised pharmaceutical products.
We do not Our key account managers have an in-depth compete in the anti-parasiticides and knowledge of the market and our customers.
vaccines markets for companion animals, Our existing business is small but represents as they are highly competitive.
We continue a good base from which we can either to grow our established brands through increase market share or enter into new frequent interaction with our customers, $13.8bn territories.
up-to-date marketing campaigns and technical support.
We are also positioning The global medicines and vaccines Companion Animal Products ourselves to capture the growth market for FAP grew by an Market opportunities in emerging markets where pet estimated 4.8% to $13.8 Market Size ownership is increasing.
billion in 2014 The worldwide medicines and vaccines market for CAP was estimated at Geographical Split $9.7 billion in 2014, a growth of 4.5%.
North America and Western Europe account CAP represents 41% of the overall market.
for 60% of the global animal health market Product categories in this market are sales.
However, other regions are growing anti-parasiticides i. e. products against ticks, rapidly, notably: fleas, worms, vaccines, anti-microbials and other pharmaceuticals.
growth in Eastern Europe is fuelled by the increase in demand for meat, in particular Growth Opportunities poultry: and Spending on companion animals is growing globally and pet ownership is increasing sales in the Rest of the World continue to in both developed and emerging markets.
increase due to economic growth and the $9.7bn Advances in diagnostics, greater emphasis increased use of vaccines.
on prevention and wellness by veterinarians, Dechras International Footprint The global medicines and vaccines improved nutrition and the increase in Dechra competes in the two largest animal market for CAP was estimated at treatment of chronic diseases contribute to health markets: over 78% of our sales are $9.7 billion in 2014 an ageing pet population which consumes in Europe, 16% in the US with 6% being in more medication and veterinary services.
We aim to expand our Customers geographical footprint either organically or Veterinarians prescribe and generally through acquisitions.
In the US alone, approximately two-thirds of companion Source: Vetnosis, Company Reports animal health prescriptions are fulfilled by veterinarians in their practices.
Products are sold to veterinarians mainly through wholesalers and distributors.
