Strategic Report Q&A with Anne-Francoise Nesmes What has driven the strong financial Q performance in the year?
We are very pleased with our A performance in 2015.
You may recall that last year our sales growth was a little disappointing, but we highlighted that the momentum in the second half of 2014 had picked up.
This has continued and we are reporting a double digit sales growth at CER for the 2015 financial year.
Our gross margin has also improved by about two percentage points due to a favourable product mix and if you take our sales growth, our sales performance combined with the improved gross margin, that has given us the flexibility to invest behind our strategy.
Finally, we are also realising financial efficiencies which we talked about last year, in particular we are realising the savings from the tax optimisation project which we started last year.
financed the launch of new products, Can you outline a few highlights for Q in particular Osphos, where we spent the year?
The exchange rate volatility has had Q on marketing campaigns and recruited an impact on the results: can you This is a tricky question as we have A new sales representatives.
Additionally, explain what is happening?
achieved key milestones in all parts as reported in the first half, we are of the Group which demonstrates our We are a global organisation and we A investing in the US infrastructure in the ability to execute our strategy.
But trade in many currencies.
Exchange US organisation: the pay-back of which I am particularly pleased to see the rate volatility is a risk the business will is very clear given the success of this positive impact that we are making continue to face and it impacts our organisation during the financial year.
So, for instance, P&L and our balance sheet.
One of the Can you outline the changes in your we have been able to capitalise when major currencies in which we trade is Q Product Development team and competitors have been out of stock in the Euro, which we all know has been pipeline?
We have also very volatile again this year given the been able to open our subsidiary in political and economic environment in To progress the number of projects A Poland sooner than expected and I am Europe.
The Euro has weakened by we have in the pipeline and to face the sure there are many more examples 9% against the pound compared to last increasing regulatory demands, we of this across Dechra.
But what it years average rate.
realised we had to change the way demonstrates is our ability to succeed the team was organised.
So, we have when all parts of the organisation work We have a conservative treasury policy now split the Product Development together and become One Dechra.
and, as a Board, we have decided to and Regulatory Affairs team into two.
use hedging instruments very carefully.
One team, led by Joe Rosentel, is now So, for instance, we will only hedge responsible for managing the projects specific transaction risk exposure.
through the pipeline and delivering our Additionally, this year we have also been pipeline.
The second team, led by Susan able to implement a so-called netting Longhofer, is responsible for business system which allows us to settle development and in-licensing to bring inter-company transactions and, as a new ideas and is also responsible for Watch the Q&A with Anne-Francoise result, we have been able to reduce the managing our regulatory affairs.
com cost of foreign transactions in different currencies.
Setting aside this reorganisation, we are pleased to report progress in our You mentioned earlier that you were Q short term pipeline, as we have had a investing for growth, can you number of new products approved, in expand a little on this point?
particular Osphos: we have had TAF We have seen a significant increase A Spray approved in Europe, Vetoryl in our selling and admin costs as we 5mg in the US and a number of smaller invest to support our strategy and our registrations in other emerging markets.
In particular, we have invested to establish our new subsidiaries and fund their infrastructures.
We have also Stock Code: Stock Code: DPH DPH 49 49 slugline slugline
