Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 63 Directors report for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 The Directors present their report and the audited consolidated Principal risks and uncertainties financial statements for Dignity plc and its subsidiaries for the Operational risks are considered on pages 29 and 30.
An assessment of the Groups exposure to financial risks and The company registration number of Dignity plc is 4569346. a description of how these risks are managed are included in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Share capital the Report on Directors Remuneration and the financial During the period, 249,067 Ordinary Shares of 12 48 143 statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
pence each were issued to satisfy Long-Term Incentive Plan share awards vesting in the period and 1,044 Ordinary Shares Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial of 12 48 143 were issued to satisfy options exercised by statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors retirees under the 2013 Save As You Earn Scheme.
have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as The issued share capital of Dignity plc at 25 December 2015 adopted by the European Union and the parent company consisted of 49,420,291 Ordinary Shares of 12 48 143 pence financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom each.
All the Ordinary Shares carry the same rights and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom obligations.
There are no other class or type of share in issue.
Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless A special resolution passed at the last AGM on 11June 2015 they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state gives Dignity plc the authority to purchase up to 4,900,000 of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or Ordinary Shares of 12 48 143 pence each at not less than loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial nominal value and not more than five per cent above the statements, the Directors are required to: average middle market quotation for the preceding five business days.
At the same meeting the Company was also Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them given authority to allot Ordinary Shares up to an aggregate consistently: nominal value of 4,043,673 of which up to 303,275 may be for cash.
These authorities will expire at the conclusion Make judgements and accounting estimates that are of the next AGM on 9 June 2016.
It is the intention of the reasonable and prudent: and Directors to seek renewal of these authorities at that AGM.
State whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and There are no restrictions at the period end on the transfer applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, of securities.
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent Company financial statements Results respectively.
The results for the period are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 69.
The Groups profit before tax The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting amounted to 69.0 million 2014: loss 67.7 million.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any Dividends time the financial position of the Company and the Group and An interim dividend of 7.14 pence per Ordinary Share was enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the paid in to shareholders on 30 October 2015.
The Board has Report on Directors Remuneration comply with the Companies proposed a final dividend of 14.31 pence 2014: 13.01 pence Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, per share, which, subject to approval at the AGM, will be paid Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for on 24 June 2016 to shareholders on the register at close of safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and business on 20 May 2016. hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Employment policies During the period, the Group has maintained its obligations The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity to effectively communicate and involve employees in its of the Groups websites and legislation in the United Kingdom affairs.
Methods of communication used include an in-house governing the preparation and dissemination of financial newsletter, team talks, bulletins and management briefings.
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
This is discussed in more detail in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on pages 32 to 37.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 40 and 41 of the Annual Report, confirm that, to the best Employment policies are designed to provide equal of their knowledge and belief: opportunities irrespective of age, sexuality, colour, ethnic or national origin, religion, nationality, sex or marital status.
The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Full consideration is given to the employment, training and accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and career development of disabled persons, subject only to their fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit aptitudes and abilities.
The Group endeavours, as far as is of the Group: and practicable, to treat disabled persons equally with others and will also endeavour to help and accommodate persons who The Strategic Report on pages 4 to 37 of the Annual Report become disabled whilst working for Dignity.
includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Dignity plc 64 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Directors report continued for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 Directors and their interests Independent Auditors and disclosure Details of the Directors of the Company who were in office of information to Auditors during the period and up to the date of signing the financial A resolution for the re appointment of Ernst & Young LLP statements are shown in the Report on Directors Remuneration as auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, at the AGM, all Directors will retire as In the case of each of the persons who are Directors at the Directors of the Company and, being eligible, offer themselves time when the report is approved, the following applies: for re-election at the AGM on 9 June 2016.
The Directors have agreed, as in previous years, that they should all stand for So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit re-election rather than relying on the Articles of Association information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and of the Company that prescribe that one third of the Directors The Directors have taken appropriate steps to make offer themselves for re-election each year.
themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that During the period, the Company maintained liability insurance information.
for its Directors and Officers to a value of 90 million.
The Directors of each of the Companys subsidiaries have the The Takeover Directive benefit of an indemnity provision in the Companys Articles The Group has one class of voting share capital, Ordinary of Association.
The indemnity provision, which is a qualifying Shares.
All of the shares rank pari passu.
There are no third party indemnity provision as defined by Section 234 of special control rights in relation to the Groups shares.
the Companies Act 2006, was in force throughout the period The rules governing the appointment and replacement of and is currently in force.
Board members and changes to the Articles of Association accord with usual English company law provisions.
The Board Health and safety policy has authority to purchase its own shares and is seeking The Groups operations are designed at all times in such a way renewal of that power at the forthcoming AGM within the as to ensure, so far as reasonably practicable, the health, safety limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
There are no and welfare of all of our employees and all other persons who significant agreements to which the Group is party which may be attending our premises.
This is discussed in the take effect, alter or terminate in the event of change of Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on page 35. control of the Group.
Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Statement Maintaining the quality of the environment in which we all The information that fulfils the requirements of a corporate live is an important concern for the Group.
This is discussed governance statement in accordance with rule 7.2 of the in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on page 36 Disclosure and Transparency Rules can be found in this alongside other social and ethical considerations.
Directors Report and in the Directors Statement on Corporate Governance on pages 42 to 45, which is Going concern incorporated by reference.
The Directors have conducted a rigorous and proportionate assessment of the Groups ability to continue in existence for Strategic report the foreseeable future.
They receive and review regularly The Strategic report on pages 4 to 37 has been approved management accounts, cash balances, forecasts and the by the Board.
annual budget together with covenant reporting.
After careful consideration, and mindful of the current market conditions, By order of the Board the Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue operating for that foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements.
Richard Portman The Directors formally considered this matter at the Company Secretary Board meeting held on 26 February 2016.
2 March 2016 Post balance sheet events Please refer to note 32 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.
