16 16 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 HOW WE WILL DELIVER OUR PERFORMANCE AMBITION Diageos performance drivers and HOW WE WILL Sustainability & Responsibility imperatives are key to achieving our Performance DELIVER OUR Ambition.
Each of our 21 markets focuses PERFORMANCE on the priorities that are most relevant to driving growth and creating shared AMBITION value in that market.
OUR SIX PERFORMANCE DRIVERS Strengthen and accelerate growth of our premium Build and then constantly extend our advantage in 1core brands 4 route to consumer Our premium core brands are sold in more than 180 countries Our global programme looks at how we can profitably extend around the world.
They are enjoyed by consumers in where our brands appear and improve the quality of how they developed markets and have wide appeal in emerging appear at every appropriate drinking or buying occasion, markets.
They include iconic brands like Johnnie Walker, achieving higher rates of sale in an efficient way.
Smirnoff, Captain Morgan and Baileys.
Win in reserve in every market Drive out costs to invest in growth 2 Our reserve or luxury portfolio accounts for 13% of our total 5 Increasing productivity and efficiency within Diageo net sales.
Over the last six years we have transformed our luxury will improve profitability and allow us to invest back into brand building capabilities and are now the industry leader in the business to drive growth.
the super and ultra premium segments.
Ensure we have the talent to deliver our Innovate at scale to meet new consumer needs 6 3 Our ability to innovate is a competitive advantage.
A proven Performance Ambition driver of growth, it is critical to the performance in each of our We employ bright, collaborative people at all levels in our markets.
Since 2009, innovation has accounted for at least half business, and must continue to do so if we are to achieve our of Diageos sales growth, growing double-digit each year.
Ensuring that we have the best talent now and in the future is one of our biggest challenges and one of our greatest opportunities.
OUR THREE SUSTAINABILITY & RESPONSIBILITY IMPERATIVES Leadership in alcohol in society Building thriving communities Reducing our environmental 1Creating a positive role for alcohol in 2 Our distilleries, breweries and 3 impact society is our primary focus, and over wineries are at the heart of our Recognising that our impact on the the last decade we have supported communities, and we have a environment is not limited to our own hundreds of programmes to tackle responsibility to create shared value sites, our targets reflect the need to harmful drinking and encourage throughout our supply chain.
better manage water stewardship and responsibility.
We will continue these Our targets commit us to further carbon emissions across our whole efforts with our various stakeholder partnerships with local farmers and supply chain.
We will work increasingly partners as well as focus on delivering agricultural communities to develop with suppliers, striving to decouple the the five Global Producers more sustainable supply chains and growth of our business from our impact i Commitments.
secure our raw material supply.
i For more information on the Beer, Wine and Spirits Producers commitments, visit www.
S Str tra at teg egic r ic repor eport t G Go ov ver ernanc finance e F Financial sta inancial stat temen ements ts A Additional inf dditional infor orma mation f tion for shar or shareholders eholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 17 17 HOW WE WILL DELIVER OUR PERFORMANCE AMBITION Here we share a selection of case studies Responsibility, including our commitment that demonstrate how we are executing to governance and ethics, supports our performance drivers at a market and everything we do to deliver our global level.
The case studies also show Performance Ambition.
how our approach to Sustainability & working in innovation roles around the world, with 35 people INNOVATING ON OUR PREMIUM CORE BRANDS working in innovation research and development in Great Britain.
EUROPE WESTERN EUROPE GREAT BRITAIN Finding and keeping the right people is a real challenge here, with Guinness, Gordons, Smirnoff and so many companies fighting for talent.
Captain Morgan between them, Our reputation for ground-breaking innovation, these iconic premium core brands our leadership in alcohol in society, and the share a rich heritage.
These are opportunities we offer employees to give brands that for years have delighted something back through working with young consumers, and in 2015, they are adults on our Learning for Life programme, all building on their strengths are at the heart of Diageos appeal and innovating to unleash their as the custodian of the full potential.
great brands people In Great Britain there is good enjoy and love to potential to grow the spirits industry celebrate with every not by getting people to drink more, but by getting them day, everywhere.
Focus on strengthening and innovating on our premium core brands with launches this year of Captain Morgan White Rum, Smirnoff Ice Double Black, the Guinness Dublin and West Indies Porters, and Gordons pouches is key to unlocking growth.
This year nearly 11% of our net sales in Great Britain were delivered by innovation.
Diageo will continue to innovate to meet consumer needs, driving growth for our customers and our business.
Launching market-leading innovations across a variety of price points is no small undertaking we have around 180 people Learning for Life training programme, helping people find jobs WINNING IN RESERVE IN MEXICO in the hospitality industry.
Our Actuando Mejor or Model Cities LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN MEXICO programme is perhaps one of the most successful responsible Overall our business in Mexico grew 13% this year.
We have drinking programmes we have ever developed.
In the three years a strong scotch portfolio and benefit from a range of brands since it was launched, it has moved beyond Diageo to become across price points.
We are also winning in reserve in Mexico, an a social movement and, as a recent evaluation shows, is shifting important growth area for Diageo.
We now have a market share consumer attitudes with regards to drink driving and of over 80% in luxury spirits, and we continue to invest.
This year consumption patterns, and attitudes of vendors with regards we continued to grow at a high double-digit rate, led by Zacapa to selling to minors.
and Johnnie Walker Blue Label, and we further Diageo is well placed to drive financial performance in Mexico, strengthened our reserve portfolio with the and is committed to the long term development of the beverage acquisition of full global ownership and control alcohol industry, which includes building economic and of luxury brand Don Julio Tequila.
In a growing market that presents many opportunities, but also a changing regulatory landscape, building our business in Mexico needs to be underpinned by a significant and important focus on building trust and respect for Diageo, both nationally and locally in key cities.
We aim to be trusted and respected by the authorities who affect our business through regulation and taxation through both our broader approach to promoting responsible lifestyles and our 18 18 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 HOW WE WILL DELIVER OUR PERFORMANCE AMBITION INNOVATION IN NORTH AMERICAN WHISK E Y NORTH AMERICA SPIRITS AND WINES We also know that consumers have increasing expectations of the companies behind their The beverage alcohol market in North favourite brands, expecting them to deliver America is competitive, and its been a environmental and social, as well as economic, challenging year.
The attractiveness of the benefits.
This focus from consumers is aligned market means it is one that others want to with our commercial interests.
Sustainable enter, leading to brand proliferation in most manufacturing delivers efficiencies in our categories.
To address this we have focused supply chain, while minimising our impact at keenly on our innovation performance driver.
For example, Diageo is building This year, we launched our successful Crown a new distillery in Shelbyville, Kentucky, due Royal Regal Apple innovation.
Crown Royal to be commissioned in 2016, which has been Regal Apple responds to the growing trend designed specifically to minimise impacts for flavour innovations on local watersheds.
in whisk e y and is an We have also scored an industry first for example of how we US consumers.
After 12 years of advocating use innovation to with a coalition of consumer and public health rapidly respond advocates, the US government recently to changing allowed alcohol companies to include alcohol consumer content and nutritional information per tastes.
In March we followed this by announcing our commitment to provide consumers around the world with this information a first for any alcohol company.
This is another example of how Diageo is helping consumers make more informed choices.
See further details on page 39. protecting our business from exchange rate ROUTE TO CONSUMER ENHANCEMENTS IN risk, local sourcing brings benefits to the local GHANA DRIVE PERFORMANCE economy and communities.
AFRICA AFRICA REGIONAL MARKETS GHANA Our environmental targets are helping us A depreciating local currency and demand for energy exceeding focus here too.
Our aim of equipping local supply are examples of the operational issues that require suppliers to protect water resources in our business in Ghana to think ever more creatively to drive water-stressed areas has caused us to performance.
The discipline and structure of our six performance invest in our Water of Life programmes drivers have been essential in helping the team to make the bold where we source our raw materials, decisions needed to take advantage of the potential the market including, in 2015, 11 projects aiding offers and gain share.
close to 60,000 people, while Our route to consumer performance driver has the ability to also benefiting Diageo through significantly accelerate our performance in our markets.
It guaranteeing the sustainability of our multiplies the performance impact from strong execution on supply chain.
premium core, reserve and innovation, drives efficiencies in the This work is not going unnoticed by supply chain and improves cash conversion.
It also encourages the government and regulators, who are productive use of trade and marketing investment and grows our increasingly engaging with us on issues sales people to be best-in-class.
that matter, such as effective regulation Focusing on the route to consumer programme in Ghana is of our industry.
They are also seeking our generating results.
This year we have seen a strong sales uplift in input into how other local crops, such as Guinness Malta and Star lager driven by expanded coverage, a sugar cane, may be used for beverage change to a more active sales culture and tactical execution.
All these speak to Moreover, we have made an important contribution to the our effectiveness and are mirrored in underlying costs of the business by increasing local raw material Ghanas net sales growth of 32% sourcing from around 11% in 2012 to 45% in 2015.
S Str tra at teg egic r ic repor eport t G Go ov ver ernanc finance e F Financial sta inancial stat temen ements ts A Additional inf dditional infor orma mation f tion for shar or shareholders eholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 1 19 9 HOW WE WILL DELIVER OUR PERFORMANCE AMBITION Global Diageo Business Services GDBS provides a broad range GLOBAL SERVICES REDUCE COSTS FOR OUR of services from information systems management to general LOCAL MARKETS accounting, purchase and sales order processing, financial planning and reporting.
These services are provided to Diageo businesses across the world from a network of four regional service centres.
Their global scale and reach deliver significant cost savings and a strong control environment, while freeing our local teams to market and sell our great brands to customers and consumers.
GDBS has delivered 49 million in savings since 2013, achieving an average year-on-year productivity of around 12% which is above world-class benchmarks for multi-functional shared services.
GDBS will create a further 50 million in savings by 2018, through operational efficiencies and extension into new services.
Significantly, GDBS is developing an analytics service to provide business insights to drive performance, while equipping local sales teams with best-in-class technical solutions.
In support of our marketing agenda, a market-leading cloud-based digital infrastructure has been established, providing a cost effective, scalable and secure platform for our digital assets.
Using external benchmarking, a comprehensive plan has been developed with our marketing function to accelerate digital capability building on this core platform.
INTEGRATING UNITED SPIRITS LIMITED USL ASIA PACIFIC INDIA Our business in India is being transformed through the acquisition of USL.
Integrating businesses is always a challenge, not least when you are introducing a new culture and different working practices.
But, what really makes the difference is the determination of our teams in Diageo India and USL to make the transformation a success.
One of the biggest changes for USL has been the introduction of Diageos operational and governance standards.
One example of the steps that have been taken within USL is the establishment of a new compliance and ethics team to lead the effort, bringing USLs Code of Business Conduct in line with Diageos, and an intense training effort to get USLs nearly 7,000 employees up to speed on the policies relevant to them.
Meanwhile, employees have also been getting accustomed to Diageos safety culture and practices, which have made a huge difference to the lost-time accident rate USL achieved its first ever accident-free month in March 2015.
We have always believed that our iconic brands, our global reach and our reputation as a trusted and respected business are central to our appeal and thats borne out in what USL employees say about their pride in becoming part of Diageo, and their eagerness for the opportunities it offers to work alongside our iconic brands in many parts of the world.
