20 20 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 HOW WE PROTECT OUR BUSINESS: RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS Our Performance Ambition calls on us to be HOW WE PROTECT bold and to act like owners.
Well managed risk taking lies at the heart of this.
Great risk OUR BUSINESS: management drives better commercial RISK MANAGEMENT decisions, creating a growing, resilient and sustainable business.
AND PRINCIPAL RISKS Our approach reviewed by the Board.
Similarly, all markets evolving global threats for example, cyber Our risk management framework is and functions perform annual risk threat, and the risk of politically motivated straightforward.
We believe that great assessments and, at all levels in the business, violence.
A revised Risk Management global risk management starts with the right risks are reviewed throughout the year, with standard, launched in August 2014, places conversations, that drive better business updates to risks and or mitigation plans renewed emphasis on leadership behaviours decisions.
We assign clear accountability for made as necessary.
and on ensuring risk management is a basic managing our risks in the right way.
It is the part of doing business every day.
Further details about the groups risk responsibility of each market and function to Beyond the set of key group risks, the management approach are described in the manage its risks directly, and then to report Audit Committee also receives periodic Report of the Audit Committee on page 60. on the risks and their management to the updates on emerging or otherwise topical relevant Executive member.
For example, during the year, the Audit Focus in the year Executive reviews the effectiveness of risk Committee received an update on brand The Diageo Executive and Board considered management through the Audit & Risk assurance, which examined the nature of the the risks described here as the groups key Committee, and the Board exercises risks for this financial year.
These range from risk e. g. protection of brand intellectual independent review through the Audit property as well as the specific risks faced by risks that are wholly internal in interest focus Committee, supported by Global Audit & Diageo and how we are managing them.
on sales and marketing talent to risks that Risk.
The Diageo Executive updates the involve Diageos place in society and groups risk assessment annually, which is ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL CHANGE NON-COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS RESPONSIBLE ALCOHOL PROMOTION AND CONSUMPTION Risk Risk Risk Significant local volatility or upheaval, or failure Non-compliance with local laws or regulations, Failure to address the concerns of multiple to react quickly enough to increasing volatility.
or breach of our internal global policies and stakeholders about the promotion and standards and or significant internal control consumption of alcohol.
Impact Social unrest, liquidity issues, inflationary Impact pressures, changes to tax systems and or Impact One or more governments impose restrictions eroded consumer confidence, impacting our Severe damage to our corporate reputation on access and or increase tax and or duty.
peoples safety, our assets security, business and or significant financial penalty.
Damage to our corporate reputation.
How we mitigate How we mitigate How we mitigate Code of Business Conduct Code and New Alcohol in Society targets including On the ground market and country periodic refresh training for employees implementation of Global Producers intelligence to build local preparedness for on our global policies.
Commitments to Reduce Harmful Drinking rapid change in external environment.
Internal control assurance programme, and increased focus on programmes in Market visits by Chief Executive and other with local management accountability.
senior executives to review local strategy.
Strong tone from the top, anchored by our Strengthen industry response at global and Market-sensitive multi-country investment and Performance Ambition of most trusted and local level.
capacity expansion strategy, and local sourcing respected.
Increase knowledge about alcohol among strategy e. g. to minimise currency risk.
stakeholders and consumers through the Monitoring and, where appropriate, expressing provision of information on packaging, online Developments in 2015 views on the formulation of tax laws either and via training courses.
Embedding the control and compliance directly or through trade associations or similar frameworks in recent acquisitions.
Enhancing internal processes for managing Developments in 2015 allegations of breaches of our Code.
There have been no significant new Developments in 2015 regulations against alcohol during 2015, We have implemented an automated tool Enhanced review by Audit & Risk Committee although restrictions on retail sales of beer to improve the efficiency of aspects of our of market plans to deal with volatility.
in Indonesia impacted our business in anti-bribery and corruption third party due Use and development of scenario planning South-East Asia.
tools to build responses to future uncertain The Global Producers Commitments to Greater emphasis on developing the conditions.
Reduce Harmful Drinking have been capabilities of our control and compliance incorporated into the business performance global community.
S Str tra at teg egic r ic repor eport t G Go ov ver ernanc finance e F Financial sta inancial stat temen ements ts A Additional inf dditional infor orma mation f tion for shar or shareholders eholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 21 21 HOW WE PROTECT OUR BUSINESS: RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS Relevance to strategy Efficient growth Consistent value creation Credibility and trust Motivated people CRITICAL INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENTS SUSTAINABILITY & RESPONSIBILITY TALENT Risk Risk Risk Failure to shape or participate in critical industry Failure to meet the expectations of stakeholders Inability to recruit, retain and develop sufficient developments.
to make a positive contribution to the sales and marketing talent particularly in sustainability agenda.
Impact Consumers move away from our brands.
Impact Impact Long term damage to our corporate Failure to achieve our growth plans.
Less efficient business model compared reputation.
Less influence shaping the citizenship and How we mitigate sustainability agenda as it relates to beverage Significant focus and intervention on moving How we mitigate alcohol.
talent into key local roles in developing Broad portfolio of brands to ensure coverage markets.
How we mitigate Strengthened learning and development Continuous assessment and optimisation of Sustainability & Responsibility Strategy strategy across the business.
based on material issues and stakeholder Rigorous processes of strategy development expectations at global and market level.
Developments in 2015 and governance at corporate and market level.
Programmed delivery against a clear set of Global Talent Team established to ensure we Focus on building strategic capability at targets aligned to external stakeholders.
have the talent pipeline to fill critical leadership market level.
roles, supported by a bigger focus on Development of partnerships with external succession planning and external recruitment.
stakeholders to support delivery and scale Developments in 2015 up of strategy.
We completed an in-depth analysis of Our mitigation approaches remain commercial capability across our markets and unchanged, and we have continued to deploy have agreed a common set of commercial Developments in 2015 them in response to industry changes.
operating standards and supporting capability We have announced new 2020 Sustainability & For example, as the industry has seen programmes and investment.
accelerated growth in global primary Scotch, The emerging UN Sustainable Development we have drawn on the breadth of our brand Goals identify critical areas for activity.
There is portfolio to meet this consumer demand also a trend towards greater transparency on e. g. in Mexico, with Black & White.
performance and the impact of our activities.
In India, we are integrating and developing our environmental standards and community programmes with USL.
BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS CYBER THREAT POLITICALLY MOTIVATED VIOLENCE Risk Risk Risk Failure to deliver value from acquisitions and or Theft, loss and misappropriation of Diageos most Impacts from politically motivated violence, integrate them into Diageo effectively, including important digital assets.
failure to embed Diageos standards of compliance with laws, internal policies and controls.
Impact Impact Financial loss, operational disruption and Diageo employees, sites or supply chain Impact reputational damage.
Business case for an acquisition is not delivered Non-compliance with statutory data Our ability to operate in key markets is resulting in impairment charges on goodwill protection legislation.
or other intangible assets and failure to meet financial targets.
How we mitigate How we mitigate Market confidence in Diageos ability to deliver Employees trained on information Monitoring of local security situation.
on its strategy is weakened.
In-country security managers oversee people Damage to our corporate reputation.
Monitoring, identification and addressing security, physical security and business Prospects for securing regulatory approval for of cyber threats and suspicious internal continuity programmes.
other potential business combinations are computer activity.
Above-market travel security programme for harmed.
Crisis response exercises to test and build all Diageo travellers.
Aboveand in-market liaison with How we mitigate government, academia, and industry on Board and Executive Committee regularly track evolving threats and responding to incidents.
Developments in 2015 actual performance against the business case.
Continuous evolution of our response against Global minimum standards for control and the increase in the number and sophistication Developments in 2015 compliance for post-acquisition entities, of cyber incidents.
Formulating standardised security threat levels subject to internal audit review.
Increase in, and strengthening of, data to provide clarity for site response to threats.
protection laws in jurisdictions worldwide Expanding mandatory travel security training Developments in 2015 demanding ever greater focus on safeguarding to markets with increasing risk.
We have continued to monitor the M&A data privacy.
Political violence included in cross-functional environment and transact where appropriate risk scanning.
e. g. acquisition of 50% of Don Julio.
Our focus has been on embedding recent acquisitions e. g. USL and, for acquisitions this year Don Julio, making sure we have the right governance and integration platforms in place.
