Dignity plc 12 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report A consistent strategy and business model We continue to implement a clear and consistent strategy.
Our strategy Our strategy in action Key points Ensuring the highest levels of client service: % We plan to grow the profitability 98.0 High levels of client service demonstrably affect of our business by: clients willingness to recommend our services.
In the 2015 client survey 98.0 Recommendations and our reputation have per cent of respondents said Operating in a traditional market generated approximately 70 per cent of our they would recommend us.
funeral business on average over the last See The Client Survey where people use our services performance: p. 16 five years.
based on our reputation and Recruiting, developing and retaining the through recommendations, % 29 best people: where we believe our continued Our employees are central to the success of the The percentage of Dignity commitment to excellent service business.
We seek to recruit and retain the best employees who have over people through appropriate remuneration and for our clients will generate 10 years service.
a high level of referral and See CSR: p. 32 to p. 37 organic growth: Continued investment: 66.0m We invest significantly in our existing business, Continuing to control our striving to ensure it is of the highest standard, 15.6 million invested in capital operating costs: both in client facing areas and behind the scenes.
expenditure on the core business We also seek to invest in new businesses that and a net investment of 50.4 will help Dignity grow and create value for Developing or acquiring additional million in acquiring new locations shareholders.
funeral locations: See Operating review: p. 18 to p. 23 Developing, managing oracquiring Controlling our costs: additional crematoria: 98.7m We seek to benefit from our size with national contracts for utilities and similar services The Groups underlying National marketing of pre-arranged where appropriate.
operating profit increased funeral plans, principally through 16 per cent to 98.7 million.
affinity partners: and See Operating review: p. 18 to p. 23 Efficient use of our balance sheet Growing our business responsibly: FTSE4Good to enhance shareholder returns.
As an industry leader, we aim to be both successful and good corporate citizens.
Dignity is identified as a company that meets globally recognised standards of corporate responsibility.
See CSR: p. 32 to p. 37 Sale of pre-arranged funeral plans: 374,000 We remain a significant provider of plans and continue to work with our established partners 374,000 people have active and develop new partnerships to sell plans pre-arranged funeral plans.
See Operating review: p. 18 to p. 23 Delivering long-term shareholder returns: 345.2m Our business is driven by relatively predictable factors over long periods of time.
This allows Since flotation, 345.2 million us to operate and fund our business in a way in cash including dividends has that generates value over the long-term.
See Financial review: p. 24 to p. 27 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 13 Our goal is simple: To continue developing Dignity as a long-term sustainable business that consistently performs and delivers value to all our stakeholders.
Creating long-term and sustainable value Key to our ongoing strategic objectives Delivering excellent service lies at the heart of what we do.
It shapes our strategy and is how Our ongoing strategic objectives underpin and integrate our we focus our efforts on creating value.
activities and you will see numerous references and examples of our strategy in action throughout this report.
Where we discuss Generating profitable growth: a part of our strategic objectives we have referenced this with Our consistent track record in strong cash generation and financial the specific number as indicated below: discipline enables us to reinvest and grow the business both organically and through strategic acquisition.
We generate revenues Continue to prioritise excellent client service which 1 from new and returning clients and by carefully acquiring businesses we believe will lead to organic growth.
that complement our network of locations, extend our geographic reach and represent a reasonable return on our capital.
Control our costs without compromising the quality 2 of our service.
Controlling and measuring growth: We do this by making well informed decisions, supported by careful Expand our funeral and crematoria portfolios.
3 risk management and good governance.
Gain new clients through the sale of pre-arranged funeral plans.
4 Operating responsibly: Increase our returns through efficient capital management.
We do this through embedded policies and robust initiatives, 5 appropriate to the distinct needs of our stakeholders, alongside reducing our impact on the environment and making a positive Links social impact.
Maintaining performance across our operations: Find out more about Our KPIs and how we measure performance: p. 14 and p. 15 We strive to provide our clients with the highest standards of facilities, Find out more about how we manage and mitigate risk: p. 28 to p. 31 service and care.
We achieve this by our commitment to continuous improvement and investment in our portfolio and consistently Find out about our governance framework within which delivering excellent client service.
we conduct our business and deliver our strategic objectives: p. 38 and p. 39 Find out more about our CSR commitments: p. 32 to p. 37 Building strong relationships: Our clients are the foundation of our business and their trust is earned through our actions both individually and as a company.
Our people are our most important asset and we value and invest in them as they are integral to the delivery of our strategic objectives.
For shareholders, our priority is to manage, maintain and deliver strong EPS growth and return on capital.
We play an important part in and are valued by the local communities we serve and we are committed to making a difference.
How we align remuneration to strategy Our strategy is focused on delivering short and long-term financial performance.
EPS and total shareholder return are quantifiable measures of performance and are used to incentivise Executive Directors to deliver the Groups strategy.
