14 14 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 MARKET DYNAMICS The global beverage alcohol market is large and diverse, MARKET with an estimated six billion equivalent units of alcohol sold each year, generating 300 billion of net sales.
It is also one DYNAMICS of the most regulated in the world, and beverage alcohol companies operate in the context of a range of stakeholder expectations and demands.
This environment presents opportunities for a business like Diageo, with our global scale, our diverse range of leading brands, and our high standards of governance and ethics.
A growing global market Split of global total beverage alcohol TBA Split of global total beverage alcohol TBA Beverage alcohol is a profitable, growing and volume EU net sales attractive market in which to participate.
Margins are significantly higher than for the overall consumer goods market, while, over the medium term, the industry is expected to grow in both volume and value.
While the global market is split almost equally between emerging and developed markets, emerging markets are expected to grow at a faster rate.
Within emerging markets and developed markets, every individual market presents different consumer dynamics and a different Developed markets Year ended 31 December 2014 Developed markets Year ended 31 December 2014 outlook determined by specific local Emerging markets Source: Diageo estimates Emerging markets Source: Diageo estimates conditions.
Our 21-market operating model, coupled with tailored local strategies, enables us to meet the specific needs of buying brands and they have more money hedge against individual market volatility, consumers across different geographies.
There is a good while tailored strategies for each market opportunity for growth for spirits, as allow us to respond quickly to local Opportunities in developed markets consumer tastes shift and disposable dynamics.
Operationally, we continue to In developed markets, the population is incomes rise.
focus on improving our risk management ageing, and in aggregate is growing more processes, while our 21-market operating slowly than in emerging markets in some Factors affecting consumer choices model enables our markets to respond countries it is shrinking.
Overall, wealth is While medium-term prospects for beverage quickly to local events and trends.
Our fairly static but is increasingly polarised as alcohol are robust and positive for the renewed focus on managing the business growth is skewed towards the most affluent.
reasons described above, in the short term according to what is actually bought by The opportunities in developed markets there are particular challenges that face all consumers rather than what we sell to are therefore very different from emerging consumer goods businesses.
our customers will also help to improve markets.
Given the higher levels of the consistency of our performance disposable income and the importance Economic and political instability across markets.
of branding, in developed markets Sudden changes to economic variables such consumers are often prepared to pay more as exchange rates and commodity prices, Increasing expectations of businesses for high quality brands with heritage and or changes in levels of political security, can and brands provenance.
Our key opportunities are reduce consumer confidence and spending Consumers today particularly millennials to offer beer customers other products, power.
Over the last year alone we have have increasing expectations of the particularly spirits, and, as tastes evolve, to witnessed considerable economic, social businesses behind the brands they love.
It is encourage consumers to trade up within and political upheaval in many places: not enough to provide a great product and spirits brands.
huge currency devaluations in Venezuela: brand experience: companies must make a geo-political conflict in Russia and Ukraine: contribution that goes beyond economic Opportunities in emerging markets the Ebola outbreak: and terrorist threats in benefits, to encompass environmental and Growth of beverage alcohol consumption Nigeria and Kenya, to name some examples.
in emerging markets is driven by strong, The general operating environment This is reflected in the developing underlying consumer fundamentals.
The will continue to be a turbulent and regulatory framework for listed companies, number of people of legal purchasing age unpredictable one in which to compete.
which are expected to be transparent about is growing worldwide, and is set to increase Our approach is based on broad their key social and environmental issues, by over 450 million over the next decade.
participation across geographies, categories and, through reporting, to demonstrate Wealth is increasing, with the middle class and price tiers, which provides a natural progress.
Going beyond what is mandatory growing.
This means more consumers are S Str tra at teg egic r ic repor eport t G Go ov ver ernanc finance e F Financial sta inancial stat temen ements ts A Additional inf dditional infor orma mation f tion for shar or shareholders eholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 15 15 MARKET DYNAMICS has become the norm for global businesses, Factors affecting the operational stewardship across the value chain.
The map environment below shows our sites located in waterwhich are adopting various voluntary frameworks.
These include the International The developments in reporting social and stressed areas where our approach to water Integrated Reporting Framework, published environmental issues noted above are a stewardship is particularly important.
last year, the Global Reporting Initiative reflection of their importance to business Local communities and supply chains performance.
The interdependence of Guidelines, launched in 2000 and updated Alcohol beverage companies contribute last year, and the United Nations Global companies and their local environments, to the economic development of their Compact principles, established in 2006, communities and economies is a growing communities in a variety of ways, whether all of which we follow in our reporting.
phenomenon, which Diageo has long through direct or indirect employment, taxes recognised through our sustainability and This high and growing level of regulation or community investment efforts.
However, and scrutiny can be an advantage to responsibility programmes.
In December companies can further contribute by companies with good corporate governance 2014 we launched our 2020 Sustainability & leveraging the economic impact of their and the right approach to sustainability Responsibility targets, which focus on three entire value chain in the way they work with imperatives: leadership in alcohol in society: and responsibility.
suppliers and customers and doing so building thriving communities: and reducing Creating a positive role for alcohol is an increasing expectation of the private our environmental impact.
in society sector by government and international development institutions.
One powerful Diageo has always believed that creating a Climate change and water scarcity Companies particularly those that rely on trend in the food and beverage industry is a positive role for alcohol in society is about working in partnership with all the relevant agricultural raw materials are increasingly focus on local sourcing in markets with an stakeholders, through concerted industry being affected by a variety of environmental agricultural economy or the potential for one, and, in Africa, we have a target of initiatives.
We are one of 13 global producers issues associated with climate change, such as extreme weather events, water scarcity sourcing 80% of agricultural materials locally of beer, wine and spirits which, in 2013, launched a set of commitments designed and biodiversity loss.
sourced within Africa and used by our to support Member States implementation For the alcohol industry, water scarcity African markets.
This helps build trust with government and other stakeholders, can of the World Health Organizations WHO demands particular attention given that water is the main ingredient in all alcoholic help secure supply, and it delivers wider global strategy to reduce the harmful use of alcohol.
They include a focus on reducing beverages.
The World Bank expects water benefits to the local community.
underage drinking, strengthening and scarcity to affect 2.8 billion people directly by expanding marketing codes of practice, 2025, and the increasing importance of water as a global issue is recognised in our Water providing consumer information and responsible product innovation, reducing Blueprint, launched in April 2015, which drink driving, and enlisting the support defines our strategic approach to water of retailers to reduce harmful drinking.
Diageo also believes that the most effective alcohol policies are evidenceDiageo sites located in water-stressed areas based, account for drinking patterns, target 38 27 35 at-risk groups, treat all forms of alcohol 41 24 equally, and involve all stakeholders.
Such 25 42 45 policies include mandating a minimum 29 30 26 legal purchasing age of not less than 18: 31 39 a maximum blood alcohol concentration 28 BAC level for drivers of no more than 44 36 34 0.08mg: and lower BACs for novice and 43 40 23 32 commercial drivers.
Also effective are 16 22 33 37 high-visibility enforcement campaigns of 17 21 drink-driving laws and alcohol interlock 18 20 11 19 13 1 9 10 15 14 devices for convicted drink drivers.
2 12 3 Diageo advocates these policies while 4 8 opposing measures that are not based on 6 7 evidence, and are likely to have unintended 5 consequences.
For example the use of high taxes to control consumption can in some Sites cases push consumers to unregulated 1 Kenya Brewing, Nairobi 13 Ogba, Lagos 24 Alwar, Rajasthan 36 Nacharam, Telangana alcohol markets.
These are potentially 2 East Africa Maltings, 14 Paraipaba, Cear 25 Asansol, West Bengal 37 Palakkad, Kerala Nairobi 15 Agricultural lands, Cear 26 Aurangabad, Maharashtra 38 Pathankot, Punjab dangerous for consumers what little is 3 Central Glass, Nairobi 16 Blossom Hill Winery, 27 Baddi, Himachal Pradesh 39 Pioneer, Maharashtra known about this unrecorded alcohol, 4 Seybrew, Seychelles California 28 Baramati, Maharashtra 40 Pondy, Kerala 5 SA Cider, South Africa 17 Provenance, California 29 Bhadrakali, West Bengal 41 Rosa, Uttar Pradesh which the WHO estimates accounts for 25% 6 Dar es Salaam 18 Acacia, California 30 Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh 42 Serampore, West Bengal of alcohol consumed, suggests that some 7 Moshi 19 Chalone, California 31 Four Seasons Winery, 43 Sovereign, Karnataka 8 Mwanza 20 Sterling, California Maharashtra 44 Tern, Andhra Pradesh may be contaminated, some toxic, and a risk 9 UBL, Kampala 21 Beaulieu, California 32 Hospet, Karnataka 45 Udaipur, Rajasthan 10 IDU, Kampala 22 Sonoma, California 33 Kumbalgodu, Karnataka to public health.
11 Accra, Achimota 23 Diageo Chateau & Estate 34 Malkajgiri, Telangana 12 Kumasi, Kaasi Vineyards, California 35 Meerut, Uttar Pradesh
