Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 01 DIAGEO IN 2015 Contents DIAGEO Strategic Report Our business 02 IN 2015 Our global reach 03 Our brands 04 Outstanding breadth and depth across price points 05 Our Performance Ambition 06 Our business model 07 Our ambition is to be one of the best Chairmans statement 08 Chief Executives statement 10 performing, most trusted and respected How we measure performance: key performance indicators 12 consumer products companies in the world.
Market dynamics 14 How we will deliver our Performance Ambition 16 Our purpose is to celebrate life, every day, How we protect our business: risk management and principal risks 20 Group financial review 22 everywhere.
Business reviews 26 Our ambition is supported by six performance drivers and three Category review 36 sustainability and responsibility imperatives.
Sustainability & Responsibility review 38 Definitions and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures 48 Read more on pages 1619 to GAAP measures This year, organic net sales were flat, operating margin improved 24 basis points and free cash flow was up 728 million.
Governance Read more on pages 2225 Board of Directors and Company Secretary 54 We are a global leader in beverage alcohol with an outstanding Executive Committee 55 collection of brands across spirits, beer and wine.
Our products Corporate governance report 56 are sold in more than 180 countries around the world.
Report of the Audit Committee 60 Our brands include Johnnie Walker, Crown Royal, JB, Buchanans Directors remuneration report 63 and Windsor whiskies, Smirnoff, Croc and Ketel One vodkas, Captain Directors report 82 Morgan, Baileys, Don Julio, Tanqueray and Guinness.
Financial statements 84 We continue to invest to build our brands and routes to consumer, to deliver long term profitable growth.
Additional information for shareholders 142 Diageo is listed on both the London Stock Exchange DGE and the New York Stock For more information about Diageo, our people and our brands, Exchange DEO.
This is the Annual Report of Diageo plc for the year ended 30 June 2015 and it is dated Visit Diageos global responsible drinking resource, www.
The Annual Report is made available to all shareholders on Diageos website www.
for information, initiatives, and ways to share best practice.
This report includes names of Diageos products, which constitute trademarks or trade In addition, Diageo has prepared a Sustainability & Responsibility names which Diageo owns or which others own and license to Diageo for use.
In this Performance Addendum, which is available on www.
report, the term company refers to Diageo plc and the terms group and Diageo refer to the company and its consolidated subsidiaries, except as the context otherwise requires.
It outlines further economic, social and environmental disclosures in Diageos consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with line with the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability G4 Guidelines International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European and the United Nations Global Compact advanced reporting criteria.
Union EU and IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
References to IFRS hereafter should be construed as references to both IFRS, as adopted by the EU, and IFRS, as issued by the IASB.
Unless otherwise indicated, all financial information contained in this document has been prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Unless otherwise stated in this document, percentage movements refer to organic movements.
For a definition of organic movement see page 48.
Share, unless otherwise stated, refers to value share.
Unless otherwise stated in this document, the percentage figures presented are reflective of a year-on-year comparison, namely 2014-2015, only.
The brand ranking information presented in this report, when comparing information with competitors, reflects data published by sources such as IWSR, Impact Databank, Nielsen, Beverage Information Group and Plato Logic.
Market data information and competitive set classifications are taken from independent industry sources in the markets in which Diageo operates.
Diageo plc 2015 Cover image Casks of Scotch whisky maturing at Carsebridge, one of our warehouses in Scotland.
Diageo plc is incorporated as a public limited company in England and Wales.
Diageo was incorporated as Arthur Guinness Son and Company Limited on 21 October 1886.
The group was formed by the merger of Grand Metropolitan Public Limited Company GrandMet and Guinness PLC the Guinness Group in December 1997.
Diageo plcs principal executive office is located at Lakeside Drive, Park Royal, London NW10 7HQ and its telephone number is 44 0 20 8978 6000.
Cautionary statement: this document contains forward-looking statements.
For our full cautionary statement, please see on page 144.
