Directors Report This section contains information which the Directors are required by law and regulation to include within the AnnualReport & Accounts.
66 Shareholders the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to Incorporation and principal activity make the transfer: ii in respect of only one class of shares: iii in favour of a Diploma PLC is domiciled in England and registered in England & Wales person who is not a minor: infant, bankrupt or a person of unsound mind: under Company Number 3899848.
At the date of this Report there or iv in favour of not more than four persons jointly.
were 113,239,555 ordinary shares of 5p each in issue, all of which are fully paid up and quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertified share in The principal activity of the Group is the supply of specialised technical accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
A description and review of the activities of the Group during the financial year and an indication of future developments Participants in the Companys SMP pledge investment shares to a is set out on pages 4 to 39: the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 39 nominee for a period of three years, during which period these shares incorporates the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company except certain restrictions which may Annual General Meeting from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at midday on insider trading laws : or where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% Wednesday, 20January 2016 in the Brewers Hall, Aldermanbury Square, interest in the Companys certified shares has been served with a London EC2V 7HR.
A circular setting out the proposed resolutions, disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with including a resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the auditor, will be information concerning interests in those shares.
set out in the Notice of the AGM which is a separate document which will be sent to all shareholders and published on the Groups website.
Shares held by the Diploma Employee Benefit Trust While ordinary shares are held within the Diploma Employee Benefit Substantial shareholdings Trust, the voting rights in respect of those shares are exercisable by the At 13 November 2015 the Company had been notified of the following Trustees in accordance with their fiduciary duties.
The Trustees of the interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights in its ordinary Diploma Employee Benefit Trust also waive dividends on all shares held share capital: for the purposes of the Companys long term incentive arrangements.
Percentage Share allotment of ordinary share A general allotment power and a limited power to allot shares in capital specific circumstances for cash, otherwise than pro rata to existing shareholders, were given to the Directors by resolutions approved at Fidelity Management & Research Co. 8.41% the AGM of the Company held on 21 January 2015.
In the year ended Mondrian Investment Partners Ltd. 8.19% 30September 2015, the Company has not allotted any shares.
These Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. 5.20% powers will expireat the conclusion of the 2016 AGM and resolutions to Royal London Asset Management Ltd. 4.95% renew theDirectors powers are therefore included within the Notice of BlackRock, Inc. 4.54% the AGM in 2016.
Standard Life Investments Ltd. 4.47% Mawer Investment Management Ltd. 4.15% Authority to make market purchases of own shares An authority to make market purchases of shares was given to the As far as the Directors are aware there were no other interests above Directors by a special resolution at the AGM of the Company held on 3% of the issued ordinary share capital.
In the year to 30 September 2015 the Company has not acquired any of its own shares.
This authority will expire at the Share capital conclusion of the 2016 AGM and a resolution to renew the authority is The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, as well as the therefore included within the Notice of the AGM in 2016. powers of the Companys Directors, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from the Group Financial Company Secretary and are available on the Companys website.
Results and dividends The profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders was 36.7m The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders 2014: 35.5m.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 12.4p per that may result in restrictions on the transfers of securities and or voting ordinary share 2014: 11.6p, to be paid, if approved, on 27 January 2016. rights, other than those relating to the Companys Share Matching Plan This, together with the interim dividend of 5.8p 2014: 5.4p per ordinary SMP, described further below.
No person holds securities in the share paid on 17 June 2015 amounts to 18.2p for the year 2014: 17.0p.
Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special The results are shown more fully in the consolidated financial resolution of the Companys shareholders.
statements on pages 68 to 95 and summarised in the Finance Review on pages 18 to 20.
Restrictions on transfer of shares The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share that is Details of post balance sheet events are included in note 29 to the not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares consolidated financial statements.
in the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis, or where the Company has lien over that share.
The Directors may also refuse to Directors assessment of going concern register a transfer of a certificated share, unless the instrument of transfer The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect is: i lodged, duly stamped if necessary, at the registered office of the its future development, performance and position are set out in the Company or any other place as the Board may decide accompanied by the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 39.
The financial position of the Group, its certificate for the share s to be transferred and or such other evidence as cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 67 the Finance Review on pages 18 to 20.
In addition, pages 81 to 83 of the The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records Annual Report & Accounts include the Groups objectives, policies that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: financial position ofthe Parent Company and enable them to ensure that and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
the financial statements comply with the Act.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Parent Company and hence for taking The Group has considerable financial resources, together with a broad reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other spread of customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and irregularities.
sectors, often secured with longer term agreements.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the risks successfully as described further on pages 34 to 37. corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and The Group also has a committed multi-currency revolving bank facility dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in of 40m and an accordion option for a further 10m, both of which other jurisdictions.
At 30 September 2015, the Group had cash funds of 23.0m and had borrowings of 20.0m.
Directors Responsibility Statement The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue the Groups consolidated financial statements, prepared in in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and the Parent continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Company financial statements, prepared in accordance with UK Report & Accounts.
Accounting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and Parent Statement of disclosure Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken Each of the Directors has reviewed this Annual Report & Accounts and as a whole: confirmed that so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information the Annual Report & Accounts includes a fair review of the of which the Companys auditor is unaware and that he has taken all the development and performance of the business and the position steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself ofthe Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks Companys auditor is aware of that information.
and uncertainties faced by the Group: and Statement of Directors responsibilities for preparing the the Annual Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced financialstatements and understandable and provides the information necessary for The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report & shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business Accounts, including the Group and Parent Company financial model and strategy.
statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent on 16 November 2015 and is signed on its behalf by: Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law theDirectors are required to prepare Group financial statements in BM Thompson accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and Chief Executive Officer Article 4 of the IAS Regulations and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom NP Lingwood Generally Accepted Accounting Standards UK Accounting Standards.
Group Finance Director The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as Registered office: adopted by the EU, to present fairly the financial position and the 12 Charterhouse Square performance of the Group: the Companies Act 2006 provides in relation London to such financial statements, that references in the relevant part of that EC1M 6AX Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view, are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU.
For the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements.
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
