72 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Salary Salary increases to be applied in the year ending 30 June 2016 In July 2015, the Remuneration Committee reviewed base salaries for senior management and agreed new salaries which will apply from 1 October 2015.
In determining these salaries, the Remuneration Committee took into consideration a number of factors including general employee salary budgets and employment conditions, individual performance and experience, and salary positioning relative to internal and external peers.
The overall budgeted salary increase for the year ended 30 June 2016 is 2.5% of base salary for the business in the United Kingdom and 3% in North America.
The Committee considered very carefully the total remuneration positioning of the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, the salary budget for all employees in the United Kingdom and the expectations of shareholders with respect to pay restraint.
As a result, and for the second consecutive year for the Chief Executive, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer agreed that their base salaries would remain unchanged in October 2015.
Ivan Menezes Deirdre Mahlan Salary at 1 October 000 2015 2014 2015 2014 Base salary $1,520 $1,520 732 732 % increase over previous year 0% 0% 0% 2.5% Annual incentive plan AIP audited AIP payout for the year ended 30 June 2015 The Remuneration Committee assessed the performance of Ivan Menezes and Deirdre Mahlan against their specific objectives and concluded that the objectives were partially met.
The overall level of performance achieved resulted in an AIP award equating to 55% of base salary for Ivan Menezes and 59% of base salary for Deirdre Mahlan.
The following table illustrates how the outcomes for the different bonus measures contribute to the overall bonus payout.
The actual awards received by the Executive Directors are shown in the table single total figure of remuneration on page 71.
AIP outcome Weight Payout % of % of i Measures maximum Target Actual maximum Organic net sales % growth 30% 4.0% 0.2% 0.0% Profit before exceptional items and tax % growth 35% 6.0% 0.9% 0.0% ii Operating cash conversion 25% 100.0% 109.3% 25.0% A range of objectives linked to individual contribution, medium term strategic goals iii Individual business objectives IBOs 10% and the delivery of the Performance Ambition.
partially met 3.4% 100% 28.4% i Performance measures under the AIP are calculated using 2015 budget exchange rates in line with management reporting and exclude the impact of of IAS 21 in respect of short term intercompany funding balances and IAS 39 in respect of market value movements as recognised in net finance charges and any exceptional items.
USL has been excluded from both the AIP targets and actuals for the year ended 30 June 2015. ii Operating cash conversion is calculated by dividing operating profit before depreciation, amortisation, impairment and exceptional items by cash generated from operations adjusted for cash inflows outflows in respect of exceptional items, dividends, maturing inventories and post employment payments in excess of the amount charged to operating profit.
The ratio is stated at the budget exchange rate of the respective year in line with management reporting.
iii For Ivan Menezes, the IBO outcome was driven by the successful delivery of key financial measures in USL, strengthening routes to consumer in key markets and building corporate reputation through critical initiatives such as responsible drinking and employee engagement.
For Deirdre Mahlan, the IBO outcome was driven by her contribution to the delivery of a strong performance in cash conversion, progress against the supply chain and route to customer enhancements, delivery of the USL financial plan and strengthening the global finance and business services function.
AIP design for the year ending 30 June 2016 Net sales 25% : year-on-year net sales growth is a key The measures and targets used in the AIP are reviewed annually by performance measure: the Remuneration Committee and are chosen to drive financial and Operating cash conversion 30% : ensures focus on efficient individual business performance goals related to the companys short conversion of profits into cash: and term strategic operational objectives.
The AIP design for the year Individual business objectives 20% : are measurable deliverables ending 30 June 2016 will comprise of a four-measure structure that are specific to the individual and are focused on supporting weightings in brackets : the delivery of key strategic objectives.
Profit before exceptional items and tax % growth 25% : stretching profit targets drive operational efficiency and influence Details of the targets for this performance period will be disclosed the level of returns that can be delivered to shareholders through retrospectively in next years annual report on remuneration, as soon increases in share price and dividend income: as they are no longer deemed commercially sensitive by the Board.
