Dignity plc 06 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Market overview The UK funeral market today.
Dignity would welcome further regulation Overview The funeral market as a whole does not of the funeral industry setting out minimum normally change rapidly year on year but the standards for core activities, such as the care of effect over a number of years is noticeable, the deceased, minimum standards of facilities and also operating procedures in crematoria.
whether it is the number of deaths per year, or Reputation and the number of funeral or crematoria locations Office for National Statistics data recommendation within the industry.
The Group monitors and Some of the Groups key performance responds to the environment it operates in, remain a key driver indicators rely on the total number of seeking to understand the implications for the in someones choice estimated deaths for each period.
This short, medium and long-term.
information is obtained from the Office for of funeral director.
Scale and structure National Statistics ONS.
The funeral director market is very fragmented, The initial publication of recorded total Industry at a glance with approximately two thirds of funeral estimated deaths in Britain for the 52 weeks in directors being small owner managed The funeral director market 2015 was 588,000 compared to 550,000 for businesses.
Historically, the ONS has updated these There are approximately 280 crematoria in the estimates from time to time.
As in previous Approximately 70 per cent UK, with approximately 70 per cent owned by years, the Group does not restate any of its key of crematoria are owned local authorities.
Approximately three quarters performance indicators when these figures are by local authorities.
restated in the following year.
of all funerals result in a cremation with the Annual variations in the remainder being burials.
Although annual deaths have declined number of deaths are significantly since the early 1990s from Regulation normally relatively small.
The provision of funeral services is not 640,000 to a recent low of 539,000 in 2011, the There is not currently any regulated.
Trade organisations such as the last four years have seen deaths above that level.
regulation pending that National Association of Funeral Directors Competition would materially affect the NAFD provide training and qualifications, Whilst a precise list of all funeral directors is funeral industry.
although they are not mandatory.
not available, data from various sources suggest that the number of funeral directors in the UK The Coroners Reform Act became law in Industry trends has increased from approximately 4,300 in Scotland in the period.
It has not materially Economic lifestyle and changed the operation of the Groups funeral 1998 to around 5,500 today.
Although competition is increasing, the nature There is currently an ongoing Select Committee of a service business is that the quality of High barriers to entry enquiry in Westminster into bereavement service being provided is not known in advance.
Funeral services benefits and funeral poverty.
The Scottish Consequently, reputation and recommendation 92 per cent of people remain a key driver in someones choice of Government also commissioned a report on approach just one funeral funeral poverty and the level of allowance paid funeral director.
Over the last five years, director.
to funeral directors, which has not changed approximately 70 per cent of our clients say since 2003. they have chosen us for these reasons.
Over 72 per cent of people choose a funeral In response to conclusions from the same With crematoria, amongst other things, arranger based on group that made recommendations that planning laws require there to be a need for a personal experience or resulted in the Coroners Reform Act, as well new crematorium in a particular area.
be difficult to prove and can be an emotive as recommendations from a commission appointed to review infant cremations, the subject for local residents.
This, combined with Crematoria Scottish Government is also seeking to enact availability of appropriate land and the high Criteria for new crematoria new legislation.
Amongst other things, this capital cost of construction, has limited the are very demanding.
could lead to the licensing of funeral directors growth in the number of crematoria in the UK.
Pre-arranged funerals in Scotland and the appointment of a Scottish Pre-arranged funeral plans allow the Group the Inspector of funerals.
opportunity to gain incremental funerals.
Our national network allows us to work with national Crematoria are subject to environmental regulations in accordance with The Secretary partners offering a funeral plan anywhere in of States Guidance for Crematoria, with the UK.
emission levels being monitored by Local Outlook Authority Environmental Health Officers.
The The ONS expects the number of deaths per abatement of mercury emissions has improved annum to start to increase at some point the environmental position.
Pre-arranged funeral plans are exempt from the provisions of the Finance Services and Markets Act, provided certain conditions prescribed in that Act are met.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 07 Market overview Maintaining our strong market Links leading positions.
See Strategy and business model: p. 12 and p. 13 See Our KPIs: p. 14 and p. 15 See The Client Survey performance: p. 16 See Operating review: p. 18 to p. 23 A strong core business that is well placed for the future Dignitys funeral market share Developments in the year 2015 saw the Group expand its network of funeral locations through the % % 12.3 2014:11.7 acquisition of a number of established Excellent client service is critical to funeral businesses operating a total of Funeral services: Our strengths 48 locations.
Dignity has approximately 12.3 per cent of the funeral market.
This gives the Group Outlook and opportunities sufficient size to operate its locations The Group remains focused on acquiring % 70 efficiently in a way that shares expensive additional businesses and opening new resources, such as mortuaries and specialist satellite locations.
Recommendations and our reputation have vehicles, whilst providing very high levels generated approximately 70 per cent of our funeral of service to each family it looks after.
business on average over the last five years.
This size still gives the Group good scope to acquire owner managed businesses in areas where it is not well represented.
Committed to both quality of service and business success Dignitys crematoria market share Developments in the year The vast majority of our funeral business relies on Planning permission has been obtained reputation, recommendation and previous experience.
on two crematoria, which should open % % 9.8 2014:9.7 This reliance will decline as the percentage of our mid-2017 or early 2018. business resulting from our pre-arranged funeral Crematoria: Our strengths plan business increases.
Outlook and opportunities With 39 crematoria, Dignity is the largest The Group continues to seek ways to single operator in the UK.
The cremations Source of business increase the number of crematoria it performed represent approximately 9.8 per operates.
However, acquisition targets are 20% Source: Dignity surveys 84% cent of deaths in Britain.
There is still 18% scarce and planning laws will continue to 82% significant scope to expand through 16% 80% make it difficult to build new locations.
acquisition or new builds where possible.
14% 78% 12% 76% 10% 74% 8% 72% 6% 70% 4% Number of active pre-arranged Developments in the year 68% 2% funeral plans New affinity partners have helped the 0% 66% Group develop its offerings.
A number 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 of additional partners are currently 2014:348,000 374,000 Pre-arranged Closest location Other Reputation, recommendation being tested.
funeral plans left hand axis left hand axis & previous experience left hand axis right hand axis Pre-arranged funeral plans: Outlook and opportunities Our strengths Further relationships with new affinity Dignitys national network of funeral Quality and consistency of service partners will be developed, with a focus locations and strong relationships with many Our clients continue to return and recommend us on ensuring each plan makes economic different affinity partners has allowed it to because of the quality and consistency of service sense for the customer and the Group.
sell significant volumes of pre-arranged we deliver.
funerals that should represent incremental Ongoing training and development of our people and activity for the funeral division in the future.
investments in our business help us to improve, meet and exceed expectations.
Meeting and exceeding expectations %ofclients 100% 12 Month rolling average 65% 99% 63% 98% 61% 97% 59% 96% 57% 95% 55% Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 15 Met and exceeded expectations Exceeded expectations left hand axis right hand axis
