36 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CATEGORY REVIEW Volume Net sales Marketing spend CATEGORY REVIEW Scotch North Rum Gin Beer Ready Indian Made Foreign American to drink Liquor IMFL Vodka Liqueurs Tequila Wine whisk e y Other Organic volume Organic net sales Reported net sales Global giants represent 39% of Diageo i movement movement movement net sales % % % ii Johnnie Walker, with nearly 70% of its Spirits 2 1 10 net sales in the emerging markets, was Scotch 4 5 9 impacted by currency weakness and Vodka 1 1 inventory reductions in South East Asia North American whisk e y 10 12 15 and export channels in Latin America.
Rum 3 3 6 In the United States, the brand lapped Liqueurs 1 4 8 the shipment of two big innovations, Gin 4 5 3 Gold Label Reserve and Platinum Label Tequila 10 14 38 in the prior year: Red and Black Label Beer 3 4 2 were negatively impacted by reduced Ready to drink 11 4 13 promotional activities.
In China, the Wine 1 1 1 governments anti extravagance Total 1 5 measures drove continued closure of i Organic equals reported movement for volume except for total 58%, spirits 72%, ready to drink 18 %, liqueurs 1 %, and tequila 25%, largely reflecting the full consolidation of USL, the acquisition of Don Julio and the termination of traditional on trade outlets, leading to agency brand distribution agreements, including Jose Cuervo.
increased competition in the modern on ii Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
trade negatively impacting the whole scotch category.
Many other markets Organic volume Organic net sales Reported net sales i delivered strong performance, including movement movement movement % % % Cameroon, Angola, Ghana, and East Africa Global giants with net sales up more than 50% and Johnnie Walker 6 9 12 Mexico, Venezuela, and Colombia which Smirnoff 1 2 3 all delivered double digit sales growth.
Captain Morgan 4 6 7 In the developed markets in Asia Pacific, Baileys 4 4 8 Johnnie Walker performed strongly and Tanqueray 6 5 5 net sales grew high single digit.
Guinness 2 5 Smirnoff net sales declined 2%, largely Local stars driven by the United States, and the Crown Royal 13 12 15 weakness in flavoured vodka there.
Yen Raki 4 4 6 The relaunch of the brand with the JB 2 4 9 Exclusively for Everybody marketing Buchanans 9 3 12 campaign, new packaging and targeted Windsor 10 10 8 price promotions drove improved Old Parr 13 14 24 depletions momentum and share gains Bundaberg 5 7 13 on Smirnoff Red.
In Western Europe, Bells 3 5 14 a number of countries, notably Great White Horse 5 7 26 Britain, delivered growth.
Net sales were Ypica 5 3 14 up in Latin America, with Brazil growing Cacique 37 3 32 8% following the national Cheers to Shui Jing Fang 268 235 241 Real Life campaign launch.
Smirnoff Reserve had a very strong year in South Africa Scotch malts 11 16 12 with Smirnoff 1818 sales growing 27%.
Croc 6 6 9 Ketel One vodka 3 2 1 Don Julio 8 12 43 Bulleit 34 38 42 i Organic equals reported movement for volume, except for Don Julio where reported volume growth is 98%.
1 Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 37 CATEGORY REVIEW Other Key Highlights Captain Morgan net sales were down Local stars represent 16% of Diageo net sales.
Overall performance was good with Within whisk e y, scotch represents 24% 6% due to the performance of the brand in the United States, where Captain net sales growth of 4%.
In developed of Diageo net sales and declined by 5%.
Morgan held share in a flat rum category markets, there was double digit growth Approximately 80% of this decline was due to inventory reductions in South East that is facing heightened competition on certain premium brands that have resonance with particular consumer Asia and export channels in Latin America from other categories.
The decline in shipments was driven by weakness on groups, such as Buchanans in the United on Johnnie Walker, Buchanans, and Old Original Spiced Rum, and Captain Morgan States with the Hispanic community, and Parr.
Other brands including Haig Club, The Singleton, and scotch malts globally, White Rum which lapped its launch last Crown Royal Regal Apple with millennial consumers in high energy occasions.
and Buchanans in the United States year.
The launch of Captain Morgan White Flavours partially offset the shipments In China, Shui Jing Fang showed performed well, with many growing decline on the core variants.
Elsewhere, significant growth due to innovation, a double digit.
the brands performance continued to strengthened route to consumer, and a Also within whisk e y, North American soft prior year comparable.
In emerging be strong with double digit growth in whisk e y, which represents 7% of Great Britain, Germany, Southern Europe, markets more broadly, there was good Diageo net sales, grew 12% this year with Australia, India, and East Africa.
performance from local and secondary over 2pps of positive price mix.
This Baileys net sales declined 4% having imported brands as certain consumer strong performance was driven by the segments traded down, particularly started the year with high inventory successful launch of Crown Royal Regal levels.
It experienced softer depletions where local production protected pricing Apple, the continued strong growth of this year in the United States and Nigeria.
The net result is Bulleit, and the acclaimed range of rare In China, after weakness in the first half, that whilst premium imported brands bourbons in the Orphan Barrel series.
such as Windsor and Old Parr have seen specific interventions to drive consumer Vodka represents 12% of Diageo net conversion resulted in stronger second sales decline, there was strong growth sales and grew 1%.
The growth of Croc half depletions, up mid single digit.
In on brands such as Yen Raki in Turkey, in Europe and North America, as well as Western Europe performance was Cacique in Venezuela and White Horse Smirnoff in Africa and Latin America was in Brazil.
impacted by lapping the launch of partially offset by the decline of Smirnoff Chocolat Luxe in the prior year, but the Reserve brands represent 13% of in developed markets.
Baileys brand achieved share gains in the Diageo net sales, and continued to Beer represents 18% of Diageo net sales, key markets of Great Britain and Germany.
perform well with net sales growth of 8%.
grew 4% and delivered 1.1pps of positive The brand continued to expand its During the economic volatility of recent price mix.
Beer in Africa grew 8%, led by footprint in emerging markets, with years, the wealthy consumer base that double digit growth in Africa Regional double digit growth in Colombia, underpins reserve has been resilient.
In Nigeria, the success of Orijin West LAC, and Africa Regional Markets.
The slight deceleration in overall reserve and Satzenbrau more than offset declines Tanqueray gin benefited from a growth was driven by lapping strong in Guinness and Harp.
East Africa strong focus on increased visibility innovation shipments on Johnnie Walker delivered double digit growth on and distribution in the on trade, Gold Label Reserve and Platinum Label in Guinness and a good performance with supported by the highly effective the United States.
Ketel One vodka faced Tusker.
Performance of Guinness in Tonight We Tanqueray campaign.
increased competitive pressure from both developed markets was good, driven by This drove strong double digit growth within and outside the category.
Across the successful launch of Brewers Project in Western Europe, particularly in Spain the wider portfolio, performance was innovations and Blonde American Lager.
and Great Britain, with accelerating strong.
Scotch malts grew double digit, growth in Germany and Benelux.
Ready to drink represents 5% of Diageo led by The Singleton which was the Net sales for the gin brand grew 6%, net sales and declined 4% this year.
The fastest growing of the top 5 global malt with Tanqueray No.
TEN up double main driver of this decline was in South whisky brands last year.
The very strong digit in every region.
Africa with Smirnoff Ice Double Black and performance of Bulleit continued with Guinness net sales were flat, reflecting Guarana where the brand lapped a sales up 38%, benefiting from high a strong performance in both the United strong performance in the previous year advocacy amongst the bartender States and Western Europe, where the and an increase in inventories ahead of its community.
Zacapa rum and tequila Don brand grew 3% and 2% respectively.
Elsewhere there Julio also delivered double digit growth This was achieved through a combination was growth in ready to drink, including globally, reflecting the quality and of acclaimed innovations such as Blonde East Africa, West LAC, and Australia.
heritage of these products, and the American Lager and Dublin Porter that In Great Britain, ready to drink cans strength of the reserve business model.
built on the Guinness brewing heritage, underpinned sales growth of 7% in Croc continues to expand its footprint a drive to increase presence and the category.
outside of North America with strong distribution in bars, and a series of award growth in Western Europe, particularly Wine represents 4% of Diageo sales winning marketing campaigns built Great Britain, where it rapidly gained and declined 1%.
In the United States, under the Made of More platform.
In share from the market leader and is now a decline of 1% was driven by depletion Nigeria, sales declined but performance the number two ultra premium vodka.
softness as the business lapped one off improved over the course of the year programming in the prior year on core and volume share stabilised.
In Europe, commercial challenges declined in Indonesia due to adverse on Blossom Hill were offset by the strong regulatory changes.
