Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 21 Sector Review Life Sciences Seals Controls % of Group revenue % of Group revenue % of Group revenue % % % 31 42 27 1 1 1 Geography Geography Geography 59% Canada 63% North America 60% UK 28% Europe 30% Europe 32% Continental Europe 13% Rest of World 7% Rest of World 8% Rest of World Customers Customers Customers 84% Clinical 41% Industrial OEMs 29% Aerospace & Defence 6% 10% Utilities 28% Heavy Construction 27% Industrial 3% Chemical & Petrochemical 17% Other Industrial 18% Food & Beverage 2% Life Sciences Research 10% Industrial Aftermarket 15% Motorsport 1% Other Life Sciences 3% Dump & Refuse Trucks 7% Energy & Utilities 1% Logging & Agriculture 4% Medical & Scientific Products Products Products 71% Consumables 43% Seals & Seal Kits 38% Wire & Cable 19% Instrumentation 16% O-rings 18% Fasteners 10% Service 15% Cylinders & Other 14% Equipment & Components 10% Filters 14% Connectors 9% Gask ets 11% Control Devices 7% Attachment Kits 5% Other Controls 387 764 334 Employees Employees Employees Principal businesses Principal businesses Principal businesses Diploma Healthcare Group DHG Hercules Fluid Power Group HFPG IS-Group a1-group EMEA Seals FPE Seals, Kentek, Specialty Fasteners M Seals, Kubo, WCIS Filcon Hawco 1 By destination.
Sector Review continued 22 Life Sciences The Life Sciences Sector businesses supply a range of consumables, instrumentation and related services to the healthcare and environmental industries.
Healthcare Revenue growth compound over five years The Diploma Healthcare Group DHG in Canada comprises three principal operating businesses which supply to the ca.
600 public hospitals across the country as well as to private clinics and laboratories.
a. Somagen Diagnostics Somagen supplies a range of consumables 13 and instruments used in the diagnostic testing of blood, tissue and 15 103.1m other samples in hospital pathology laboratories.
It is also a leading supplier to the growing assisted reproductive technology ART 14 91.4m market.
AMT Surgical AMT supplies specialised electrosurgery 13 93.2m equipment and consumables for use in hospital operating rooms.
12 78.4m AMT is also building a portfolio of specialised surgical instruments 74.4m 11 and devices used in minimally invasive MI Surgery.
Vantage 10 55.4m Endoscopy Vantage supplies endoscopes, reprocessors and related consumables and services to GI Endoscopy suites in hospitals and private clinics.
Principal segments DHG also operates in Australia and New Zealand through Diagnostic Solutions DSL and Big Green Surgical BGS which are both located in Melbourne.
BGS and DSL focus on similar markets respectively to the AMT and Somagen businesses and share a number of common suppliers.
In October 2014, DHG extended its operations into Europe with the acquisition of Technopath Distribution TPD, an established supplier of products to the Biotechnology, Clinical Laboratory and Medical markets in Ireland and the UK.
Environmental 85% Healthcare The a1-group is a supplier to Environmental testing laboratories and to 15% Environment Health & Safety engineers.
The a1-envirosciences business, based in Germany, supplies a range of specialised environmental analysers and a range of containment enclosures for potent powder handling.
The Geography a1-CBISS business, based in the UK, supplies equipment and services for the monitoring and control of environmental emissions, as well as a range of gas detection devices.
Principal operations Healthcare Somagen Diagnostics Edmonton, AB, Canada AMT Surgical Kitchener, ON, Canada Vantage Endoscopy Markham, ON, Canada Big Green Surgical Melbourne, VIC, Australia Diagnostic Solutions Melbourne, VIC, Australia Technopath Distribution Ballina, Co. Tipperary, Ireland 59% Canada 28% Europe Environmental 13% Rest of World a1-CBISS Tranmere, UK a1-envirosciences Dusseldorf, Germany Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 23 Market drivers The DHG businesses in Canada supply into areas of Healthcare which Canadian healthcare expenditure C$bn % growth are predominantly public sector funded.
Private sector funding in 14 151.5 63.4 2.1% Canada is mostly focused on areas where DHG do not participate, 13 148.6 61.8 2.4% including dental, cosmetic and eye surgery and pharmaceuticals.
The 12 145.1 60.3 3.0% principal demand driver for DHG is therefore the level of healthcare 11 140.8 58.6 3.1% spending funded by the Canadian Government.
10 136.0 57.3 6.1% The Canadian Healthcare industry is a proven, long term growth 129.0 53.1 09 5.8% environment for medical device distribution.
A growing, aging and well 08 121.3 50.8 7.4% educated population demands high standards of service delivery, Public Private helping to ensure ongoing growing demand: per capita healthcare Source: Canadian Institute for Health Information spending in Canada is in the top 20% of OECD countries.
The Canadian Health Act the Act ensures universal coverage for all insured persons for all medically necessary services provided by hospitals, physicians Australian healthcare expenditure A$bn % growth and other healthcare providers.
The Provinces are responsible for the delivery of the healthcare services, but the Federal Government 14 104.8 49.8 5.2% controls delivery through Federal Provincial transfer payments, which 13 100.4 46.6 3.5% represent the largest source of revenues for the Provinces.
12 99.3 42.6 7.9% 11 91.2 40.4 8.1% The relative stability and consistency in funding by each of the 10 84.9 36.8 6.4% Provinces, guaranteed through the Act, ensures that the market 78.7 35.7 09 10.5% remains well funded through the economic cycle.
Over many years, 08 71.2 32.3 healthcare expenditure has grown steadily with annual variations 9.1% mostly dependent on the periodic additional tranches of funding Public Private provided by individual Provinces.
In periods when the economy is Source: Australian Institute of Health & Welfare slower, as has been the case in 2014 and 2015, healthcare funding may be constrained.
The funding constraints can be experienced through targeted controls imposed on the number of laboratory tests and Total health expenditure as a percentage of GDP operating procedures as well as more rigorous tendering processes for 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 expenditure on capital equipment.
Even during such periods, however, healthcare funding has shown positive growth, albeit at reduced levels.
Canada 11.6% 11.3% 11.3% 11.2% 11.1% Australia 9.4% 9.3% 9.5% 9.7% 9.8% The Healthcare market in Australia shares with Canada many of the same attractive characteristics for specialised distribution.
While Sources: As above privately funded healthcare is more prevalent in areas such as surgery and laboratory testing, public sector healthcare funding is still large and supported by a stable, resource based economy.
As with Canada, there is a large geography to be covered, low population density and purchasing processes that vary by State.
These characteristics necessarily demand a significant investment by manufacturers in technical sales and service resource which makes the specialised distribution model more attractive as an efficient way to serve the market.
Over the last two years, the Canadian and Australian economies have come under significant pressure from the falling oil price and reduced demand for the countries natural resources.
This tougher economic environment has resulted in greater pressure on budgets throughout the Healthcare systems in Canada and Australia.
The market drivers for the TPD business are Healthcare funding in Ireland and the UK and activity levels in the Food, Dairy, Water and Pharmaceutical industries in Ireland.
The a1-group supplies to customers in the Environmental industry in the UK, Germany and France.
The market demand is largely driven by Environmental and Health & Safety regulations and growth in recent years has been driven by the need to be compliant with a range of EU regulations.
Since market demand is driven by regulation, this ensures reasonably steady demand for essential consumable products and services, though customers may defer capital expenditure during significant downturns in the economy.
Sector Review continued 24 Healthcare Life Sciences Revenues from the DHG group of Healthcare businesses increased by 5% after adjusting for the acquisitions of TPD and Chemzyme and for Sector performance translational currency effects.
The Canadian Healthcare businesses increased revenues by 5% in local currency, with consumable and service revenues accounting for m ca.
The tougher economic environment in Canada, caused largely by the falling oil prices and reduced demand for the 103.1 countrys natural resources, has put greater pressure on budgets Revenue throughout the Healthcare system.
There have also been various 2015 2014 initiatives to restructure functions within several Provinces and regions, which have constrained purchasing and slowed down capital Revenue 103.1m 91.4m purchases.
In particular there has been a freeze in capital spending Adjusted operating profit 21.0m 19.7m in Quebec, while the Province completes the centralisation of its Health regions.
Adjusted operating margin 20.4% 21.6% Free cash flow 15.6m 14.9m Against this background, Somagen achieved good growth in sales of consumable products across its key suppliers, in particular HbA1c ROATCE 21.1% 21.9% diabetes testing and electrophoresis, colorectal cancer screening and assisted reproductive technology ART.
Capital equipment sales in Reported revenues of the Life Sciences businesses increased by 13% to the first half of the year were slow due to the reorganisation of testing 103.1m 2014: 91.4m.
The acquisitions of TPD in October 2014 and services in certain Provinces: however a number of the delayed orders Chemzyme in July 2014 added 13.3m, or 15%, to Sector revenues but were released in the second half of the year with sales of histology this was partly offset by a reduction of ca.
6% in revenues from the instrumentation finishing strongly.
Investments have been made during translational currency impact from the continued weakening in the the year in establishing new suppliers in the areas of quality control Canadian and Australian dollars and the Euro relative to UK sterling.
products and automation in microbiology and theranostics, which On a constant currency basis, underlying revenues increased by 4%.
focuses on the patients response to specific biotherapeutic drugs.
Gross margins in the Healthcare businesses continued to be impacted AMTs core electrosurgery business has continued to grow unit significantly by transactional currency effects.
During the financial year, volumes with increasing smoke evacuation compliance in existing the Canadian and Australian businesses experienced further accounts and penetration into new accounts.
However, tender and depreciation in their domestic currencies of 20% and 25% respectively evaluation processes introduced by the Provincial SSOs shared services relative to the US dollar, which is the principal currency in which these organisations and the GPOs general purchasing organisations have businesses mostly purchase their products.
The TPD business in Ireland put pressure on unit prices and constrained revenue growth.
AMT and the UK has not been impacted in the same way by transactional has responded by introducing lower cost product options alongside currency effects, but joined the Group with slightly lower operating premium products to ensure competitive pricing in major tenders.
Currency hedging contracts and supplier price concessions AMT has continued to make progress in its supply of specialised surgical have provided some mitigation, but Healthcare gross margins have instruments and devices used in laparoscopic and other MI minimally reduced by 370bps compared with the prior year.
Environmental gross invasive Surgery procedures.
margins improved and operating costs as a percentage of revenue reduced across the Life Sciences businesses: Sector adjusted operating Vantage posted a very strong second half to the year and delivered margins therefore reduced by only 120bps to 20.4% 2014: 21.6%.
On a double-digit growth in revenues for the full year.
In the first half of the reported basis, adjusted operating profit increased in UK sterling terms year, the main consumable product lines performed to expectation by 7% to 21.0m 2014: 19.7m.
with modest growth in revenues from argon plasma probes, endoscope reprocessor chemicals and other accessories including Capital expenditure in the Sector increased to 2.5m 2014: 1.2m, specialist retrieval devices.
Capital equipment revenues however were which included 1.9m invested in field equipment for placement in underperforming due to delayed budget approvals.
In the second half, hospitals and clinics by the Canadian Healthcare businesses and consumable and service revenues continued to grow steadily and 0.4m invested in IT infrastructure, including 0.1m in a new ERP results were boosted by strong capital equipment sales as the delayed system in Vantage which completed its installation in November 2015. orders were released and by new CPP cost per procedure placements.
Free cash flow increased to 15.6m 2014: 14.9m, reflecting a By the end of the year, Vantage was able to deliver double-digit growth combination of the increased operating profit and reduced cash flows across all of its principal capital product lines including endoscopes, into working capital, offset by the increase in capital expenditure.
reprocessors and argon plasma units.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 25 In Australia and New Zealand, the economies have faced similar Highlights from the Year challenges to those experienced in Canada and Healthcare budgets have come under the same pressures.
Against this background, Sector revenue growth of 13%: underlying growth revenues from DSL and BGS increased by a creditable 11% in local currency terms 7% growth after adjusting for the acquisition of of 4% after adjusting for currency and TPD Chemzyme.
BGS continued to grow revenues strongly, with smoke acquisition evacuation programmes in existing and new accounts providing the main driver for growth and with steady growth in sales of electrosurgical Good revenue growth in DHGs Canadian and grounding pads and laparoscopic electrodes.
DSL consumable and Australian businesses despite pressure on service revenues trended in line with expectations and delivered Healthcare budgets modest growth, but capital equipment sales were slower due to budget pressures and delayed projects.
DSL and BGS operate as distinct sales Stronger second half of year as delayed capital and marketing businesses, benefiting from a single leadership group equipment orders released: significant pressure and shared operations and back office systems in Melbourne, giving on margins from 20-25% depreciation of the efficiencies and critical mass of a shared services group.
The Canadian and Australian dollars against US dollar Chemzyme business, acquired in July 2014, was fully integrated into DHGs Melbourne operations during the year.
TPD acquisition extends DHG into Ireland and theUK: strong double-digit growth in first year In early October 2014, DHG acquired 80% of TPD, an established supplier to the Biotechnology, Clinical Laboratory and Medical markets Environmental businesses maintained underlying in Ireland and the UK.
The acquisition of TPD represents an important revenues and finished the year with solid order first step in extending the scope of the Groups Healthcare businesses into these new markets in Europe.
In addition, TPD brings important book new products and suppliers to the DHG group in the areas of rapid hygiene testing in Food, Dairy and Pharmaceutical industries as well as Potential for Growth Digestive Health.
TPD has performed very well since acquisition, delivering strong double-digit revenue growth on a like-for-like basis.
Increase share of specialised segments of Environmental Healthcare markets in Canada and Australia Revenues from the Environmental businesses in Europe increased by 1% in constant currency terms.
The a1-envirosciences business based Build presence in the UK and Ireland from TPD in Germany increased revenues by 6% in Euro terms and ended the year base and explore opportunities more broadly with an encouraging book-to bill ratio.
There was strong demand for in Europe high-end elemental analysers supplied to Petrochemical industry customers and Environmental laboratories.
There was also Extend into other specialised medical disciplines considerable customer interest in the range of recently introduced with new products and technologies mercury analysers for fuel analysis.
The a1-CBISS business based in the UK saw revenues reduce by 4% against a very strong prior year Continue to develop product and geographic comparative.
Reduced revenues from CEMS continuous emissions spread of Environmental businesses monitoring systems were against very strong comparatives 20% growth in 2014 and the sector remains buoyant with new Biomass and Energy from Waste plants forming an important part of the UKs energy portfolio with the reduction in coal fired power stations.
A solid order book is carried into the new fiscal year including the completion of a large order from Drax related to the conversion of its plant to biofuels.
The gas detection sector had a strong first half but was then impacted by the slowdown in sales to Oil & Gas customers.
Across both Environmental businesses, there was strong double-digit growth in revenues from Service programmes, which now represent ca.
Sector Review continued 26 Seals The Seals Sector businesses supply a range of seals, gaskets, filters, cylinders, components and kits used in heavy mobile machinery and specialised industrial equipment.
Aftermarket Revenue growth compound over five years The Aftermarket businesses supply sealing and associated products to support a broad range of mobile machinery in applications including heavy construction, logging, mining, agriculture, material handling lift %p.
a. trucks, fork lifts and dump trucks and refuse collection.
The products 18 are generally supplied on a next day delivery basis and are used in the 15 139.6m repair and maintenance of equipment after it has completed its initial warranty period or lease term, or has been sold on in the pre-used 14 119.8m market.
The main customers are machinery and cylinder repair shops, 13 106.1m engine and transmission rebuilders and other heavy equipment parts 12 99.9m distributors.
The Aftermarket businesses also supply products to end 11 80.0m users operating process plants within the Pharmaceutical, Chemical, 10 60.1m Food and Energy sectors.
Industrial OEM Principal segments The Industrial OEM businesses supply seals, gaskets, O-rings and custom moulded and machined parts to a range of Industrial OEM customers.
The businesses work closely with customers to select the most appropriate seal material and manufacturer for the application, provide technical support and guidance during the product development process and provide the logistics capabilities to supply from inventory for small to medium sized production runs.
Principal operations Aftermarket Hercules Fluid Power Group HFPG Hercules Bulldog Clearwater & Tampa, FL, US 55% Aftermarket Hercules Canada Barrie, ON & Dorval, QC, Canada 45% Industrial OEM HKX Monroe, WA, US FPE Seals Darlington, Doncaster, Gravesend & Aberdeen, UK: Breda, The Netherlands Geography Kentek Helsinki, Finland: St. Petersburg, Russia: Tallinn, Riga & Vilnius, Baltic States WCIS Perth & Brisbane, Australia: Noumea, New Caledonia Industrial OEM HFPG All Seals Lake Forest, CA & Houston, TX, US J Royal Clemmons, NC & Tallassee, AL, US: Shanghai, China RT Dygert Minneapolis, MN, Chicago, IL & Seattle, WA, US 63% North America 30% Europe M Seals Espergaerde, Denmark: Halmstad, 7% Rest of World Sweden: Beijing, China: Gateshead, UK Kubo Effretikon, Switzerland & Linz, Austria Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 27 Market drivers In North America where ca.
65% of Sector revenues are generated, the US construction spend $bn principal market drivers for both the Aftermarket and Industrial OEM Seals 600 businesses is the growth rate in the general industrial economy.
In 2015, the US economy is forecast to show annual GDP growth of 2.5% 2014: 500 2.4%, driven primarily by strong consumer spending.
The US economy and industrial production contracted in the first quarter which was in part attributable to port closures, but in the second quarter GDP growth 400 resumed as house prices increased and customer confidence returned.
However, the significant reduction in oil price and lower demand for natural resources weighed down the resource dependent States.
300 In Canada, 2015 GDP growth is forecast to decline to 1.5% 2014: 2.4% due again to the dependence of the Canadian economy on the Oil & 200 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 Gas and Mining sectors.
In general, the economic conditions in the principal South and Central American economies served by the North Source: Cyclast Intercast American Aftermarket businesses have remained challenging.
For the Aftermarket businesses, activity and spending levels in the US US construction equipment units 000 Construction sector are important, since this market accounts for over 60 50% of Aftermarket Seals revenues.
Statistics on total US Construction Spend include non-residential and infrastructure spend, as well as 50 residential housing activity.
Overall US Construction Spend has risen 40 steadily during 2014 and 2015 as contractors completed the build-out phases of construction projects.
However, these phases generally 30 require lower usage of heavy mobile equipment than the ground clearance and preparation phases and there has been a reduction in 20 activity in the States most impacted by the slowdown in the Oil & Gas and Mining sectors.
10 Unit sales in the US of Construction Equipment defined as heavy 0 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 mobile equipment including excavators above 14 tonnes, crawler dozers and wheeled loaders is an important short term indicator for the Source: Cyclast Intercast HKX attachment kit business.
It is also important as a medium term indicator for Hercules replacement hydraulic seals activities, as the US industrial production index new heavy equipment will move out of the dealer warranty period in 120 the following years.
Unit sales grew strongly in 2014 as dealers, contractors and rental fleets bought ahead of the introduction of tighter emissions standards.
During the first half of 2015, the demand for new 110 equipment declined sharply as the general machine population is relatively new and equipment, previously used in the Oil & Gas and Mining sectors, was released back through auction houses into the 100 Heavy Construction sector.
For the Industrial OEM Seals businesses, the most appropriate indicator 90 is the Industrial Production Index, which moved ahead strongly in 2014 when the US enjoyed a strong oil price and a more competitive 80 exchange rate for its exports.
The Index has been essentially flat during 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 2015 as the stronger dollar and a significant slowdown in the natural Source: US Federal Reserve seasonally adjusted resources sector offset stronger domestic consumer demand.
In Europe, the economies have been highly variable in 2014 and 2015, driven by a number of contributing economic and geopolitical factors.
Although overall GDP growth in Europe is forecast to recover modestly to 1.5% 2014: 0.8%, the economies have been negatively impacted by the Greek debt crisis, the EU and US sanctions against Russia as well as reductions in exports as a result of the global economic slowdown.
The UK and German economies have remained more buoyant than other European countries, but growth is forecast to slow to 2.4% 2014: 2.9% in the UK and to remain broadly flat at 1.7% 2014: 1.6% in Germany.
The Industrial Production indices in these countries have generally lagged the overall economic growth.
Sector Review continued 28 In the US, Hercules Bulldog grew domestic sales by 1% on a like-for-like Seals basis, as a generally solid performance in most territories was offset by substantial declines in the resource dependent States including Texas, Sector performance Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Colorado and Montana.
Further progress was made in electronic trading and the number of sales orders processed online now accounts for 21% of Hercules Bulldog orders in the US.
The seal machining centres also continued to deliver good growth, with a m fourth machine added during the year.
Revenues from exports outside the US, which account for 15% of Hercules Bulldog sales, increased by 139.6 2% with good growth rates in Mexico and Central America more than Revenue offsetting reductions in other South American markets.
In September 2015 2014 2015, the Bulldog gasket manufacturing and kit assembly operations in Reno were relocated to a new facility in Tampa, close to the core Revenue 139.6m 119.8m Hercules Clearwater site.
The new facility has improved international Adjusted operating profit 24.8m 21.7m port and air carrier links and is expected to deliver ca.
0.2m p. a. in annual cost savings.
Adjusted operating margin 17.8% 18.1% Free cash flow 17.8m 16.4m Hercules Canada increased revenues by 10% in local currency terms, with solid sales to the traditional mobile equipment repair sector ROATCE 23.7% 26.0% boosted by the installation of an additional seal making machine.
There were also increased sales to Canadian cylinder manufacturers, serving Reported revenues of the Seals businesses increased by 17% to US equipment OEM customers and benefiting from the weak Canadian 139.6m 2014: 119.8m.
These revenues included contributions from dollar.
Hercules Canada has its principal distribution centres in Ontario Kubo acquired in March 2015, Kentek acquired in January 2014 and and Quebec and has limited direct exposure to the depressed Oil & Gas four smaller bolt-on acquisitions in the UK completed during the last sector in Western Canada.
After adjusting for these acquisitions and for currency translation, underlying revenues increased by 4%.
HKXs revenues decreased by ca.
20% from its record performance in 2014, when there was strong demand from rental fleets for new Good progress has been made during the year in establishing a more excavators and OEM engineering resources were focused on the substantial presence outside North America through a combination of transition to new Tier 4 Final emissions regulations.
In 2015, the higher organic growth and acquisition.
The businesses based in the EMEA pricing of the new Tier 4 Final machines has dampened demand for region contributed 47.3m to Seals revenues in the year 2014: 29.9m new excavators and excavator OEMs have been supplying a higher and now account for 34% of Sector revenues.
In October 2015, shortly proportion with factory-fitted attachment kits.
HKX has also been after the year end, the acquisition was completed of WCIS, a supplier of negatively impacted by the downturn in the Oil & Gas and Mining gaskets, seals and associated products and services with operations in industries in Western Canada.
HKX has responded by targeting sales Australia and New Caledonia.
of attachment kits for used machines and introducing lower cost, entry level kits which are upgradeable as required to provide a fuller range of Across the Seals businesses, gross margins continued to be resilient, capabilities.
HKX has trimmed its operating costs to match the reduced underpinned by the business model of superior product availability and revenues and still maintains a healthy operating profit margin.
Adjusted operating margins reduced by 30bps to 17.8% 2014: 18.1% as Kubo joined the Group with lower In Europe, FPE Seals increased reported revenues by ca.
50% with solid initial operating margins and there were several one-off costs in the underlying growth boosted by the transfer from Hercules Bulldog to FPE reorganisation of facilities in the US, including the relocation of the Seals of responsibility for the sale of Bulldog products in the wider EMEA Bulldog facility, which added incremental costs of ca.
FPE Seals also benefited from two small acquisitions which operating profits increased by 14% to 24.8m 2014: 21.7m.
provide it with excellent geographical coverage of the UK.
AB Seals in Kent was acquired in February 2014 and Swan Seals, a small specialised Free cash flow increased by 1.4m to 17.8m 2014: 16.4m, benefiting supplier of machined seals based in Aberdeen, was acquired in July 2015. from the increase in operating profit and tight control of working capital.
During the year, FPE Seals relocated its principal operations in the UK to a Capital expenditure increased to 1.5m 2014: 0.5m, which included new, purpose built 34,000 square foot building in Darlington, which 0.4m expenditure on leasehold improvements for the new Bulldog consolidates smaller less efficient facilities and will be the core Seals facility and further investment of 0.6m in seal manufacturing Aftermarket hub for further expansion into the EMEA region.
equipment and new vertical storage carousels.
In Europe, Kubo invested 0.2m in additional gasket cutting equipment in Switzerland Kentek has faced significant economic and political challenges since its and Austria.
FPE Seals also completed the move to a new leasehold acquisition in January 2014, with the Russian economy and those of facility, which was constructed to our specifications and then sold and Finland and the Baltic States significantly impacted by lower Oil & Gas leased back shortly before the year end.
prices, the downturn in Mining industries and the sanctions imposed following the conflicts in Ukraine and the Crimea.
Kentek has responded Aftermarket well to these challenges and delivered a strong increase in underlying The Aftermarket businesses, which account for ca.
Diploma acquired a further 10% shareholding in revenues, reported a 4% increase in overall revenues.
After adjusting for Kentek, taking our ownership to 90% and with the continuing 10% currency translation and the acquisitions of Kentek, AB Seals and Swan minority shareholder now appointed as Managing Director.
In Russia, Seals, underlying revenues increased by 2%.
the Saint Petersburg operation now acts as the sole Russian corporate entity and the sales team has been reorganised to focus on specific geographical territories and market sectors.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 29 Industrial OEM Highlights from the Year The Industrial OEM businesses, which account for ca.
45% of Sector revenues, reported a 35% increase in revenues.
After adjusting for Sector revenue growth of 17%: underlying currency translation and the acquisitions of Kubo, Ramsay Services and Maxwell Seals, underlying revenue growth was 6%.
growth of 4% after adjusting for currency and acquisitions In North America, the Industrial OEM businesses delivered underlying revenue growth of 6% in an economy that showed signs of flattening In North America, slower trading activity in off in the second half of the year.
RT Dygert delivered another year of second half, impacted indirectly by cutbacks in solid growth in its core industrial customer base as it continued to Oil & Gas and Mining industries benefit from its development of regulatory-compliant elastomer compounds for the Pharmaceutical and Water industries and for fuel Continued investment in e-commerce and dispensing applications.
During the year, RT Dygert also successfully seal machining centres: Bulldog operations launched a new online Webstore which acts as a B2B portal for relocated to Tampa: new branch operation existing distribution customers.
In July 2014, RT Dygert acquired the in Houston outstanding 49% shareholding in the HPS business in Seattle.
The HPS back office and logistics processes have been successfully integrated In Europe, strong underlying growth despite into RT Dygert and the business delivered another record sales year.
challenging economic background: new purpose All Seals delivered more modest growth in 2015, as demand flattened built FPE Seals facility established as core out in the Water, Military Aerospace and Industrial sectors.
All Seals Aftermarket hub in Europe opened a small branch operation in Houston in November 2014 and while sales to the Oil & Gas sector increased, further gains were held EMEA Seals now 34% of Sector revenues back by the downturn in this sector.
J Royal delivered another year of following acquisitions of Kentek, Kubo and excellent growth in 2015 with strong demand from its water meter and Swan Seals gas boiler customers more than offsetting lower sales to manufacturers of swimming pool equipment.
J Royal continued to strengthen its Acquisition of WCIS after year end broadens operations by closing its Rhode Island facility and relocating key product range and extends Seals activities into development resources to its main facility in North Carolina.
Australasia In Europe, the expanded M Seals group reported increased revenues of 4%, with solid underlying growth boosted by the bolt-on acquisition Potential for Growth in the UK of Ramsay Services in December 2013.
There was solid organic growth in Denmark with steady demand from the traditional pump and valve manufacturers and from wind turbine customers and Continue to gain share in Aftermarket Seals in the Swedish operation delivered another year of strong double-digit North America through superior marketing and growth.
The Chinese operation also saw a rebound in revenues after a product development softer prior year, as confidence returned to the Wind Power sector in China.
In the UK, M Seals delivered a solid performance despite the Build and expand group of Industrial OEM Seals slowdown in the Oil & Gas sector in which the acquired companies had businesses in North America and internationally traditionally specialised.
Build larger, broader-based Seals business in the In March 2015, the Group completed the acquisition of Kubo, a leading EMEA and Asia Pacific regions supplier of seals, O-rings, gaskets and moulded rubber parts to a diverse base of industrial customers in Switzerland and Austria.
The Explore opportunities more broadly in Industrial Swiss franc strengthened during the year following its fide-coupling from Distribution in North America the Euro and this has made it more difficult for Swiss OEMs to export their products.
However, most of Kubos purchases are from outside Switzerland allowing price reductions to customers without impacting margins.
The trading environment for Kubo in Switzerland is now stabilising although growth has been constrained.
The Austrian operation was not impacted by the currency issue and performed well during the year.
In August 2015, the previous owner of Kubo stepped down as planned and a new Managing Director with significant industrial experience has been appointed.
Sector Review continued 30 Controls The Controls Sector businesses supply specialised wiring, connectors, fasteners and control devices used in a range of technically demanding applications.
Interconnect Revenue growth compound over five years The IS-Group, Specialty Fasteners and Filcon businesses supply high performance interconnect products used in technically demanding applications in a range of industries including Aerospace, Defence, %p.
a. Motorsport, Energy, Medical and Industrial.
Products include electrical 6 wiring, connectors and harnessing products, aerospace-quality 15 91.1m fasteners, seals, customised assemblies and kits.
A range of valueadding activities enhances the customer offering, including marking of 14 94.6m protective sleeves, cut-to-length tubing, kitting, connector assembly 13 86.2m and prototype quantities of customised multi-core cables.
There is also 12 81.9m a range of internally manufactured products, including flexible braided 11 76.2m products for screening, earthing and lightning protection, power shunt 10 68.0m connectors, multi-core cables and special fasteners.
Fluid Controls Principal segments The Hawco Group businesses supply a range of fluid control products used broadly in the Food & Beverage industry, in applications including food retailing and transportation, catering equipment, vending machines, coffee brewing, pure water and water cooling systems.
Products include fluid controllers, compressors, valves, temperature and pressure measurement devices and specialised vending and liquid dispensing components.
The customer offering is enhanced by value adding services including kitting for production line flow and the repair and refurbishment of soft drinks dispensing equipment.
Principal operations Interconnect 75% Interconnect IS-Group 25% Fluid Controls IS-Rayfast Swindon, UK IS-Cabletec Weston-super-Mare, UK IS-Sommer Stuttgart, Germany Geography IS-Connect Indianapolis, US Specialty Fasteners Clarendon Leicester & Swindon, UK SFC Totnes, UK Filcon Munich, Germany Fluid Controls Hawco Group Hawco Guildford & Bolton, UK Abbeychart Faringdon, UK 60% UK 32% Continental Europe 8% Rest of World Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 31 Market drivers Industrial economic background UK index of production The Controls businesses focus on specialised, technical applications in a 120 range of industries, with over 90% of Sector revenues generated in the UK and Continental Europe principally Germany.
The background 110 market drivers are therefore the growth of the industrial economies in the UK and Germany.
100 A good indicator of the health of the UK industrial economy is the UK Index of Production.
This index tracks a short period of growth in 2010, followed by a steady decline through 2011 and 2012.
Towards the end of 90 2012, the index returned to growth and increased steadily through 2014.
This reflects increased confidence in the UK economy in general, although the economic growth is more driven by the Services and Retail 80 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 sectors and industrial activity remains below pre-recession levels.
Source: UK Ofce for National Statistics Calendar and seasonally adjusted, reference year 2011 100 Similarly, the German Production Sector Output index tracks a good period of recovery through 2010 and 2011, before stabilising and slowly moving towards pre-recession levels by early 2015.
German production sector output index including construction Specific industry drivers Interconnect 120 Although influenced by the general industrial economic cycles, there are also more specific drivers within the main market segments served 110 by the Interconnect businesses.
The Civil Aerospace market continued to grow steadily with growth in 100 World Passenger Traffic averaging 56% p. a. and with strong order books at Boeing, Airbus and the manufacturers of smaller, regional aircraft.
There is a trend towards replacing ageing fleets with more fuel 90 efficient wider bodied aircraft and there is increased activity in the cabin interiors market where the wide range of complex seating and entertainment systems is driving growth.
The Defence markets in the 80 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 UK and Germany remain subdued.
However, the continuing activity in Source: Deutsche Bundesbank Syria and Iraq and an increase in other perceived threats may prompt a Calendar and seasonally adjusted, reference year 2010 100 review of defence spending.
In Motorsport, following the introduction of the new 1.6 litre V6 turbo World passenger trafc annual growth rate engine and the new ERS Energy Recovery System technology in 2013 Revenue and 2014, there were no major technology changes or upgrades to passenger km the series during the current Formula 1 season.
The Formula E series growth rate continues to gain momentum but the relative spend in this series 14 6.0% is low compared to Formula 1.
In Energy, electricity generation and 13 5.5% distribution in Germany remains a positive sector as the responsibility 12 5.3% for the local supply of electricity continues to be returned to cities and towns.
6.6% 11 10 8.0% Specific industry drivers Fluid Controls 09 1.0% The Fluid Controls businesses generate almost 70% of their revenues 2.0% 08 from the Food & Beverage sector in the UK.
In Food Retailing, there continue to be significant structural changes which are impacting Source: International Civil Aviation Organisation segment growth rates including the trend away from major out-of-town stores to convenience stores and the increase in home delivery.
These trends are driving demand for smaller, more energy efficient components as supplied by Hawco.
The coffee market sector continues to grow and the UK retail coffee market has reached over 1 billion p. a. Abbeychart supplies both the coffee machine manufacturers and the aftermarket sector, predominately in the UK but also in Europe.
Sector Review continued 32 power, is also a key supplier to other sub-distributors in Europe that Controls support military programmes.
However, the demand from these sub-distributors also fell sharply as programmes in other territories Sector performance were completed or delayed.
Beyond the large equipment programmes, there are still many successful UK manufacturers continuing to build highly specialised control and monitoring sub-systems for defence use.
While major programme expenditure may be lower, the number of m more focused projects and operators combine to produce a sustainable customer base for the IS-Group in the UK.
91.1 Revenue In Motorsport, there was reduced demand from Formula 1 F1, where 2015 2014 two teams exited the competition and there were fewer technological changes than last year, when the new V6 turbo engine was introduced, Revenue 91.1m 94.6m along with upgraded energy recovery systems.
However, the growth Adjusted operating profit 14.5m 15.3m of supercars for road use, the Formula E series and the resurgence of high performance motorbikes in Japan have all provided new growth Adjusted operating margin 15.9% 16.2% opportunities.
Less conventionally, the growing sophistication of sensor Free cash flow 11.4m 11.4m control systems on racing yachts has provided the opportunity to supply components to the Americas Cup teams.
ROATCE 30.5% 33.2% In the Energy industry in the UK, IS-Group serves an attractive but Reported revenues of the Controls businesses decreased by 4% to narrow customer base comprising sub-sea cable manufacturers for the 91.1m 2014: 94.6m, after including a full year contribution from SFC, Oil & Gas industry, specialised manufacturers of portable generators acquired in July 2014.
After adjusting for this acquisition and for currency and manufacturers of batteries for use in UPS Uninterrupted Power translation, underlying revenues decreased by 5%.
The demand from these customers has always been somewhat cyclical and in 2015 each segment was down.
Overall gross margins remained resilient in the Controls businesses due to their focus on specialised markets and added value services.
In Germany, IS-Sommer and Filcon reported flat revenues in Euro However, operating costs as a percentage of revenue increased due to terms 9% reduction in UK sterling terms with a significant reduction reverse operating leverage and adjusted operating margins reduced by in revenues from general Industrial customers offset by growth in 30bps to 15.9% 2014: 16.2%.
Adjusted operating profits decreased by more specialised sectors.
In the Industrial sector, revenues reduced as 5% to 14.5m 2014: 15.3m.
industrial output in Germany remained volatile from one month to the next and exports suffered in the wake of the Russian sanctions and the Free cash flow remained unchanged at 11.4m, with reduced cash flows slowing Chinese manufacturing sector.
During the year, revenues were into working capital and lower capital expenditure offsetting the impact also impacted by certain IS-Sommer customers relocating all or part of lower operating profit.
Capital expenditure reduced to 0.3m 2014: of their manufacturing to lower cost regions outside of Germany.
0.5m with the largest expenditure during the year being ca.
0.1m In the final quarter, the industrial economy stabilised somewhat and on customised bins for the Specialty Fasteners business to support IS-Sommer also found new business in the Construction industry production in a major customer facility.
to partly offset the downturn in its more traditional industrial customer base.
Interconnect The Interconnect businesses, which account for ca.
75% of Sector In Defence & Aerospace, revenues were broadly flat, although activity revenues, reported a revenue decrease of 3% in UK sterling terms: after on Military Aerospace projects has picked up pace following several adjusting for the acquisition of SFC and for currency effects, underlying years of cautious production levels and with the growing pressure on revenues decreased by 5%.
The revenue reduction reflects a Germany to upgrade its military capabilities.
Uncertainty over various combination of weak overall activity levels in UK and European industrial tank programmes to be built for the US Army dampened demand from markets and strong comparatives for the Specialty Fasteners business the specialist engine manufacturers, but the decision to upgrade the in the Motorsport and Civil Aerospace sectors.
electronics on the German Leopard II tank and to develop the next generation Leopard III tank has now been confirmed.
Filcon also had In the IS-Group businesses in the UK, revenues decreased by 9%, success in the developing Space satellite niche where it has built a with challenging industrial markets in the UK and also in the Eurozone focused portfolio of the specialised connectors that have been qualified countries which the IS-Group serves as a Master Distributor for certain for use on satellites.
Sales direct to industrial end-users in the UK were generally muted, but the most significant reductions were in sales to In the Energy sector, IS-Sommer delivered a strong increase in revenues other distributors in the UK and Continental Europe.
Management from products used in the repair and maintenance of the mediumremains confident that these revenues were not lost to competitors voltage infrastructure of the Electricity distribution network.
IS-Sommer since the IS-Group companies are often the single source for several has been appointed a Master Distributor for these specialised products key products.
The lower demand from both broad range catalogue by its principal supplier and has steadily built its reputation with distributors and the smaller, more specialised distributors suggests the public authorities and utilities that are responsible for the local that both smaller and larger OEMs have been impacted by slower distribution networks.
In the Medical sector, IS-Sommer primarily serves order books and some fide-stocking.
German and Swiss medical equipment manufacturers and delivered revenues comparable to the prior year.
In Defence & Aerospace, revenues reduced as several major projects had been completed in 2014, including the build phase of the The Specialty Fasteners business Clarendon and SFC increased Astute class submarines and there were no major projects to replace revenues by 16% over the prior year: after adjusting for the acquisition this demand.
The IS-Group, because of its experience and buying of SFC, underlying revenues decreased by 7%.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 33 Although overall revenues in Aerospace reduced, this was against Highlights from the Year a very strong comparative with record prior year sales in the aircraft seating segment.
This year, customer changes to aircraft seat Sector revenue reduced by 4%: underlying designs and delays to build schedules impacted demand.
In addition, Clarendons deliveries to its largest customer were reduced during the reduction of 5% after adjusting for currency implementation of a large new lineside supply project.
This project and acquisitions involves the installation of an innovative VMI vendor managed inventory solution that utilises bespoke dispensing racks that are Interconnect businesses faced challenging located within the customers production cells and equipped with RFID industrial markets in the UK and Continental radio frequency identification technology.
In the UK, the company also Europe and strong comparatives in Civil consolidated its position with the same customer by extending its Aerospace and Motorsport supply contract to an additional manufacturing site.
The requirement for aircraft seating remains exceptionally high with demand continuing Continued growth in specialised segments in to outstrip short term capacity and Clarendon broadened its business Germany, including the Energy and the Space with new customers across the EMEA region.
satellite sectors In Motorsport, a combination of reduced engine development budgets, In Specialty Fasteners, lineside supply projects some changes in purchasing practices and a reduction in the number for aircraft seat manufacturer constrained of F1 teams, all contributed to reduced revenues against a strong prior year comparative.
However, SFCs portfolio of own-brand fastener business this year but will deliver longer term products for the wider racing fraternity in the UK and the US brought revenue growth: excellent performance from increased penetration of several lower-tier racing series.
The lead product SFC in first full year is the proprietary Aerocatch bonnet fastener used to secure bodywork panels on high performance race cars.
More broadly, SFC delivered Fluid Controls businesses repositioned towards an excellent performance in the supply of standard and own-brand growing segments of the Food & Beverage fastening solutions to a wide range of smaller, niche UK manufacturers.
market in the UK, with smaller more energy efficient products Fluid Controls The Hawco group of Fluid Controls businesses, which account for ca.
25% of Sector revenues, reported a 6% reduction in revenues.
The Potential for Growth greater part of the shortfall was attributable to just two customers that had been heavily involved in new build programmes for major food retailers in the prior year.
As has been widely reported, the traditional Extend Interconnect product line and further UK food retailers have reduced substantially their fit-outs of new stores.
penetrate specialised markets in Europe In response to this, Hawcos immediate customers, the commercial refrigeration manufacturers, have now begun to win new business from In Specialty Fasteners, build on strong positions the discount retailers that had previously sourced their refrigeration in Civil Aerospace and Motorsport and expand in needs in Continental Europe.
Hawco also continues to leverage its niche industrial markets expertise and access to smaller, more efficient compressors and ancillary components to penetrate the wider Brewing and Catering Continue to reposition Fluid Controls business sectors.
As pubs continue to expand their food offerings and a towards growth segments of the Food & greater variety of convenience foods are served by retailers, there Beverage industry are challenges to keep drinks and food cool in more confined spaces.
Hawco is well positioned to support these retailers with Greenhouse Expand geographic reach outside UK and Gas compliant, low energy solutions.
Northern Continental Europe Abbeychart began a measured realignment of its business to match the significant changes taking place in the UK hot drinks dispensing market.
Key players are repositioning their businesses from vending companies to coffee specialists, with a broad range of espresso-type machines being installed in an increasing number of outlets from garages to top class restaurants.
Abbeychart recently completed an exercise to map the components used in the broad range of espresso machines to build a portfolio of essential parts.
The change in customer focus from traditional bulk coffee brewers to users of the newer equipment led to a decline in revenues during the first half of the year, but sales volumes in recent months have recovered.
There was a further reduction in the demand for components used in the installation of plumbed water dispensers in offices which are now favouring individual bottled water.
This was mostly offset by increased revenues from the repair and rebuilding of bar guns for soft drinks and funnel units used to dispense more solid slush-type drinks.
