80 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT During the year, Linklaters provided advice on the AIP and the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee consists of the following independent Directors remuneration report.
Fees paid in relation to this advice Non-Executive Directors: Peggy B Bruzelius, Laurence M Danon, were 26,298.
Linklaters also provide other legal advice on certain Lord Davies of Abersoch, Betsy D Holden, Ho KwonPing, corporate matters.
The Committee is satisfied that the Kepler Associates and Philip G Scott, Nicola S Mendelsohn and Alan JH Stewart.
Lord Davies is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman of Linklaters engagement partners and teams that provide the Board and the Chief Executive may, by invitation, attend remuneration advice to the Committee, do not have connections Remuneration Committee meetings except when their own with Diageo that may impair their independence.
The Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there remuneration is discussed.
Diageos Global Human Resources Director and Capability, Performance and Reward Director are also were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
invited from time to time by the Remuneration Committee to Additional remuneration survey data published by Aon Hewitt, provide their views and advice.
The Global Human Resources Director Towers Watson, Mercer and PwC were presented to the Remuneration Committee during the year: Clifford Chance provided advice on the is not present when her own remuneration is discussed.
The Chief Financial Officer may also attend to provide performance context operation of share plans.
to the Committee during its discussions about target setting.
Statement of voting Information on meetings held and director attendance is disclosed The following table summarises the details of votes cast in respect of the in the corporate governance report.
resolutions on the directors remuneration policy and annual report on The Remuneration Committees principal responsibilities are: directors remuneration at the 2014 AGM.
Making recommendations to the Board on remuneration policy as Total applied to the Executive Directors and the Executive Committee: For Against votes cast Abstentions Directors Setting, reviewing and approving individual remuneration remuneration policy arrangements for the Chairman of the Board, Executive Directors Total number and Executive Committee members including terms and of votes 1,663,866,061 43,275,688 1,707,141,749 18,288,488 conditions of employment: Percentage Determining arrangements in relation to termination of of votes cast 97.47% 2.53% 100% n a employment of the Executive Directors and other designated Annual report senior executives: and on remuneration Making recommendations to the Board concerning the Total number introduction of any new share incentive plans which require of votes 1,643,966,601 50,619,135 1,694,585,736 30,844,578 approval by shareholders.
Percentage of votes cast 97.01% 2.99% 100% n a Full terms of reference for the Committee are available at www.
com and on request from the Company Secretary.
The Committee was pleased with the level of support shown for the remuneration policy and implementation report and appreciated the External advisors active participation of shareholders and their representative advisory During the year ended 30 June 2015, the Remuneration bodies in consulting on executive remuneration matters.
Committee received advice from Kepler Associates a brand of Mercer, appointed by the Committee in December 2013 following a tendering process, who provided independent advice on remuneration best practice and senior executive remuneration.
Kepler Associates is a signatory to, and abides by, the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct.
Further details can be found at www.
Keplers parent company, Mercer, provides unrelated services to the company in the areas of all-employee reward and retirement benefits.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the advice it receives from Kepler is independent.
During the year, Kepler supported the Committee in preparing this Directors remuneration report, provided advice on the design of the long term incentives, and calculated the TSR of Diageo and its peer companies for the 2011 and 2012 PSP awards and provided periodic updates on all outstanding performance cycles.
The fees paid to Kepler Associates in relation to advice provided to the Committee were 86,618.
