02 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS i Diageo has built a strong platform for Our 21 market model has established strong Diageo is a global leader in growth through investing in our brands and local business units, well positioned to win in beverage alcohol with iconic route to consumer.
Over the last five years increasingly competitive and fast paced we have made acquisitions in brands and operating environments.
brands in spirits, beer and local distribution while doubling the size We know that we must earn the trust and wine.
We provide consumers of our luxury business.
We have also made respect of everyone that comes into contact changes to our operating model and culture with our company.
We must be transparent with choice and quality aligning Diageo behind the need for greater and authentic, demonstrating good across categories and agility and responsiveness, creating a citizenship every day, everywhere.
business that is closer to the consumer.
STRENGTH IN GLOBAL REACH DOING BUSINESS AND ICONIC BRANDS THE RIGHT WAY We have outstanding breadth and depth in our portfolio, with For us, standards are everything, from how we produce and market brands across price points and categories to meet consumer our brands, to how we innovate and sell, and in governance and demand now and in the future.
ethics as codified in our Code of Business Conduct.
WE PRODUCE WE MARKET WE INNOVATE WE SELL We produce our brands from We invest in world-class Innovation is critical to our Everyone at Diageo sells or more than 200 sites in over 30 marketing to build our brands, continued growth.
We are understands how they can countries.
We are committed focusing on connecting with committed to finding help sell.
This is just one to efficient, sustainable existing and new consumers.
breakthrough innovations expression of the sales-led production to the highest For decades our brands have to serve customers and organisation we are building.
Our been at the forefront of consumers.
We identify In each of our 21 markets, we export-led International marketing innovation and the emerging trends, and boldly are passionate about ensuring Supply Centre ISC employs same remains true today.
Innovation our products are available over 4,000 people across take seriously our obligations is a permanent engine of where consumers want them.
more than 55 sites in Scotland, to market responsibly and growth for our business and We work to deliver amazing England, Ireland, Italy and the help consumers make we are restless in our search consumer experiences and Netherlands.
to extend our sales reach.
CREATING SHARED VALUE Our distilleries, breweries and work to address development the best.
We give our people best at work, at home, with wineries are at the heart of the challenges, including skills, the freedom to do the best friends, in the community, communities where we work.
social enterprise and access to work of their careers and value and for the community.
For We have a responsibility to clean water, and to encourage everyones contribution.
We are our brands to be part of create shared value for our responsible drinking.
proud of what we do, and how celebrations big and small.
shareholders, our people, and Our values underpin our we do it.
for the societies that enable our business and guide us.
We are Our purpose, celebrating life, business to grow.
Within the passionate about our customers every day, everywhere, is to community, we are proud of our and consumers and want to be make the most of life to be the i Throughout this Annual Report 2015, reference to Diageos 21 geographically based markets will be stated as 21 markets.
