S Str tra at teg egic r ic repor eport t G Go ov ver ernanc finance e F Financial sta inancial stat temen ements ts A Additional inf dditional infor orma mation f tion for shar or shareholders eholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 07 07 OUR BUSINESS MODEL Diageo has grown through investment in OUR our brands and route to consumer, and by acquisitions to broaden our geographical BUSINESS footprint and our category depth and range.
MODEL Our business model is designed to drive returns for shareholders, while creating value for our customers, employees and the communities in which we operate.
STRONG AGILE OPERATING FOCUSED PLATFORM MODEL INVESTMENT Broad portfolio 21 markets Performance drivers Geographic reach Participation strategy Read more on page 16.
Financial strength Supply management Efficient supply and procurement Consumer insights Leading capabilities Sustainability & Responsibility imperatives Global functions Read more on page 16.
Values Broad portfolio: Diageo has world-leading brands across Participation strategy: our Performance drivers: Diageo has identified categories and price points.
participation strategy is to invest six performance drivers which are key to behind the biggest growth achieving our aims.
Each market focuses on Geographic reach: we have geographic reach through opportunities, by category and the priorities that will drive performance in the breadth and depth of our global and local brands.
channel, for our brands in our that market: premium core brands: reserve: Financial strength: our competitive advantage is 21 markets.
innovation: route to consumer: cost: reflected by our strong financial returns and consistent and talent.
Supply management: our 21 financial performance.
markets are designated as import Sustainability & Responsibility imperatives: Efficient supply and procurement: across the world we markets, import and third party Alcohol in society we aim to create a positive have efficiency in supply and procurement, with our production markets, or import and role for alcohol in society through partnerships manufacturing operations working to high quality and local production markets.
and programmes that reduce harmful drinking.
Thriving communities we must equip Consumer insights: our deep Leading capabilities: Diageos focus is on brilliant people in our business, our supply chain and consumer insights help us to execution including breakthrough marketing, scalable our communities, particularly women, with the anticipate and respond to rapidly innovation, and winning relationships with our customers skills and resources they need to build a better changing dynamics across all markets, and consumers through distribution and sales.
and continue to nurture and grow Environmental impact we will make our Global functions: Diageos 21 markets are supported by some of the worlds best-loved brands.
products and business operations more a global structure and shared services designed to share environmentally sustainable, targeting water best practice, impart knowledge and help build capability use, carbon emissions and waste, reducing the at a local level, as well as apply governance of controls, volume of packaging we use and sourcing compliance and ethics.
paper and board from sustainable forests.
Values: at the heart of everything we do are our Our performance drivers and Sustainability & company values: passionate about customers and Responsibility imperatives are underpinned by consumers: be the best: freedom to succeed: proud of our commitment to the highest standards of what we do: valuing each other.
Value creation: shareholder value: investment in the business: customer, employee and social value
