Board of Directors 40 1,3 1,2, 3 1,2, 3 1,2, 3 1,2, 3 John Nicholas Bruce Thompson Charles Packshaw Nigel Lingwood Anne Thorburn Iain Henderson Andy Smith Marie-Louise Clayton Chairman Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Chief Operating Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Joined the Board on 1 June Joined the Board in 1994 as a Joined the Board on 1 June Joined the Company in June Joined the Board on 7 Joined the Board as a Director Joined the Board and appointed Joined the Boardon 13 2013 and appointed Chairman Group Director and appointed 2013 and appointed Senior 2001 and appointed Group September 2015 and will be in 1998 and appointed Chief Chairman of the Remuneration November 2012 and appointed on 21 January 2015.
Independent Director on Finance Director in July 2001. appointed Chairman of the Operating Officer in 2005.
Chairman, Audit Committee on 27 February 2015.
Will retire from the Board on Will retire from the Board on 20 January 2016.
Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: A Chartered Certified Accountant Brucestarted his career in the Charles is Head of UK Advisory Priortojoining the Company, Anne is Chief Financial Officer of Iain qualified as a Chartered Andy is Managing Director, Severn Marie-Louise is a Chartered with a Masters degree in automotive industry, first as and Managing Director in HSBCs Nigel was the Group Financial Exova Group plc until 30 Management Accountant and Trent Business Services with Certified Accountant with Business Administration from a design engineer and then in global banking business.
Over 30 Controller at Unigate PLC November 2015 and has many began his career in the food responsibility for the companys some 30 years experience in Kingston University.
He then years of City experience, including where he gained experience years of experience at Board level industry, progressing to be an non-regulated businesses.
He has commerce and industry, who has a wealth of business and spent three years in international 18 years at Lazard in London, of working in a large in listed international groups.
operations general manager with many years of plc Board level has held senior positions at commercial experience and marketing with a construction where he was Head of Corporate multi-national environment Anne was previously Group H J Heinz.
Since 1988, Iain has experience having previously Alstom formerly, Alsthom spent much of his early career in materials company, developing Finance, prior to joining HSBC in and on a number of large Finance Director at British specialised in the acquisition and served on the Boards of The GEC and was previously Group technology-focused international new markets in Europe, the 2002.
Charles has been a noncorporate transactions.
Anne is development of small to medium Boots Company PLC as Group HR Finance Director of Venture manufacturing and service Middle East and North Africa.
Executive Director of two listed Nigelqualified as a Chartered a member of the Institute of sized enterprises within group Director and Severn Trent PLC as Production plc.
Shehas also companies involved in analytical Prior to joining Diploma, he was a companies and he is also Accountant with Price Chartered Accountants in structures.
This was firstly within Water Services Director.
Andy is a been a non-Executive Director instruments, fire protection and Director with Arthur D Little Inc. a Chartered Engineer.
the privately owned Bricom MBO, Mechanical Engineering graduate of Forth Ports PLC and Ocean food processing.
the technology and management where he ran ANC Holdings and and has significant operational Rig ASA.
consulting firm, initially in the from 1994in a public company and HR experience.
He has He has been Group Finance UK and then asDirector of the environment as a Director worked in the UK and overseas Director of Kidde plc on its firms Technology Management ofGlenchewton plc.
previously with global businesses demerger from Williams Holdings Practice based in Cambridge, including BP, Mars and Pepsi.
External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: John is currently non-Executive None.
Charles is a non-Executive Nigel is Senior Independent None.
Marie-Louise is Chairman of Director and Chairman of the Audit Director of BMT Group Limited.
Director and Chairman the Audit Committee and a Committees of Mondi plc and of the Audit Committee of non-Executive Director of Hunting PLC.
John is Senior Creston plc.
Marie-Louise is Independent Director of Rotork plc.
also a non-Executive Director of Independent Oil and Gas plc and of two private companies.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 41 1,3 1,2, 3 1,2, 3 1,2, 3 1,2, 3 John Nicholas Bruce Thompson Charles Packshaw Nigel Lingwood Anne Thorburn Iain Henderson Andy Smith Marie-Louise Clayton Chairman Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Chief Operating Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Joined the Board on 1 June Joined the Board in 1994 as a Joined the Board on 1 June Joined the Company in June Joined the Board on 7 Joined the Board as a Director Joined the Board and appointed Joined the Boardon 13 2013 and appointed Chairman Group Director and appointed 2013 and appointed Senior 2001 and appointed Group September 2015 and will be in 1998 and appointed Chief Chairman of the Remuneration November 2012 and appointed on 21 January 2015.
Member of: 1 Remuneration Committee 2 Audit Committee 3 Nomination Committee
