CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board of Directors N STEPHEN HEMSLEY COLIN HALPERN DAVID WILD Audit Committee member A Nomination Committee member N Remuneration Committee member R Committee Chairman A R A R STEVE BARBER KEVIN HIGGINS A N R N EBBE JACOBSEN HELEN KEAYS Dominos Pizza Group plc 30 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Stephen Hemsley Colin Halpern David Wild Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Vice-Chairman Chief Executive Officer Stephen joined the Board as Finance Director Colin acquired the Dominos Pizza Master David was appointed to the Board as a in 1998, was appointed as Chief Executive in Franchise Agreement for the UK and ROI in 1993 non-executive Director in November 2013, 2001, as Executive Chairman in 2008 and through International Franchise Systems Inc. became Interim Chief Executive Officer in finally became non-executive Chairman in In 1999, with Colin asChairman, the Company January 2014 and was appointed as Chief March 2010.
He also chairs the Nomination was taken public and listed on AIM and Executive Officer on 30 April 2014.
Stephen is also chairman of subsequently moved to the Main Market anon-executive director of the multi-channel Franchise Brands Worldwide Limited and in2008.
Colin is the managing director consultancy Practicology and also Bankers itssubsidiary companies.
Heis a chartered ofHSReal Company LLC, Dayenn Limited Investment Trust.
Previously, David was chief accountant byprofession.
andnon-executive director of several executive officer of Halfords Group plc and othercompanies.
held senior roles within Walmart Stores Inc. Tesco Stores plc and RHM Foods Limited.
Steve Barber Kevin Higgins Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Steve was appointed to the Board as a Kevin was appointed to the Board in non-executive Director in July 2015.
He is Chairman of the Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member Remuneration Committee and a member of of the Remuneration Committee.
He is currently theAudit Committee.
His career spans more a non-executive director of Next plc, where he than 20 years in branded consumer foods in also chairs the audit committee.
He has almost both Europe and the United States.
Kevin is 30 years experience in accountancy, principally non-executive chairman of Lunch Garden, a with  where he was Belgian restaurant chain and has previously asenior partner and also with Ernst & Young.
served as president of Burger King Europe, He has also worked in industry, and was formerly Middle East and Africa.
Prior to his role with the chief operating officer of Whitehead Mann Burger King, Kevin served as general manager and also the finance director of Mirror Group.
Brands Pizza Hut, KFC and Taco He is also founder of The Objectivity Partnership, Bell Europe and Russia Franchise Business a member of the steering group of the Audit Unit based in Switzerland.
Earlier in his career Quality Forum and Chairman of Design he held executive roles with PepsiCo and Mars.
Ebbe Jacobsen Helen Keays Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Ebbe was appointed to the Board inJanuary 2014 Helen was appointed to the Board in and is a member of the Nomination Committee.
September 2011 andis a member of the He has wide experience ofoperating in Germany Companys Audit, Nomination and Remuneration and other European countries, most recently Committees.
Helen has over 20years experience with Delsey.
Hehasbeen in retail all his working in travel, retail, consumer markets and telecoms.
life and haspan-EU retail knowledge with Sheis currently a non-executive director significant experience in franchising, multi-site ofCommunisis plc and a trustee of the and single brand retail.
He pioneered the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust and has held a introduction ofUS fast food chain Burger King number of other non-executive directorships, into the Nordic countries in the 1970s and including most recently at Majestic Wine.
The held the position ofdirector and operating majority ofher executive career was spent at partner when the franchise wassold in 1985.
GE Capital and Vodafone, where she held Other significant retail experience includes various senior marketing roles.
having been CEO ofIKEAin Germany, CEO ofDelsey and CEO ofHabitat.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 31
