STRATEGIC REPORT Our strategy ACCELERATE SALES GROWTH ACCELERATE LEADERSHIP 111 222 INTHE UK INDIGITALANDMOBILE STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES o Grow like-for-like sales driven predominantly o Increase incidence of sales from online and mobile.
byanincrease in like-for-like order count.
o Improve commercial performance of online o Open new stores in existing and virgin territories.
o Innovate in digital to ensure the brand remains top ofmind, places customers in control of the ordering process and gives them confidence that their order ison its way.
PERFORMANCE IN 2015 PERFORMANCE IN 2015 o We successfully grew like-for-like sales by 11.7% fuelled by like-for-like o We accelerated UK sales from online from 60.2% to 67.4% andfrom order count growth of 9.0%.
On a two-year basis, our like-for-like sales 44.1% to 48.6% in mobile, demonstrating how thebusiness has performance stands at 19.1% and our two-year like-for-like order become a genuine e-commerce retailer.
Wehaveseen UK online count growth at 18.1%.
Our three-year like-for-like sales performance sales increase by 30.8% and mobilesalesincrease by51.0%.
stands at 33.0% and our three-year like-for-like order count growth at o We have increased conversion on website and average basket spend.
22.9%, which gives us confidence that the business has momentum.
o Our commitment to innovate in this space has been demonstrated o We opened 61 new stores across a balance of existing and virgin bythe launch of our mobile responsive website in July 2015, as well territories and saw sales from new store openings hit record levels as the introduction of the one-touch order button to make the atan average of 15.5k.
Sales from immature stores rose by 3% on experience even more convenient.
2014, giving us further confidence about future sales performance from new store openings.
o Independent econometric analysis has demonstrated we have increased return on investment from national marketing spend, asalarger store footprint benefits better from national advertising activity, and the digitalisation of the business enables us to attribute more sales directly from digital marketing spend.
FOCUS FOR 2016 FOCUS FOR 2016 o Continue to grow sales at the midweek and weekend dinner o Continue to improve performance of our key performance metrics occasions by providing the best quality and the most convenient ofconversion rate, basket abandonment rate, bounce rate complete mealsolutions.
o Continue to optimise marketing spend effectiveness through the o Drive a step change in performance from our mobile platforms.
optimal combination of broadcast and digital marketing channels.
o Increase e-commerce development resource to accelerate o Convert a healthy pipeline of new store targets and franchisee interest development of a number of software initiatives to improve into new store openings and continue our store re-image programme.
thecustomer experience online and on mobile.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 14 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCELERATE IMPROVEMENT IN GROW INTERNATIONAL 333 444  MARKETSPROFITABLY STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES o Improve franchisee profitability year-on-year.
o Drive sales growth in ROI as the economy recovers.
o Ensure lowest food cost supply.
o Grow sales and open new corporate stores inSwitzerland.
PERFORMANCE IN 2015 PERFORMANCE IN 2015 o We successfully improved franchisee profitability per store with store o We have been encouraged by the like-for-like sales growth in ROI, EBITDA performance up from 13.6% to 15.5% in 2015.
o As a consequence of the benign food cost environment and some goodwork from our procurement teams, we have passed on 11m o Progress made in Switzerland has been solid and focused offood cost savings.
onimproving the operational gearing in this corporate market.
Ourmature store portfolio doubled in profitability.
o We paid 6.7m in rebates to franchisees, which is a 14% increase on2014.
o We entered into a landmark joint venture transaction to transform ouractivities in Germany.
FOCUS FOR 2016 FOCUS FOR 2016 o Increase marketing investment to grow sales per store to leverage o Drive like-for-like sales growth in ROI through a combination store-level profitability grow the top line to grow the bottom line.
ofnewproduct, new value and new technological initiatives.
o Continue to work with suppliers in long-term partnership to ensure o Drive like-for-like sales in Switzerland through improved consistently high food quality and lowest food cost supply with better e-commerceplatforms and opening of new corporate stores.
o Improve business partner resource to help franchisees find opportunities to improve profitability through a greater focus on labour and non-food items within the store profit and loss account.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 15
