STRATEGIC REPORT Our markets UK A prolonged period of growth in gross domestic product, low interest We remain very confident about the rate levels, the longer term trend of customer confidence, and a decline macroeconomic environment in the UK.
inunemployment rates to their lowest levels since 2005 have all contributed to a meaningful increase in disposable income.
The eating out market has benefited from the improving economy.
Themarket is now seeing growth across times of day, driven by morepeople eating out, more frequently, and now also spending moreat each visit.
We believe that the increase in the living wage will have a positive impact on the category and contribute towards an increase in disposable income amongst customers, though our franchisees costs may rise.
SUPPLY CHAIN One of the biggest challenges for companies in our category is the CENTRES attraction and retention of quality team members in what is an 63 increasingly competitive labour market.
SCOTLAND 2 Whilst the brand operates in a very benign food cost environment, MOBILE UNITS thepositive economic outlook is making its presence felt in increased property costs and demand for good quality locations.
Dominos has been well positioned to take advantage of a number offavourable tailwinds within the eating out market.
The trend from 24 independents to brands, from full service to quick service restaurants, NORTH-EAST 23 and the trend towards delivery, all of which we expect to continue.
NORTHERN IRELAND The UK remains one of the most dynamic food markets in the world, as 52 it continues to become a nation of foodies, with new food trends and YORKSHIRE concepts emerging all the time.
The overriding trend has to be the more AND THE 92 demanding customer requiring quality, freshness and value.
HUMBER NORTH-WEST Dominos has positioned itself at the forefront of technology.
We now 62 livein a truly on demand society, driven by millennials demand for EAST MIDLANDS convenience.
Within the UK, e-commerce is now very much the mainstream, with mobile the most dominant of multi channel platforms, 68 with mobile payments starting to gain traction.
The much anticipated 93 WEST MIDLANDS EAST OF ENGLAND Internet of Things is starting to have an impact on customers lives, with 38 products like smart TVs and internet enabled watches and thermostats WALES growing in popularity.
Clickand collect has emerged as a new digital 117 channel.
Increasingly digital technology will be applied to personalise LONDON 156 consumer communication.
79 SOUTH-EAST SOUTH-WEST At the time of writing, there remains much speculation about the potential impact of any Government initiatives on Dominos trading environment.
We remain committed to providing clear information on the nutritional content of our food, providing customers with choice alongside a programme of product development to meet customers increasing demand for healthier options.
THE UK REMAINS ONE OF THE MOST DYNAMIC FOOD MARKETS IN THE WORLD, AS IT CONTINUES TO BECOME A NATION OF FOODIES.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 12 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ireland The continued growth in gross domestic product, low levels of inflation We are very optimistic about the impact the and national unemployment rates at its lowest since 2009 continue to continued economic recovery will have on drive a recovery in customer confidence.
One of the most striking trends recently has been the two-tier nature of the recovery, being felt mostly in Dublin but less so in more rural areas.
The Dublin economy continues to be fuelled by increased foreign investment, driving unemployment rates down: simultaneously driving rapid rises in the rental market in commuter belt areas.
In rural areas, unemployment rates remain higher, with many people in negative equity and therefore spending remains far more cautious.
It is encouraging that in general younger consumers are not burdened THERE IS ALSO A MORE PRONOUNCED by negative equity, dont have families to support and therefore have TRENDFORLOCAL PROVENANCE higher disposable income, although their spending habits are far more cautious than previous generations.
We are now seeing less emigration from these well educated younger age groups than we did through tougher economic times.
As in the UK, the overriding trend within the delivery takeaway market isone of freshness, health and value for money.
There is also a more pronounced trend for local provenance of ingredients and a trend towards delivery and convenience.
Smartphone penetration continues to drive the Irish e-commerce market, with over 70% of the Irish adult population now claiming toowna smartphone.
Switzerland Gross domestic product has been flat, unemployment rates have Whilst Swiss economic performance has been increased marginally, albeit from a very low base, and inflation rates relatively soft, we believe the underlying factors have remained very low.
Consumer prices are tumbling, with the notable exception of rents.
However, it is expected that with improvements pointto a positive trading environment.
inthe international economy there should be a gradual improvement intheSwiss economy.
Consumer trends affecting consumption of delivery takeaway food continue to look positive.
Longer working hours, an increase in single person households and demands for more convenient meal solutions ordered via digital platforms bode well for the growth of the category.
CONSUMER TRENDS AFFECTING CONSUMPTION The delivery takeaway market continues to be dominated by OF DELIVERY TAKEAWAY FOOD CONTINUE TO independents that have not really focused on delivery.
The market has more recently been invigorated by the growth of branded pizza delivery chains such as Dominos.
We have a tremendous opportunity to demonstrate the quality of our food, invite people to experience our store theatre, drive e-commerce and focus our marketing on delivery strengths.
869 47 15 UK IRELAND SWITZERLAND STORES STORES STORES Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 13
