CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting the statutory financial Group results statements for the Group for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2015.
The Group profit for the period from continuing operations after taxation was The Company has chosen in accordance with section 414C 11 59.3m 2014: 49.4m restated.
This is after a taxation charge of 13.9m oftheCompanies Act 2006 to include the disclosure of likely future 2014: 12.7m restated representing an effective tax rate of 19.0% developments in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 29, which includes 2014: 20.4% restated.
The financial statements setting out the results the following: of the Group for the period ended 27 December 2015 are shown on pages 73 to 119. o Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5: Dividends o Chief Executive Officers statement on pages 6 to 9: The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 11.75p per o Description of the business structure, model, markets and strategy Ordinary share, to be paid on 25 April 2016 to members on the Register onpages 10 to 15: at the close of business on 11 March 2016 ex-dividend date 10 March 2016, subject to shareholder approval.
Together with the interim dividend of o the key performance indicators on pages 16 and 17: 9.00p per Ordinary share paid on 4 September 2015, the total dividend o the discussion of risk management, the table of principal risks and inrespect of the period will be 20.75p compared with 17.50p for the uncertainties and longer-term viability statement on pages 18 to 23: previous year, an increase of 18.6%.
o the financial review on pages 24 to 25: and Dividends are recognised in the accounts in the year in which they are paid or, inthecase of the final dividend, when approved by shareholders.
o the corporate social responsibility report on pages 26 to 29.
Therefore, the amount recognised in the 2015 accounts, as described Together, this information is intended to provide a fair, balanced and in note 14 on page 94, comprises the 2014 final dividend and the 2015 understandable analysis of the development and performance of the interim dividend.
Groups business during the year, and its position at the end of the year, its strategy, likely developments and any principal risks and Share capital uncertainties associated with the Groups business.
As at 27 December 2015, the Companys authorised share capital was 4,000,000 divided into a single class of 256,000,000 Ordinary shares Details of the Groups policy on addressing financial risks and details of 1.5625p each and there were 166,802,688 Ordinary shares in issue.
about financial instruments are shown in note 28 to the Group financial All issued Ordinary shares are fully paid up.
The Ordinary shares are statements on pages 104 to 106. listed on the London Stock Exchange and can be held in certificated The sections of the Annual Report dealing with corporate governance, oruncertificated form.
the reports of the Nomination Committee and Audit Committee and the Holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at general Directors remuneration report set out on pages 32 to 61 inclusive are meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies and, if they hereby incorporated by reference into this Directors report.
are corporations, corporate representatives who are entitled to attend For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8R, general meetings and to exercise voting rights.
the required content of the Management Report can be found in the On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every holder strategic report and Directors report including the sections of the of Ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by reference.
have one vote, unless the proxy is appointed by more than one shareholder For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4C R, the information required to be and has been instructed by one or more shareholders to vote for the disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R can be found in the following locations: resolution and by one or more shareholders to vote against the resolution, Section Topic Location in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against.
This reflects the position in the Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 which 1 Interest capitalised Note 16 to amended the Companies Act 2006.
On a poll, every member present the accounts inperson or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable Ordinary share held.
None of the Ordinary shares carry any special 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes Remuneration report voting rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Articles specify deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies 5 Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
The relevant 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable proxy votes are counted and the number for, against or withheld in 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable relation to each resolution are announced at the AGM and published onthe Companys website after the meeting.
8 I tem 7 in relation to major Not applicable  There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares in the 9 P arent participation in a placing Not applicable Company other than certain restrictions that may be imposed from time byalistedsubsidiary to time by the Articles, law or regulation and pursuant to the Listing Rules whereby certain Directors, officers and employees require approval to 10 Contracts of significance Directors report deal in Ordinary shares of the Company.
The Group is not aware of any 11 P rovision of services by Not applicable agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions  on the transfer of Ordinary shares.
12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Directors report Shares held by employee share trusts 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Directors report The Group has had an employee benefit trust EBT for a number 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable ofyears, the trustee of which is Elian Fiduciary Services Jersey Limited.
All the information cross-referenced above is hereby incorporated Asat 27 December 2015, the EBT held 56,252 shares, which are used byreference into this Directors report.
to satisfy awards under employee share schemes.
The voting rights inrelation to these shares are exercisable by the trustee: however, in accordance with best practice guidance, the trustee abstains from voting.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 62 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS whole Board for authorisation as necessary.
All new conflicts are Shares held by employee share trusts continued required to be disclosed as and when they arise.
There is an annual Dividend waivers review of conflicts disclosed and authorisations given.
The register A dividend waiver is in force in relation to shares in the Company held by ofDirectors conflicts is maintained by the Company Secretary.
the EBT see previous paragraph, which relates to a total of 56,252 shares.
Directors indemnities Purchase of own shares The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity provision contained inthe At the 2015 AGM, a special resolution was passed to authorise the Articles of Association.
The provision, which is a qualifying third-party Company to make purchases on the London Stock Exchange of up to indemnity provision as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 10% of its Ordinary shares for the year under review.
The Company 2006, was in force during the year ended 27 December 2015 and engages in share buybacks tocreate value for shareholders when cash remains in force and relates to certain losses and liabilities which the flows permit and there isnoimmediate alternative investment use for Directors may incur to third parties in the course of acting as Directors the funds.
or employees of the Company.
No buybacks were undertaken in 2015 as the Company was in a The Group maintained a directors and officers liability insurance policy prohibited period caused by the transaction in relation to its German throughout the financial year, although no cover exists in the event that business, for most of that year.
Directors or officers are found to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
No indemnity is provided for the Groups auditor.
Taking into account all of the buybacks since 2004, 16.6% of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital has been purchased.
Employees Shareholders will be requested to renew this authority at the UK and ROI forthcoming AGM, to be held on 20 April 2016.
In the UK and ROI, the Group employed 555 people as at Substantial shareholdings 27December2015 2014: 504.
As at 26 February 2016, the Company has been notified of the following interests in 3% or more of the total voting rights of the Company: Head Office United Kingdom 186 % of total voting rights Milton Keynes Supply Chain Centre 261 Penrith Supply Chain Centre 69 Wasatch Advisors 3.03 Naas Supply Chain Centre 39 Montanaro Investment Managers 3.01 Using the total voting rights figure applicable at 31 January 2016 of 166,424,830.
Germany Except for the above, the Group is not aware of any shareholders In Germany, the Group employed 306 people as at 27 December 2015 withinterests of 3% or more in the issued share capital of the Company.
The Company has not been notified of any other changes to the notifiable voting rights in its shares up to 26 February 2016.
German Head Office 21 Directors and their interests German Supply Chain Centre 10 The Directors in service at 27 December 2015 were Stephen Hemsley, German corporate stores 275 David Wild, Paul Doughty, Colin Halpern, Helen Keays, Ebbe Jacobsen, Kevin Higgins and Steve Barber.
Switzerland Sean Wilkins and Paul Doughty resigned as Executive Directors on In Switzerland, the Group employed 296 people as at 27 December 2015 20January 2015 and on 31 December 2015 respectively.
Michael Shallow retired as an independent non-executive Director on 31July 2015.
Swiss Head Office 11 On 1 July 2015, Steve Barber was appointed as an independent Swiss corporate stores 285 non-executive Director of the Company.
The biographical details of the present Directors are set out on page 31 of this Annual Report.
For further details please refer to note 8 on page 89.
The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed by the Articles Employment policies of the Company, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in employment.
Subject to the Articles of Association, The Group recruits and selects applicants for employment based solely the Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by special resolution, on a persons qualifications and suitability for the position, whilst bearing the business of the Company is managed bythe Board which may in mind equality and diversity.
It is the Groups policy to recruit the most exercise all the powers of the Company.
capable person available for each position.
The Group recognises the The interests of Directors and their immediate families in the shares of need to treat all employees honestly and fairly.
The Group is committed the Company, along with details of options and awards held by Executive to ensuring that its employees feel respected and valued and are able Directors, are contained in the Directors remuneration report set out on tofulfil their potential and recognises that the success of the business pages 41 to 61.
Should any Ordinary shares be required to satisfy awards relies on their skill and dedication.
over shares, these may be provided by the EBT.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors, including employment from disabled persons, with regard to their particular share options and awards, in the share capital of the Company between aptitudes and abilities.
Efforts are made to continue the employment the year-end and 26 February 2016.
No Directors have a beneficial ofthose who become disabled during their employment.
interest in the shares of any subsidiary.
For more information on the Companys employment practices please In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Board has clear procedures see page 28. for Directors to formally disclose any actual or potential conflicts to the Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors report continued General information Directors statement of disclosure of information to auditor Having made the requisite enquiries, the Directors in office at the date Annual General Meeting of this Annual Report and Accounts have each confirmed that, so far The notice convening the AGM to be held at 12 noon on 20April2016 asthey are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the at the Companys Supply Chain Centre, 1Thornbury, West Ashland, Groups auditor is unaware and each Director has taken all the steps he Milton Keynes MK6 4BB is contained in aseparate shareholder circular.
she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of Full details of all resolutions to be proposed are provided in that document.
any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditor The Directors consider that all of the resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM is aware of that information.
are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors will be voting in favour of them and unanimously recommend Going concern that shareholders vote in favour of each of them.
The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in Significant agreements and change of control provisions the strategic report on pages 1 to 29.
The financial position of the The Group judges that the only significant agreements in relation to its Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are business are the UK and ROI Master Franchise Agreement, the Know described in the financial review on pages 24 to 25.
In addition, notes How Licence Agreement and the Switzerland, Luxembourg and 28 and 29 to the Group financial statements include the Companys Liechtenstein Master Franchise Agreement and, throughout 2015, objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial theGermany Master Franchise Agreement, pursuant to which certain risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and ofthe Groups companies are granted the right to franchise stores hedging activities and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
andoperate commissaries in the territories by DPIF.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company The Groups significant agreements listed above do not terminate on hasadequate resources to continue in operational existence for the achange of control.
The Group does not have agreements with any foreseeable future and have therefore continued to adopt the going Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
or employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions of the Groups employee share schemes may cause options and awards granted Events after the balance sheet date to employees, including Directors tovest on a change of control.
The On 1 February 2016, the Group completed a transaction to form a joint Groups banking arrangements do contain change of control provisions venture with Dominos Pizza Enterprises DPE the JV and for the which, if triggered, could limit future utilisations, require the repayment JVto acquire Germanys largest pizza delivery business Joeys Pizza of existing utilisations or lead to arenegotiation of terms.
In the context of this transaction, the Group has now either sold its existing German operations to the JVor Articles of Association has earmarked these for closure.
The Group is required toprovide certain The Articles of Association remained unchanged during the 2015 financial transitional support services to the JV during the period immediately year and may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting following the sale.
The Group owns a one-third stake in the JV.
Cautionary statement Branches This Annual Report and Accounts contains forward-looking statements.
Dominos Pizza Germany Limited a subsidiary company of the These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future Company continued to operate via a branch in Germany, Dominos performance: rather, they are based on current views and assumptions Pizza Deutschland, during 2015. as at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts and are made by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the Environmental and social responsibility time of their approval of this report.
These statements should be treated andGHGemissions with caution due to the inherent risks and uncertainties underlying any The Group acknowledges that it is part of a wider community and such forward-looking information.
The Group undertakes no obligation recognises that it has a responsibility to act in ways that respect the to update these forward-looking statements.
environment and the social wellbeing of others.
Details of the Groups By order of the Board approach to these issues and emissions attributable to all activities are set out in the corporate social responsibility report on pages 26 to 29.
Political donations Rob Bellhouse The Company made no political donations in the year 2014: nil.
Company Secretary 2 March 2016 Key performance indicators KPIs Details of the Groups KPIs can be found on pages 16 and 17.
Auditor EY has signified its willingness to continue in office as auditor to the Company and the Group is satisfied that EY is independent and there are adequate safeguards in place to safeguard its objectivity.
A resolution to re-appoint EY as the Companys auditor will be proposed at the 2016 AGM.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 64 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
