STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our business model In this section, we lift the lid on how wecreate and preserve value for our shareholders.
Everything we do is rooted inour vision and determination to be the number onepizza company inevery neighbourhood in which we operate.
We operate one brand, with one tightly defined set of products delivered byasmall number of carefully chosen franchisee partners.
Our business is built on relationships.
There are four cornerstones toourbusiness model, allunderpinned by the great people we : FRANCHISEES PRODUCTS o We choose our franchisees carefully, as it is their commitment and o Quality our customers tell us they would rather spend a little bit entrepreneurial approach that drive the growth of the business.
more on a hot, fresh meal made with superior ingredients.
Eachfranchisee signs up to a Standard Franchise Agreement SFA o Speed of delivery customers trust us to deliver a high quality andpays royalties to us for the use of the brand.
o We work with franchisees to choose the right sites.
We enter into o Value customers are increasingly sophisticated in seeking value head leases and sub-let to the franchisee, which means we can for money and expect offers and deals tailored to their needs.
grow our network of pizza stores without committing significant amounts of capital.
Sub-letting our sites to franchisees means that if o Ease of ordering over 75% of our delivered orders are now placed the franchisee chooses to leave the system, we still control the site.
Customers value the ease of ordering we offer, especially through our phone and tablet apps which now make up o We agree business growth opportunities and objectives with the about half of our digital orders.
franchisees, support them in delivering these and enforce our brandstandards.
o Franchisees buy the fresh dough we manufacture, and also pay us for the topping ingredients and other goods we source from third-party suppliers under long-term contracts, or direct from otherapproved suppliers.
DOMINOS PIZZA GROUP PLC BRAND SUPPORT o The Dominos brand is owned by DPIF and is highly o Our goals are to drive like-for-like sales from our respected globally customers know that it is the sign existing stores, and to seek and exploit every opportunity of consistently great pizzas and otherproducts.
to grow our store portfolio.
o In each territory, we hold an exclusive 10 year Master Franchise o We monitor market trends and customer feedback and use this Agreement, with the option to extend for a further 10 years, for todrive continual improvement, new product development and which wepay royalties to DPIF.
Provided we are in good standing, toidentify market opportunities.
we have the legal right to renew each of these MFAs in perpetuity.
o Our franchisees all contribute to the National Advertising Fund, o Access to the brand also includes significant know-how and other which we deploy wisely for mutual benefit on a range of advertising intellectual property, which we can build on with our knowledge and promotions.
ofthe territories in which we operate.
o We invest heavily in our digital business we are proud to be seen o We review the opportunities that arise from time to time for as the market leader in digital ordering but continue to seek new international growth within the Dominos system.
ways to create ever-easier ordering systems.
o We recognise the importance of a happy workplace and believe our PEOPLE employees are one of the main champions of the brand, so we place significant emphasis on how we recruit and develop them.
o In the UK and ROI people working in stores are employees of the franchisee who owns and operates that store, in Switzerland store o We put safeguards in place to require that our franchisees treat their staff are employed by the Group.
The Group also employs staff at its staffwith respect and in accordance with brand standards.
Head Office in Milton Keynes, the Swiss office in Zurich and Supply Wecontinually strive to update and train our staff on a regular basis, Chain Centres in the United Kingdom, ROI and Switzerland.
and encourage franchisees to invest in their people on the same basis.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 11
