STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Longer term viability statement We have also explored the impact of severe but plausible The Companys current position combinationsof these risks, in circumstances that we believe The Groups business model, which is explained on page 11, has been theGroupcould experience, including: shown to be robust over the thirty years since the business was formed.
We operate under what is effectively a perpetual Master Franchise o only managing to open half of the planned number of new pizza Agreement in each key territory, so our business model is long-term stores, while simultaneously suffering an assumed 20% increase andeffectively open-ended.
The Groups strategy, which is explained inthe costs of sourcing food ingredients: and onpages 14 and 15, is well-established and we have a market-leading o the complete failure of our e-commerce ordering systems in the position in the UK and ROI business and have successfully exploited twobusiest weeks of our trading year, while simultaneously suffering the emergence of e-commerce as a sales channel.
We continue to open a breach of data security leading to additional costs and a 5% new pizza stores and drive increases in like-for-like sales, and can reduction in sales due to lost customer confidence.
demonstrate strong growth in system sales, and Group turnover and profitability, over many years.
Our business is profitable and we successfully The key assumptions in this modelling of our strategy and the impact convert almost all of this into cash generation.
At 27December 2015, ofthe principal risks include: the Group has net cash at bank of 39.8m and acommitted 30m o while a number of industry commentators believe that there is five-year bank facility, which expires in August 2017. anatural ceiling on the number of pizza stores we can open, the The Board has considered its appetite for risk and there is a clearly Grouphas consistently delivered growth ahead of these predictions.
articulated statement of this which forms the basis for the Groups risk Wecontinue to assume that the UK market, in particular, is capable management activities.
ofsustaining the growth in store numbers we anticipate: and o that the bank facility, which expires in August 2017, can be renewed Our strategic planning process or replaced on terms acceptable to the Group.
The CEO, supported by the leadership team, is responsible for the Groups strategic planning process.
This is an annual review of thecurrent The first of these key assumptions is one of the Groups principal risks strategy, informed by monitoring of market trends and developments and explained further in the risk management section.
The second and in-house analysis, supported where necessary byexternal market assumption is not, in itself, seen as a key risk as we believe that banks research.
This results in a draft strategic plan, supported by detailed will be willing to lend to a profitable, cash generative company with a financial modelling, which is debated by the Board at its annual strategy proven business model.
However, the availability of working capital is away-day.
The Boards role includes considering whether the plan essential to any business which may face short-term pressures on its appropriately factors in the changing external environment and whether cash flows.
the Group has access to the financial, technical and human resources The results of this modelling showed that, due to the inherent strength necessary to implement it successfully.
and stability of our business, the Group should be able to withstand the The resulting agreed strategic plan is generally prepared on a five-year impact should any of these scenarios materialise over the three-year period.
basis, but both management and Board are aware that we operate in a We also investigated whether reverse stress-testing would offer an fast-moving environment.
For example, a significant proportion of the alternative view.
As we have net cash at bank and a committed bank Groups system sales are placed using mobile devices, some of which facility, we could find no plausible scenario which had such an impact were only brought to market in the last five years.
As a result, while on the Groups future performance, solvency or liquidity that it would theearly years of that strategy form the business plan against which lead to the Groups financial failure.
The most obvious risk which could management will be held to account, the later years are an extrapolation have such a effect would be a breach of the Master Franchise of those early years and therefore subject to revision in the light of Agreement, which is highly improbable.
Longer term viability statement The process of assessing our viability and key assumptions Based on their assessment of prospects and viability above, the directors The strategic plan reflects the directors best estimate of the future confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be prospects of the business, but we have also assessed the potential able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over impact on the Group of a number of scenarios based on each of the the three-year period to the end of December 2018. principal risks and uncertainties described in this section of the annual report.
Those risks are key because they could prevent the Group from delivering on its strategy.
Although our strategic plans have a five year horizon, we chose to model the impact of these risks over a period of three years in view of the dynamic nature of our business and the environment in which we operate, and also the inherent unreliability ofsome data when forecast five years in advance.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 23
