50 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Viability statement Statement of viability Review of principal risks In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the The Groups principal risks and uncertainties, 2014 version of the UK Corporate Governance set out in detail on pages 54 to 55, have been Code, the directors have assessed the considered over the period.
prospects of the Group over a period significantly longer than the 12 months The Board considers that Commodity Market required by the going concern provision.
risk has the most influence upon the continued viability of the Group.
A material downturn in In preparing this assessment of viability commodity prices, adversely impacting the Board has considered the principal spreads, could place stress upon the ability of risks faced by the Group, relevant financial the Group to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
forecasts and sensitivities, the availability The prospects of the Group are also strongly of adequate funding and the strength influenced by government policy in relation to of the Groups control environment.
subsidies available for generation of renewable power.
Failure to secure and retain sufficient subsidies could have a material impact on the Assessment period viability of the Group.
The Board conducted this assessment over a period of three years, which was selected for The principal risks have been valued, where the following reasons: possible, to assess the potential impact of each The Groups Business Plan the Plan, on the viability of the Group, should that risk which is reviewed and assessed on a arise in its unmitigated form.
The valuations quarterly basis and is used for strategic have been included, where appropriate, as decision making, includes a range of sensitivities to the Plan and considered by the financial forecasts and associated Board as part of the approval process required sensitivity analysis.
This Plan covers a before the Plan is adopted by the Group.
Within the three year period liquid commodity market curves are used for valuations.
Typically these curves cover a two year window and beyond this horizon, given the lack of forward liquidity in power markets, commodity price assumptions are derived using publically available information and the Groups own estimates.
The majority of the Groups financing facilities are available beyond the three yearhorizon.
In selecting this period the Board have assumed no material changes to the Groups mid-term regulatory environment and associated support regimes.
This includes revenues from ROCs and CfD and the access of coal-generated electricity to the UKs grid.
Strategic report Drax Group plc 51 Annual report and accounts 2015 Review of financial forecasts Availability of adequate funding Strategic report The Plan considers the Groups financial The sources of funding available to the Group The strategic report is set out on pages 155 position, performance, cash flows, covenant are set out in note 4.4 to the consolidated of this document and was approved by the compliance and other key financial ratios financial statements see page 125.
The Board of directors on 22 February 2016. over the period and was most recently Board expects these sources, along with updated to reflect current market and cash flows generated by the Group from its environment conditions in December 2015. normal operations, to provide adequate levels of funding to support the execution of the The Plan includes certain assumptions, the Groups Plan over the three-year period.
most material of which relate to commodity market price curves and levels of subsidy Expectations Dorothy Thompson CBE support available to the Group through the The directors have considered all the factors Chief Executive generation of biomass-backed renewable in their assessment of viability over the next power.
The Group continues to await the three years, including the latest Plan, scenario outcome of a State aid review by the EU of analysis, levels of funding, control environment a CfD, providing a strike price for the sale and the principal risks and uncertainties facing of renewable power.
The outcome of this the Group.
The directors have also considered review is expected during 2016 and the the availability of actions within their control Plan includes an assumption that State aid Will Gardiner in the event of plausible negative scenarios clearance will be obtained during the year.
They have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in The Plan is also subject to stress testing, operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due which involves the construction of reasonably over the three-year period of their assessment.
foreseeable scenarios, including those aligned to the principal risks, which test the robustness of the Plan when key variables are flexed both individually and in unison.
Where such a scenario suggests a risk to viability, the availability and quantum of mitigating actions is considered.
The Board considers the most significant scenario in the assessment period to be a combination of a failure to secure State aid clearance for the CfD during 2016 and a deterioration of commodity market prices, leading to a fall in the available price for power and thus a fall in the margins available to the Group from its power generation activities.
This has been considered in the Plan and the Board is satisfied that in such a scenario sufficient actions could be taken to preserve the viability of the Group.
