16 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Our three businesses Drax has three principal activities: sourcing fuel generating electricity supplying power andwood pellets tocustomers More information on page 32 The principal activities define the structure of We source wood fibre from the ourbusiness USSouth and compressed wood We organise the business to align with the principal activities, operating through four business units.
pellets from suppliers around the world.
Drax Biomass is a major Source Drax Biomass is a supplier of compressed wood pellets manufacturer ofwood pellets.
manufactured from sustainable sources which are then used inthe upgraded biomass boilers in our power station.
We also We have dedicated port facilities on the secure additional biomass supplies through long term contracts with third parties.
We source our coal in the international and Humber, Tyne and Mersey estuaries, allowing domestic markets.
bothcompressed wood pellets and coal to be imported from around the world.
Generate Drax Power generates electricity which is then sold in the Locations wholesale and retail power markets.
Drax Biomass is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia with Supply operations in two US States: Mississippi and Louisiana.
Supply activities are delivered through three routes: Drax Power Thisplaces it at the heart of the USs largest working sells power to large customers in the wholesale markets: Haven forestsector.
Power supplies electricity to businesses: our newly acquired operating unit, Billington Bioenergy, supplies compressed wood During 2015 we completed construction of two new pellets to commercial and domestic customers for heating.
pelletmanufacturing plants facilities: at Amite BioEnergy in Gloster, Mississippi and Morehouse BioEnergy near Bastrop, The risks associated with each activity are managed within the Louisiana.
We also completed on our port facility in Baton business units, consolidated into the principal risks faced by the Rouge, Louisiana.
Group and regularly reviewed by the Board.
6 Drax Biomass shipments Shipments made to the UK in 2015 Drax Biomass risks on page 33 Drax Power risks on page 35 0.3 m Haven Power risks on page 37 Principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Drax Biomass production Group on page 52 Tonnes of own pellets produced source Strategic report Drax Group plc 17 Annual report and accounts 2015 More information on page 34 More information on page 36 Six generating units at Drax Electricity is traded directly with Power generate up to 8% of wholesale customers or supplied theUKs electricity needs.
through our retail business at Haven Power.
Continuous investment to improve operational performance makes these units highly efficient.
Billington Bioenergy supplies compressed wood pellets to domestic and commercial customers which are used in specialised boilers to generate heat.
Locations Locations The Power Station is located near Selby, UK, connecting Haven Power is based at Ipswich, UK.
directly into the national distribution grid.
Billington Bioenergy has depot locations across England, with a head office in Liverpool.
26.7TWh 13.8 TWh Electricity generation Electricity sales Generated during 2015 Sold by Haven during the year 5.9m 21Kt Fuel usage Heating pellet sales Tonnes of biomass used Sold by Billington Bioenergy generate supply
