20 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Our marketplace Unexpectedly severe declines in the globalcommodity markets made 2015 achallenging year.
2015 and current market conditions Our markets in 2015 Commodity price development Our markets were characterised by falling January 2015 100 were characterised by prices and spreads.
The combination of a 1.4 falling prices and slowdown of growth in the Chinese economy and OPECs shift to focus on market share 1.2 spreads.
in the oil market has meant that energy 1.0 commodity prices have fallen significantly.
0.8 UK power market prices are to a large degree determined by gas prices which have fallen 0.6 more than our wood pellet, coal and carbon prices.
Our margins have thereby been reduced.
0.4 The spread between our input fuel and 0.2 operating costs and our power revenue has narrowed as a result.
In 2015 our production 0.0 J F M A M J J A S O N D was hedged to off-set a large part of the falls Oil: Brent inmargins and a significant part of 2016 Coal: UK Dark Green Spread DGS production was also locked in at a time with higher spreads.
Future market drivers As more coal plants In the near future we will see an increasing close there is a greater impact from the fall in spreads.
We expect the depressed commodity markets to continue chance of tighter into2016.
Commodity market recovery could happen asaresult of a number of different scenarios: arebound in growth in the world economy: a supply side reaction to lower prices: or, simply from a cut back of oil and gas production in OPEC and Russia.
Drax does not take a position on when the markets will recover, but endeavours to protect earnings when the markets are low and to be prepared to take advantage of an increase in commodity prices when it happens.
UK power demand at peak times is getting close to the total available production capacity.
We expect the supply margin to tighten further with recent announcements regarding the closure of five coal-fired power stations in 2016, which together have a generating capacity of8GW.
The unusually warm and windy 2015 16 winter means that electricity prices have not reflected the tightness of the market, but if temperatures in the coming winter return to historic norms there is good chance that the lower available capacity will result in improved prices andspreads.
Strategic report Drax Group plc 21 Annual report and accounts 2015 The demand for system servicesis likely to increase asthe level of intermittent generation on the system increases.
We expect to play an increasingly critical role.
Drax also expects to increase the amount We believe there is a good case for further Generation capacity and margin of ancillary services it is able to provide in upgrades of our remaining coal units using GW supporting the national grid.
Last year, the ouradvanced biomass technology.
The system 100 system operator spent 800 million on needs plants that can provide energy when the maintaining a reliable system through the wind is not blowing and the sun doesnt shine, 80 procurement of balancing, frequency response, as well as plants that can provide the ancillary reactive power and black start services.
60 demand for system services is likely to increase 40 as the level of intermittent generation on If the costs of providing backup and the system increases.
In addition to being a systemservices are taken into account, i. e. 20 growing market opportunity it is also one where thecomparison is based on whole system the number of players capable of serving it is costs, then we believe that coal plants 0 Win-15 16 Win-15 16 Win-16 17 Win-16 17 reducing as more conventional power stations converted to wood pellets would reduce Derated Derated close.
It is a market in which we expect to play thecost of decarbonisation considerably.
Demand Interconnectors an increasingly critical and valuable role.
Nuclear and Hydro Peaking plant A recent study by the economic consultancy Biomass Wind NERA, in partnership with Imperial College, Further biomass opportunities Gas Supplemental London, concluded that on a like for like With two units converted to biomass and Coal Balancing generation basis, coal to biomass upgrades a third unit ready for conversion when the Reserve would result in system integration costs investment contract receives State Aid Source: Demand NG 2015 winter outlook ACS demand 1125MWh lower than solar or wind.
These approval, Drax has already taken a large step Supply TEC register, NG derating factors costs are lower because of the flexible output towards being part of the low carbon energy ofbiomass generating units and their ability to system of the future.
The Paris 2015 agreement provide ancillary services to the national grid.
on climate change points toward a continued System integration cost of renewables focus on measures to reduce greenhouse gas MWh Incremental upgrades of coal generating plant emissions and Drax plans to play an important to biomass will support the continued expansion 25 part in achieving the targets set out.
of solar and wind at a lower cost to the taxpayer 20 as it will require less buildout of new backup The UK government has signalled a shift capacity that would largely stand idle.
15 towards higher focus on security of supply and affordability in energy policy.
Drax is well 10 Drax has optimised its world leading placed to provide the solutions required 5 biomasstechnology and with the right support through production of renewable heating fuel, stands ready to initiate further generating further conversion from coal to compressed 0 unit upgrades.
wood pellets or through increased flexibility -5 Biomass Off-shore On-shore Solar in the running of our remaining coal units.
No additional flex Medium flex
