02 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Whats our solution?
Our answer to the problem ofcoal is sustainable biomass At Drax we have upgraded and converted half of our power station using the very latest 80% inbiomass technology to use At Drax the use of biomass saves compressed wood pellets more than 80% of the carbon dioxide emitted when compared to theuse of coal instead of coal.
This has nearly halved our carbon emissions, making usEuropes single largest decarbonisation project.
3 units Ithas also dramatically reduced other air pollutants including nitrogen oxides.
We now have three generating units using sustainable biomass in place of coal And because we are reusing and upgrading existing infrastructure, our transition has been faster and more affordable than it would have been if we had to build expensive new power stations in new locations.
Our biomass journey mt % 25 50 20 40 15 30 10 20 5 10 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 0 Carbon dioxide emissions million tonnes Biomass generation % Strategic report Drax Group plc 03 Annual report and accounts 2015 What is biomass?
Rebecca worked on this Biomass is material obtained from plants thatcan be used to generate electricity or heat.
A key benefit of biomass is that its renewable As Group Head of Sustainability, and if sourced correctly, both sustainable and Rebecca makes sure that the biomass low carbon.
The bulk of the biomass we use at we source is sustainable and making Drax is wood which we transform into high density, compressed wood pellets.
significant reductions to our carbonemissions.
Why are our wood pellets low carbon?
When any form of biomass is combusted the carbonemitted is equal to that absorbed during its growth.
Sourcing biomass from sustainably managed working forests helps maintain, and can increase, our planets long-term carbon stocks.
There are small amounts of emissions associated with the processing and transportation of our compressed wood pellets but even taking these into account the carbon savings at Drax are more than 80% compared to coal.
Rebecca Heaton Head of Sustainability andPolicy 04 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Whats our solution?
Working with universities Latest advanced technology We have partnered with some ofthe UKsleading universities on For more than a decade the many challenges we have had to overcome.
Oneexample is with the optimal use of additives to Draxhas been leading the prevent fouling of the boilers.
world in the development of new technology, techniques and processes to enable thesustainable sourcing, generation and supply ofelectricity from sustainablebiomass.
Manufacturing a strong pellet From plant to plug our original design, development and implementation of an innovative and wholly Our US manufacturing sites make use ofvertically-stacked mills to new means to generate electricity, using our oldest limit pellet handling prior to renewable energy source, has made a significant cooling.
This results in a more durable pellet that is less likely contribution to the carbon reduction targets of the to deteriorate as it is moved UKand with it the lives of people across the UK through our supplychain.
We take low-value wood and turn it into a higher densityfuel that is easy to transport and which, in ourupgraded and converted power station, is able togenerate reliable, renewable energy precisely whenitsneeded.
Strategic report Drax Group plc 05 Annual report and accounts 2015 Laser technology Jason helped design it We have deployed the very latest in laser scanning technology within our biomass boiler upgrades toachieve a superior understanding Using the very latest technology and of how woodpellets combust.
Withthis process engineering thinking, Jason has information we havebeenable to achieve played a critical role in redesigning our incremental reductions in air pollutants throughout the generation process.
This also generating units, allowing them to be helps us optimise our biomass units to achieve upgraded from coal to biomass.
an efficiency similar to that of coal.
Reducing and reusing dust Our US facilities are designed to reduce and recycle dust produced during the pelletmanufacturing process.
For example, dust containment systems limit employee exposure and mitigate potentially hazardous build-ups of dust.
Our production sites also screen pellets at various stages of the manufacturing process to separate and recycledust and fines.
Materials handling Jason Shipstone To achieve the desired level of process safety we chose to pneumatically convey the pellets Engineering Manager on a scale previously thought impossible.
Our biomass storage domes are also the worlds largest and the first time the technology has been used in the UK.
06 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Whats our solution?
Sustainably sourced biomass We only source from working forests that grow back and stay as forests.
Our biomass is precisely manufactured to a high density so its easy to transport in bulk.
Because of this, we can go outside Britain to the places that have huge, well established working forests and source low-grade and low-value material from forests that also supply local wood-based industries, such as construction, furniture and flooring.
Our biggest suppliers are in North America: until recently it would have been too expensive to make useof this surplus wood, now we can take it across the Atlantic for a remarkably low cost.
Even including the small remaining carbon emissions in our supply chain, our conversion still cuts our carbon emissions by more than 80% overall compared to coal.
And, just as we can go to the places with lots of lowvalue wood because of our advanced technology, we can also choose who we dont want to work with.
We never work in countries that lack properregulation.
1 We never cause deforestation or forestdecline.
2 We never source from areas that are officially protected or where our activities harm endangeredspecies.
3 We only take wood from working forests that grow back and stay as forests.
4 We require all our suppliers to pass tough screening and sustainability audits, conducted byindependent auditors.
5 Our principles Strategic report Drax Group plc 07 Annual report and accounts 2015 Richard helps source it 61 % We devoted a great deal of time and effort to identifying Almost two thirds of the US South isforested the best locations for our two US pellet manufacturing facilities to ensure our sourcing would be sustainable.
Our most important conditions included: access to low-grade wood: proximity to modern infrastructure: US South Forest Area USDA and availability of trained loggers, wood hauliers and Area Ha million other specialists to support our operations.
105 100 Our sites at Amite, Mississippi to sustainability, align with and 95 andMorehouse, Louisiana, with support the communities in which abundant pine resources, meet we operate.
We also partnered with 90 these conditions.
Both catchments third party organisations such as have suffered the recent departure NatureServe, a conservation 85 1920 1940 1953 1963 1977 1987 1997 2007 2012 of other forest products-based planning service, to ensure we industries and were therefore in avoid sourcing wood from areas Source: USDA Forest Service need of new markets to support ofhigh conservation value.
their existing wood supply andworkforce.
As a result of these efforts, we now have a secure and reliable Having selected these sites, supply chain that meets all our 86 m tonnes wemet with local forest owners sustainability requirements.
We and other stakeholders to better also maintain full chain-of-custody In 2014, in working forests in the US South, understand their interests and to for all sourced material, a practice 86 million tonnes more wood grew than communicate our values.
We firmly that is verified through washarvested believe in ensuring that our core independent audit.
values and our commitments US South, growth vs removals Million tonnes 250 Richard Peberdy 200 Vice President, Sustainability 150 Drax Biomass 100 50 0 1952 1962 1976 1986 1996 2006 2011 2014 Growth Removals Note: Original data converted to dry tonnes using an assumed moisture content of 50%.
Source: USDA Forest Service 08 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Whats our solution?
The Manchester Airport Group MAG Certified renewable MAG have been a customer since 2011 and aresupplied with Haven Powers Reconciled powerproducts matching Renewable Electricity.
We were initially attracted to Haven Power customer needs because of their renewable offering and commitment to supplying sustainable Many UK businesses have electricity.
Haven made the switch from ourincumbent supplier a smooth and easy made firm commitments to process and the service we have enjoyed since has been in keeping with their reputation.
limit and reduce their impact Tim Hooper Head of Group Procurement and Contracts, on the environment.
For all, Manchester Airport Group their use of energy is a critical Northumbrian Water One of Haven Powers biggest customers, area to consider and address.
Northumbrian Water came on supply in 2013.
Our focus was on sourcing a good power price Our retail business, Haven, is a major supplier for a five year supply period aligned to a supplier ofrenewable power to UK businesses.
that could provide accurate billing and excellent levels of customer service.
Haven were able toprovide this and, in June 2014, we had no With its most recent products Biomass Renewable reservations in extending our contract to the Energy and Reconciled Renewable Energy Haven end of March 2018. isable to supply our customers with on-demand and Phil Carvel reliable, renewable power 100% of the time.
Category Manager, Northumbrian Water Limited 100 % Our Biomass Renewable Energy product is the only offer in the market that guarantees to supply businesses with renewable energy, 100% of the time Strategic report Drax Group plc 09 Annual report and accounts 2015 Anglia Maltings Richard helps deliver it A leading food services company, Anglia Maltings has been a Haven customer since 2013, and recently extended its contract From its early days as an energy start-up to2017.
Richard and his team have continuously improved the product and service offering We have found the customer service to be excellent and would definitely recommend of Haven to UK businesses, establishing it them to other businesses.
We have a named as one of the leading players in the market.
contact who handles our account and, as a Flex customer, we also have direct contact with the Trading Desk which makes the management of our electricity needs veryeasy.
Bob King Commercial Director, Anglia Maltings Hope Construction Materials Limited One of the UKs leading suppliers of construction materials including concrete, cement and aggregates, Hope Construction have been a Haven customer since the beginning of 2013.
We found Haven Power to be both approachable and customer focused.
In addition to offering a competitive proposition, Haven were keen to work with us to find solutions that worked for both parties.
We also value the direct relationship we have with our dedicated Account and Service Managers who manage the day to day activities of our contract in an efficient and professional manner.
Emily Bates Head of Procurement, Hope Construction Materials Limited Richard Robey Sales and Marketing Director, Haven Power 10 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Whats our solution?
Sustainable Biomass Partnership SBP Bringing the UK closer This industry-led initiative formed in 2013, provides assurance that woody biomass is totheEuropean average sourced from legal and sustainable sources.
In2015 Ofgem benchmarked SBP as being fully compliant with the UKs Renewables Obligation, foruseof biomass which means that any wood pellets certified as SBP compliant meet the governments The use of wood for energy mandatory sustainability criteria for woodybiomass.
isnothing new in fact As a founding member of the SBP, Drax has played a key role in developing the SBP itsour oldest form of Framework certification standards.
The standards have been designed to provide renewable energy.
assurance that feedstocks are derived only from forests which are legally harvested and sustainably managed.
What is different today is how Drax is using the very Peter Wilson latest technology to turn low-grade wood into a modern Executive Director, and highly efficient fuel.
Today, Britain is well behind the Sustainable Biomass Partnership European average in its use of wood for energy and much lower than Germany or Sweden forexample, as shown in the chart below.
1 00% Taking steps to get closer to that European average Drax is aiming to have all its sourcing volumeSBP certified isthe fastest, most affordable and reliable way for the UK to move away from the fossil fuels of the past to the renewable energy sources of the future.
Wood as a source of energy, 2013 % share of wood and wood products in gross inland energy consumption, in Tonnes of Oil Equivalent EU-28 Latvia Finland Sweden Lithuania Austria Denmark Estonia Romania Portugal Slovenia Poland Hungary Bulgaria Croatia Italy Czech Republic Spain Slovakia France Greece Belgium Germany Ireland United Kingdom Netherlands Luxembourg Cyprus Malta Ref: Eurostat, nrg 100a, Jan 2016 In total energy In renewable energy 0 20 40 60 80 100 Strategic report Drax Group plc 11 Annual report and accounts 2015 Our conclusion: Biomass technology is the fastest, most affordable and reliable way to move away from the fossil fuels of the past to the renewable energy technology of the future.
With the right support Draxstands ready to do more.
