18 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Our business model Our business model is based on an integrated value chain.
1 supply 8 9 7 source 2 6 3 5 4 generate Inputs Outputs Financial capital Human capital employees, Investors transparency, Customers flexible, reliable, investment in biomass: suppliers, logistics operators, strategy, dividends.
emissions control and regulators, customers, NGOs.
Community local jobs, Government delivering the operational efficiency.
Manufacturing capital community engagement, green agenda, powering UK Natural capital coal: worldleading technology environmental safeguards.
Employees safety, Suppliers partnerships, Intellectual capital expertise, personal payments, performance.
We operate in regulated markets, The context Market review page 20 which are influenced by government People & culture page 38 policy and commodity cycles.
Risk page 52 Governance page 56 Strategic report Drax Group plc 19 Annual report and accounts 2015 b biomass b&c biomass and coal 7 1 Source b&c 4 Storage Sales Biomass fibre is sourced from working forests Compressed wood pellets are stored in climate We have well established sales teams in each where there is a surplus of available material.
controlled domes before delivery to the business unit, providing power and wood generation facilities.
pellets to a wide range of customers across all Coal is purchased from global suppliers.
also use nonstandard forms of coal, usually How we add value reclaimed as part of environmental clean up.
On site storage allows for the efficient delivery How we add value of fuel to the operating units on demand.
By understanding our markets well we are able How we add value to offer products aligned to customer needs.
Longterm biomass supply contracts provide Each of our four domes can hold 75,000 certainty, whilst spot market activity secures tonnes ofpellets.
Both conventional and renewablebacked competitive prices.
On site coal stocks are blended to minimise Use of nonstandard sources of coal for environmental emissions, in particular oxides The vertical integration of our business allows example pond fines reduce total fuel costs.
a high level of cooperation and collaboration between each unit, optimising the value available through the supply chain.
2 Process b 5 Power generation High quality, accredited, ENplusA1 We have our own pellet manufacturing We have six generating units, each with an compressed wood pellets are our core offering facilities in the southern United States.
into the UK renewable heat market.
How we add value How we add value By developing our own facilities we increase Conversion to biomass has secured revenue 8 security around biomass fuel supplies.
streams and reduced carbon emissions, in turn Distribution & delivery reducing carbon costs.
We have multiple routes to our customers.
Operational efficiency is a top priority.
How we add value 3 Logistics b&c Appropriate investment and continuous Haven Power provides a creditefficient route Biomass and coal is transported in large process improvement maximise to market for Draxs power and Renewable volumes using sea and rail routes.
How we add value Byproducts from the generation process Specialist vehicles deliver pellets to Fuel is transported over long distances arereused, or sold.
Sales of these to industry commercial and domestic heatmarket usingspecialist carriers through the most has reduced landfill levels.
Use of road transport is minimised, reducing 9 6 the carbon emissions from transportation.
Trading Customer service Trading takes place in the wholesale markets.
Excellent customer service lies at the heart Dedicated storage facilities have been built ofeach business.
and are operational at three UK ports and in How we add value the US at Baton Rouge, providing resilience Trading teams at Drax Power sell electricity, How we add value inour biomass supply chain.
Dedicated teams ensure highquality advice and support.
Dedicated rail facilities move coal and biomass Shortterm balancing markets present flexible from ports to the power station.
Complaint levels are minimised through proactive monitoring and issue resolution.
Longterm contracts secure prices and can be Sales are hedged by buying forward in hedged to minimise financial risks.
theliquid market to minimise price and Issues are quickly escalated to senior volumerisks.
Each generating unit is kept under constant review, only dispatching to the market where demand and pricing create value.
Risks are reduced through well developed commodity, collateral and currency tradingpolicies.
