66 Governance Remuneration Committee continued strikes the right balance between providing clarity on its intentions REMUNERATION POLICY and retaining flexibility to deal with the unexpected over the next Introduction two years.
We set out in this report the key elements of our policy The policy, which was explained in detail on page 60 to 65 in to allow cross-reference against its operation in the year.
This is the 2013 14 Annual Report a copy of which can be found on the unchanged from last year, other than the salary increases for the Groups website www.
com investors annual-reports Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director effective from was approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2014 and took effect 1 August 2015, and the section headed 'Reward Scenarios' has from 17 September 2014.
The Committee believes that the policy been updated for the Executive Directors' 2015 16 salaries.
Element, purpose & link to strategy Operation and performance metrics Opportunity Normally reviewed by the Committee annually and fixed for the Salaries will normally be increased in line with Basic salary 12 months commencing 1 August.
increases for the workforce in general increases To help recruit and retain for senior management inflation unless there key senior executives.
The Committee takes into account: has been an increase in the scope, responsibility role, competence and performance: or complexity of the role, when increases may To provide a midmarket average change in broader workforce salary: and be higher.
Phased higher increases may also be salary relative to comparable awarded to new Executive Directors who were total organisational salary budgets.
companies, in terms of size hired at a discount to the market level to bring Salaries are benchmarked against similar roles within a selected group and complexity.
the salary to the desired midmarket positioning, of UK businesses of similar size with substantial overseas operations.
The aim is to position salaries around the midmarket level, although higher salaries may be paid, if necessary, in cases of external recruitment or retention.
Targets are set annually and relate to areas of the business over which Maximum bonus potential of 200% of base salary Annual bonus the executive has particular control.
which will apply to the Group Chief Executive, with To incentivise executives the Group Finance Director having an opportunity to achieve specific, Bonus payouts are determined by the Committee after the year end, of 150% of base salary, with target bonus being predetermined objectives based on performance against predetermined objectives, at least the one half of the maximum.
Bonus starts to be earned during a oneyear period.
vast majority of which are financial.
at the threshold level below which 0% is payable.
Up to half of the bonus is paid in cash and the balance is deferred into shares.
To reward ongoing The deferred bonus shares vest after three years and are paid together delivery and contribution with an amount equal to the value of dividends payable on the vested to strategic initiatives.
shares during the deferral period.
The deferred element is subject to Deferred proportion of forfeiture for 'bad leavers' who depart prior to vesting.
bonus, awarded in shares, The annual bonus plans are not contractual and bonuses under the provides a retention plans are not eligible for inclusion in the calculation of the participating element and additional executives pension plan arrangements.
alignment of interests Clawback provisions apply to the annual bonus plan and the deferred bonus with shareholders.
shares so that individuals are liable to repay forfeit some or all of their bonus if there is a material misstatement of results or if there is serious misconduct.
Executive Directors can elect to either: Maximum: 30% of base salary including a maximum Pension DC Plan contribution.
Future appointments to the To remain competitive participate in the Groups Registered Defined Contribution Plan Board would have a maximum of 25% of base salary.
in the marketplace DC Plan, with life cover equal to four times basic salary: or and provide income receive a salary supplement: or in retirement.
Members of the DC Plan are required to contribute a minimum of 3% of their basic salary to qualify for matching employer contributions, with higher levels of employer contributions payable if members pay a higher contribution.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance 67 Element, purpose & link to strategy Operation and performance metrics Opportunity Directors receive a car allowance, income protection insurance, life cover Benefit levels may be increased in line with market Benefits and medical insurance.
Additional benefits including a relocation allowance levels and to ensure they remain competitive and To help retain employees may be provided from time to time where they are in line with market practice.
However, as the cost of the and remain competitive provision of benefits can vary without any change in in the marketplace.
the level of provisions, no maximum is predetermined.
Awards of nilcost options are made annually with vesting dependent on the Maximum annual awards: 225% of base salary which Performance achievement of performance conditions over the three subsequent years.
will apply to the Group Chief Executive, with the Group Share Plan PSP Finance Director having an opportunity of having a Awards will vest, subject to performance, on the third anniversary of grant To incentivise Executive maximum opportunity of 175% of base salary.
and will be subject to an additional twoyear holding period post vesting Directors to achieve during which time awarded shares may not be sold other than for tax.
25% of the relevant part of the award will vest for returns for shareholders achieving threshold performance, increasing to full over a longer timeframe.
The Committee reviews the quantum of awards annually to ensure that vesting for the achievement of maximum performance.
they are in line with market levels and appropriate given the performance of the individual and the Company.
To help retain executives Vesting of awards is based on: and align their interests with shareholders through i. the Companys Total Shareholder Return performance measured over building a shareholding in no less than three years against a peer group of companies selected by the Company.
the Committee as at the start of the performance period.
The vesting scale is median to upper quartile of the group of companies, with nothing vesting for below median performance: and ii.
internal audited financial measures of performance e. g. Earnings Per Share, Return on Average Capital Employed selected by the Committee over a period of no less than three financial years.
Dividend equivalents arising over the period between the grant date and the vesting date will be paid in cash or shares.
Clawback provisions apply to the PSP so that individuals are liable to repay forfeit some or all of their shares if there is a material misstatement of results or if there is serious misconduct.
Executive Directors are expected to maintain a shareholding in the None.
Share ownership Companys shares as a multiple of their base salary within five years of guidelines appointment Group Chief Executive 225%, Group Finance Director 175%.
To further align the To achieve this, Executive Directors are expected to retain at least 50% of interests of executives shares net of tax which vest under the Companys share plans until the with those of shareholders.
share ownership guidelines are met.
NonExecutive Directors are expected to build up and then maintain a shareholding that is equivalent to a percentage of their annual fee 50% from the Company within two years of their date of appointment.
Executive Directors have the opportunity to participate in the UK or Following recent UK HMRC changes to the limits, All employee international Sharesave plans on the same terms as other eligible employees.
the maximum participation level is now 500 per share plan The UK plan is operated on an equal terms basis to secure approved UK month or local currency equivalent.
This limit is Encourages longterm HMRC tax status.
There are no performance conditions applicable to awards.
subject to change in line with the UK HMRC limit shareholding in the from time to time.
com 68 Governance Remuneration Committee continued Reward scenarios The balance between fixed and variable 'at risk' elements of remuneration changes with performance.
The Companys remuneration policy results in a significant proportion of remuneration received by Executive Directors being dependent on Company performance.
The total remuneration of the Executive Directors for a minimum, target and maximum performance is presented in the charts below: Total remuneration Miles Roberts Adrian Marsh Fixed pay 932,600 1,404,000 1,404,000 546,700 661,500 771,750 Bonus Maximum Maximum 24.9% 37.5% 37.5% 27.6% 33.4% 39.0% Share-based payments 932,600 702,000 351,000 546,700 330,750 192,938 Target Target 47.0% 35.4% 17.7% 51.1% 30.9% 18.0% 932,600 546,700 Minimum Minimum 100% 100% The charts illustrate the remuneration policy from 1 August 2015.
The charts are indicative as share price movement and dividend accrual have been excluded.
Assumptions made for each scenario are as follows: Minimum: fixed remuneration only i. e. latest known salary, benefits and pension.
Target: fixed remuneration plus half of maximum annual bonus opportunity plus 25% vesting of performance shares.
Note that the Company does not have a stated target for its financial measures or incentive payouts.
Maximum: fixed remuneration plus maximum annual bonus opportunity plus 100% vesting of performance shares.
Service contracts and payment for loss of office The Committees policy is that the notice periods for Executive Directors appointed in future will not exceed one year.
Service contracts may be terminated without notice and without payment or compensation, except for sums earned up to the date of cessation, on the occurrence of certain events, such as gross misconduct.
The Committees normal policy on termination is to make phased compensatory payments and to reduce or stop such payments to former Executive Directors where they receive remuneration from other employment during the notice period where this is consistent with local employment legislation and market practice.
Termination payments will not exceed contractual entitlements.
For future Directors contracts, if the Company exercises its right to make a payment in lieu of notice PILON, these such payments will not exceed an amount equal to basic salary for any unexpired notice period.
1 Date of contract Notice period Group Chief Executive 4 May 2010 The service contract may be terminated by 12 months notice by the Company, and by the Miles Roberts Executive Director.
The Company may terminate the contract with immediate effect by making a payment equal to basic salary and pension allowance for any unexpired period of notice.
Group Finance 24 September 2013 The service contract may be terminated by 12 months notice by the Company, and by the Director Executive Director.
The Company may terminate the contract with immediate effect by Adrian Marsh making a payment equal to basic salary for any unexpired period of notice.
1 A ny such termination payment may be made in a lump sum or in monthly instalments from the termination date.
These monthly payments will be reduced to take account of any alternative employment or consultancy income during the period over which such instalments are payable.
In the case of a good leaver: annual cash bonus will be paid out, subject to Company performance, on the normal payment date unless the Committee determines that the payment will be made early on the date of cessation of employment.
The payout will be reduced on a prorata basis to reflect the proportion of the performance period served: deferred bonus shares will vest in full on the date of cessation of employment: and Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance 69 PSP and SMP awards will vest, subject to performance, on the normal vesting date unless the Committee determines that the awards will vest early on the date of cessation of employment in exceptional circumstances only.
Awards will be reduced on a prorata basis.
For all other leavers: all performancerelated elements of pay will lapse immediately.
For all leavers, the Committee may also determine to make a payment in reimbursement of a reasonable level of legal fees in connection with a settlement agreement.
Recruitment and appointment policy The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would be set in accordance with the terms of the Companys approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee may offer additional cash or sharebased elements.
Any such payments would be for the specific purpose of recruiting an Executive Director key to the operation of the Group.
They would not exceed what is felt to be a fair estimate of remuneration lost when leaving the former employer and would reflect as far as possible the nature and time horizons attaching to that remuneration and the impact of any performance conditions.
Shareholders will be informed of any such payments on appointment.
In the case of an internal executive appointment, any variable salary element awarded in respect of the prior role would be allowed to pay out according to its existing terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment would continue.
Policy for nonExecutive Directors and the Chairman Purpose and link Element to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Fees Attract and retain Reviewed annually by the Board after recommendation by the Committee No prescribed maximum high performing in respect of the Chairman.
Fee increases, if applicable, are normally effective from 1 August.
Aggregate annual fees limited to 750,000 by Articles of Association.
The Board and, where appropriate, the Committee, considers pay data at comparator companies of similar scale.
The Senior Independent Director and the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees receive additional fees.
No eligibility for participation in bonuses, retirement plans or share plans but limited benefits may be delivered in relation to the performance of their duties as Director e. g. hospitality, communication and travelrelated benefits.
NonExecutive Directors have letters of appointment for a term of three years whereupon they are normally renewed, but generally for no more than three terms in aggregate.
In each case, the notice period is one month by the Company or the Director.
NonExecutive Directors are not eligible for payments on termination.
In line with the Code, all non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at our AGM.
Date of contract Unexpired period at date of report Gareth Davis Chairman 22 April 2013 Eight months Chris Britton 22 January 2013 Seven months Ian Griffiths 14 April 2014 Two years Jonathan Nicholls Senior Independent Director 3 September 2012 Four months Kathleen ODonovan 10 September 2012 Four months Louise Smalley 14 April 2014 Two years The letters of appointment detail the time commitment expected of each nonExecutive Director and are available for viewing at the registered office during normal business hours and prior to and at the AGM.
