14 Strategic Report Our Business Model We create value by bringing together a collection of skills, all centred around the design and manufacture of packaging.
OUR BUSINESS MODEL INSIGHT PACKAGING PAPER MANUFACTURE INNOVATION CORRUGATED PLASTICS Balance of our combined RECYCLING 1 businesses million tonnes Corrugated packaging is our primary output: Corrugated 3.3 Packaging Corrugated Paper 2.4 Manufacture Fibre Sourcing 5.4 Recycling DESIGN 1 P roforma based on 2014 15 sales volumes, plus the estimated full-year effect of acquired businesses Andopack and Duropack, less the Nantes mill disposal.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 15 To support the production of high quality Unless otherwise specified, all data Our business model is focused corrugated packaging, we manufacture regarding our operations, including sites, on packaging.
We bring insight paper and in turn have a recycling business volumes and employee numbers include and innovation, and use this to to source fibre for this activity.
We design the Duropack business, acquired on design the optimum packaging and manufacture specialised paper grades 31 May 2015. to produce the best packaging possible.
for our customers supply chains, and manufacture it to the We also design and manufacture certain types of speciality plastic packaging, in particular highest standard.
plastic bags and taps for bag-in-box packaging and rigid crates for bottled liquids.
OUR BUSINESSES Corrugated Plastic Recycling Paper Packaging Packaging DS Smith designs and We source used paper and old DS Smith manufactures DS Smith has two parts manufactures corrugated corrugated cases OCC from recycled paper, principally to its plastics business: packaging.
We focus both retailers and traders.
corrugated case material Flexible packaging particularly on packaging The fibre is principally used CCM or testliner, which is and dispensing for fast-moving consumer by our own paper mills to the paper used to make DS Smith designs and goods, such as grocery make recycled paper, with corrugated board.
We also manufactures plastic products, which need large the remainder sold to other make some other grades bags and taps and fitments volumes of high quality paper manufacturers in both of paper, such as core board for use in bag-in-box packaging to complement Europe and globally.
We also and plasterboard liner.
branded products with offer a full recycling service majority of the CCM that we Our products are used for requirements changing to cover other materials such make is used by our own transportation of beverages, frequently.
as glass and metals, which we packaging business, with the concentrates, chemicals and then recycle in partnership remainder sold externally.
The remainder of our pharmaceuticals.
All other grades are sold business is for industrial tap solutions can be used DS Smith is different to other externally.
The acquisition products, other consumer for industrial containers, recyclate collectors because of Duropack on 31 May 2015 products and other uses, for dispensing beverages we do not operate landfill has added a further two such as packaging for in restaurants or as an sites our sole focus is on testliner mills, both in on-line deliveries.
Industrial end-product, such as a wine recycling, with a target of south eastern Europe.
packaging is often very high box.
Our flexible packaging helping our customers precision and involves business operates globally.
2014 15, we expanded our Rigid packaging operations by taking our We design and manufacture ownership of Italmaceri to rigid plastic packaging 100 per cent.
The acquisition products for the transit of Duropack on 31 May 2015 of beverages, healthcare has further increased our products, automotive recycling capabilities in products and in retail.
com 16 Strategic Report Our Business Model continued To achieve this, we employ a range of skills.
manufacturing base, is a key differentiator We start with analysing what the customer compared to many competitors.
We work Corrugated Packaging needs from the packaging in terms of with leading FMCG and industrial customers physical performance across the supply to supply packaging to their own network chain, and we design suitable packaging of factories, with guarantees for service 27 countries across Europe based on that specification.
Our paper and quality that apply across the business.
Consultancy services in business works in close collaboration with For example, our customers know that the our corrugated packaging business to packaging for their branded product will Europe, Asia and the US develop high performance paper that best be in precisely the correct specified colour, 177 manufacturing sites suits the needs of the packaging designers whether it has been manufactured in the and the manufacturing process.
We also UK, Spain, Sweden or Romania.
This is all 30 design centres work with our customers and supply our part of our strategic commitment to delight own insight on how packaging can maximise our customers.
c. 3.3 million tonnes of sales by maximising availability within store, corrugated packaging Our scale also allows us to invest in research, through brand visibility and ease of use.
innovation and design, for example our per annum We describe this approach as Supply network of design centres.
The benefit and c. 19,400 employees Cycle Thinking.
costs are then shared across the business.
We are therefore able to offer a high 6 million investment in See p 18 for more on supply cycle thinking standard of product while maintaining research and development competitive pricing.
This is key to our Our scale gives us a commercial advantage success with customers, as demonstrated 2014 15 and allows us to deliver this quality of by our consistent volume growth ahead of service sustainably.
Our ability to provide market growth.
pan-European solutions, via our extensive HOW WE CREATE VALUE We seek to help our customers reduce their costs, sell more, and manage their risk.
We are able to do this through our skills in innovation, design and manufacture, and insight into consumer behaviour in the retail environment.
We are able to invest in the skills necessary to deliver this due to our scale, and we offer our solutions on a pan-European basis.
We work with our customers, analysing Lower Managed every point where packaging interacts with More Sales Cost Risk their activities, and considering how it might be optimised.
For example, we optimise the box strength for stacking in a lorry, and optimise the design for speed on the packing line, on to how easily it can be opened and displayed once in store.
We also look at how packaging works best once on a retailers shelf, in order to drive sales and improve the handling costs for the retailer.
Once a box is used, it then needs to be easily recycled, and the journey begins again.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 17 also supports our corrugated packaging At the same time, the paper mills are highly business by helping retailers get best focused on their operational excellence.
Recycling value from their used corrugated material, We have a LEAN team programme of driving the use of corrugated packaging highly skilled engineers who work with all over other packaging materials.
the sites in turn to ensure that best practice Operates in Croatia, France, is shared and implemented.
This ensures we Germany, Italy, Macedonia, maximise profitability by minimising costs.
Netherlands, Poland, Serbia Paper and the UK Plastic Packaging 17 depots and 24 offices Five large mills in Germany, c. 5.4 million tonnes fibre Italy, Netherlands and the UK 24 manufacturing sites in collected per annum Five small mills in Bulgaria, Europe, New Zealand, c. 900 employees Croatia, France and the UK Thailand and the US #1 market share for Sales offices in Belgium, Sales offices in Belgium, collection of OCC in the UK France, Italy and the UK France, UK and the US c. 2.4 million tonnes CCM Head office in the US HOW WE CREATE VALUE per annum c. 2,100 employees Our core business is the collection of c. 380 thousand tonnes used materials, principally OCC and other other paper per annum fibre, providing a recycling service to our HOW WE CREATE VALUE customers.
In addition, we offer a range c. 2,300 employees Specialist plastic packaging solutions of value-added services, such as recycling are designed in close collaboration with and environmental audits and consultancy customers and frequently include to help customers manage their materials HOW WE CREATE VALUE intellectual property.
The design of taps most efficiently, with the aim of achieving Our paper business is an essential partner and fitments for liquids are often specific zero waste.
This is not only a worthwhile to our packaging business.
We seek to to the type of liquid, in order to optimise environmental target: it typically means integrate the businesses as much as filling and dispensing.
We own hundreds of that better value can be achieved on the practicable, with the paper operations patents covering our designs and products.
used fibre, though developing systems focused on producing the paper required Once we have a design that fulfils our to maximise recovery and segregation, by packaging, to the correct quality standard customers requirements, we are able to as appropriate.
The majority of our testliner manufacture on a large scale and distribute The recycling business is profitable is used by the DS Smith packaging business.
the product globally, as the product is light independent of the other elements of The remainder of our testliner and all our and readily transportable.
Our rigid plastic the DS Smith business.
We buy the fibre other grades of paper are sold externally.
products are manufactured in Europe for we collect, typically with reference to the We seek to compete on the quality of our the European market, in scale operations market price of fibre, adjusted to reflect product, while our scale and efficiency principally focused in Bulgaria and Slovakia.
The fibre means that we remain cost competitive.
Our flexible plastic products are manufactured is aggregated and sorted, and then used in New Zealand, Thailand and the US and We undertake joint research and development in DS Smiths paper mills or sold to third are distributed globally.
of paper in collaboration with our packaging party mills or exporters.
operations to achieve the optimal result.
Our recycling business supports our paper We have increased our production of papers operations by providing them with the fibre particularly suited to high quality packaging, required, with a consistent and well defined such as white-top grades.
quality, which in turn enables our paper mills to produce paper with precisely the performance characteristics required by the packaging business.
