S S Str tr tra a at te te eg g gi i ic c R c R Re e ep p po o or r rt t t 7 7 7 Packaging in a Changing Market Packaging is more relevant than ever in a rapidly changing market.
Packaging performs a number of functions in the retail environment and supply chain.
Well designed, attractive packaging is essential to ensure product availability, identification and accessibility, as more buying decisions are made in-store.
We provide insight, innovation, design and manufacturing expertise to produce packaging that fulfils the requirements of the changing market.
Our market insights p 8 Consumer behaviour and the retail environment are changing p 10 Requirements for packaging are changing p 12 We create innovative solutions for changing customer needs d ds ssm smi it th.
h. co com m 8 8 S Str tra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt & A t & Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic R c Re ep po or rt t 9 9 Consumer behaviour and the retail environment are changing.
Well designed packaging is essential to driving sales Consumers are changing the way that they shop.
They are now making more frequent shopping trips, for Good packaging will be easily identifiable in the back-ofexample an estimated 55 per cent of consumers now go store, driving on-shelf availability.
grocery shopping three or more times per week.
Consumers most commonly dont have a detailed shopping list, instead Well designed packaging makes the product easy to identify choosing while in the store.
While the economy is recovering, and to pick from the shelf.
shoppers remain very cost conscious.
It is expected that large stores will become less important while discount, convenience Attractive packaging is important in driving brand visibility and on-line retailers grow.
For example, convenience, discount and in-store purchasing decisions.
and on-line retailers are forecast to grow from 31 per cent to Display packaging is commonly used to support promotions.
43 per cent of the UK market by 2020.
UK Channel share Channel specific solutions for 5% 5% 4% increased complexity 9% 6% 35% 42% 12% 21% 2014 2020 22% 18% 20% Superstores Supermarkets Convenience Discount Online Other Source: IGD d ds ssm smi it th.
h. co com m 10 10 S Str tra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt & A t & Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic R c Re ep po or rt t 1 11 1 Requirements for packaging are changing.
units in order to maximise availability.
Discounters require Packaging is no longer very high quality packaging, with a single unit containing one-size-fits-all.
a range of brand variants, in order to maximise efficiency in stacking shelves.
Packaging needs to fulfil its purpose of transporting For any branded product, its presentation at the retailer and protecting its product.
It also needs to drive availability, is key, so packaging must support and enhance the brand accessibility and visibility in a range of store settings large proposition.
Retail-ready packaging achieves this through store, convenience store, discounters, plus picking for on-line the quality of materials and printing, the interaction delivery and wholesale distributors.
between the primary product and the outer packaging, Supermarkets require large unit sizes to deal with the volume and the prominence of the brand logo.
being purchased, while convenience stores require narrow Discounters high quality Supermarkets large box displays packaging required, often with required for volume different variants in one box Convenience small format packaging required to give range d ds ssm smi it th.
h. co com m 12 12 S Str tra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t A An nn nu u a a l R l R ee pp oo rt & A rt & A cc c o c u o n u tn s 2 ts 2 010 515 S Str tra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t 13 13 We create innovative solutions for changing customer needs.
DS Smith provides solutions based on our insight, innovation, design and manufacturing expertise.
Our overall aim is to create packaging that reduces costs, drives sales and manages risk.
For example, for Ritter Sport chocolate, we have designed a display case that can be automatically filled and stacked, rather than stacked and assembled by hand, and can be configured for either a quarter or a half-sized pallet.
The construction is modular, allowing for different size displays while keeping the construction simple.
This makes it ideal for a range of store sizes while reducing costs for the manufacturer.
The display is a highly attractive unit which complements the branding of the primary product the bars of chocolate matching the colours and supporting the quality of the brand.
