Directors Report The Directors present their report together with the audited e. not carry on other than through their holding of securities financial statements for the period ended 4 July 2015. of the Company or have any financial interest other than a financial interest in securities which are held for Where reference is made to other sections of the Annual investment purposes only in any person who carries on a Report and Financial Statements, these sections are business as a homewares retailer, to the extent that it would incorporated into this report by reference.
be inconsistent with or undermine any provisions of the Relationship Agreement: and Strategic Report The Groups Strategic Report is set out on pages 2 to 28.
This f. only enter into, amend or terminate any transaction, contains an indication of likely future developments in the agreement or relationship between themselves or any of business of the Company and the Group.
their associates and any member of the Group with the approval of a majority of the independent Non-Executive Results and Dividends Directors.
The consolidated profit for the year after taxation was 96.1m WA Capital Limited and Nadine Adderley, to whom Will 2014: 89.1m.
The results are discussed in greater detail in the Adderley has transferred shares by way of a gift, have Chief Financial Ofcers review on pages 20 to 21. subsequently become party to this agreement.
A final dividend of 16.0 per share 2015: 15.0p is proposed in In July 2014, the Relationship Agreement was amended so as respect of the period ended 4 July 2015 to add to an interim to comply with Listing Rule LR 9.2.
2A 2 a, which came into dividend of 5.5p per share paid on 10 April 2015 2014: 5.0p.
The following additional undertakings The final dividend will be paid on 27 November 2015 to were given by the parties: shareholders on the register at 16 October 2015.
X No action will be taken that would have the effect Special Distribution of preventing the Company from complying with its On 24 March 2015, 70.0p per Ordinary Share was returned to obligations under the Listing Rules: and shareholders by way of a B C Share Scheme.
X No resolution will be proposed, or procured to be Shareholder and Voting Rights proposed, which is intended to, or appears to be intended All members who hold Ordinary Shares are entitled to attend to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
On a show of hands In addition, the Articles of Association of the Company provide at a general meeting every member present in person shall that the election and re-election of independent Directors must have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person be conducted in accordance with the election provisions set or by proxy shall have one vote for every Ordinary Share held.
This means that the election On 2 October 2006, Jean Adderley, Bill Adderley and Will or re-election of each independent Director at the Annual Adderley all shareholders entered into a Relationship General Meeting will be subject to an additional separate Agreement with the Company, pursuant to which each of Jean resolution upon which parties controlling 30% or more of the Adderley, Bill Adderley and Will Adderley undertook to the voting shares of the Company are not eligible to vote.
Company that, for so long as, individually or together, they are The Company confirms that it has complied with its obligations entitled to exercise, or to control the exercise of, 30% or more under the Relationship Agreement during the financial period of the rights to vote at general meetings of the Company or under review, and that so far as it is aware all other parties to they are able to control the appointment of Directors who are that agreement have complied with it.
able to exercise a majority of votes at Board meetings of the Company, they will: The Company confirms that there are no contracts of signicance between any member of the Group and any of a. conduct all transactions and relationships with any member the parties to the Relationship Agreement, with the exception of the Group on arms length terms and on a normal of Will Adderleys service agreement as a Director of the commercial basis: Company, the terms of which are outlined in the Remuneration b. not take any action which precludes or inhibits any member Report.
of the Group from carrying on its business independently There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary Shares of Jean and Bill Adderley and their associates as dened in in the Company other than certain restrictions imposed by the Listing Rules : laws and regulations such as insider trading and marketing c. not exercise any of their voting rights or other powers to requirements relating to close periods and requirements of procure any amendment to the Articles of Association of the the Listing Rules whereby Directors and certain employees of Company which would be inconsistent with or undermine the Company require Board approval to deal in the Companys any of the provisions of the Relationship Agreement: securities.
d. abstain from voting on any resolution to which LR11.7.
R 4 of the Listing Rules applies involving Jean Adderley, Bill Adderley or Will Adderley or any of their associates as the related party: dunelm.
com Stock code: DNLM 76 GOVERNANCE Change of Control Greenhouse Gas Emissions The Company is not party to any significant agreements which The Corporate Social Responsibility report on page 18 sets take effect, alter or terminate solely on a change of control of out the greenhouse gas emissions disclosures required by the the Company following a takeover bid.
Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for additional compensation Treasury and Risk Management for loss of ofce or employment whether through resignation, The Groups approach to treasury and financial risk redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover management is explained in the Principal Risks and bid.
Share Capital and Treasury Shares Going Concern The Company has only one class of shares, Ordinary Shares of The Directors have made appropriate enquiries and formed a 1p each.
judgement at the time of approving the financial statements that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has The issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company has not adequate resources to continue in operational existence for changed during the period the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Directors continue At 4 July 2015, the Company held 357,158 Ordinary Shares in to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial treasury 2014: 936,498. statements.
During the period the Company did not purchase any ordinary Independent Auditors shares into treasury.
579,340 shares were transferred to In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006 employees who exercised options under a share incentive and the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee, scheme.
Details of option exercises by Directors are set out in a resolution is to be proposed at the AGM for the rethe Remuneration Report.
appointment of  LLP as auditors of the Group.
647 ordinary shares have been moved out of treasury since the period end to employees who exercised options under a share Disclaimer incentive scheme.
This Directors Report and Business Review and the Financial Substantial Shareholders Statements contain certain forward-looking statements with At 10 September 2015 the following had notied the Company respect to the financial condition, results, operations and business of Dunelm Group plc.
These statements and forecasts of a disclosable interest in 3% or more of the nominal value of the Companys Ordinary Shares: involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances that will occur in the future.
Ordinary Percentage of There are a number of factors that could cause actual results Shares share capital or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts.
Will Adderley 61,961,779 30.5 Nothing in this Directors Report and Business Review or in Bill Adderley 48,070,000 23.7 these Financial Statements should be construed as a profit forecast.
Will Adderley is also deemed to hold a legal interest in 1,167,250 Ordinary Shares held by The Stoneygate Trust Annual General Meeting formerly known as The Leicester Foundation and 172,750 The Annual General Meeting will be held at 9.30 am on Ordinary Shares held by the Paddocks Discretionary Trust, by Tuesday 24 November 2015 at Fullers The Parcel Yard, Kings virtue of the fact that he is a trustee of those trusts.
A formal notice of meeting, explanatory circular and a form of proxy will accompany this Directors report and accounts.
The Directors of the Company and their biographies are set out on pages 30 to 32.
Details of changes to the Board during This report was reviewed and signed on behalf of the Board on the period are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on 10 September 2015. page 35.
Dawn Durrant Powers of Directors Company Secretary Specic powers of the Directors in relation to shares and 10 September 2015 the Companys Articles of Association are referred to in the Corporate Governance report on page 39.
Employee Information Information relating to employees of the Group Is set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on page 13.
Share incentive schemes in which employees participate are described in the Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 54.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 77
