Directors and Officers Andy Harrison Will Adderley r rle ey y Chairman Chief Executive utive N N R Key strengths: A current CEO with considerable experience of leading Key strengths: Has worked in, and is familiar with, all parts of the large consumer facing organisations with a strong service offer.
Specic strengths in buying and trading with strong and longstanding plc experience and shareholder understanding.
Has been instrumental in growing the Group to its current size having developed the out-of-town format in Dunelm role: Chairs the Board, which is responsible for Group the late 1990s.
strategy, performance, risk oversight and good governance.
Regularly visits stores to meet colleagues and members of the senior Dunelm role: Leads the Group and chairs the Executive Board.
Participates in investor presentations and some addition to his Board role, provides liaison with the Remuneration shareholder meetings.
Committee for reward below Board level.
Member of the Nominations Committee and attends Audit & Risk Committee meetings by Joined Dunelm Board: invitation.
Will become Deputy Chairman on 1 January 2016 when September 2014.
John Browett succeeds him as Chief Executive officer.
Previous Experience: Chief Executive of easyJet plc from 2005 to Joined Dunelm Board: 1992, and has worked for Dunelm for his 2010.
Chief Executive of RAC plc between 1996 and 2005.
He took over the day-to-day running of the Group from Executive Director and chair of Audit Committee at EMAP plc from his father in 1996.
Remained as Chief Executive through the Groups 2000 to 2008.
Became Deputy Chairman in February 2011 and was Other Commitments: Chief Executive officer of Whitbread plc.
reappointed Chief Executive in September 2014.
Previous Experience: All parts of Dunelms business.
John Browett David Stead Chief Executive Designate signate Chief Financial Of Officer ficer Key strengths: Experienced Chief Executive.
Exceptional combination Key strengths: Finance background and extensive plc experience.
of business leadership and outstanding retail skills across a breadth of Understanding of investor community and company secretarial matters.
sectors, from grocery to electricals and fashion.
Proven experience of An experienced strategic and financial perspective across all Group applying technology in multi-channel operations.
Dunelm role: Currently in an induction period until he succeeds Will Dunelm role: Leads the finance department, as well as taking Adderley as Chief Executive in January 2016.
Will then lead the Group responsibility for a number of strategic and cross-functional initiatives.
and the Executive Board and liaise with the Remuneration Committee Participates in Audit and Risk Committee meetings by invitation and in respect of below Board remuneration.
Will attend Audit & Risk sits on the Executive Board.
Will retire from the Board Committee meetings by invitation.
in December 2015 and be succeeded by Keith Down.
Joined Dunelm Board: July 2015 Joined Dunelm Board: September 2003.
Previous Experience: Various leadership positions at Tesco plc, Previous Experience: Qualied accountant.
Formerly 14 years at including appointments as Strategy Director, CEO of Tesco.
com, and Boots where he was Finance Director of Boots The Chemists and Group Operations Development Director.
Finance Director of Boots Healthcare International.
Senior Vice President Apple Retail.
Other Commitments: Non-Executive Director of Card Factory plc.
Other Commitments: Non-Executive Director of easyJet plc, Octopus Honorary Member of Council, University of Birmingham.
Capital Limited and Octopus Investments Limited.
Notes: The following individuals were also Board members during the financial year: As announced on 9 July 2015, Keith Down will be appointed to the Board on 7 December 2015 as Chief Financial officer, to succeed David Stead.
Geoff Cooper Chairman, retired from the Board on 7 July 2015.
Matt Davies Non-Executive Director, resigned 8 January 2015.
Nick Wharton Chief Executive, resigned 10 September 2014. dunelm.
com Stock code: DNLM 30 GOVERNANCE Marion Sears Liz Doherty Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Dir re ector ctor Chair of Nominations Chair of Audit and and Remuneration Committees Risk Committee A A N R N R Key strengths: Extensive City, investor and banking experience Key strengths: A former Finance Director with extensive operational including mergers and acquisitions.
experience in international consumer and retail businesses, specifically Long-standing plc experience and shareholder understanding.
with brands, marketing and online.
Long-standing plc experience and shareholder understanding.
Dunelm role: As a Non-Executive Director, provides strategic advice, monitors management performance and oversees risk management.
Dunelm role: As a Non-Executive Director, provides strategic advice, Regularly visits stores to meet store colleagues and members of the monitors management performance and oversees risk management.
Together with the Chairman, takes specic Regularly visits stores to meet store colleagues and members of responsibility for director recruitment, co-ordinating the Boards the senior management team.
Attends investor presentations and corporate governance duties and for liaising with shareholders on shareholder meetings.
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Attends investor presentations and Joined Dunelm Board: May 2013. shareholder meetings.
Finance Director Joined Dunelm Board: July 2004. of Reckitt Benckiser plc, Brambles Limited Australia and Group Previous Experience: Robert Fleming, JP Morgan Investment Banking.
International Finance Director of Tesco plc.
Other Commitments: Non-Executive Director of Persimmon plc, Other Commitments: Non-Executive Director of Nokia Corporation, Fidelity European Values plc and Octopus AIM VCT plc Corbion NV and Delhaize Group.
Simon Emeny William Reeve Senior Independent Dir Director ector Non-Executive Dir rector ector A N R A N R Key strengths: A current CEO with extensive general management Key strengths: A serial entrepreneur and investor with deep digital experience in a retail model, customer service and hospitality experience, who can operate at Board level.
Long-standing plc experience and shareholder Dunelm role: As a Non-Executive Director, provides strategic advice, understanding.
monitors management performance and oversees risk management.
Dunelm role: As a Non-Executive Director, provides strategic advice, Regularly visits stores to meet store colleagues and members of monitors management performance and oversees risk management.
Attends investor presentations and Regularly visits stores to meet store colleagues and members of shareholder meetings.
Attends investor presentations and Joined Dunelm Board: July 2015. shareholder meetings.
Senior Independent Director and will become Previous experience: President, MD and COO of LOVEFiLM.
com, Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 11 September 2015. which he co-founded.
Various executive roles in several leading e-commerce businesses including Graze.
com, Paddy Power PLC, Joined Dunelm Board: June 2007.
Previous Experience: Sales and marketing, customer service and Other Commitments: general management in the brewing and hospitality sector.
co. uk Other Commitments: Chief Executive of Fuller Smith and Turner plc.
Committee memberships A Audit and Risk Committee member N Nominations Committee member R Remuneration Committee member Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 31 Directors and Officers CONTINUED Peter Ruis Dawn Durrant Non-Executive Dir Director ector Company Secretary A N R Key strengths: A current CEO with deep experience in retail and Key strengths: Extensive plc company secretarial and legal brands, working for both large and more entrepreneurial organisations, experience including corporate governance, legal and regulatory with a particular expertise in marketing.
compliance, mergers and acquisitions, company and commercial, retail and consumer law.
Dunelm role: Responsible for governance, legal and regulatory Regularly visits stores to meet store colleagues and members of matters.
Secretary to the Executive Board.
Attends investor presentations and Joined Dunelm: November 2011. shareholder meetings.
Previous experience: Qualied as a solicitor at Allen & Overy.
Company Secretary of Geest plc.
Previous experience: Senior positions at John Lewis Partnership, Other Commitments: None.
Levi Strauss and Ted Baker.
Other Commitments: Chief Executive of Jigsaw.
Bill, together with his wife Jean, founded the business in 1979.
Bill Adderley Although no longer on the Board or actively involved in management, Founder and Life Pr ife Pre esident sident Bill and Jean remain major shareholders.
Committee memberships A Audit and Risk Committee member N Nominations Committee member R Remuneration Committee member dunelm.
