Strategic report Governance Accounts Directors report Dividend The Directors present the Directors report, together with the The Directors are recommending an ordinary dividend, with a audited accounts for the year ended 30 September 2015.
The payout ratio of 40% of profit after tax, resulting in a dividend Directors report comprises pages 81 to 84, and the sections of of 219 million or 55.2 pence per share.
The ordinary dividend the annual report incorporated by reference are set out below: is subject to shareholder approval at the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 February 2016.
Membership of Board during See pages Appointment and retirement of Directors 47 to 49 2015 financial year Subject to applicable law, a Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of shareholders in general meeting following Financial instruments and See pages nomination by the Board or a member or members entitled to financial risk management 111 to 115 vote at such meeting, or following retirement by rotation if the Director chooses to seek re-election at a general meeting.
In See pages Greenhouse gas emissions addition, the Directors may appoint a Director to fill a vacancy 40 to 41 or as an additional Director, provided that the individual retires at the next Annual General Meeting.
A Director may be removed See pages Corporate governance report by the Company as provided for by applicable law, in certain 46 to 63 circumstances set out in the Companys Articles of Association for example bankruptcy or resignation, or by an ordinary Future developments of the business See page resolution of the Company in general meeting.
All Directors of the Group 15 stand for election at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment, and stand for re-election on an annual basis.
See pages Employee equality and diversity 35 to 36 Powers conferred on the Directors in relation to issuing or buying back shares See pages Subject to applicable law and the Companys Articles of Employee involvement 32 to 34 Association the Directors may exercise all powers of the Company, including the power to authorise the issue and or In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys market purchase of the Companys shares subject to an Listing Rules LR 9.8.
4C, the information to be included in appropriate authority being given to the Directors by shareholders the Annual report and accounts, where applicable, under LR in general meeting and any conditions attaching to such 9.8.
4, is set out in this Directors report, with the exception authority.
The shareholders delegated the following powers of details of transactions with controlling shareholders in relation to the issuing or market purchase by the Company which is set out on page 117 note 26 to the accounts.
of its shares at the Companys 2015 Annual General Meeting: authority to allot equity securities with a nominal value of up to approximately 10% of its issued share capital: The Annual report and accounts have been drawn up and authority to allot equity securities, without first offering them presented in accordance with UK Company law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with the report shall be subject to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings, with a nominal value of up to approximately 5% of its issued share to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
capital: and easyJet plc is incorporated as a public limited company and authority to make market purchases of its own shares, up to is registered in England with the registered number 3959649. a maximum of approximately 10% of the Companys issued easyJet plcs registered office is Hangar 89, London Luton share capital.
The Companys registrars are Equiniti Limited who are situated at Aspect House, Spencer These standard authorities will expire on 12 May 2016, or at the Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2016, whichever is the earlier.
The Directors will seek to renew the authorities at the Political donations and expenditure Annual General Meeting in 2016.
As at 13 November 2015, none easyJet works constructively with all levels of government across of these authorities had been exercised.
its network, regardless of political affiliation.
easyJet believes in the rights of individuals to engage in the democratic process, During the 2015 financial year, 350,998 ordinary shares in the however easyJet does not make any political donations and Company were issued for cash to satisfy the exercise of options does not incur any political expenditure.
granted under the Companys Discretionary Share Option Scheme before it lapsed in December 2014 see note 18 to the accounts.
However, these do not count against the allotment authority granted by shareholders in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. www.
com 81 Directors report continued where a proposed transferee of the Companys shares has Directors indemnities Directors and officers insurance cover has been established for all failed to furnish to the Directors a declaration of nationality together with such evidence as the Directors may require Directors to provide cover against their reasonable actions on behalf of the Company.
A deed was executed in 2007 indemnifying each as required by the Companys Articles of Association: and of the Directors of the Company and or its subsidiaries as a the powers given to the Directors by the Companys Articles supplement to the directors and officers insurance cover.
The of Association to limit the ownership of the Companys shares indemnities, which constitute a qualifying third party indemnity by non-UK nationals and powers to enforce this limitation provision as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, including the right to force a sale of any affected shares.
were in force during the 2015 financial year and remain in force for There are no restrictions on exercising voting rights save in all current and past Directors of the Company.
situations where the Company is legally entitled to impose such Directors conflicts of interest a restriction for example under the Articles of Association where Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they amounts remain unpaid in the shares after request, or the holder have, or may have, interests that conflict with those of easyJet, is otherwise in default of an obligation to the Company.
unless that conflict is first authorised by the Board.
The The Company is not aware of any arrangements between Company has in place procedures for managing conflicts of shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer interest.
The Companys Articles of Association also contain of securities or voting rights.
provisions to allow the Directors to authorise potential conflicts Employee share schemes rights of control of interest so that a Director is not in breach of his her duty The trustee of the easyJet UK Share Incentive Plan the Plan under company law.
Should a Director become aware that he will, on receipt of any offer, compromise, arrangement or she has an interest, directly or indirectly, in an existing or scheme which affects ordinary shares held in the Plan, or proposed transaction with easyJet, he she should notify in relation to any resolutions proposed at a general meeting the Board in line with the Companys Articles of Association.
including the Annual General Meeting, invite participants to Directors have a continuing duty to update any changes to direct the trustee on the exercise of any voting rights attaching their conflicts of interest.
to the ordinary shares held by the trustee on their behalf and or Share capital and rights attaching to shares direct how the trustee shall act in relation to those ordinary Details of the movements in authorised and issued share capital shares.
The trustee shall take no action in respect of ordinary during the year are provided in note 17 to the accounts on shares for which it has received no direction to vote, or ordinary page 108. shares which are unallocated.
On a poll, the trustee shall vote in accordance with directions given by participants.
In the absence On 30 September 2015 there was a single class of 397,208,133 of directions, or on a show of hands, the trustee shall not vote.
ordinary shares of 27 2 7 pence in issue, each with one vote.
There were no shares held in treasury at that date.
The trustee of the easyJet plc Employee Benefit Trust the Trust, which is used to acquire and hold shares in the Company The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary for the benefit of employees, including in connection with the shares are set out in its Articles of Association.
Holders of easyJet Long Term Incentive Plan, the International Share ordinary shares are entitled, subject to any applicable law Incentive Plan and Sharesave plans, has the power to vote or not and the Companys Articles of Association, to: vote, at its absolute discretion in respect of any shares in the have shareholder documents made available to them, Company held unallocated in the Trust.
However, in accordance including notice of any general meeting: with good practice, the trustee adopts a policy of not voting in respect of such shares.
attend, speak and exercise voting rights at general meetings, either in person or by proxy: and Both the trustees of the easyJet UK Share Incentive Plan and the easyJet plc Employee Benefit Trust have a dividend waiver participate in any distribution of income or capital.
in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial property Voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares of each of the trusts.
None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard Amendment of the Articles of Association to control of the Company.
There are no restrictions on transfers The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended of shares other than: by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed Change of control provisions by laws or regulations such as those relating to insider dealing: The Company is party to a Revolving Credit Facility RCF which pursuant to the Companys Share Dealing Code, whereby the contains change of control provisions.
The effect of a change of Directors and designated employees require approval to deal control would be that unless otherwise agreed by the Company in the Companys shares: and the agent of the lenders: where a person with an interest in the Companys shares a lender would not be obliged to fund a utilisation of has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to the facility: provide the Company with information concerning interests the commitment of the lenders would be cancelled: and in those shares: all amounts accrued would become immediately due and payable.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 82 Strategic report Governance Accounts As at 13 November no amounts had been drawn down The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Listing Rules, under the RCF.
on 14 November 2014, the Company entered into such an agreement with Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou easyJets founder and The Company does not have agreements with any Director easyGroup Holdings Limited, an entity in which Sir Stelios holds or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office a beneficial interest and which holds shares in the Company on or employment resulting from a change of control on takeover, behalf of Sir Stelios the Relationship Agreement.
Under the except that provisions of the Companys share schemes and terms of the Relationship Agreement, Sir Stelios and easyGroup plans may cause options and awards granted to employees Holdings Limited have agreed to procure the compliance of under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
Polys and Clelia Haji-Ioannou with the independence obligations contained in the Relationship Agreement.
Sir Stelios, easyGroup, Governance Polys and Clelia Haji-Ioannou together comprise controlling Substantial interests shareholders of the Company who have a combined total In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5, holding of approximately 33.73% of the Companys voting rights.
the Company, as at 30 September 2015, has been notified of the following disclosable interests in its issued ordinary shares: The Board confirms that, since the entry into the Relationship % of Agreement on 14 November 2014 until 13 November 2015, being Number of issued share the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual shares as capital as at report and accounts: notified to the 30 September Company 2015 i the Company has complied with the independence provisions The Haji-Ioannou family concert party included in the Relationship Agreement: shareholding, consisting of easyGroup Holdings Ltd holding vehicle for Sir ii so far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions Stelios Haji-Ioannou and Clelia included in the Relationship Agreement have been complied Haji-Ioannou and Polys Haji-Ioannou with by Sir Stelios, easyGroup, and Clelia and Polys Hajithrough his holding vehicle Polys Ioannou and their associates: and Holding Limited 133,977,772 33.73% iii so far as the Company is aware, the procurement obligation included in the Relationship Agreement has been complied Note: No changes to the above have been disclosed to the with by Sir Stelios and easyGroup Holdings Limited.
Company in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5, between 30 September 2015 and 13 November 2015.
All interests disclosed to the Company in accordance with DTR 5 that have occurred since 30 September 2015 can be found at easyJets corporate website: http: corporate.
com investors Independent auditors A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors of the Company will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Relationship agreement with controlling shareholders Any person who exercises or controls on their own or together with any person with whom they are acting in concert, 30% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of a company are known as controlling shareholders.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules require companies with controlling shareholders to enter into a written and legally binding agreement which is intended to ensure that the controlling shareholder complies with certain independence provisions.
The agreement must contain undertakings that: a transactions and arrangements with the controlling shareholder and or any of its associates will be conducted at arms length and on normal commercial terms: b neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will take any action that would have the effect of preventing the listed company from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules: and c neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution which is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
