Creating the right connections with our suppliers Connecting with Phoenix Contact to deliver a global sales and marketing campaign Commercial collaboration works to meet customer needs Phoenix Contact is one of our global Over three months, around 10,000 strategic suppliers for automation and customers were contacted, resulting in control products.
A global market leader double-digit sales growth with Phoenix and innovator in electrical engineering Contact for the period.
and automation, the company has its own The campaign demonstrated the power of production sites in ten countries, over working more closely with our key suppliers 14,000 employees, and revenues of to help meet our customers needs, and 1.77 billion Euros in 2014. significantly benefited our relationship with Last year, we joined forces to undertake Phoenix Contact.
a global sales and marketing campaign, Frank Sthrenberg, Chief Executive Officer which focused on our maintenance engineer at Phoenix Contact, commented: We are and buyer customer groups within factory always keen to work more closely with our automation.
distributors to help customers and drive Our sales, marketing, and offer teams across sales, and this initiative was a great success.
30 countries worked closely with Phoenix Joint campaigns are a real opportunity to Contact to provide targeted products and improve our brand and product recognition solutions for planned maintenance work, in the marketplace and to gain invaluable saving customers time and money.
insight into the customer base.
The campaign included sales call-out Building on the success of this initiative, activities and the development of supporting similar campaigns with other strategic product brochures, website promotions and suppliers have been implemented to help emails.
maximise the sales potential of key products with our target customer groups.
com Stock Code: ECM 32 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Strategic Report Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 33 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4
