Corporate Governance Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of Electrocomponents plc Company together with its subsidiary undertakings Group for the period to 31 March 2015.
A summary of general disclosures incorporated in this Directors report The following information required to be disclosed in this Directors report is set out on the page numbers below: Page numbers: 1 Likely future developments 10 1 Policy on disability 34 1 Employee engagement 36 1 Greenhouse gas emissions 39 Names of Directors who served during the year 54 Results 97 Details of employee share schemes 71 Principal subsidiary and associated undertakings and branches 122 Financial risk management including hedging 125 1.
Information required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and included in the Strategic Report.
Information required to be disclosed in accordance with Listing Rule LR 9.8.
4R can be found in the following sections of this Annual Report: Section Page numbers: 4 LR 9.4.
3 Long Term Incentive Schemes 71 12 and 13 Shareholder waivers of dividends 116 Other than as set out above, there is no further applicable information to disclose in relation to LR 9.8.
The Company was authorised by shareholders at the Annual Results and dividends General Meeting AGM held on 24 July 2014 to purchase Results for the year are set out in the Group income up to 5% of its ordinary share capital in the market.
An analysis of revenue and profit by authority will expire at the end of the 2015 AGM and the region is shown in Note 3 on page 105.
The Directors have Company is proposing a resolution to renew it for another declared dividends as follows: year.
Ordinary shares Directors indemnities Paid interim dividend of 5p per In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association share paid on 9 January 2015 2014: 5p per share Articles, the Company entered into a deed in 2007 to indemnify the Directors and Officers from time to time of Proposed final dividend of 6.75p per the Company to the extent permitted by law.
A copy of this share to be paid on 28 July 2015 2014: 6.75p per share indemnity which remains in force as of the date on which Total ordinary dividend of 11.75p per this report was approved is available at the registered office share for year ended 31 March 2015 2014: 11.75p per share of the Company.
Share capital The Company purchased and maintained Directors and Full details of share options and awards and shares issued Officers liability insurance throughout 2014, which was under the terms of the Companys share incentive plans can renewed for 2015. be found in Note 7 to the accounts on page 108.
Neither the indemnity nor insurance provides cover in the As at 31 March 2015, the Companys issued share capital event that a Director or Officer is proved to have acted comprised a single class of 439,811,909 ordinary shares of fraudulently.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 47 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Directors report continued are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that Financial instruments they ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves For information on the Groups use of financial instruments, aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that including financial risk management objectives and policies the Auditor is aware of that information.
of the Group, and exposure of the Group to certain financial risks, see Note 21 on page 125.
Conicts of interest The Companys Articles give the Board the power to Political contributions authorise situations that might give rise to Directors The Group made no political contributions during the year.
The Board has in place a formal conflicts of interest management procedure.
The Board is responsible Annual General Meeting for considering whether authorisation is required, and if it The Notice of the AGM, which will be held at 12 noon on can be given, in relation to new situations as they arise.
The Thursday, 23 July 2015 at the Companys premises, The Board reviews annually any conflict authorisations it has International Management Centre, 8050 Oxford Business given and any limitations that have been applied.
Park North, Oxford, OX4 2HW, is set out in a separate circular.
Disclosure of information to Auditor The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report each confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Auditor Substantial shareholders As at 21 May 2015, the Company has been notified, in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the voting rights of the Company: Nature of interest Number of shares Percentage held Silchester International Investors LLP Direct 83,089,855 19.05% Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group Indirect 53,055,288 12.06% Sprucegrove Investment ManagementDirect 28,855,011 6.56% Majedie Asset Management Ltd Indirect 22,070,869 5.02% Sanderson Asset Management Ltd Direct 18,240,455 4.18% Norges Bank Direct 13,227,725 3.01% Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of to provide the Company with information concerning their the Companys current Articles and applicable English interest in those shares required to be provided under the law concerning companies, the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act.
This is a summary only and the Voting rights relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to should be consulted if further information is required.
any class of shares, at a general meeting, every member Dividends and distributions present in person and every duly appointed proxy has, upon a show of hands, one vote, and on a poll every member Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for each Company may, by ordinary resolution from time to time, share.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other whenever the financial position of the Company, in the joint holders.
For this purpose seniority shall be determined opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
The Board may by the order in which the names stand in the Register of withhold payment of all or part of any dividends or other Members in respect of the shares.
monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in the Articles if such a person has been served with a notice after failure www.
com Stock Code: ECM 48 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Corporate Governance A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of Restrictions on voting the Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the No member shall be entitled to vote either in person or by Company, for a transfer of shares to take place.
proxy at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held by him if any call or other sum then payable Appointment and replacement of Directors by him in respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition, Directors shall be no less than three and no more than no member shall be entitled to vote if he has been served twelve in number.
A Director is not required to hold with a notice after failure to provide the Company with any shares of the Company by way of qualification.
The information concerning interests in those shares required to Company may by ordinary resolution increase or reduce the be provided under the Companies Act.
maximum or minimum number of Directors.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights Any Director who was elected or last re-elected a Director Voting rights may be exercised in person, by proxy, at or before the AGM held in the third calendar year before or in relation to corporate members, by a corporate the current calendar year shall retire by rotation.
The Articles provide a deadline for each Director other than the Chairman and any Director submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours holding an executive office shall retire at each AGM before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or following the ninth anniversary of the date on which he was adjourned meeting.
A retiring Director is eligible for re-election.
Variation of rights The Board may appoint any person to be a Director so long Subject to the relevant law, the Articles specify that rights as the total number of Directors does not exceed the limit attached to any class of shares may be varied with the prescribed in the Articles.
Any such Director shall hold written consent of the holders of not less than threeoffice only until the next AGM and shall then be eligible for quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, re-election.
or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a Powers of the Directors separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any Transfer of shares directions given by special resolution, the business of the All transfers of shares may be effected by transfer in Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise writing in any usual or common form or in any other form all the powers of the Company.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and except in the The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company case of fully paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its Transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form are undertaking, property and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or as effected by means of the CREST system.
collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the The Directors may, in the case of shares in certificated Company or of any third party.
form, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason, refuse to register any transfer of shares not being Significant agreements: change of control fully paid shares provided that such discretion may not be All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance The Directors may also refuse to register an allotment conditions at that time.
or transfer of shares whether fully-paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
If the Directors refuse Amendment of Articles of Association to register an allotment or transfer they shall, within two Any amendments to the Articles of the Company may be months after the date on which the letter of allotment or made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies transfer was lodged with the Company, send to the allottee Act by way of special resolution.
or transferee a notice of the refusal.
By order of the Board Subject to statutes and applicable CREST rules, the Directors may determine that any class of shares may be Ian Haslegrave held in uncertificated form and that title to such shares General Counsel and Company Secretary may be transferred by means of the CREST system or 21 May 2015 that shares of any class should cease to be so held and transferred.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 49 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4
