R e a c h i n g c i r c a 9 0 % o f g l o b a l G D P W O N Our marketplace The demand that we serve and our market opportunity.
Global market over 30 BILLION Electrocomponents MARKET POSITION NO.
1 T op 5 distributors SHARE 15% Our strategy will enable OF MARKET us to increase the rate Over 1 million at which we gain market CUSTOMERS IN 80 COUNTRIES share and improve WORLDWIDE profitability.
32 OPERATIONS Our multi-channel approach Our business mainly serves the demand created by engineers at the start and end of a product life cycle.
provides a purchasing solution to meet all needs.
Our key customer groups Customers can order online, in person, by phone, fax or email.
eCommerce is our Buyers largest channel with 59% of global sales Electronic Maintenance generated online.
It is also revolutionising design engineers how we interact with and engage our engineers customers.
Machine & panel builders With no minimum order quantity, our customers can order as few or as many products as they need.
R&D Production Maintenance Stages of the product life cycle Order characteristics Average order circa 150 Average order contains 2-3 product lines Wide variety of products per order www.
com Stock Code: ECM 08 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 R R e e a a c c h h i i n n g g c c i i r r c c a a 9 9 0 0 % % o o f f g g l l o o b b a a l l G G D D P P W W O O N N Strategic Report Our product categories We have five product categories that are built to service our four key customer groups and there are clear, distinct strategies for each.
ELECTRONICS ELECTRONICS Semiconductors Interconnect, Passives and Automation and Control Semiconductors, such as Electromechanical IP&E A&C microcontrollers, voltage Virtually all electronic and A&C products, which include regulators, transistors and diodes, electrical systems require IP&E programmable logic controllers, Global mark Global mark et over et over are at the heart of any electronic components, from resistors and safety devices, sensors and device and the starting point of switches to heavy duty connectors pneumatic cylinders, are suitable 30 BILLION 30 BILLION any new electronics design.
Thanks for all industry sectors, including is why our customers need them to the strong relationships we factories and process automation.
ElectrElec ocomponents trocomponents and why we focus on providing have with our suppliers, we offer We are focused on being the main MARKET MARKET a broad range of the latest, high a comprehensive range including supplier for panel builders and POSITION POSITION NO.
maintenance engineers in small the most innovative components.
T op 5 dis T op 5 dis tribut tribut ors ors SHARE SHARE 15% 15 % OF MARKET OF MARKET Over 1 million Over 1 million CUST C OMER USTOMER S IN S IN Electrical, T est and Measurement ET&M T ools and consumables 80 COUNTRIE 80 COUNTRIE S S ET&M products are vital in all areas of engineering, Our tools and consumables range encompasses from the testing and calibration of medical equipment everything that our customers need to support the WORLD WWIDE ORLDWIDE to the installation of lighting in a commercial building.
product life cycle, from research and development 3232 OPERA OPERA TIONS TIONS The portfolio ranges from mains and network cabling, through to maintenance and repair.
This includes oscilloscopes and multimeters, to fluorescent tubes spanners, batteries and protective gloves through to and LED lamps.
Our key customer groups Our suppliers We have strong relationships Electronic design engineers Machine and panel builders with over 2,500 major suppliers of electronic Electronic design engineers research, design Machine and panel builders design and components, electrical, and develop electronic components, systems construct machines and electrical control automation and control, and circuits for use in a range of commercial panels that are used in industry, construction and test and measurement and industrial fields.
equipment, and engineering tools and consumables.
We also work closely with a number of key global Maintenance engineers Buyers strategic suppliers.
Maintenance engineers are responsible for Buyers make purchases, take strategic These relationships are an maintaining machinery and equipment, most decisions on the procurement process, increasingly important factor frequently in the production, manufacturing conduct supplier reviews, and perform in allowing us to maintain and transport sectors.
negotiations on behalf of the other groups.
high standards of product availability for our customers and anticipate future customer needs.
Strategic supplier brands They also give the suppliers access to a diverse global customer base and increase the exposure of their products and brands.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 09 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4
