Managing our responsibilities Corporate responsibility CR is an integral part of our All of the Groups employment and training policies are business and we strive to align our values and strategy with compliant with relevant employment legislation and responsible and ethical business policies and practices.
Where appropriate, facilities are We embrace responsibility for the Companys actions adapted and retraining offered to any employees who and through our activities encourage a positive impact on develop a disability during their employment.
our environment, consumers, employees, communities We have a zero tolerance approach to all forms of bribery and other stakeholders.
Our Group Chief Executive is the and corruption.
The Anti-Bribery Policy applies to all Director responsible for CR, and the Board monitors CR businesses, Directors and employees within our Group to matters across the Groups business operations.
ensure compliance with all laws and regulations governing We have identified the following CR risks as having bribery and corruption in the countries in which we operate.
the greatest potential impact on our business and key This year we carried out a significant refresher programme stakeholders: waste and recycling: packaging and paper: on our competition and anti-bribery compliance processes, water usage: emissions: health and safety: and employee including providing training to senior management and and community engagement.
We address these risks and key relevant business areas, and a review of governance communicate our performance and progress under the processes in these areas.
headings: Our community: Our people: Our health and Our 2015 key achievements include: safety: and Our environment.
Our community: In addition to their time, employees Our CR approach is aligned around the themes of have supported a range of charities through fundraising engagement and efficiency.
These themes are directly linked activities.
back to our strategic initiatives of High Performance Team and World Class Systems respectively.
Our people: During the year, actions have been implemented to improve employee engagement, career We encourage local initiatives and, where practical, share development, and diversity and inclusion.
In our March best practice.
The main drivers behind the CR activities are 2015 global employee engagement survey, My Voice, we to: achieved an 81% response rate and an increase of 1% in employee engagement.
Support the environmental agenda in order to contribute to cost and operational efficiencies Our health and safety: Performance has continued to see significant improvements: we recorded 18 lost time Support employee engagement, which has been mainly accidents, a reduction of 31% over last year.
We have driven through Our people and Our health and safety been granted the Royal Society for the Prevention of initiatives Accidents RoSPA Gold Award for ongoing commitment Ensure that we comply with the relevant legislation and to raising occupational health and safety standards.
codes Our environment: Performance improved in key areas in 2015, building on the progress delivered in 2014.
CO The Group has a code of conduct called Our Standards, 2 emissions intensity was reduced by 8.7% in the year, which sets out the standards of behaviour to which every waste intensity was 3.8% down and water use per head employee is expected to work and which defines the was down 2.3%.
The Group again participated in the core values and principles we apply in dealing with our Carbon Disclosure Project and was ranked second in its customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
The manual reporting category, achieving its highest disclosure and covers gifts, hospitality and donations, fraud, compliance, performance scores to date.
competition law, whistleblower policy, Speak Up, conflicts of interest and respect for our employees.
This year we Electrocomponents is a member of the FTSE4Good Index, have updated Speak Up and it has been communicated which measures the performance of companies that meet to all employees across the business in multimedia and globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
multi-language formats to raise awareness of the Groups We have once again secured a place on the Global 100 whistleblowing policy.
Most Sustainable Corporations list, published by Corporate Knights in January 2015, ranking us as one of the top overall sustainability performers in our industrial sector.
com Stock Code: ECM 34 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Strategic Report Our community We actively support engagement with local communities and our employees feel passionately about supporting the local communities they live in.
Our approach is to encourage our people to spend time on fundraising activities and take the initiative in supporting local charities.
During 2015, our employees across the world have invested their time and money in raising funds for a wide range of valuable causes, from disaster and cancer charities to community youth projects, the majority of which have been supported at a local level.
Most of the fundraising has been employee-led but there have also been monetary and stock donations made from the Company in different markets.
Allied aids Easter egg hunt for the blind Allied employees and suppliers donated time and materials to create specially-designed Easter eggs that beep audible signalling, allowing blind children to hunt for the eggs.
We are enabling innovation by providing end-of-life products to London-based Fab Lab part of a global network of local labs with a mission to create a community that makes, learns and shares.
Fab Lab is the City of Londons first purpose-built digital fabrication and rapid prototyping workspace for individuals and companies to develop innovative products.
Providing a hub for innovation, the organisation thrives on the support of partners.
We have donated end-of-life test equipment, electronics and lighting units and have committed to making a regular monthly donation.
Furthermore, we are sponsoring a series of skill-sharing workshops from The Restart Project, a London-based charity, which encourages and empowers people to use their electronics for longer.
The Restart Project is known for its Restart Parties, workshops that take place in communities and workplaces across the UK and abroad.
We have produced an RS tool kit for the volunteers, known as Restarters, to enable them to teach people to carry out repairs on their broken electronic items.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 35 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4
