OUR BUSINESSES Group performance Revenue Effect of Increase Revenue exchange decrease Revenue 2014 rates 2015 2015 $million $million $million $million Specialty Products 519.7 30.0 36.5 453.2 Chromium 216.5 33.8 182.7 Surfactants 67.1 11.2 2.1 53.8 Inter-segment 12.9 2.0 10.9 790.4 41.2 70.4 678.8 Operating profit Operating Effect of Increase Operating profit exchange decrease profit 2014 rates 2015 2015 $million $million $million $million Specialty Products 98.5 6.7 11.8 80.0 Chromium 58.3 0.2 9.6 48.9 Surfactants 4.9 1.2 0.8 4.5 Central costs 11.6 1.9 1.2 10.9 150.1 5.8 21.8 122.5 before non-recurring items Specialty Products Our performance 2015 2014 Sales $453.2m $519.7m Operating profit $80.0m $98.5m Greg McClatchy Operating margin 18% 19% President of Elementis Specialty Products and Elementis Surfactants ROCE 28% 35% before non-recurring items before tax and excluding goodwill Our success factors are at the Split of sales revenue heart of our operations Geographic % Segment % Strong leadership 10 12 Clear strategy 30 Availability of finance 10 Long term relationships 32 Innovation 55 Global infrastructure 23 28 North America Industrial coatings Europe Decorative coatings Asia Paci c Oil eld drilling Rest of the world Personal care 6 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Key facts 2015 Performance We accounted for 67 per cent of Group sales and 65 per cent The Specialty Products business provides a solid platform for growth ofGroup operating profit in 2015. overthe medium term, through its balanced geographic exposure across We are based in 28 locations around the world, in North and Latin mature and emerging economies, strong and differentiated technology America, Europe and Asia, and our sales are broadly split between base and strategic market diversification.
The business has a significant North America, Europe and Asia.
technical service and application support presence in its chosen markets, We have over 900 employees globally, 13 manufacturing facilities, which has been built on long term relationships of trust, collaboration and three research centres of excellence including a process development technical expertise.
In 2015, growth was negatively impacted by a facility, five technical service centres and 11 dedicated sales offices.
downturn in some of its key markets, particularly oilfield drilling, coatings Our top ten customers account for around 24 per cent of total sales.
inChina and industrial coatings in North America, where end users have In each key segment, the business has many competitors from experienced a downturn in their exports as a result of the strong US dollar.
multinationals to smaller privately owned businesses.
While these trends meant that the business was unable to deliver growth in 2015, they did not have any detrimental effect on our market share or What we do value offering to customers, as evidenced by the fact that product We provide high value functional additives to the industrial and contribution margins remained stable, or improved, in the year.
All of this decorative coatings, oilfield drilling and personal care markets that demonstrates some of the core strengths and resilience of the Specialty improve the flow characteristics and performance of our customers Products business and should ensure that profitable growth returns products or production processes.
promptly as end market demand recovers.
We have significant expertise in the science of rheology which, in its simplest form, means our technology imparts thickness and viscosity Specialty Products sales in 2015 were $453.2 million, compared to control.
For example, paint without rheological additives would have $519.7 million in the previous year, representing a decrease of 13 per cent, the consistency of water but paint with our additives is smooth, or 7 per cent excluding currency movements.
The remainder of this homogeneous and has a controlled, even spread on a surface.
business commentary refers to constant currency sales.
The same requirements for rheological additives exist in personal careproducts, such as creams and lotions, and in oilfield drilling In coatings additives, North American sales of decorative products applications, providing viscosity control to thicken and suspend solids continued to show good growth as the new product line of acrylic in drilling formulations and to stabilise stimulation packages used in the thickeners being produced at the recently completed New Martinsville drilling process.
facility continued to gain impressive traction with customers.
However, sales to industrial applications, which account for approximately 70 per How and where we do it cent of sales in the region, experienced a slowdown as end user exports For a description of what makes us successful, who and where our were constrained by the stronger US dollar.
As a result, total sales of customers are and a list of our products and markets, refer to the coatings additives in North America were 4 per cent lower than the Business model section on page 5. previous year.
A map of our global locations is on the Inside front cover.
In Asia Pacific sales were 4 per cent lower than the previous year, asthe well publicised slowdown in the Chinese economy became a stronger Key product applications influence as the year progressed.
China accounts for approximately Industrial coatings: protective applications in automotive, containers, 70per cent of coatings additives sales in the Asia Pacific region.
The furniture, flooring, marine, plastics and construction.
business began production from its new Taiwan based castor wax facility Decorative coatings: homes, offices and similar environments.
in the year, which will support future growth by broadening therheology Oilfield: drilling and fracturing fluids utilised in oil and gas extraction product offering to customers in high solids systems used inindustrial activities.
Personal care: antiperspirants, nail polish, mascara, make-up, eye shadow, lipsticks, creams, lotions and suncare products.
Construction: concrete, plasters, mortars, renderings, stuccos, flooring systems and building adhesives.
Key sector drivers Industrial coatings: increasing demand from customers for high performance coatings that enhance their products and exposure tohigher growth emerging markets.
Decorative coatings: regulatory trend towards low VOC and increasing consumer sophistication in emerging markets.
Oilfield: exposure to shale oil and gas and extreme drilling.
Personal care: increasingly sophisticated consumer demand and emerging market development.
Our strategy For more information go to page 4 before non-recurring items Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 7 OUR BUSINESSES CONTINUED Specialty Products continued 2015 Performance continued Sales in oilfield drilling in 2015 were 41 per cent lower than the previous In Latin America, sales were 1 per cent higher than the previous year, year, as the sector responded to low oil and gas prices by significantly helped by good growth in decorative products, whilst in Europe, sales reducing drilling activity, particularly in North America.
The business improved by 3 per cent with some signs that the weaker euro is having experienced a sharp decline in sales during the first three months of apositive impact on industrial sales for export.
theyear, after which sales stabilised at approximately 50 per cent below previous year levels.
In personal care, sales for the year were 3 per cent higher than the previous year as the business finished the year on a positive note.
Good Operating profit in 2015 was 19 per cent below the previous year at progress was made during the latter part of the year in replacing business $80.0 million, or 13 per cent excluding currency movements.
Lower sales, lost in Latin America during the first six months of the year, due to particularly in our oilfield drilling business, was the main cause of the significant local currency weakness.
This was reported at the time of the decline.
Reassuringly, overall selling prices remained relatively stable Groups Interim Results.
Personal care sales in the final three months of andthe impact of lower activity was mitigated by several projects the year were 16 per cent higher than the same period in the previous designed to improve supply chain costs and increase production yields.
year and 9 per cent higher than in the third quarter of 2015.
Sales were These projects led directly to an improvement in the contribution margin particularly strong in aerosol antiperspirants and suncare products, as for the year.
In addition, measured actions were taken during the second well as in the new Rheoluxe line of products, and European sales in Q4 half of the year to reduce fixed costs, resulting in annual savings of were the most prominent in terms of year on year growth.
approximately $2.5 million, most of which will benefit 2016.
Elementis Chromium Our performance 2015 2014 Sales $182.7m $216.5m Operating profit $48.9m $58.3m Operating margin 27% 27% Dennis Valentino President of Elementis Chromium ROCE 50% 58% before non-recurring items before tax and excluding goodwill Our success factors are at the Split of sales revenue heart of our operations Geographic % Segment % Strong leadership 6 13 Clear strategy 29 17 Availability of finance 16 Long term relationships Innovation 58 Global infrastructure 13 13 35 North America Leather tanning Europe Timber treatment Asia Paci c Metal nishing Rest of the world Pigmentary Other 8 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Key facts Key sector drivers We accounted for 25 per cent of Group sales and 40 per cent Chromic oxide: construction, coatings, aircraft engines and ofGroup operating profit in 2015. gasturbines.
We are the only domestic producer of chromium chemicals in the US Chromic acid: automotive, heavy light machinery, construction and operate from two major facilities in Castle Hayne, North Carolina, andinfrastructure.
and Corpus Christi, Texas, and three smaller processing facilities Chrome sulphate: beef consumption.
Sodium dichromate: all of the above.
We have over 200 employees, most of whom are located in the US.
Our top ten customers account for less than 57 per cent of total sales.
2015 Performance The business has many competitors from multinationals to smaller 2015 was a challenging year for Chromium, primarily as a result of the US privately owned businesses.
dollar strengthening significantly against most key currencies.
This created a testing pricing dynamic for export sales by Elementis Chromium and its What we do customers in North America.
The business strategy is to deliver more We provide chromium chemicals to customers that make their stable earnings and cash flow by utilising its existing capacity and flexible products more durable and which are used in a wide range of sectors manufacturing platform to focus on the more differentiated markets.
particular, the North American market is preferred because of its proximity Our reputation for quality and operational excellence, high levels to the manufacturing base and because of the more value added offering ofcustomer service and technical support, as well as our customised to customers as a result of the unique delivery systems the business has bulk delivery system, are key differentiating factors that enable developed in that region.
Hence, over time, the North American market is ustodevelop long term, mutually advantageous relationships with likely to become a larger proportion of total sales and so the business will ourcustomers.
progressively become less exposed to the dynamics of other world markets.
In 2015 approximately 42 per cent of sales were made outside How and where we do it ofNorth America.
For a description of what makes us successful, who and where our customers are and a list of our products and markets, refer to the Chromium sales in 2015 were 16 per cent lower than the previous year Business model section on page 5. at$182.7 million.
Volumes were 8 per cent lower than the previous year, primarily due to the reduction in sales of refractory grade oxide in North A map of our global locations is on the Inside front cover.
Sales in this application were particularly strong in 2014 due to anumber of significant customer projects, which were completed towards Key products and applications the end of that year.
Excluding this effect, sales volumes in 2015 were at Chromic oxide: as a pigment in paints, plastics and roofing and asimilar level to the previous year.
Average pricing in 2015 was 7 per cent ceramic tiles: in the construction of high temperature and abrasion lower than the previous year as the stronger US dollar had a significant resistant refractory brick for glass and fibreglass: and in the production impact on export selling prices in North America.
of metal alloys for use in aeroplane and land based turbines.
Chromic acid: in plating metal and plastic to produce a strong, tarnish Operating profit in 2015 was $9.4 million below the previous year, resistant chrome finish for appliances, automobiles and many other at$48.9million.
Lower sales volumes reduced operating profit by applications: and as a wood preservative for marine pilings, telegraph approximately $8million, while lower pricing net of variable cost benefits poles, landscape timbers and other industrial wood applications.
had a negative impact of approximately $11 million.
Variable costs Chrome sulphate: in tanning to produce high quality leathers for benefited from lower raw material and energy prices and planned projects awiderange of end uses.
The business took action towards the Sodium dichromate: as an intermediate chemical to produce the end of 2015 to improve fixed costs by reducing the overall workforce, above chromium chemicals as well as pigments for industrial coatings withthe majority of this benefit materialising from 2016 onwards.
Otherwise fixed costs in 2015 improved due to tight cost control and by approximately $5 million relating to a legal settlement and property easement fees.
Operating margin in 2015 was stable at26.8per cent 24.0 per cent excluding the items above, compared to26.9 per cent in the previous year.
Our strategy For more information go to page 4 before non-recurring items Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 9 OUR BUSINESSES CONTINUED Elementis Surfactants Our success factors are at the Our performance heart of our operations 2015 2014 Sales $53.8m $67.1m Strong leadership Clear strategy Operating profit $4.5m $4.9m Availability of finance Operating margin 8% 7% Long term relationships Innovation ROCE 22% 21% Global infrastructure before non-recurring items before tax and excluding goodwill Split of sales revenue Geographic % Segment % 4 5 8 11 19 52 16 85 Our strategy For more information Europe Oil eld production chemicals go to page 4 Rest of the world Other Asia Paci c Textile and leather North America 1% Water treatment Feed Key facts 2015 Performance We accounted for 8 per cent of Group sales and 4 per cent of The programme for Surfactants is to transition the Delden, Netherlands Group operating profit in 2015. facility, where surfactants are produced, towards manufacturing higher We share a manufacturing plant in Delden, Netherlands, with margin additives for Specialty Products.
Hence it is expected that sales Elementis Specialty Products.
volumes in Surfactants will generally decrease over time.
However, We employ over 100 employees at our Delden site.
inthemore challenging market environment in 2015, the Surfactants Our top ten customers represent 86 per cent of total sales.
business retained more sales than it otherwise would in order to offset The business has many competitors from multinationals to smaller reduced demand in other parts of the Group.
In doing so the business privately owned businesses.
was also able to deliver an improved operating margin compared to theprevious year.
What we do We manufacture a wide range of surface active ingredients and Surfactants sales in 2015 were $53.8 million, compared to $67.1 million products that are used as intermediates in the production of chemical inthe previous year, which is a reduction of 20 per cent, or 4 per cent compositions.
The majority of sales are denominated We are in the process of transitioning to more higher margin ineuros.
Lower pricing in association with a decline in raw material costs specialty additives.
accounted for most of the decline, with volumes maintaining a similar level Our facility is equipped with both continuous and multi-purpose batch to the previous year.
reactors for a variety of chemical processes which, together with our expertise, allow us to produce a wide range of complex products, Operating profit in 2015 was $4.5 million compared to $4.9 million in the customised to meet our customers requirements.
previous year, which is a decline of 8 per cent or an increase of 22 per cent if currency movements are excluded.
Average selling prices declined How and where we do it in line with lower raw material costs, while improved product mix more For a description of what makes us successful, who and where our than offset modest increases in fixed costs.
Hence operating margin customers are and a list of our products and markets, refer to the improved to 8.4 per cent from 7.3 per cent in the previous year.
Business model section on page 5.
before non-recurring items 10 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015
