Our business model Our business model is focused on saving our customers time and money, and delivering them peace of mind.
Oer presentation, sales and marketing Supplier management We work closely with over 2,500 major Inventory management We present this oer of leading products suppliers to ensure we have the right using rich and full content via our website Our global network of distribution centres Order receipt products in stock to full customer and catalogues, backed up by technical stocks over 500,000 products.
Fast-moving demand: semiconductors: interconnect, & management support and design tools, so that customers products are stored close to the local market to passives and electromechanical can make informed purchase decisions.
Customers can place orders enable next-day delivery, with medium-moving components: automation and control and via the internet, phone, email, products being stored regionally and new electrical, test and measurement mobile, fax or in person.
No products and slower-moving products stored equipment: and engineering tools and Our highly skilled sales teams are deployed minimum order quantity is at a global warehouse.
to optimise this stage of the process for our required.
Orders are picked high-value customers, whilst our digital and packed within hours of resources are used to market to all receipt, with around 44,000 Our brands customer types.
We price our oer competitively, changing prices on our leading global brands regularly and oering own-brand products within RS Components Allied Electronics DesignSpark certain parts of our product range to is the number one is the third largest is our online design supplement our oer to customers.
high service high service community and distributor across distributor serving resource centre $ Reliable delivery Europe and Asia the United States, for electronic Pacic.
We pride ourselves on giving our customers peace of mind by Canada.
delivering the full order on time.
The majority of our orders are for next-day delivery and we outsource the transportation of parcels from the distribution centres to the major global freight forwarding companies.
Our core behaviours Customer focused High performance Working together Respect Dynamic www.
com Stock Code: ECM 06 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Strategic Report We start each day with minimal orders and finish the day with minimal orders, but in between we process and despatch around 44,000 parcels to customers.
Our core behaviours Customer focused High performance Working together Respect Dynamic Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 07 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4
