BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board of Directors as at 31 December 2015 01.
Andrew Duff, Chairman Age 56 Committee membership: N c Andrew Duff was appointed non-executive Chairman and Chairman of 01 02 03 theNomination Committee in April 2014.
He has been non-executive chairman of Severn Trent plc, the FTSE 100 water and waste treatment services company, since July 2010 and was a non-executive director of Wolseley plc from 2004 to 2013, where he was also the senior independent director and chairman of the remuneration committee.
From2003 to 2009, he was CEO of npower, the successor entity to Innogy plc which in 2000 was demerged from National Power and then sold to RWE, the German electricity and gas company, where he was also a member ofthe group executive committee.
Before that he spent 16 04 05 06 years at BP in downstream international markets.
He holds a BSc Honours degree in mechanical engineering and is a member of the CBI Presidents Committee, trustee of Macmillan Cancer Support and Earth Trust and a Fellow of the Energy Institute.
David Dutro, Group Chief Executive Age 60 David Dutro was appointed Group Chief Executive in January 2007 andretired from that role and the Board on 7 February 2016.
He joined Elementis inNovember 1998 as President of Elementis Pigments then 07 became President and Chief Operating Officer of Elementis Worldwide in October 2005.
He was vice president and general manager of Universal Foods Dairy and Food Ingredient businesses now Sensient Technologies Corp, and also spent time with ICI in their colours, polymer additives and surfactants businesses.
David Dutro was born and educated in the US and holds a BSc degree in marketing.
Brian Taylorson, Finance Director Age 60 Brian Taylorson was appointed Finance Director in April 2002.
He is also Key atrustee of the Elementis Group Pension Scheme.
Before joining A Audit Committee R Remuneration Committee Elementis he was head of the European chemicals M&A group at KPMG N Nomination Committee c Chairman of Committee Corporate Finance.
He joined KPMG in 2000 from the Dow Chemical Company where he held a number of positions in finance over a period of17 years, living and working in several countries including the UK, Senior executives SouthAfrica, Switzerland, Canada and the US.
He holds an MA degree inengineering from Cambridge University, is a chartered accountant andamember of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
He was 08 09 10 anon-executive director of Fiberweb plc from 2006 to 2012.
Andrew Christie, Non-executive director Age 59 Committee membership: A, N, R c Andrew Christie was appointed a non-executive director in August 2008 and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in October 2013.
He has over 30 years of investment banking and international corporate finance experience.
He is a partner of Smith Square Partners LLP, a corporate finance advisory firm, and before that was, until March 2008, a UK 11 12 13 managing director in the European Investment Banking Group at Credit Suisse.
In his prior role at Credit Suisse, he was head of Investment Banking, Asia Pacific, based in Hong Kong and before that held the same position with Barclays fide Zoete Wedd.
He has been a non-executive director of Helios Underwriting plc since July 2013 and holds an MBA anda BSc degree in engineering.
Steve Good, Non-executive director Age 54 Committee membership: A, N, R Steve Good was appointed a non-executive director in October 2014.
Hehas been a non-executive director of Cape plc since July 2015 where he is chairman of the remuneration committee, Anglian Water Services Limited since April 2015, and chairman-designate of Zotefoams plc since November 2015, having been a non-executive director since October 2014.
He was CEO of Low & Bonar plc, the industrial textile manufacturing business, from 2009 to 2014.
Prior to joining Low & Bonar he spent 10years with BTP plc now part of Clariant in a variety of leadership positions managing international speciality chemicals businesses.
He has a BA degree in economics and finance and is a chartered accountant.
26 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 6.
Anne Hyland, Non-executive director Age 55 11.
Daniel Hughes, Chief Information Officer Committee membership: A c, N, R Daniel Hughes was appointed Chief Information Officer in September Anne Hyland was appointed a non-executive director in June 2013 and 2013.
He has held various senior leadership roles in Elementis Specialties Chairman of the Audit Committee in August 2013.
She is CFO of Kymab since February 2007.
Primarily he has served as Vice President, Global Ltd, a biopharmaceutical company specialising in advanced therapeutic Procurement and Supply Chain and been deeply engaged in our antibody discovery and development.
Previous to that, she was CFO and worldwide end to end business transactions.
He also served as company secretary of BBI Diagnostics Group Ltd and FTSE listed Vectura integration manager for the Deuchem, Yuhong, Fancor, Watercryl and Group plc.
Prior to her role at Vectura, she held a number of senior Hi-Mar acquisitions.
He holds a BA Honours degree from the University finance positions including director of corporate finance at then FTSE of East London and, prior to joining Elementis, held various senior 100 Celltech Group plc, Medeva plc and KPMG.
She is a chartered procurement and supply chain positions at Engelhard Corporation accountant FCA, a corporate tax adviser CTA AITI and holds a degree andFord Motor Company.
in business studies from Trinity College, Dublin.
She is also a trustee of thecharity Sustrans sustainable transport which campaigns for national 12.
Rob Sklans, Chief Human Resources Officer cycling networks.
Rob Sklans joined Elementis as Chief Human Resources Officer in July 2015.
He has over 25 years of global human resource experience having 7.
Nick Salmon, Senior Independent Director Age 63 worked for mid to large-sized corporations.
Most recently, Rob held the Committee membership: A, N, R position of vice president of human resources for North America at Royal Nick Salmon was appointed a non-executive director in October 2014 DSM.
He has held prior senior positions at Evonik Industries, Johnson andSenior Independent Director in December 2014.
He has been &Johnson, Casio Inc. and L. A. Dreyfus Company.
Rob actively serves non-executive chairman of South East Water Limited since April 2015 thecommunity and currently volunteers his time as the chief public anda non-executive director of Interserve plc since August 2014.
He was information officer for the Middlesex County Office of Emergency a non-executive director of United Utilities Group plc from 2005 to 2014, Management in New Jersey.
Rob holds an MA degree in organizational where he also served as the senior independent director from 2007 to psychology from Columbia University and his BA degree from 2014.
He was CEO of Cookson Group plc, the international materials Connecticut College.
technology business, from 2004 to 2012 when it demerged to create twonew listed companies.
He was formerly executive vice-president of 13.
Wai Wong, Company Secretary Alstom S. A. and CEO of Babcock International Group plc.
He holds a BSc Wai Wong joined Elementis as Company Secretary in May 2007. degree in mechanical engineering and is a Fellow of the Royal Academy Heisalso a trustee of the Elementis Group Pension Scheme and ofEngineering.
manages insurance, risk and corporate responsibility matters at Group level.
He is aFellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and 8.
Greg McClatchy, President of Elementis Specialties Administrators ICSA.
Prior to joining Elementis, he held a number of comprising Elementis Specialty Products and Elementis senior company secretarial positions including at John Menzies plc, ICSA Surfactants and .
He has a BCom Honours degree in Greg McClatchy was appointed President of Elementis Specialties in business studies and law from the University of Edinburgh and an LLM January 2007.
He joined Elementis Pigments in 1999, served as managing degree in corporate and commercial law from Queen Mary College, director of its Durham UK operations, and was appointed President of University of London.
Specialty Rubber in 2002 and President of Elementis Chromium in 2005.
He was previously with Universal Foods now Sensient Technologies Board addition in 2016 Corp and ICIs polymer additives business.
He completed his undergraduate studies in chemistry and economics at the University 14 ofDelaware.
Dennis Valentino, President of Elementis Chromium Dennis Valentino joined Elementis as President of Elementis Chromium inApril 2009.
His previous positions at Elementis included managing director of Asia Pacific and President of Elementis Pigments until it was sold in August 2007.
Prior to Elementis, he joined Pfizer Pigments in 1975 and held various positions there including vice president of manufacturing and vice president of its North America Coatings business.
Paul Waterman, Group Chief Executive Age 51 his undergraduate studies in chemical engineering at the University of Paul Waterman was appointed Group Chief Executive and joined the Missouri Rolla, and obtained his MBA from St. Louis University.
Before joining Elementis he was global CEO of the BP lubricants business since July 2013 after having 10.
Walker Allen, General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer overseen the BP Australia New Zealand downstream business and Walker Allen joined Elementis as General Counsel in 1999 and was also been country president of BP Australia since August 2010.
Prior to that appointed Chief Compliance Officer in 2006.
Prior to joining Elementis, he was CEO of BPs global aviation, industrial, marine & energy hewas associate general counsel with GE Americom a GE Capital lubricants businesses 2009 to 2010 and CEO of BP Lubricants company and before that senior business counsel with GE Plastics Americas 2007 to 2009.
He joined BP after it acquired Burmahadivision of General Electric Company.
He began his legal career as Castrol in 2000 having joined the latter in1994 after roles at Reckitt alawyer in private practice with two leading New York City law firms, Benckiser and Kraft Foods.
Paul Waterman is an American national where he specialised in corporate law, securities and mergers and and has lived in Southern California, New Jersey, the UK and Australia.
He is a member of the New York Bar and is admitted as He holds a BSc degree in packaging engineering from Michigan State in-house counsel in New Jersey.
University and an MBA in finance andinternational business from New York University, Stern School ofBusiness.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 27
