OUR OBJECTIVES, STRATEGIES AND BUSINESS MODEL Who is Elementis, what does it do... Elementis is a global specialty chemicals company.
Its largest and most Common to all three businesses are the following: profitable business, Elementis Specialty Products, is the core of our Profitable, strong cash generation and high level of return on capital.
growth strategy and has the following key characteristics: Well invested manufacturing facilities, operational excellence and a Operating in diverse and highly segmented markets.
broad product offering to a wide range of customers and markets.
Supplying products that are critical ingredients in its customers Provision of a differentiated service to customers, offering tailored formulations and essential to their performance, whilst representing solutions and product innovation.
asmall proportion of the overall cost.
Strong leadership, clear business strategies and high performance Having a broad, differentiated and patent protected product portfolio, multi-functional business teams, underpinned by robust governance coupled with innovation and new product development.
and risk management frameworks, as well as a culture of maintaining Long term relationships with customers that are based on mutual trust high standards of business conduct, ethics and corporate and collaboration, supported by strong technical service and responsibility.
High sustainable operating margins and return on operating capital.... and why?
Ultimately, the strategy of the Company is to operate its portfolio of In addition, Elementis is the owner of the only high quality rheology grade manufacturing assets and exploit its proprietary technologies and know hectorite mine in the world, which provides a key raw material and source how to supply products and services to customers, thereby creating value of competitive advantage.
Key to achieving the above is the allocation and management of human and capital resources, as well as accessing and Elementis Chromium supplies chromium chemicals that make its leveraging the appropriate market channels and supply chains.
The above customers products more durable and Elementis Surfactants supplies describes our overall business activities in terms of the inputs, processes awide range of surface active ingredients.
and outputs that make up our business model.
Our objectives Our strategies Our key risks Group Group Deliver year on year sustainable Offer added value, high quality solutions 1 Economy Competition earnings growth.
tailored to our customers with strong 2 Growth opportunities Outperform the FTSE 250 Index for total technical support.
3 Supply chain disruption shareholder return over each successive Manage businesses to deliver strong 4 Litigation regulatory action annual and three year period.
financial performance and cash flow.
5 Regulation Technology Maintain a strong balance sheet to provide Maintain well invested facilities, operational 6 Weather operating incident financial stability and support investments excellence, strong HSE performance and 7 Cyber security in growth.
comply with laws and regulations.
8 Energy sector volatility Manage key corporate and business risks 9 Succession planning and maintain high standards in business conduct, ethics and corporate responsibility.
The key risks listed above are the principal risks to the achievement of the Groups objectives and strategies, as identified by the Board and management team.
These are set out more fully in the Risk management report on page 15.
Specialty Products Specialty Products Grow the Specialty Products business Grow by focusing on new products, markets, profitably.
applications and geographies and complementary bolt on acquisitions.
Chromium Chromium Manage the Chromium business to deliver Optimise capacity utilisation and operating stable earnings and cash flow.
efficiencies, manage cost base, serve higher margin markets and maintain margin discipline.
Surfactants Surfactants Transition the Surfactants product portfolio to Optimise profitability, operating efficiencies and higher margin specialty additives.
4 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Our business model Key inputs Strong leadership, passionate and committed global workforce and an embedded culture of performance and customer service.
Clear strategies and business priorities, supported by robust governance framework and risk management controls.
Strong financial resources, balance sheet and cash generation, underpinned by good financial and operating discipline.
Long term relationships with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders that are built on trust and collaboration.
Proprietary technology and a strong focus on innovation, new product development and providing technical service and expertise.
Well maintained facilities, excellent commercial and functional support teams and a strong global infrastructure providing a differentiated service to diverse markets.
Key products Specialty Products Rheological modifiers, specialty additives, organoclays, defoamers, adhesion promoters, waxes and resins, flow and levelling additives, colourants and pigments, dispersing wetting slip and coalescing agents, and lanolin and other natural oil derivatives.
Chromium Chromic acid, chromic oxide, sodium dichromate and chrome sulphate, with customised delivery system.
Surfactants Wide range of surface active ingredients and products used as intermediates in the production of chemical compositions.
Key sales channels Specialty Products Long term customer relationships with global MNEs as well as sales to regional and local customers.
Global sales platform, solid infrastructure with cross-selling opportunities.
Manufacturing facilities, R&D centres and technical service labs in the Americas, Europe and Asia to support all our key markets.
Chromium Sales to the North American market while selectively supplying the Latin American, European and Asian markets.
Surfactants Long term customer relationships with global MNEs as well as sales to regional and local customers.
Key products Key sales channels Key markets Major regions supplied: North and Latin America, Europe and Asia.
Major segments applications: Specialty Products Industrial and decorative coatings, oilfield drilling and personal care.
Chromium Metal finishing, metal alloys, timber treatment, leather tanning, pigments, ceramics and refractory.
Surfactants Oilfield production chemicals, construction chemicals, textiles and leather, household, plastics, resins and other niche markets.
Specialty Products Chromium Surfactants Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 5
