Board of Directors Peter Johnson Chairman Joined in October 2010 External roles Skills and experience Peter is Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board of International operations Wienerberger AG, having been a Member since 1995.
Emerging markets Mergers and acquisitions Past roles Distribution Previously, Peter was Chairman of DS Smith plc, a Sales and marketing Non-Executive Director of SSL International plc, Chief Manufacturing Executive of George Wimpey plc and Chief Executive Service industry of The Rugby Group plc.
Chairman Chief Executive Officer Committee membership Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Lindsley Ruth Group Chief Executive Joined in April 2015 External roles Skills and experience None Management Leadership Past roles Mergers and acquisitions Previously, Lindsley was Executive Vice President of International operations the Future Electronics Group of companies, the fourth Emerging markets largest electronics distributor in the world.
He joined Distribution them in 2002 and was a key member of their core Sales and marketing leadership team.
Lindsley has also held senior positions Manufacturing with TTI Inc and Solectron Corporation.
Supply chain and procurement Committee membership From April this year, Lindsley was Chairman of the Group Executive Committee and Member of the Treasury Committee.
Simon Boddie Group Finance Director Joined in September 2005 External roles Skills and experience Simon is a Non-Executive Director of PageGroup and International operations Chairman of its Audit Committee.
Emerging markets Recent financial experience Past roles Distribution Previously, Simon worked for Diageo plc where he Manufacturing held a variety of senior finance positions, latterly as Service industry Finance Director of Key Markets.
Committee membership Chairman of the Treasury Committee and Member of the Group Executive Committee.
25% 75% 87.5% 12.5% 50% 12.5% 37.5% Board Board composition tenure Executive Non-Executive Male Female 03 years 36 years 6 years www.
com Stock Code: ECM 44 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Corporate Governance Rupert Soames Senior Independent Director Joined in July 2007 External roles Skills and experience Rupert is Group Chief Executive at Serco Group plc.
International operations Emerging markets Past roles Digital Previously, Rupert was Group Chief Executive of Manufacturing Aggreko plc, Chief Executive of the Banking and Service industry Securities Division of Misys plc and a Non-Executive Chief Executive Officer Director of Baggeridge Brick plc.
Committee membership Chairman of the Remuneration Committee up to July 2014 and Member of the Remuneration Committee from August 2014.
Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Bertrand Bodson Independent Non-Executive Director Joining in June 2015 External roles Skills and experience Bertrand is Chief Digital Officer at Home Retail Group Digital the owner of Argos, Homebase and Habitat.
eCommerce International operations Past roles Product development Previously, Bertrand has held a number of senior Sales and marketing eCommerce positions, including leading global Committee membership and digital marketing responsibilities at EMI Music and Amazon.
He was also Chief Executive Officer Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration at Bragster, which is now part of Guinness World Committees.
Karen Guerra Independent Non-Executive Director Joined in January 2013 External roles Skills and experience Karen is a Non-Executive Director of Amcor Limited International operations and Davide Campari-Milano S. p. A.
Sales and marketing Manufacturing Past roles Service industry Previously, Karen was a Non-Executive Director at Committee membership Swedish Match AB, Inchcape plc, More Group plc and Samlerhuset Group BV.
She has also held senior Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration executive positions at Colgate-Palmolive, including Committees.
Managing Director and Chairman of both their UK and French businesses.
See page 52 for information on Board role, effectiveness and composition 25% 75% 87.5% 12.5% 50% 12.5% 37.5% Board Board composition tenure Executive Non-Executive Male Female 03 years 36 years 6 years Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 45 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Board of Directors continued Paul Hollingworth Independent Non-Executive Director Joined in May 2008 External roles Skills and experience During the year Paul was appointed as a International operations Non-Executive Director of Volution Group plc and Emerging markets Chairman of its Audit Committee.
Recent financial experience Mergers and acquisitions Past roles Corporate law and governance Previously, Paul was Group Chief Financial Officer of Manufacturing Thomas Cook Group plc and prior to that he was Chief Service industry Financial Officer of Mondi Group.
He has also held Committee membership positions as Group Finance Director of BPB plc, fide La Rue plc and Ransomes plc.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
John Pattullo Independent Non-Executive Director Joined in January 2013 External roles Skills and experience John is Chairman of NHS Blood and Transplant, International operations Non-Executive Chairman of Marken Group, Chair of Emerging markets In Kind Direct a Princes Charity and Special Advisor Supply chain and logistics at CEVA Group.
Manufacturing Service industry Past roles Chief Executive Officer Previously, John was on the Board of CEVA Group plc Committee membership and served as Chief Executive Officer of CEVA Logistics.
He was also Chief Executive Officer of the Europe, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from Middle East and Africa division of Exel and when Exel August 2014 and Member of the Remuneration was acquired by Deutsche Post DHL he went on to run Committee up to July 2014.
Member of the Audit and the combined Exel and DHL contract logistics business Nomination Committees.
He spent most of his early career working in supply chain management roles with Procter & Gamble.
Ian Haslegrave General Counsel and Company Secretary Joined in September 2006 External roles Skills and experience None International operations Mergers and acquisitions Past roles Corporate law and governance Previously, Ian was International Legal Director at Risk management Viacom Outdoor Limited.
He has also worked at Manufacturing United Biscuits Limited and Freshfields Bruckhaus Service industry Deringer.
Committee membership Member of the Treasury Committee.
100% 100% 100% International experience Percentage of Directors with Europe Americas ROW international experience gained outside the Group www.
