40 Directors Report The directors submit the statutory financial statements for Purchase of own shares by the Group for the year ended 30 September 2015. the Company The Governance Report on pages 46 to 50, and the The Company was authorised by shareholders at the AGM Corporate Social Responsibility Report with regard to held on 5 February 2015 to purchase up to a maximum information about the employment of disabled persons, of 14.99% of its ordinary shares in the market.
The price employee involvement, share schemes and greenhouse per ordinary share that the Company may pay is set at gas emissions are also incorporated into this Report by a minimum amount excluding expenses of 2.5 pence reference.
per ordinary share and a maximum amount excluding expenses of the higher of: i 5% over the average of the The Company has chosen, in accordance with section 414 previous five business days middle market prices: and C 11 of the Companies Act 2006 to include the disclosure ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade of likely future developments in the Strategic Report see and the highest current independent bid on the trading pages 02 to 38. venue where the purchase is carried out.
No shares were purchased under this authority during the period Results and dividends under review.
This authority will expire at the 2016 AGM The Groups loss for the year, after taxation, amounted to and the directors will be seeking a new authority for the 65 million 2014: profit of 30 million.
Company to purchase its ordinary shares, which will only The directors are not recommending the payment of be exercised if market and financial conditions make it any dividend on its ordinary shares for the year ended advantageous to do so.
Further details are set out in the 30 September 2015 2014: nil but will consider future explanatory notes to the Notice convening the AGM on dividend policy in the light of results from the business pages 156 to 157. going forward.
Treasury shares and the Employee Share capital Benefit Trust As at 30 September 2015, the Companys issued share As at 30 September 2015, the Company held 50,000,000 capital was 555,977,435 ordinary shares of 2.5 pence each shares in Treasury as set out in note 29 to the accounts as set out in note 29 to the accounts on page 133. on page 133.
There has been no change to the number of shares held in Treasury during the period under review.
Authority of the directors to allot shares The Company was authorised by shareholders at the In addition, 6,568,286 shares are held by the Companys Annual General Meeting held on 5 February 2015 to allot Employee Benefit Trust and movements during the year shares and to grant rights to subscribe for, or convert are set out in note 29 to the accounts on page 133.
These securities into, shares up to a maximum nominal amount shares are held to satisfy awards made under the various of 8,423,957.24. incentive and employee share schemes, details of which are set out in note 30 to the accounts on pages 133 to 137.
This authority will expire at the 2016 AGM and the directors will be seeking a new authority for the directors Issue of shares to allot shares, and to grant subscription and conversion Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 rights, to ensure that the directors continue to have the relating to authority to allot shares and pre-emption flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders, when rights, and any resolution of the Company in a general opportunities arise, by issuing new shares or granting such meeting, all unissued shares of the Company shall be at rights.
There are no current plans to issue new shares the disposal of the directors and they may allot with or except in connection with employee share schemes and without conferring a right of renunciation, grant options on conversion of the convertible bonds.
over or otherwise dispose of them to such persons, at such times and on such terms as they think proper.
indd 40 07 12 2015 17:24:19 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 41 for the year ended 30 September 2015 Material shareholdings As at 30 September 2015, the Company was aware of the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys ordinary share capital: Percentage of Number of voting rights ordinary of the issued Company shares share capital Standard Life Investments Ltd 75,163,793 14.86% Glenview Capital Management LLC 60,907,216 12.04% Prudential Group M&G 59,764,405 11.81% Morgan Stanley Securities Limited 41,105,071 8.12% BlackRock Inc 40,175,134 7.94% Dimensional Fund Advisors 21,646,975 4.28% Subsequent to the year end and up to the date of this report, there has been the following significant change: The holding of Prudential Group M&G has increased to 60,737,717 12.00%.
Directors Financial instruments and treasury Biographical details of the directors currently serving on The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, debt the Board are given on pages 44 and 45.
The interests of and borrowing facilities are set out in the Strategic Report the directors in the Companys shares, along with details on pages 02 to 38 and in the financial statements and of directors share options are contained in the Directors notes to the accounts on pages 90 to 141.
In addition, Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 82.
There have been details of the factors likely to affect the Groups future no changes in the interests of the directors between development and performance are set out in the Risks and the Balance Sheet date and the date of approval of the Uncertainties section on pages 32 to 38.
Marisa Cassoni joined the Board on 1 April 2015. of our policy on financial instruments and capital risks and management are set out in notes 23 and 24 to the Audit information accounts on pages 119 to 128.
The directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there Annual General Meeting is no relevant audit information as defined in section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Groups auditor The AGM will be held on 11 February 2016 at 11.00 a. m. is unaware and that all directors have taken all the steps at the registered office of the Company at 3 Monkspath they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves Hall Road, Solihull, West Midlands B90 4SJ.
The Notice aware of any relevant audit information and to establish convening the AGM, and an explanation of the resolutions that the Groups auditor is aware of that information.
to be put to the meeting, are set out on pages 152 to 157.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in A copy is also available on the website.
The directors accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the consider that all of the proposed resolutions are in the best Companies Act 2006. interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
It is the directors recommendation that you support the Political donations proposed resolutions and vote in favour of them, as each During the year the Group has not made any political of the directors intend to do.
donations and intends to continue its policy of not doing Additional information so for the foreseeable future.
Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Going concern Companys current Articles of Association the Articles The directors have adopted the going concern basis of and applicable provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the accounting in preparing the financial statements, and Companies Act.
More detailed information can be found their going concern considerations are included within the in the Articles and the Companies Act.
strategic report on page 38. www.
com Stock code: ETI Enterprise Inns AR2015 Back.
indd 41 07 12 2015 17:24:19 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 42 Directors Report Articles of Association Restrictions on voting rights attaching The Articles adopted in substitution for and to the to shares exclusion of all existing articles by a special resolution No member shall, unless the directors otherwise passed on 20 January 2011 may only be amended determine, exercise any voting rights either personally by special resolution at a general meeting of the or by proxy at a general meeting if any call or other sum shareholders.
A copy of the Articles is available on our presently payable by him her to the Company in respect website.
of any share or shares remains unpaid.
Otherwise, the Company is not aware of any arrangements between Significant agreements: change shareholders that may result in a restriction on voting of control rights attaching to shares.
All of the agreements in relation to bank borrowings, Deadlines for exercising voting rights convertible bonds and corporate bonds, to which the Company is party, contain provisions that allow the attaching to shares counterparties to terminate funding to the Company in Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the certain circumstances where there has been a change Company in respect of which the business being voted of control of the Company.
These are detailed within the upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, financial instruments note to the accounts on pages 119 to by proxy, or by corporate representatives in relation to 127. corporate members.
The Articles provide a deadline for the submission of proxy forms electronically or by paper Rights and obligations attaching of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the to shares holding of the meeting or the adjourned meeting.
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares Shares in uncertificated form are set out in the Articles.
Directors may determine that shares may be held in Voting rights attaching to shares uncertificated form and title to such shares may be On a show of hands, every member who is present in transferred by means of a relevant system or that shares person or by proxy shall have one vote.
On a poll, every should cease to be so held and transferred.
member who is present in person or by proxy shall have Variation of rights attaching to shares one vote for every share of which they are the holder.
The Articles provide that rights attached to any class of Where shares are held by the Trustee of the Employee shares may be varied with the written consent of the Benefit Trust and the voting rights attached to such shares holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of are not directly exercisable by the employees, it is the the issued shares, or with the sanction of an extraordinary Companys practice that such rights are not exercised by resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the the Trustee.
Shares purchased by employees, along with holders of those shares.
At every such separate general matching shares, held in a SIP Trust are capable of being meeting, the quorum shall be two persons holding or voted through a direction to the Trustee by the relevant representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value employee.
of the issued shares calculated excluding any shares held Under the Companies Act, members are entitled to in treasury.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any appoint a proxy, who need not be a member of the shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be and to speak and vote at a general meeting.
A member varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general pari passu with them.
meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise Transfer of shares the rights attached to a different share or shares held by There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares that member.
A member that is a corporation may appoint in the Company other than: one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting as a corporate representative.
restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : Enterprise Inns AR2015 Back.
indd 42 07 12 2015 17:24:19 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 43 for the year ended 30 September 2015 restrictions pursuant to the Companys share dealing Further details of the directors service contracts can be code whereby the directors and certain employees found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 80. require approval of the Company to deal in the Powers of directors Companys shares: and Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any where a person with an interest of at least 0.25% in the directions given by special resolution, the business of the Companys certificated shares has been served with a Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company of the powers of the Company to, for example: borrow with information concerning interests in those shares.
money: mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, The Company is not aware of any arrangements between property and uncalled capital: and issue debentures and shareholders that may result in a restriction on the transfer other securities, whether outright or as collateral security of ordinary shares.
for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company.
The Company was authorised by shareholders at the AGM Dividends and distributions held on 5 February 2015 to allot, issue and make market Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the purchases of the Companys ordinary shares.
This authority Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time will expire at the 2016 AGM and the directors will be declare dividends not exceeding an amount recommended seeking a new authority for the Company to allot, issue by the directors.
The directors may pay interim dividends and make market purchases of the Companys ordinary whenever the financial position of the Company, in the shares.
Further details are set out in the explanatory notes opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
The Board to the Notice convening the AGM on pages 156 to 175. may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividend or other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares Directors indemnities from a person with an interest of at least 0.25% if such a The Articles permit the Board to grant the directors person has been served with a disclosure notice and has indemnities in relation to their duties as directors, including failed to provide the Company with information concerning third party indemnity provisions within the meaning of interests in those shares required to be provided by the the Companies Act in respect of any liabilities incurred by Companies Act.
them in connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the Company.
No such Appointment and replacement indemnities have been granted.
of directors Unless determined by ordinary resolution of the Company, Compensation for loss of office the number of directors shall not be less than two but There are no agreements between the Company and its is not subject to a maximum number.
While a director is directors or employees providing for compensation for not required to hold any shares in the Company by way loss of office or employment that occurs as a result of a of qualification, the Company has adopted shareholding takeover bid.
Details regarding change of control provisions guidelines for executive directors which require them to in respect of share plan awards and other related build up and retain a holding of shares.
Executive directors agreements are included with the Directors Remuneration are expected to build up the required shareholding by the Report.
Further details of the directors service contracts fifth anniversary of them joining the Board.
Further details can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on on directors shareholdings are contained in the Directors page 80.
By order of the Board The Board may appoint any person to be a director and such director shall hold office only until the next AGM, L T ogher when he or she shall then be eligible for reappointment Company Secretary by the shareholders.
The Articles provide that, at each 16 November 2015 AGM, all those directors who have been in office for three years or more since their election or last re-election shall Registered Company name: Enterprise Inns plc retire from office.
However, in accordance with the UK Registered Company number: 2562808 Corporate Governance Code, all directors of the Company are subject to annual re-election.
indd 43 07 12 2015 17:24:19 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
