COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES The following provides information on those policies that management considers critical because of the level of judgement and estimation required which often involves assumptions regarding future events which can vary from what is anticipated.
The Directors believe that the Financial Statements reflect appropriate judgements and estimates and provide a true and fair view of Essentras performance and financial position.
Pensions Essentra accounts for its defined benefit pension schemes in accordance with IAS 19.
The application of IAS 19 requires the exercise of judgement in relation to the assumptions used and for each assumption there is a range of possible outcomes see note 17.
In consultation with Essentras actuaries, management decides the point within those ranges that most appropriately reflects Essentras circumstances.
Small changes to these assumptions can have a significant impact on valuations.
The Group performs a sensitivity analysis for the significant assumptions used in determining post-retirement costs and liabilities, as detailed in note 17.
Business combinations and intangible assets IFRS 3 requires the identification of acquired intangible assets as part of a business combination.
The methods used to value such intangible assets require the use of estimates such as customer attrition, cash flow generation from the existing relationships with customers and returns on other assets.
Future results are impacted by the amortisation periods adopted and changes to the estimated useful lives would result in different effects on the income statement and balance sheet.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment, along with the finite lived intangible assets and other assets of the Groups cash generating units.
Tests for impairment are based on discounted cash flows and assumptions including discount rates, timing and growth prospects which are inherently subjective.
The Group performs various sensitivity analyses in respect of the tests for impairment, as detailed in note 8.
The useful lives of the Groups finite lived intangible assets are reviewed following the tests for impairment annually.
Judgement may also be required in determining the fair value of other assets acquired and liabilities including contingent liabilities assumed.
Taxation Liabilities for tax contingencies require management judgements and estimates in respect of tax audit issues and exposures in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Management is also required to make an estimate of the current tax liability together with an assessment of the temporary differences which arise as a consequence of different accounting and tax treatments.
Where management conclude that a tax position is uncertain, a current tax liability is held for anticipated taxes that are considered probable based on the information available.
Key judgement areas for the Group include the pricing of intercompany goods and services as well as the tax consequences arising from restructuring operations.
Included in the tax payable is a liability of 14.1m 2014: 10.4m for transfer pricing matters and 10.7m 2014: 12.8m for other uncertain tax positions.
The movement is due to adjustments for current year transactions, expiry of statute of limitations following the passage of time and agreement reached with tax authorities on previous matters.
Management may engage with professional advisors in making their assessment and, if appropriate, will liaise with the relevant taxation authorities to resolve the matter.
The tax liability is reassessed in each period to reflect managements best estimate in light of information available.
If the final outcome of these matters differs to the liability held in the Financial Statements, the difference may impact the income tax charge credit in the year the matter is concluded.
Provisions Essentras provisions are managements best estimate of exposure, in cases where there is a probable legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, based on currently available information.
By their nature these provisions are judgemental, reflecting managements assessment of factors such as likelihood of product returns and warranty claims, timing of liabilities and possible amounts involved.
The Group performs appropriate sensitivity analysis in respect of provision judgements that are material.
V. Depreciation Property, plant and equipment represent a significant proportion of the asset base of the Group.
Therefore, the estimates and assumptions made to determine their carrying value and related depreciation are critical to the Groups financial position and performance.
The charge in respect of depreciation is derived after determining an estimate of an assets expected useful life and the expected residual value at the end of its life.
Decreasing an assets expected life or its residual value would result in a higher depreciation charge in the income statement.
The useful lives of the Groups assets are determined by management at the time the asset is acquired and reviewed at least annually for appropriateness.
The lives are based on historical experience with similar assets as well as anticipation of future events, which may impact their life, such as changes in technology.
Historically changes in useful lives and residual values have not resulted in material changes to the Groups depreciation charge.
