COM DIRECTORS REPORT | GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Colin Day Hugh Ross Joanna Speed Chief Executive Managing Director, Europe Corporate Affairs Director Colins biographical details Hugh Ross joined Essentra in 1999.
Joanna Speed joined Essentra in 2011 can be found on page 44.
Before being appointed to his current as Corporate Affairs Director, having position in January 2014, Hugh was previously held the position of Investor President of the Speciality Tapes business Relations Director at Reckitt Benckiser Stefan Schellinger in the US, prior to which he held increasingly Group plc and Scottish & Newcastle plc.
Group Finance Director senior roles in the Filter Products and the Prior to this, Joanna was an equity analyst Packaging & Securing Solutions divisions and worked in investment banking for a Stefans biographical details in North America.
Hugh is a Chartered number of international banks.
Joanna is can be found on page 45.
Accountant, having qualified with a Chartered Accountant, having qualified , and served with Arthur Andersen.
as an Officer in the British Army.
Scott Fawcett Malcolm Waugh Managing Director, Distribution Group Commercial Director Managing Director, Health Scott Fawcett joined Essentra in 2010 & Personal Care Packaging as Managing Director of the European Components business, and was appointed Malcolm Waugh joined Essentra in 2007 to his current role in January 2014.
Prior as Managing Director of the Tear Tape to joining Essentra, Scott was Head of business, and was appointed to the role of eCommerce at Electrocomponents plc, Group Commercial Director in January 2012. where he held a variety of increasingly Prior to joining Essentra, Malcolm was senior sales, marketing and eCommerce Commercial Director at Tetra Pak UK positions during his 17-year career there.
and Ireland, holding a variety of business development and commercial positions during his 18-year career there.
PT Sreekumar Managing Director, Filter Products Managing Director, Asia Brett York President, Americas PT Sreekumar joined Essentra in 1995, being initially responsible for the Companys joint Brett York joined Essentra in 2001 as venture in India.
Before being appointed Vice President of Sales & Marketing for to the role of Managing Director, Filter the US Components business.
Before being Products in 2005, Sreekumar was Regional appointed to his current role in January Director for Asia Pacific, responsible for the 2014, Brett held the position of President business in Asia and the Middle East.
Prior to of Component Distribution Americas joining Essentra, Sreekumar worked for the from 2012 and President of the Speciality Indian tobacco company Godfrey Philips.
Prior to joining Essentra, Brett held a variety of increasingly senior commercial and operational positions at a number of companies, including Industrial Molding Corp. Waddington and PepsiCo.
42 DIRECTORS REPORT | GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM Jon Green Company Secretary & General Counsel Jon Green joined Essentra in 2005, and was appointed Company Secretary & General Counsel in July 2005.
Prior to joining Essentra, Jon worked as an in-house lawyer for a number of large international businesses, including Hays plc and Unilever plc.
Alan Richards Group Operations Director Alan Richards joined Essentra as Group Operations Director in 2012.
Prior to joining Essentra, Alan was Senior Director Manufacturing Excellence at the Mars Group, and has held a number of increasingly senior operational roles in the pharmaceutical, cosmetic and mining industries.
Since 1 January 2013, Alan has been responsible for the Groups Health, Safety & Environment practices.
Gavin Leathem Group Human Resources Director Gavin Leathem joined Essentra as Group Human Resources Director in 2014.
Prior to joining Essentra, Gavin was Vice President of HR for Europe, Middle East and Africa at Emerson Network Power Systems, before which he was Group HR Director at Chloride Group plc during his 13-year career there.
Gavin is a Chartered Fellow of the Institute of Personnel & Development.
