COM STRATEGIC REPORT | WHAT WE DO WHAT WE DO Our business model Clear portfolio management Essentra operates at a Company, We have a clear model for managing Talent management a Strategic Business Unit SBU our portfolio of business activities Essentras employees are a vital resource and a regional level.
The Company in the pursuit of operational excellence is responsible for managing the Strategic framework and the provision of quality products overall portfolio of business activities, Essentras business and financial objectives and service.
The skills and experience of to create sustainable long-term are defined in its Drive for 2020 strategy, Essentras employees drive the innovation value for shareholders.
Essentra which calls for balanced, profitable organic which enables the Company to provide has established processes and growth complemented by value-creating added value to its customers, enhance practices in place to ensure effective acquisitions.
Each of the businesses is supply chain logistics with its suppliers and efficient management across responsible for contributing to Essentras and reduce the environmental impact all of the categories which the overall strategic priorities, to ensure the of its operations.
The Company regularly Company serves.
Companys ongoing success and, hence, reviews its organisational structure to the creation of sustainable long-term ensure that the business has the necessary shareholder value.
personnel to deliver its strategic priorities.
Risk management Legal requirements and compliance Effective management of risk and Essentra is committed to ensuring that opportunity is essential to the protection all of its activities are conducted in of Essentras reputation and the accordance with all applicable legal and achievement of sustainable shareholder regulatory requirements and the highest value.
The Board of Directors is responsible standards of ethical business conduct.
The for determining the risk attitude of the Companys Code of Business Ethics policy Company and for communicating to aims to guide stakeholders, including the organisation what constitutes employees, on the elements that drive the acceptable risk-taking.
The Board, conduct of Essentra businesses.
The way supported by the Audit Committee, in which Essentra does business reflects also oversees the management process its commitment to profitable growth, for the identification, assessment and sustainable development and integrity, mitigation of risk across Essentra.
and the Companys policies continue to promote fair and ethical dealings with customers and competitors as a matter of law and conscience.
4 STRATEGIC REPORT | WHAT WE DO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM Clear portfolio management Shared business priorities Delivering value Leverage our scale Invest in new product innovation Building on our leading international We have a well-invested and flexible The continued successful launch and market positions international sourcing, supply chain commercialisation of new products We have secured leading international and production infrastructure.
This and services is a key driver of our future positions in many of our served markets enables businesses across the Company growth.
Investment in research and in each of our four SBUs.
With our the opportunity to use our existing development functions, supported by investment in international infrastructure, infrastructure and management to the identification of additional product technology, innovation and people, the exploit new opportunities efficiently sourcing opportunities to deliver product strength of our businesses within their and cost-effectively.
Our international innovation and range development, respective markets enables us to deliver distribution network ensures the delivery provides the platform to further enhance balanced, profitable growth.
of cost-competitive and high-quality our competitive positions.
Robust quality products in response to customers systems maintained to internationally requirements.
High levels of service and accredited standards assist the fulfilment broad geographic reach are an important of customers demands.
Benefit from our experienced Operate efficiently management team and talent base We have a comprehensive international We have a highly experienced and production and distribution footprint, well-regarded management team which can be flexed to respond to and employee base.
Their detailed customers needs, whether they be insight into customer needs and market product, service, cost or supply chain trends allows us to respond proactively driven.
Supported by sophisticated IT to changing priorities and to drive systems, we are focused on being a performance.
Technical expertise is low-cost producer, to secure revenue reflected in production and supply chain growth at attractive margins.
Continuous efficiencies and product innovation.
improvement programmes, with tight cost control and productivity gains, serve to Develop long-term reduce conversion costs.
customer relationships We develop and maintain a close relationship with a wide portfolio of blue-chip customers, who are successful leaders in their respective markets.
The high standards of service and supply demanded by such customers help to drive continuous improvement across the Company.
Our manufacturing and distribution expertise adds value in response to customer demands, and our innovative capabilities drive the joint development of new products and services with key strategic partners.
