COM DIRECTORS REPORT | BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS Jeff Harris Paul Lester, CBE Terry Twigger Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Chairman Designate Senior Independent Appointed to the Board: May 2005 Appointed to the Board: December 2015 Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: June 2009 Skills and experience Skills and experience Chairman of Essentra since its formation Paul is currently Chairman of the FTSE 250 Skills and experience in 2005, Jeff has played a key role in company John Laing Infrastructure Fund, Terry has considerable mergers and ensuring continuity upon demerger and Greenergy the second largest private acquisitions experience and has also held in the subsequent development of the company in the UK and Knight Square a number of senior finance roles, including Company.
Jeff is a Chartered Accountant, Holdings.
Paul brings a wealth of experience having previously been Finance Director at having spent over 25 years working in to Essentra, gained in increasingly senior Meggitt PLC.
Prior to his retirement in 2013, public companies, and brings a wealth operational and strategic executive roles, Terry was Chief Executive of Meggitt PLC.
and has also served on a number of Boards in a non-executive capacity for Other appointments Jeff will retire as Non-Executive Chairman more than 20 years.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of Essentra following the Companys 2016 and Chairman of the Audit Committee Annual General Meeting AGM on Paul will assume the role of Non-Executive of X Power Limited.
Chairman, following the retirement of Jeff Harris at the Companys 2016 AGM Past appointments Past appointments on 20 April 2016.
Chief Executive of Meggitt PLC, Director Chief Executive and Chairman of Alliance of Lucas Aerospace.
UniChem plc, Non-Executive Chairman Other appointments of Bunzl plc, Non-Executive Director of Chairman of John Laing Infrastructure Committee membership Associated British Foods plc, Non-Executive Fund, Greenergy and Knight Square Chairman of the Audit Committee, Chairman of Cookson Group plc, Holdings.
member of the Remuneration and Non-Executive Director of WH Smith plc Nomination Committees.
and Non-Executive Director and Senior Past appointments Independent Director of Synergy Health plc.
Chairman of Parabis Group, Chief Colin Day Executive of VT Group plc and Graseby Chief Executive Committee membership plc, Group Managing Director of Balfour Appointed to the Board: April 2011 Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Beatty plc, President of the Society of Maritime Industries, the BSA and the Skills and experience Engineering Employers Federation.
Prior to joining Essentra, Colin was Chief Financial Officer at Reckitt Benckiser Group plc for over ten years.
In addition to leading the finance function there, Colin was instrumental in both mergers and acquisitions activity and the development of group strategy.
Before joining Reckitt Benckiser, Colin held a range of senior finance and operational positions at a variety of companies.
Other appointments Non-Executive Director of Meggitt PLC, AMEC Foster Wheeler plc and FM Global.
Past appointments Chief Financial Officer of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and Aegis Group plc, NonExecutive Director of WPP Group plc, EasyJet plc, Imperial Tobacco Group plc and Cadbury plc.
44 DIRECTORS REPORT | BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM Stefan Schellinger Peter Hill, CBE Lorraine Trainer Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: October 2015 Appointed to the Board: July 2013 Appointed to the Board: July 2013 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Stefan joined Essentra in 2013, and prior Peter is currently Non-Executive Lorraine began her executive career to being appointed to his current position Chairman of Volution Group plc, a at Citibank, and has some 20 years in 2015, he was Corporate Development leading supplier of ventilation products.
experience in Human Resources at such Director where he played a key role in the Peter brings a wealth of experience blue-chip companies as the London Stock development of the Companys strategy to Essentra, gained in particular in Exchange and Coutts NatWest Group.
and in building its mergers and acquisitions increasingly senior operational and Lorraine currently combines her Board activity.
Before joining Essentra, Stefan strategic executive roles, and has work with consultancy at and around was Finance Director Emerging Markets also served on a number of Boards Board level in Director development.
at Gilbarco Veeder Root from 2011, having in a non-executive capacity initially joined the Danaher Corporation as for over 20 years.
Other appointments Director, Corporate Development Europe Non-Executive Director, Senior Independent in 2005.
Stefan has extensive investment Other appointments Director and Chairman of the Remuneration banking and accountancy experience, Chairman of Volution Group plc, Committee of Jupiter Fund Management having previously worked at JP Morgan Non-Executive Director of the Royal plc, Non-Executive Director of Sonae and Arthur Andersen.
SGPS, S. A. Tommy Breen Past appointments Past appointments Non-Executive Director Chairman of Alent plc, Chief Executive Non-Executive Director of Aegis Group plc Appointed to the Board: April 2015 of Laird PLC, Executive Director of Costain and Colt Group S. A.
Group PLC, Non-Executive Director of Skills and experience Cookson Group plc, Meggitt PLC and Committee membership Tommy is currently Chief Executive of Oxford Instruments plc, Non-Executive Chairman of the Remuneration DCC plc, an international sales, marketing, Board member of UK Trade & Investment.
Committee, member of the Audit distribution and business support services and Nomination Committees.
group, headquartered in Dublin and with Committee membership operations in 13 countries.
Tommy brings Member of the Audit, Remuneration significant experience to Essentra, in and Nomination Committees.
particular of growing diverse businesses both organically and via acquisition during his 30-year career with DCC.
Other appointments Chief Executive of DCC plc.
Committee membership Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
