DIRECTORS REPORT | OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION The Directors present their Report The Directors Report comprises pages 42 Directors prepared in accordance with the to 83 and the sections of the Annual Report As at 31 December 2015, the Board Companies Act 2006, which requires incorporated by reference are as set of Directors comprised: the Company to provide a fair review out below: of the business of the Group during the Jeff Harris Non-Executive Chairman financial year ended 31 December 2015, Paul Lester Non-Executive Membership of Board during and audited Financial Statements page 48 Chairman Designate 2015 financial year of the Company and its subsidiary Colin Day Chief Executive Financial instruments and undertakings for the year ended page 91 Terry Twigger SI Non-Executive Director financial risk management 31 December 2015.
Stefan Schellinger Group Finance Director Greenhouse gas emissions page 41 Tommy Breen Non-Executive Director The Companys Registered Office is pages Peter Hill Non-Executive Director Corporate Governance report Avebury House, 201-249 Avebury 48 to 54 Lorraine Trainer Non-Executive Director Boulevard, Milton Keynes, MK9 1AU.
Future developments of the page 9 business of the Group The Company is adopting the requirements Employee equality of the UK Corporate Governance Code page 39 and diversity September 2014 in relation to Directors appointments, and in particular the annual re-election of all Directors.
In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules LR Paul Lester, Tommy Breen and Stefan 9.8.
4C, the information to be included in Schellinger will be putting themselves the Annual Report and Accounts, where forward for election at the 2016 AGM, applicable, under LR 9.8.
4 is set out in having been appointed as Directors since the Directors Report.
Results and dividends Jeff Harris will not be standing for The profit on ordinary activities after re-election after more than ten years taxation of the Group for the year serving on the Board.
Except for the above, in accordance with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate As at 19 February 2016, the Company has Governance Code, all the Directors paid the following dividend in respect of previously elected at an AGM, and the year ended 31 December 2015: being eligible, will offer themselves up for re-election.
Per share Total p m None of the Non-Executive Directors have Interim dividend 6.3 32.6 paid 30 October 2015 service contracts.
In accordance with the Companys Conflict The Directors recommend that a final of Interests policy, Directors are required to dividend of 14.4p 2014: 12.6p per share be review their potential conflict of interests paid, making a total dividend distribution at least on an annual basis and to notify for the year of 20.7p 2014: 18.3p.
any changes to the Company Secretary & General Counsel as soon as possible.
The final dividend, subject to shareholder The current register was approved by approval at the AGM, will be paid on the Board in October 2015, and no material 3 May 2016 to shareholders on the conflicts of interest were identified during register on 18 March 2016. the year.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION At no time during the year has any Director Unless expressly specified to the contrary in connection with the execution of their had any material interest in a contract with the Articles of Association of the Company, powers, duties and responsibilities as a the Group, being a contract of significance the Companys Articles of Association may Director or Officer of the Company or any in relation to the Groups business.
A be amended by special resolution of the of its subsidiaries, including the pension statement of Directors interests in shares Companys shareholders.
The scope of of the Company is on page 74. the indemnities extends to include Substantial shareholders liabilities to third parties.
Share capital At the close of business on 19 February 2016, The issued share capital of the Company is the Company was advised of the following Significant agreements shown in note 19 to the Financial Statements voting rights attaching to the Companys The Company has committed bank on pages 123 to 124. shares in accordance with the Disclosure and facilities consisting of two five-year Transparency Rules: multi-currency revolving credit facilities of On 31 December 2015, there were 264,129,170 271.0m and 167.5m.
Under the terms of % of total voting ordinary shares of 25p each in issue.
There these facilities, the banks can give notice rights were 1,750,571 ordinary shares of 25p each to Essentra to repay outstanding amounts Standard Life 9.99 held in treasury.
and cancel the commitments where there Investments Holdings is a change of control of the Company.
Limited The rights and obligations attaching to FMR LLC 9.15 the Companys ordinary shares, and the Under a note purchase agreement dated provisions governing the appointment and BlackRock Inc 6.01 29 April 2010 relating to US$80m senior replacement of, as well as the powers of, notes due 29 April 2017 and US$80m senior Royal London Asset 3.03 the Companys Directors, are set out in the notes due 29 April 2020, on a change of Management Limited Companys Articles of Association, copies control the Company must make an offer of which can be obtained from Companies to prepay all the notes at par, without any Employees House in the UK or by writing to the premium of any kind, together with As at 31 December 2015, the Company Company Secretary.
accrued and unpaid interest thereon.
employed 8,866 people globally and 1,749 people in the UK.
Information on There are no restrictions on the voting All of the Companys share schemes the Groups policies on employee rights attaching to the Companys contain provisions relating to a change in recruitment, engagement and the ordinary shares or on the transfer of control.
Outstanding options and awards employment of disabled persons can securities in the Company, except, in the normally vest and become exercisable on be found in the Corporate Responsibility case of transfers of securities: a change of control, subject to the Statement on page 39.
That certain restrictions may from satisfaction of any performance time to time be imposed by laws conditions at that time.
Political contributions and regulations for example, insider In line with Group policy, the Company trading laws There are a number of other agreements, made no political contributions 2014: nil.
involving the Company or its subsidiaries, Whereby, pursuant to the Listing Rules that take effect, alter or terminate upon of the Financial Conduct Authority, Environmental a change of control of the Company certain employees of the Company The disclosures concerning greenhouse gas following a takeover bid, such as require approval of the Company to emissions required by law are included in commercial contracts and joint venture deal in the Companys ordinary shares the Strategic Report on page 41. agreements.
None are considered to be significant in terms of their potential No persons hold securities in the Company Directors indemnities impact on the business of the Group as carrying special rights with regard to During the year, and as at the date a whole, to any potential bidder for the control of the Company.
The Company of this Report, indemnities are in force Company or Group.
is not aware of any agreements between under which the Company has agreed to holders of securities that may result in indemnify the Directors and the Company Annual General Meeting restrictions on the transfer of securities Secretary & General Counsel, in addition The AGM of the Company will be held at the or on voting rights.
to other senior executives who are Holiday Inn Hotel, 500 Saxon Gate West, Directors of subsidiaries of the Company, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire, MK9 2HQ to the extent permitted by law and the on Wednesday 20 April 2016 at 12 noon.
Companys Articles of Association, in respect of all losses arising out of or in 80 DIRECTORS REPORT | OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM In addition to the ordinary business of the This year the Company seeks a Purchase of own shares AGM, resolutions in respect of the following resolution which authorises disapplication At the 2015 AGM, shareholders approved matters of special business are included in of pre-emption rights in respect of up a special resolution to enable the the Notice of Annual General Meeting: to an aggregate nominal amount of Company to purchase its own shares.
6,559,464 representing 26,237,859 That approval expires at the end of the Authority to allot unissued shares ordinary shares.
This aggregate nominal forthcoming AGM.
At the 2015 AGM, the Directors were amount represents approximately 10% granted authority to allot relevant of the issued ordinary share capital of At this years AGM, the Directors consider securities up to a nominal amount the Company excluding treasury shares.
it expedient to seek shareholders approval of 21,773,455, which expires at the This disapplication authority is in line to enable the Company to purchase, end of the forthcoming AGM.
with institutional shareholder guidance in the market, up to 10% of its issued share in the form of the Pre-Emption Groups capital excluding any treasury shares At this years AGM, shareholders will be Statement of Principles, which were for cancellation, or to be held in Treasury, asked to grant the Directors authority revised in 2015 to permit the disapplication such power to apply until the end of next to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe of pre-emption rights for an issue of shares years AGM or if earlier, 20 June 2017. for or convert any security into shares: otherwise than in connection with a In accordance with the requirements of i up to an aggregate nominal amount pre-emptive offer to be increased from the Listing Rules of the Financial Services of 21,865,426 representing approximately 5% to 10% of the Companys issued Authority, the minimum price exclusive one-third of the Companys issued share ordinary share capital provided the of expenses which may be paid for capital, excluding treasury shares, at Directors confirm their intention to use a share is its nominal value and the 19 February 2016 such an amount to be the additional 5% authority only in maximum price exclusive of expenses reduced by the nominal amount allotted relation to an acquisition or specified for shares which may be paid is the or granted under section ii below in capital investment.
highest of: i an amount equal to 105% excess of such sum : and iii comprising of the average market value for a share equity securities up to an aggregate The Directors confirm their intention for the five business days immediately nominal amount of 43,730,853 to only allot, if applicable, shares preceding the date of the purchase: representing approximately two-thirds representing more than 5% of the and ii the higher of the price of the last of the issued share capital, excluding issued ordinary share capital of the independent trade and the highest current treasury shares, at 19 February 2016 Company excluding treasury shares, independent bid on the trading venues such an amount to be reduced by any for cash without first offering them to where the purchase is carried out.
allotments or grants made under section existing shareholders in proportion to i above in connection with an offer by their existing shareholdings, where The Directors have no present intention of way of a rights issue.
that allotment is in connection with exercising the authority to make market an acquisition or specified capital purchases, however the authority provides The proposal conforms to the guidelines investment within the meaning given the flexibility to allow them to do so in the issued by the institutional investment in the Pre-Emption Groups Statement future.
The Directors will only utilise this protection bodies to ensure that existing of Principles which is announced authority if satisfied that to do so would shareholders interests are safeguarded.
contemporaneously with the be in the best interests of the Company The Directors have no present intention allotment, or which has taken place and its shareholders generally, and could of exercising either of these authorities, in the preceding six-month period be expected to result in an increase in which will expire at the end of next years and is disclosed in the announcement earnings per share of the Company.
AGM or, if earlier, the close of business of the allotment.
on 20 June 2017 except in relation to During the financial year ending share options.
This authority will expire at the conclusion 31 December 2015 1,699,114 ordinary of the following AGM or, if earlier, on shares were transferred out of Treasury Allotment of shares for cash 20 June 2017.
The proposal conforms to by the Company to satisfy share options At the 2015 AGM, shareholders approved the guidelines issued by the institutional under the Companys Sharesave and a special resolution to enable the Directors investment protection bodies to ensure executive share incentive plans.
to allot shares for cash without first that existing shareholders interests are offering them to existing shareholders in safeguarded.
No dividends have been paid on shares proportion to their existing shareholdings.
while held in Treasury and no voting rights That approval expires at the end of the attach to the treasury shares.
forthcoming AGM and resolution 14 in the Notice of AGM seeks to renew it.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Auditor Viability statement The geographical and sector The Auditor, KPMG LLP, is willing to In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of diversification of the Groups operations continue in office.
Separate resolutions the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, and markets reduces the risk of serious will be put to the AGM to re-appoint the the Directors have assessed the viability business interruption or catastrophic Auditor, and to authorise the Board to of the Group over a period longer than damage to its reputation.
the twelve months required by the the business model is structured so that Going Concern statement.
In making the Group is not reliant on one particular Recommendation this assessment, the Directors have taken group of clients or sector, and has the The Directors believe that the resolutions into account the Groups current position ability to flex the cost base which protects in the Notice of Annual General Meeting and the potential impact of the principal the Companys viability in the face of are in the best interests of the Company risks documented on pages 31 to 35.
Based adverse economic conditions and or and its shareholders as a whole, and on this assessment, the Directors confirm political uncertainty.
unanimously recommend that shareholders that they have a reasonable expectation vote in favour of each resolution.
that the Company will be able to continue While this review does not consider all in operation and meet its liabilities over of the risks that the Group may face, Derivatives the three-year period to 31 December 2018. the Directors consider that this sensitivity Information related to derivatives is testing-based assessment of the Groups included in the Accounting Policies on The Directors have determined that a prospects is reasonable in the circumstances page 91 and in note 14. three-year period to 31 December 2018 of the inherent uncertainty involved.
is an appropriate period over which to Going concern statement provide its viability statement.
This is the Directors statement as to disclosure The Directors have a reasonable period reviewed by the Group Board in its of information to the external auditor expectation that the Company has strategic planning process.
The Directors As required by section 418 2 of the adequate resources to continue in believe that this presents a reasonable Companies Act 2006, the Directors who operational existence for the foreseeable degree of confidence over this longerwere members of the Board at the time future and accordingly have adopted the term outlook.
of approving this Report, having made going concern basis in preparing the enquiries of fellow Directors and of the consolidated Financial Statements.
In making this statement, the Boards external auditor, confirm that: assessment has been made with As far as each Director is aware, Further information regarding the financial reference to the resilience of the Group there is no relevant audit information position of the Group, its cash flows, and its strong financial position, the of which the Companys external liquidity position and borrowing facilities Groups current strategy, the Boards risk auditor is unaware are described in the Financial Review on appetite and the Groups principal risks, Each Director has taken all steps pages 13 to 14.
In addition, note 1 to the including those that would threaten its that he ought to have taken as a Financial Statements on pages 97 to 99 business model, future performance, Director to ascertain any relevant includes the Groups objectives, policies solvency or liquidity, and how these are audit information, and to ensure and processes for managing its capital, managed, as described in the Strategic that the Companys external auditor its financial risk management objectives, Report on pages 30 to 35. is aware of that information details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and exposures to credit, The Board considers annually and on The Strategic Report and Directors Report, market and liquidity risk.
Cash balances a rolling basis a three-year, bottom-up including the Report of the Remuneration and borrowings are included in note 21 strategic plan.
The output of this plan Committee, were approved by the Board on page 124.
This disclosure has been is used to perform central debt and on 19 February 2016. prepared in accordance the with Financial headroom profile analysis, which includes Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk a review of sensitivity to business as By order of the Board Management and Internal Control and usual risks, such as profit growth and Related Financial and Business Reporting working capital variances and severe JON GREEN September 2014. but plausible events.
It also considers Company Secretary the ability of the Group to raise finance 19 February 2016 and deploy capital.
The results take into account the availability and likely effectiveness of the mitigating actions that could be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the identified underlying risks.
