32 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Directors Report Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC is a public emPloyee shARe TRusT sigNiFiCANT shAReholdiNgs limited company.
It holds a premium listing on The executive directors of the company together As at November 18 2015, the company had the London Stock Exchange main market for with other employees of the group are potential been notified of the following significant listed securities and is a member of the FTSE beneficiaries of the Euromoney Employee Share interests: 250 share index.
Trust and as such, are deemed to be interested Nature % of in any ordinary shares held by the trust.
At The Directors Report comprises pages 32 to 45 Name of of Number voting September 30 2015, the trusts shareholding of this report together with the sections of the holder holding of shares rights totalled 1,747,631 shares representing 1.4% of Annual Report incorporated by reference.
Some the companys called-up ordinary share capital.
DMG of the matters required by legislation have been No share awards have vested during the year.
Charles included in the Strategic Report pages 7 to 30 Limited Direct 85,838,458 66.93 as the board considers them to be of strategic VoTiNg RighTs ANd ResTRiCTioNs oN TRANsFeR oF importance.
Specifically, these are future RelATioNshiP deed shARes business developments and principal risks.
The company and Daily Mail and General Each share entitles its holder to one vote at Trust plc, the parent company of DMG Charles It is expected that the company, which has shareholders meetings and the right to receive Limited, entered into a relationship deed on July no branches, will continue to operate as the one share of the companys dividends.
There 16 2014 in accordance with the Listing Rules holding company of the group.
are no special control rights attaching to them.
and have acted in accordance with its terms The company is not aware of any agreements since execution.
gRouP ResulTs ANd diVideNds or control rights between existing shareholders The group profit for the year attributable to emPloyees that may result in restrictions on the transfer equity holders of the parent amounted to Quality and integrity of employees of securities shares or loan notes or on voting 105.4m 2014: 75.3m.
The companys The competence of people is ensured through rights.
policy is to distribute a third of its adjusted high recruitment standards and a commitment after-tax earnings by way of dividends each ChANge oF CoNTRol to management and business skills training.
Pursuant to this policy, the directors There are a number of agreements that take The group has the advantage of running recommend a final dividend of 16.40p per effect, alter or terminate upon a change of external training businesses and uses this inordinary share 2014: 16.00p, payable on control of the company following a takeover house resource to train cost-effectively its Thursday February 11 2016 to shareholders on bid.
None of these agreements is deemed to employees on a regular basis.
Employees are the register on Friday November 27 2015.
This, be significant in terms of their potential impact also encouraged actively to seek external together with the interim dividend of 7.00p on the business of the group as a whole.
per ordinary share 2014: 7.00p which was companys share plans contain provisions that declared on May 14 2015 and paid on June 18 High-quality and honest personnel are an take effect in such an event but do not entitle 2015, brings the total dividend for the year to essential part of the control environment.
participants to a greater interest in the shares 23.40p per ordinary share 2014: 23.00p.
The high ethical standards expected are of the company than created by the initial communicated by management and through grant or award under the relevant plan.
Details shARe CAPiTAl the employee handbook which is provided of the directors entitlement to compensation The companys share capital is divided into to all employees.
The employee handbook for loss of office following a takeover or ordinary shares of 0.25p each.
At September includes specific policies on matters such as contract termination are given in the Directors 30 2015 there were 128,248,894 ordinary the use of the groups information technology Remuneration Report.
shares in issue and fully paid.
During the year, resources, data protection policy, the UK Bribery 115,477 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 2014: AuThoRiTy To PuRChAse ANd Act, and disciplinary and grievance procedures.
1,676,093 ordinary shares with an aggregate AlloT oWN shARes The group operates an intranet which is used nominal value of 289 2014: 4,191 were At the 2015 AGM, the company was to communicate with employees and provide issued following the exercise of share options authorised by shareholders to purchase up to guidance and assistance on day-to-day matters granted under the companys share option 10% of its own shares and to allot shares up facing employees.
The group has a specific schemes for a cash consideration of 0.5m to an aggregate nominal amount of 96,100. whistle-blowing policy that is supported by an 2014: 0.3m.
Details of the companys share The resolutions to renew this authority for a externally managed whistle-blowing hotline.
capital are given in note 22 to the group further period will be put to shareholders at the The whistle-blowing policy is updated regularly financial statements.
and is reviewed by the audit committee.
controlling party is given in note 30.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Governance directors rePort Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33 Human rights and health and safety Disabled employees goiNg CoNCeRN requirements It is the groups policy to give full and fair Having assessed the principal risks and the The group is committed to the health and consideration to applications for employment other matters discussed in connection with safety and the human rights of its employees from people who are disabled: to continue, the viability statement, the directors consider it and communities in which it operates.
Health wherever possible, the employment of, and appropriate to adopt the going concern basis and safety issues are monitored to ensure to arrange appropriate training for, employees of accounting in preparing this Annual Report.
compliance with all local health and safety who become disabled: and to provide AddiTioNAl disClosuRes regulations.
External health and safety advisors opportunities for the career development, Additional information that is relevant to this are used where appropriate.
The UK businesses training and promotion of disabled employees.
report, and which is incorporated by reference benefit from a regular assessment of the PoliTiCAl doNATioNs into this report, including information required working environment by experienced assessors No political donations were made during the in accordance with the UK Companies Act and regular training of all existing and new UK year 2014: nil.
4R, can be located employees in health and safety matters.
as follows: PosT bAlANCe sheeT eVeNTs Events arising after September 30 2015 Financial instruments note 18 are set out in note 29 to the group financial Related party transactions note 28 statements.
gReeNhouse gAs ghg RePoRTiNg The company, as part of the wider Daily Mail and General Trust plc group DMGT, participates in a DMGT group-wide carbon footprint analysis completed by ICF International.
This exercise has been undertaken every year since 2007 using the widely recognised GHG protocol methodology developed by the World Resource Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development.
The directors are committed to reducing the groups absolute carbon emissions and managing its carbon footprint.
In 2012 the company, as part of the wider DMGT group, set a target to reduce its carbon footprint relative to revenue over a three-year period by 10%.
The company exceeded this target with a total reduction in emissions intensity over the three-year period of 12%.
GreeNhouse emissioN stAtemeNt The following emissions have been calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition methodology.
Data was gathered to fulfil the requirements under the CRC Energy Efficiency scheme, and emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
The carbon footprint is expressed in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent and includes all the Kyoto Protocol gases that are of relevance to the business.
The companys footprint covers emissions from its global operations and the following emission sources: Scope 1 and 2 as defined by the GHG Protocol, business travel and outsourced delivery activities.
AssessmeNt PArAmeters Baseline year 2012 Consolidation approach Operational control Boundary summary All entities and facilities either owned or under operational control Consistency with the financial statements The only variation is that leased properties, under operational control, are included in scope 1 and 2 data, all scope 3 emissions are off-balance sheet emissions Assessment methodology Greenhouse Gas Protocol and Defra environmental reporting guidelines Intensity ratio Emissions per m of revenue 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 34 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Directors Report continued GreeNhouse GAs emissioN source 2015 2014 tco e tco e 2 2 tco e m tco e m 2 2 Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 4,200 10.4 4,500 11.1 Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 2,400 6.0 3,200 7.9 total scope 1 and 2 6,600 16.4 7,700 19.0 Scope 3: Business travel and outsourced activities 6,900 17.1 8,300 20.4 total emissions 13,500 33.5 16,000 39.4 Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by Companies Act 2006 Details of the interests of the directors in the offer themselves for re-election.
In addition, AudiToR ordinary shares of the company and of options in accordance with the Code, before the Each director confirms that, so far as he she is held by the directors to subscribe for ordinary re-election of a non-executive director, the aware, there is no relevant audit information of shares in the company are set out in the chairman is required to confirm to shareholders which the companys auditor is unaware: and Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 that, following formal performance evaluation, that each of the directors has taken all the steps to 69. the non-executive directors performance that he she ought to have taken as a director continues to be effective and demonstrates to make himself herself aware of any relevant Appointment and removal of commitment to the role.
Accordingly, the nonaudit information and to establish that the directors executive directors will retire at the forthcoming companys auditor is aware of the information.
The companys Articles of Association give AGM and, being eligible following a formal power to the board to appoint directors from A resolution to re-appoint Pricewaterhouse performance evaluation by the chairman, offer time to time.
In addition to the statutory Coopers LLP as the companys statutory auditor themselves for re-election.
rights of shareholders to remove a director by and to authorise the audit committee to ordinary resolution, the board may also remove Directors indemnities determine their remuneration will be proposed a director where 75% of the board gives A qualifying third-party indemnity QTPI at the 2016 AGM.
written notice to such director.
The Articles of as permitted by the Companys Articles of ANNuAl geNeRAl meeTiNg Association themselves may be amended by a Association and Section 232 and 234 of the The companys next AGM will be held at special resolution of the shareholders.
Companies Act 2006, has been granted by Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC, 8 Bouverie the company to each of the directors of the Following the changes to the board announced Street, London EC4Y 8AX on January 28 2016 company.
Under the provisions of QTPI the on November 19 2015, CHC Fordham, at 9.30 a. m. A separate circular comprising the company undertakes to indemnify each director NF Osborn, fide Alfano, JL Wilkinson and Notice of Meeting, together with explanatory against liability to third parties excluding B AL-Rehany will not seek re-election as notes, accompanies this Annual Report.
criminal and regulatory penalties and to pay executive directors of the company at the AGM directors costs as incurred, provided that they diReCToRs in January 2016. are reimbursed to the company if the director Directors and directors interests is found guilty or, in an action brought by The membership of the board and biographical Following best practice under the 2014 UK the company, judgement is given against the details of the directors are given on page Corporate Governance Code the Code and director.
On April 9 2015, the group announced in accordance with the companys Articles of the appointment of A Rashbass as executive Association, all directors submit themselves for chairman with effect from October 1 2015. re-election annually.
Accordingly, all directors PR Ensor retired as executive chairman on except those listed above will retire at the September 30 2015. forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, will 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Governance directors rePort Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35 responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Directors responsibilities company and hence for taking reasonable steps The directors are responsible for preparing the for the prevention and detection of fraud and Annual Report and Accounts in accordance other irregularities.
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial Having taken advice from the audit committee, statements for each financial year.
Under that the directors consider that the Annual Report, law the directors are required to prepare the taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and group financial statements in accordance with understandable and provides the information International Financial Reporting Standards necessary for shareholders to assess the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union companys performance, business model and and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the strategy.
parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally The directors are responsible for the Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom maintenance and integrity of the corporate and Accounting Standards and applicable law.
financial information included on the companys Under company law the directors must not website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom approve the accounts unless they are satisfied governing the preparation and dissemination of that they give a true and fair view of the state of financial statements may differ from legislation affairs of the company and of the profit or loss in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors of the company for that period.
In preparing confirms that to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, the directors are required to: the financial statements, are prepared in accordance with the applicable set of select suitable accounting policies and accounting standards, give a true and apply them consistently: fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial make judgements and accounting position and profit of the parent company estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and the group taken as a whole: and state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted the Strategic Report and the Directors by the European Union have been followed Report include a fair review of the for the group financial statements subject development and performance of the to any material departures disclosed and business and the position of the parent explained in the financial statements: company and the group taken as a whole, all accounting standards which are together with a description of the principal considered applicable have been followed risks and uncertainties that they face.
in preparing the parent company financial statements: and On behalf of the board prepare the financial statements on ChRisToPheR FoRdhAm the going concern basis unless it is Director inappropriate to presume that the group December 14 2015 and company will continue in business.
ColiN JoNes The directors are responsible for keeping Director adequate accounting records that are sufficient December 14 2015 to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
