10 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Strategic Priorities The groups strategy is designed to build a growing, robust and tightly focused global online information business with an emphasis on both developed and emerging markets.
This represents a significant and challenging transformation from its roots as a traditional print publishing and events business.
The groups key strategic priorities are: prioritieS actioNS key riSkS kpis Increasing the The group has increased the proportion of revenues derived from Downturn in Underlying proportion of subscription products, mostly online, to more than half of its total economy or subscription revenue revenues derived from revenues and expects the proportion to remain between 50% market sector growth electronic subscription and 60% for the foreseeable future.
Subscription-based products, Subscription share products particularly online, usually have the advantage of premium-prices, of total revenues high renewal rates and high margins.
Subscription retention rates Investing in The group invests for the long-term in businesses and products Data integrity, Investment in technology to drive that meet certain financial and strategic criteria.
The group has availability and technology and new the online migration completed its transition of all applicable publishing products cyber security products of the groups onto the Delphi authoring system and continues to develop new Failure of key Online user products and develop electronic information services, and to take advantage of mobile technology engagement new electronic and cloud technology.
Failure of Subscription information services product strategy retention rates Maintaining products Approximately two thirds of the groups revenues are derived Failure of Underlying revenue of the highest quality from its information activities including online and print content, product strategy growth databases and research.
The other third is derived from events Percentage of including training.
Since 2010, the group has been investing revenues delivered heavily in technology and content delivery platforms, particularly online for the mobile user, and in new digital products as part of its transition to an online information business.
Building large mustThe group consistently invests in and develops its event portfolio Downturn in Repeat revenue attend events to ensure they evolve and adapt with their clients changing focus economy or rates and needs.
market sector Sponsorship and Travel risk delegate revenue yields Audience quality measures Eliminating products The group continues to eliminate products with a low margin or Downturn in Revenue by type with a low margin too high a dependence on print advertising.
In October 2014, economy or Adjusted operating or too high a the group completed the sale of four of its Institutional Investor market sector margin dependence on print newsletter publications.
Adjusted profit advertising before tax 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:52 AM - Proof 8 Strategic report stratEgIC PrIorItIEs Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11 prioritieS actioNS key riSkS kpis Maintaining tight cost The groups costs are tightly managed with a constant focus Downturn in Adjusted operating control at all times on margin control.
The group benefits from having a flexible economy or margin cost base, outsourcing the printing of publications, hiring market sector Adjusted profit external venues for events, and choosing to engage freelancers, before tax contributors, external trainers and speakers to help deliver its products.
Other than its main offices, the group avoids the fixed costs of offices in most of the markets in which it operates.
This allows the group to scale up resources or reduce overheads as the economic environment in which it operates demand.
Retaining and The board does not micro-manage each business, but instead Securing and Long-term incentives fostering an devolves operating decisions to local management, while retaining key see Directors entrepreneurial taking advantage of a strong central control environment for staff Remuneration culture monitoring performance and underlying risk.
This encourages an Report entrepreneurial culture where businesses have the right kind of variable pay as a support and managers are motivated and rewarded for growth percentage of total and initiative.
pay Using a healthy While the market for acquisitions of specialist online information Acquisition and Cash consideration balance sheet and businesses remains competitive and valuations challenging, the disposal risk on acquisitions strong cash flows group continues to use its robust balance sheet and strong cash Treasury Net cash debt to to fund selective flows to pursue further transactions.
Equally, where businesses no operations EBITDA acquisitions and longer fit, the group divests.
Cash conversion strategic investments rate The group has strong covenants and takes advantage of its ability to borrow money cheaply using these funds to invest in new products and fund acquisitions.
The groups subscription revenues are normally received in advance, at the beginning of the subscription service, and a typical subscription contract is for 12 months.
This helps provide the group with strong cash flows and normally leads to cash generated from operations being in excess of adjusted operating profit a cash conversion percentage in excess of 100%.
See page 14 for a detailed explanation of the groups principal risks and uncertainties and page 12 for the groups performance against its KPIs.
