02 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Our Divisions Financial Research publishing and data REvENUE REvENUE 74.3m 125.8m Financial publishing includes an extensive portfolio of The group provides a number titles covering the international capital markets and asset of subscription-based management as well as a number of specialist financial titles.
research and data services Products include magazines, newsletters, journals, surveys for financial markets.
and research, directories and books.
Montreal-based BCA Research is one of the worlds leading independent providers A selection of the companys leading financial brands includes: Euromoney, Institutional of global macro-economic research.
In Investor, GlobalCapital, Latin Finance, Insurance Insider, IJGlobal, Air Finance, FOW and 2011, the group expanded its independent the hedge fund title EuroHedge.
research activities with the acquisition of US-based Ned Davis Research, a leading provider of independent financial research to institutional and retail investors.
EMIS provides the worlds most comprehensive service for news and data on global emerging markets and CEIC is one of the leading providers of time-series macroeconomic data for emerging markets.
Ned Davis Research Group 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:52 AM - Proof 8 Overview our dIvIsIons Annual Report and Accounts 2015 03 Business Conferences, seminars publishing and training REvENUE REvENUE 70.0m 131.1m The business publishing The group runs a large number of sponsored conferences and division produces print and seminars for the international financial and commodities online information for the markets, mostly under the Euromoney, Institutional Investor, metals, minerals and mining, Metal Bulletin, Coaltrans and IMN brands.
Euromoney legal, telecoms and energy Learning Solutions, the groups training division, runs a sectors.
comprehensive range of banking, finance, energy and legal courses, both public and in-house.
Its leading brands include: Metal Bulletin, American Metal Market, Industrial Many of these conferences are the leading annual events in their sector and provide Minerals: International Financial Law sponsors with a high-quality programme and speakers, and outstanding networking Review, International Tax Review, opportunities.
Such events include: Euromoneys Covered Bond Congress: the Saudi Managing Intellectual Property: Capacity: Arabia Conference: the Global Airfinance Conference: and Global ABS, ABS East and ABS Petroleum Economist, World Oil and Vegas for the asset-backed securities market.
In the commodities sector, events include Hydrocarbon Processing.
Metal Bulletins Middle East Iron and Steel conference and the worlds leading annual coal conferences, World Coal Conference and Coaltrans Asia: and TelCap runs International Telecoms Week, the worldwide meeting place for telecom carriers and service providers, and Capacity Middle East, the worlds biggest meeting point for all operations and service providers active in the Middle Eastern telecoms market.
Euromoneys training courses are run all over the world for both financial institutions and corporates.
DIVISIONAL SPLIT media Conferences, seminars and training 33% Research and data 31% Financial publishing 19% Business publishing 17% 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:52 AM - Proof 8
