Strategic report Managing directors review Annual Report and Accounts 2015 07 Managing Directors Review Despite challenging market conditions this year, Euromoneys market-leading businesses are well placed to benefit from long-term global trends in the finance, metals and commodities sectors.
Euromoneys performance reflects the which acquired a controlling interest.
Further continuing challenges faced by the groups details of the Dealogic transaction are provided Investor markets, particularly within the investment later in this report.
banking sector and in the latter stages of the Secondly, in July 2015 the group acquired Intelligence year for the energy and commodity sectors.
a 10% equity interest in Estimize, the most Headline revenues were down by 1% at comprehensive crowd-sourced financial 1 403.4m and underlying revenues down Network estimates platform for $3.6m.
The pressures on the investment company earnings and estimates from over banking sector, which accounted for roughly 7,000 hedge fund, brokerage and independent half the groups revenues, and on fixed analysts as well as a diverse community of income, currency and commodities activities The groups largest individuals.
By being more representative of in particular, continued to offset the improving market expectations, Estimize has proved to be current investment is performance in the groups businesses serving an especially accurate forecaster of company the Investor Intelligence the asset management sector.
Estimize is working with BCA Research Network IIN.
The IIN The group continued to invest in technology to develop new datasets, and BCAs extensive list is a digital disruptive and digital products and to roll out its Delphi of buy-side clients now has access to data and technology that brings digital platform for authoring, storing and insights from Estimize.
By the end of September, Thirdly, in September 2015 the group acquired Euromoney had completed the transition of all investors and investment a 9.9% interest in Zanbato, an international applicable publishing products onto the Delphi managers in two private capital placements platform for $5.4m.
BCA Researchs new Delphi separate but linked online Founded in 2010, Zanbato www.
com tools BCA Analytics, its standalone interactive communities.
is based in California and builds technology to charting tool, and BCA Edge, its fully integrated address inefficiencies in private capital markets.
online research service have begun to attract It uses data science to connect these Zanbatos Marketplace software allows significant customer support.
buyers and sellers of investment institutional investors and family offices to funds in a targeted way, displacing The groups largest organic investment in review private investment opportunities in preconsultants and intermediaries in 2015 was Institutional Investors Investor IPO company shares and real estate.
Intelligence Network and Manager Intelligence and Institutional Investor have also entered Network.
These capital introduction networks into a joint venture to bring together the There was good progress in 2015, bring together institutional investors and technology of Zanbato and the market reach with membership growth up 28%, asset managers from around the world in two of Institutional Investors Investor Intelligence growth in total member assets separate but linked digital communities that Network to serve the institutional segment of up US$28 trillion and 180 new allow them to connect, share knowledge and the private placements market.
institutional investors have joined IIN put capital to work.
Revenues will come from in North America.
In 2015, the group also disposed of some noncapital introduction fees, data services, platform strategic assets, predominantly print-based fees and, subject to regulatory approval in the newsletters and magazines.
US being obtained, which is now expected in spring 2016, the ability to charge basis points An indication of the trading outlook for on capital placed.
the group is given in the Chief Executives Statement on page 5.
The group made three minority investments in financial technology companies in 2015.
The first was a 15.5% equity stake in Dealogic in December 2014, alongside the Carlyle Group 1 Underlying revenues exclude the impact of acquisitions, disposals and currency movements.
