com Business Model The groups activities are categorised into four operating divisions: Research and data: Financial subscription revenues are the fees that publishing: Business publishing: Conferences, seminars and training see page 2 for further details.
customers pay to receive access to the groups The group has many valuable brands allowing the group to extend the value of existing products information, through online access to various and to develop in new areas both geographically and with new products.
For example, information databases, through regular delivery of soft copy businesses often run branded events and produce data products covering their area of specialism.
research, publications and newsletters or hard The group has a sizeable and valuable marketing database allowing new and existing products to copy magazines.
Subscriptions are also received be matched with relevant customers.
from customers who belong to Institutional Investors exclusive specialised membership The group primarily generates revenues from four revenue streams: subscriptions: sponsorship: groups.
sponsorship revenues represent fees paid by customers to sponsor an event.
A payment of sponsorship can entitle the sponsor to high-profile speaking opportunities at the conference, unique branding before, during and after the event and an unparalleled networking opportunity to invite the sponsors clients and representatives.
delegate revenues represent fees paid by customers to attend a conference, training course or seminar.
7 million contacts advertising revenues represent the fees that customers pay to place an advertisement in one countries 180 or more of the groups publications, either in print or online.
Details of the groups revenues by revenue stream and by division are set out in note 3 to the group financial statements.
The groups costs are tightly managed with a constant focus on margin control.
The group benefits from having a flexible cost base, outsourcing the printing of publications, hiring external venues for events and choosing to engage freelancers, contributors, external trainers and speakers to help deliver its products.
Other than its main offices, the group does not incur the fixed costs of offices in most of the markets in which it operates: this allows the group to scale up or reduce overheads as the economic environment in which it operates demands.
