com COAL SEGMENT INPUT PRODUCTION CHAIN RESOURCES MINING & COAL WASHING P&P reserves 1,746.5 mt Coal excluding Mezhegeyugol Abashevskaya Yesaulskaya Ossinikovskaya Raw coking coal Yerunakovskaya VIII Uskovskaya Alardinskaya Kuznetskaya Life of mines Coal 19 years Raspadskaya mine Raw coking coal Razrez Raspadsky Raspadskaya RaspadskayaKoksovaya mine Coal Raw coking coal Mezhegeugol Employees EVRAZ ZSMK coal washing plant 16,170 employees Yuzhkuzbassugol Raspadskaya Greenfield project Coal segment Steel segment Annual Report & Accounts 2015 75 Business review OUTPUT MINING & COAL WASHING LOGISTICS & SALES CUSTOMERS PRODUCTS Raw coking coal 20.9 Raw coking coal mt Railway routes Coking Domestic coal concentrate 13.6 mt EVRAZ Nahodka Trade Sea port Far East Coking coal concentrate OWN SALES Black Sea ports Export NETWORK Baltic Sea ports Railway routes Coking coal Domestic concentrate and Railway routes Export Coking coal concentrate STEEL SEGMENT 76 www.
com Mining & Coal Washing Facility Production facilities | Yuzhkuzbassugol has five coking Ownership: 100% Yuzhkuzbassugol coal mines in Novokuznetsk, in the Kemerevo region Employees: 7,594 people Russia of Russia.
They produce hard and semi-hard coking coal Zh, GZh and KS grades, which is processed into Capacity high-quality concentrate classified as HCC grade internationally.
Most of this is produced in the new Mine: 10.2 mt per year Yerunakovskaya-8 mine.
P&P reserves: 413.7 mt Yuzhkuzbassugol has two coal washing plants, which Output by mines in 2015, mt produce customised coking coal blends and pulverised Yesaulskaya Underground Zh 1.54 coal injection PCI coal.
The Kuznetskaya washing plant produces high-quality HCC concentrate for the Ossinikovskaya Underground Zh 1.29 Yerunakovskaya-8 Underground GZh 2.23 domestic market.
The Abashevskaya washing plant Uskovskaya Underground GZh 2.29 produces a wide variety of products whose quality Alardinskaya Underground KS 2.91 matches specific customers needs.
Total 10.23 Production facilities | Raspadskaya has three Ownership: 81.95% Raspadskaya operational underground coking coal mines and Russia Employees: 6,596 people one open-pit mine in Mezhdurechensk, in the Kemerevo region of Russia.
This complex includes the Capacity Raspadskaya mine, Russias largest.
The operations produce hard coking coal K grade, semi-hard coking Mine: 10.4 mt per year coal GZh grade and semi-soft coking coal GZhO P&P reserves: 1,332.8 mt grade.
The coal from Raspadskaya is exported to premium markets, as is the coal from the Raspadsky Output by mines in 2015, mt open pit, whose output is flexible and can be easily Raspadskaya Underground GZh 5.50 adjusted according to market conditions.
Razrez Raspadsky Open pit GZh GZhO 3.50 MUK-96 Put on Raspadskayas coal washing plant is one of the most care & maintenance in 2015 Underground GZhO 0.35 modern in Russia.
Maintainance costs are low and it Raspadskayacan process high volumes with low human resources.
Koksovaya Underground K 1.00 If necessary, the plant can increase the volume of coal Total 10.35 washed easily.
In began third-party washing in 2014.
Production facilities | Mezhegey is a greenfield Ownership: 60.02% Mezhegey project in the Tyva region of Russia.
The surface Employees: 413 people Russia infrastructure was commissioned in December 2015.
Mezhegey will have one underground mine, which will Capacity start production in 2016.
Mine: 2.0 mt per year planned Output by mines in 2015, kt Mezhegeugol Underground Zh 242 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Mining & Coal Washing Business review 77 Business review KEY PROJECTS KEY DEVELOPMENTS 2015 Yuzhkuzbassugol MEZHEGEY Mining Construction completed, start of longwall Mining of Zh-grade increased by 0.4 million tonnes year-on-year in 2015 mining Mining of GZh-grade decreased by 1 million tonnes year-on-year in 2015 due to Status: In process delays in the schedule of longwall movements, but is expected to rise in 2016 Mining of KS-grade was up 0.2 million tonnes year-on-year in 2015 Output at all other mines rose due to productivity improvements Production efficiency improvements Output per face grew by 3% year-on-year Longwall move times accelerated by 5%, reducing downtime Development work accelerated by 5% CAPEX IRR Raspadskaya US$176 million 14% Mining The Raspadskaya mine produced 5 million tonnes in 2015 The  mine began production of K-grade coal Production efficiency improvements The Raspadsky open pit produced up to 380 thousand tonnes per month in the fourth quarter Development work accelerated by 60% by transferring high-performance  K-GRADE development teams from mine-recovery and repair arching work Launch of production of K-grade Mezhegey Status: In process Preparations to launch the mine are 90% complete The mine has used highly productive modern equipment to deliver the best development rate in the Group, achieving a maximum of 22 metres per day and 350 metres per month R&D REVIEW CAPEX IRR Based on its experience at the new Mezhegey mine, the Group intends to US$28 million 62% introduce modern tunneling equipment and increase the rate of development work at the Raspadskaya and Yerunakovskaya mines.
OUTLOOK PROGRAMME OF WATER PROTECTION 1 MEASURES EVRAZ expects to produce up to 20.6 million tonnes of raw coking coal in 2016.
Minimising the risks of penalties for It will also work on reducing the ash content of its coal.
discharge of pollutants above the norm settlement agreement with Rosprirodnadzor Status: Completed CONSTRUCTION OF THE NEW MEZHEGEYUGOL MINE EVRAZ has been developing the Ulug-Khemsoye coal deposit since 2012.
As part of this, CAPEX IRR it is building a new state-of-the-art mine, Mezhegeyugol, located far from any developed US$15.2 million n a infrastructure or towns.
This mine have few interesting features: it has an indoor distribution unit and is capable of handling up to 16 MW and a ventilation shaft, part of which runs at an angle to 1 At the Uskovskaya and  mines and the mine entrance shaft of up 50 degrees.
Due to be commissioned in 2016. also the Abashevskaya, Alardinskaya and Osinnikovskaya mines and the Abashevskaya washing plant.
com Marketing, sales, services and logistics Operations and facilities Raspadskaya Coal Company | Raspadskaya Coal Company is based in Russia.
It sells coal in Russia and Ukraine, and is the largest supplier of coking coal on the domestic market.
EVRAZ East Metals | EMAG East Metals is a trading company based in Switzerland.
It exports coal mined by EVRAZ to Southeast Asia and European countries.
The bulk of the exported coal is transported through the EVRAZ NMTP sea port to Japan, Korea and China.
EVRAZ NMTP | EVRAZ NMTP is one of the largest stevedoring companies in Russias Far East.
The port is located in the eastern part of Peter the Great Bay, in Nakhodka Bay.
It is capable of processing 500 railcars with various loads a day and has more than 300 thousand square metres of warehouse space.
Its turnover in 2015 was 9.2 million tonnes, including 6.2 million tonnes of coal and 3.0 million tonnes of metals.
Customer focus strategy Customer focus initiatives, 2015 results | In 2015 EVRAZ maintained its leading position on the Russian coal market and achieved its ambitious export goals.
It did so by focusing on its customers, developing partnerships and earning customers loyalty, and working closely with major buyers in Russia and abroad.
Russia is EVRAZ main market, and the Group works closely with the largest Russian metals companies.
It offers a wide range of products, including Zh, GZh and K grades hard coking coal and semi-hard coking coal, and KS and GZhO grades semi-soft coking coal.
Around 65% of its coal was sold to Russian consumers.
The Group has a stable client base built on long-term partnerships.
In 2015, most of its domestic sales were under long-term contracts, for two years or more.
EVRAZ clients receive individual product offerings, competitive prices and flexible financial terms.
The Group works closely with technologists at metals companies to In 2015, the Nakhodka Commercial Sea provide comprehensive solutions that include recommendations for optimising coal Port handled a record amount of blends.
EVRAZ supplies metals companies with high-quality Zh Zh GZh coal grades hard million coking coal.
Both Russian and foreign customers appreciate EVRAZ high-quality 6 tonnes of coal GZh GJ GZhO grades semi-hard coking coal.
In 2015, exports accounted for c. 35% of EVRAZ sales and went mainly to Ukraine, Japan and Korea.
Some volumes were also sold in China and Vietnam under spot contracts.
79 Business review Marketing, sales, services and logistics KEY DEVELOPMENTS MARKETING STRATEGY Raspadskaya Coal Company In 2016, EVRAZ plans to maintain its leadership in the Russian Maintained its leading position on the Russian coal coal market, based on its high and stable coal quality and market.
In addition, it aims to strengthen Concluded long-term contracts for supplying coal to its presence in the Ukrainian, Japanese and Korean markets.
EVRAZ East Metals Increased export sales by 20%.
EVRAZ NMTP Improved the quality of coal cleaning.
Completed a project to increase warehouse space to 26 thousand square metres.
com 23 Meet EVRAZ 451 Strategic report 5279 Business review 80101 CSR report 82 Our Approach 83 Health, safety and environment 93 Energy-saving measures 95 Social policy 102149 Governance 150249 Financial statements 250262 Additional information Annual Report & Accounts 2015 8 81 1 CSR Report CSR REPORT 2.
