08 Strategic report Our business lines Our business lines Credit Services Decision Analytics % % 3.8m 49 US$500m 12 We produce 3.8 million Contribution to We help our 10 largest clients to Contribution credit reports in a Group revenue detect and prevent fraud worth to Group typical day US$500 million each year revenue Credit Services We hold, protect and manage data that that customers are treated more fairly when Market position we are the number helps businesses and organisations applying for credit, and it widens access to one or two in most of our markets.
to lend fairly, consistently and credit across society, by providing a rational Competitors include Equifax, responsibly, and prevent fraud.
It also helps to TransUnion and Dun & Bradstreet.
ensure credit is extended responsibly, by Our bureaux hold information about the Financial characteristics primarily taking into account whether a credit product credit that people and businesses have transactional, pricing is volume-tiered, is suitable for an individual or business and applied for and their history of repaying it.
whether they can afford to repay it.
This helps lenders decide quickly whether The laws governing data hosting and people or businesses applying for credit access vary by country.
To check the credit can afford it and are likely to repay.
The history of a person or business and to lenders can then make more informed REVENUE BY REGION store data with us, a company must have credit decisions, from setting terms for new a legitimate reason for doing so and must North America 47% accounts, through to managing existing usually notify the applicant of its intention.
Latin America 33% customer and supplier relationships more UK and Ireland 12% effectively.
Importantly, decisions are based We do not make lending decisions EMEA Asia Pacific 8% on factual evidence this helps to ensure or offer any comment or advice on particular applications.
Decision Analytics We use data science, analytics and We integrate our data, analytics and Market position we are a markettechnology to unlock the value hidden software platforms to provide our clients leading provider in our major regions.
in data, helping to provide insights to with relevant, market-led solutions: Competitors include Fair Isaac, clients so they can understand the data W e combine our data with data from our SAS and smaller niche providers.
and make fast, efficient decisions to clients and third parties, and then apply Financial characteristics scores improve their business performance.
analytical models to transform this into and checks are sold on a transactional, Companies and organisations are amassing meaningful information and insights.
Software and system vast quantities of data.
Interpreting this has O ur platforms help our clients to carry sales include implementation fees, become ever more vital, so they can provide out complex, day-to-day activities, such recurring licence fees and transactions.
the best possible service to their customers as compiling, standardising and and grow their businesses.
retrieving data, and managing decision REVENUE BY REGION For example, we help our clients make making and workflows.
decisions on hundreds of millions of online North America 32% O ur industry specialists work credit applications every year, including Latin America 8% collaboratively with our clients, to help checking that applicants are who they UK and Ireland 38% them identify issues and focus on say they are to prevent fraud.
Online preEMEA Asia Pacific 22% solutions that add value to their business approval for credit can now take seconds and increase their return on investment.
Strategic report Our business lines 09 Marketing Services Consumer Services % % 2bn 18 140,000 21 We link over two billion Contribution to Our experts working in our call Contribution to records every month, Group revenue centres help more than 140,000 Group revenue helping brands interact consumers every week with their customers Marketing Services We help brands around the world to High-quality, accurate data underpins Market position we hold leading connect with their customers, whenever a brands ability to connect with its positions in our three focus areas: data, they contact them and on whatever customers.
We help our clients to verify, data quality and cross-channel marketing.
devices their customers are using.
validate and cleanse their data sets, linking Competitors are fragmented and include records at the customer account level and We use our strengths in data management Acxiom, Epsilon, Adobe, IBM, Oracle, enhancing them with third-party data.
This and analytics to create customer profiles Salesforce.
for our clients, drawing data from many helps to ensure data is accurate, up-to-date Financial characteristics transactional, sources, including a clients own data.
and provides a single view of the customer.
volume-tiered charges, data licences and These profiles help our clients identify their Our marketing platform helps clients to subscription fees.
best customers and better understand plan, manage and execute their campaigns their main interests and motivations.
It allows them to REVENUE BY REGION Using this information our clients can communicate with their customers through increase customer retention by rewarding their preferred point of contact, whether North America 50% existing customers for their loyalty.
They by post, email or social media, as well as Latin America 3% can also find new, similar customers to directly measure the success of a campaign UK and Ireland 27% interact with, and increase their overall and the return on their investment.
EMEA Asia Pacific 20% customer engagement by developing the most appropriate and personalised offers.
Consumer Services We provide millions of people in the Using our online service, people can and financial information, to help prevent USA and the UK with online access monitor their credit score and find ways to identity fraud before it happens.
to their credit report and score, improve it themselves or call our experts Market position market leader in the empowering them to understand and for extra support and information.
improve their financial status and help them negotiate better deals on a oneCompetitors include CallCredit, Credit helping them to protect themselves off purchase, like a car.
Karma, Equifax, Fair Isaac, TransUnion and against fraud and identity theft.
Our identity protection services help give other niche providers.
A credit report contains the history of a people peace of mind, by helping to protect Financial characteristics monthly fee for persons credit repayments and is the basis their identities and detect when their direct-to-consumer subscriptions and revenue for their credit score.
This score measures identities may have been compromised or profit share basis for affinity partnerships.
the likelihood that they will repay what they or stolen.
owe and is used by lenders to understand We monitor peoples credit reports for the risk of lending to them.
REVENUE BY REGION changes that might indicate identity theft The data we use to create a credit report and, in the event of fraud, give people North America 73% includes information from our Credit access to our dedicated fraud resolution UK and Ireland 27% Services business line, so people can experts.
We also monitor the wider web view what lenders see about them.
and social networks in real time for the unauthorised presence of personal, contact
