10 Strategic report Our business model Our business model DATA ANALYTICS, SOFTWARE AND PLATFORMS 1 2 890m 0.5m We manage data on 890 million people Our hosted origination solutions help clients and 103 million businesses around the world process half a million lending decisions every day Creating long-term value for people, business and society through our business model DATA ANALYTICS, SOFTWARE 1 2 AND PLATFORMS We hold and securely manage Our innovative analytics and software incredibly powerful, high-quality data.
combine multiple data sets and process, Our data assets are very extensive.
define and interpret them, to automate They come from many unique data our clients day-to-day decisions and sources, and include consumer and produce insights they can use.
Our business credit, utilities, insurance, reliable, secure platforms enable our rental, healthcare payments and clients to manage and tailor these automotive data.
complex activities, according to their precise needs and delivery requirements.
We continually invest in new data to Developing our analytics and software further enhance the depth, breadth in-house enables us to build products and quality of our data sets.
that extract the best insight from our data and our clients data.
Operating within a strict data security Integration Our competitive advantages Underpinning our business model is a set Our integrated approach involves of powerful competitive advantages, which us combining our expertise and capabilities in data, analytics enable us to create value for our shareholders.
and software, to develop unique Our strategy builds on and reinforces these solutions for our clients that are market-driven and give them a advantages, so we can continue to create rapid return on their investment.
Strategic report Our business model 11 EXPERTS PEOPLE, BUSINESS AND SOCIETY 3 4 400 39 We have more than 400 data scientists Our 17,000 employees serve people, business helping our clients solve their problems and society from offices in 39 countries EXPERTS PEOPLE, BUSINESS 3 4 AND SOCIETY Our analytical, technical People can access and understand and industry experts work their credit reports and take action that collaboratively with our clients.
may help them get the credit they need.
They combine data and analytical Businesses and organisations can work expertise with business and more efficiently and effectively, get to industry acumen, to support know their customers better and treat and empower our clients to solve them more fairly and responsibly.
And real-world strategic problems millions of people within society get and turn insights into valuable fair and affordable access to essential, business decisions.
everyday services, by helping them make the most of their data.
and regulatory compliance framework Global reach Scale Optimisation Our unmatched global reach Our scale allows us to invest We optimise our earnings through enables us to attract, support and more in new products, building careful oversight of our operations, service local and global clients.
It them centrally to be deployed including focused allocation of enables our people to share best locally, reducing cost and resources and reinvestment in the practice and innovation across allowing multinationals to business, thereby generating and our regions and business lines.
standardise their operations preserving value for our shareholders.
