Governance Directors report 103 Directors report The directors present their report and Directors Insurance and third-party the audited financial statements for the indemnification The directors names, biographical details year ended 31 March 2015.
The Corporate and key skills and experience are shown During the year and up to the date of p62 governance report forms part of this p60 in the Board of directors section.
Details approval of this Annual Report, the Directors report.
The Strategic report regarding Board changes are contained Company maintained liability insurance contains certain information equivalent to p62 in the Corporate governance report.
and third-party indemnification provisions p08 that required in this Directors report.
for its directors and officers.
Particulars of directors remuneration, Research and development service contracts and interests in the Acquisitions and disposals Research and development plays a key Companys ordinary shares are shown in Information in respect of acquisitions and role in supporting Experians activities.
p78 the Report on directors remuneration.
disposals made during the year is contained Details of such activities are given in the There have been no changes in the p165 in note 39 and note 13 respectively to the p08 Strategic report.
directors interests in the ordinary shares p136 Group financial statements.
between the end of the financial year and Results and dividends 11 May 2015.
Post balance sheet events The Group income statement shows a Details of events occurring after the end In accordance with the UK Corporate profit for the year ended 31 March 2015 of of the reporting period are contained in Governance Code, all directors with US$772m 2014: US$754m.
The directors p167 note 43 to the Group financial statements.
the exception of Alan Jebson, who will have announced the payment of a second retire from the Board with effect from the interim dividend, in lieu of a final dividend, Share capital conclusion of the 2015 AGM on 22 July of 27.00 US cents per ordinary share Details of the Companys share capital 2015, being eligible, will offer themselves 2014: 26.00 US cents to be paid on and changes during the year ended 31 for election or re-election at the AGM.
24 July 2015 to shareholders on the p172 March 2015 are set out in note L to the An evaluation of the performance of the register of members on 26 June 2015.
The rights Board, its committees and individual An interim dividend of 12.25 US cents per and obligations attaching to the ordinary directors was carried out during the ordinary share was paid on 30 January and deferred shares are also set out in financial year.
The Board is satisfied that 2015, giving a total dividend for the year that note and in the Companys articles all directors contribute effectively and of 39.25 US cents per ordinary share of association, a copy of which can be demonstrate commitment to their roles.
obtained from the Experian website, p65 The Corporate governance report contains www.
details of the evaluation process.
Substantial shareholdings The Companys articles of association oblige shareholders to comply with the notification obligations to the Company, contained in the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
As at 11 May 2015, the Company had been notified of the interests below in its issued ordinary share capital or voting rights.
Number of ordinary Percentage of issued share Date of notification Shareholder Direct indirect interest shares voting rights capital voting rights 30 January 2014 Harris Associates L. P Indirect 50,233,366 5.02% 19 November 2014 BlackRock, Inc.
Indirect 49,666,105 5.02% 13 March 2015 Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited Indirect 56,050,175 5.67% 104 Governance Directors report Directors report continued Shares carry no voting rights while ADR programme Own shares they are held in treasury.
The Company has a Level 1 American The existing authority for the Company to The deferred shares in the Company Depositary Receipt ADR programme in purchase its own shares was given at the carry no voting rights.
the USA, for which the Bank of New York AGM held on 15 July 2014.
It permits the Mellon acts as depositary.
The ADRs are Company to purchase 99,368,656 of its Unless the directors determine traded on the highest tier of the US overown shares in the market.
otherwise, no member is entitled, in the-counter market, OTCQX, where each respect of any share held by him or her, On 29 January 2015, the Company ADR represents one Experian plc ordinary to vote either personally or by proxy at announced the commencement of a share.
Further details are given in the a shareholders meeting, or to exercise US$600m share repurchase programme, p176 Shareholder information section.
any other members right in relation to to be carried out pursuant to and in shareholders meetings, if any call or Restrictions on transfers of accordance with the authority conferred other sum presently payable by him or shares and or voting rights by the Companys shareholders at the her to the Company in respect of that 2014 AGM.
The Company is not aware of any share remains unpaid.
agreements between shareholders that Unless the directors determine During the year ended 31 March 2015, may result in restrictions on the transfer otherwise, no member is entitled to the Company purchased 9,865,311 of its of securities and or voting rights and, vote either personally or by proxy at a own shares, at a cost of US$170m with apart from the matters described below, shareholders meeting, or to exercise 4,100,000 shares purchased before the there are no restrictions on the transfer any other members right in relation 2014 AGM.
All shares purchased will of the Companys ordinary shares and or to shareholders meetings, if within initially be retained as treasury shares.
voting rights: the prescribed period after being duly No shares have been purchased by served with a notice pursuant to the the Company since 31 March 2015.
On Certain restrictions on transfers of Companys articles of association, he or 27 May 2014, 2,168,198 ordinary shares shares may from time to time be she fails to provide the Company with in the Company were transferred from imposed by, for example, insider dealing the required information concerning treasury to RBC cees Trustee Limited, the regulations.
In accordance with the UK interests in those shares.
administrator of Experians share plans, Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing for nil consideration, to be used to meet In accordance with the Companys Rules, directors are required to seek obligations under employee share plans.
articles of association and except for the Companys approval to deal in its certain limited circumstances, if the shares.
Certain employees are also As at the date of approval of this Annual number of shares in the Company required to seek approval to deal in Report, 1 the Company holds 46,233,732 beneficially owned by residents of the Companys shares.
2014: 38,536,619 of its own shares as the USA exceeds a defined permitted Some of Experians share-based treasury shares, and 2 the Company had maximum and the directors give employee incentive plans include an unexpired authority to purchase up to notice to the holder s of such shares, restrictions on transfer of shares, 93,603,345 of its own shares.
such shares shall not confer on their while the shares are subject to the plan.
holder s the right to receive notice Details of the new authority being As described in the Report on of, attend or vote at the Companys requested at the 2015 AGM are contained p88 directors remuneration, non-executive general meetings.
in the circular to shareholders, which directors receive a proportion of their accompanies this Annual Report and is fees in shares, until the value of their Details of deadlines in respect of voting available on the Companys website at shareholding equals their annual fee.
for the 2015 AGM are contained in the www.
These shares may not normally be notice of meeting that has been circulated transferred during their period of office.
to shareholders and which can also be Details of the shares in the Company Where, under a share-based employee viewed at the Companys website.
purchased by and held under The incentive plan operated by Experian, Experian plc Employee Share Trust and participants are the beneficial owners the Experian UK Approved All-Employee of the shares but not the registered p172 Share Plan are set out in note M to the owner, the voting rights are normally Company financial statements.
exercised by the registered owner at the direction of the participants.
Governance Directors report 105 Significant agreements Appointment and removal Employment of people change of control of directors with disabilities The Group is party to a number of Both the Company, by ordinary resolution, People with disabilities have equal agreements that take effect, alter, and the directors may elect any person to opportunities when applying for vacancies.
terminate, or have the potential to do so, be a director.
The number of directors shall In addition to complying with legislative upon a change of control of the Company not exceed the maximum number fixed requirements, the Group has procedures following a takeover bid.
These agreements by the Companys articles of association.
to ensure that it treats disabled employees are as follows: Any person appointed by the directors fairly and carefully manages their shall only hold office until the next AGM training and career development needs.
The Groups banking facilities contain and shall then be eligible for election.
The The policies are considered to operate provisions which, in the event of a office of a director shall be vacated on effectively.
The Group supports employees change of control, could result in their the occurrence of any of the events listed who become disabled during the course of renegotiation or withdrawal.
in article 92 of the Companys articles their employment, by offering re-training or The Groups Senior Notes and of association.
The Company may, in re-deployment, to enable them to remain Euronotes allow holders to require accordance with its articles of association, with the Group whenever possible.
repayment of the notes, if a rating remove any director from office and elect Employee involvement agency re-rates the notes to below another person in their place.
investment grade, following a change Experian is committed to employee Articles of association of control.
The Companys articles of association may The Group is intent on motivating staff, All of Experians share-based employee be amended by passing a special resolution.
keeping them informed on matters that incentive plans contain provisions concern them in the context of their relating to a change of control.
Financial risk management, employment, and involving them through Outstanding awards and options would objectives and policies local consultative procedures.
Where normally vest and become exercisable, Descriptions of the use of financial there are recognition agreements with subject to satisfaction of any instruments and Experians treasury and trade unions, the consultation process performance conditions at that time.
risk management objectives and policies is established through national and local The Group is party to a limited number p38 are set out in the Financial review within trade union representatives and through of operational arrangements which can the Strategic report and also in note 7 to joint consultation committees.
be terminated or altered upon a change p128 the Group financial statements.
of control of the Company, but these Employees are kept well informed on are not considered to be individually Political donations matters of interest and the financial and significant to the Groups business as a economic factors affecting the Groups Experian did not make any political whole.
In certain cases, it is considered performance, through management donations during the year ended that their disclosure would be seriously channels, conferences, meetings, 31 March 2015. prejudicial to the Company.
More Any provisions in directors service detail on employee engagement, together contracts relating to a change of control with information on diversity, succession of the Company are described in the planning and talent development, can be p46 Report on directors remuneration.
found in the Our people section of the Strategic report.
Experian supports employee share ownership by providing employee share plan arrangements, which are intended to align employees interests with those of shareholders.
106 Governance Directors report Directors report continued all accounting standards which they Going concern Statement of directors consider applicable have been followed responsibilities Details of the adoption of the going in preparing the Company financial concern basis in preparing the Group The directors are responsible for: statements: and financial statements are set out in note preparing the Annual Report, the p118 it is appropriate that the Group and 2 to those financial statements and are Group and Company financial Company financial statements have incorporated into this report by reference.
statements and the Report on been prepared on a going concern basis.
Relevant audit information directors remuneration, in accordance The directors also confirm that, to the with applicable law and regulations: As at 11 May 2015, so far as each director best of their knowledge, the financial is aware, there is no relevant audit preparing financial statements which statements are prepared in accordance information, being information needed by give a true and fair view of the state with the applicable set of accounting the auditor in connection with preparing of affairs at the balance sheet date, standards, give a true and fair view of the audit report, of which the auditor is and the profit or loss for the period the assets, liabilities, financial position unaware and each director has taken all then ended of a the Group in and profit of the Company and the Group steps that he or she ought to have taken accordance with IFRSs as adopted for taken as a whole: and the Strategic report as a director in order to make himself use in the European Union, and b contains a fair review of the development or herself aware of any relevant audit the Company in accordance with UK and performance of the business and information and to establish that the Accounting Standards : the position of the Company and the auditor is aware of that information.
keeping proper accounting records Group taken as a whole, together with which disclose, with reasonable a description of the principal risks and Annual General Meeting accuracy, at any time the financial uncertainties that they face.
The Companys 2015 AGM will be held at position of the Group and the Company The Merrion Hotel, Upper Merrion Street, and enable them to ensure that the In addition, each of the directors considers Dublin 2, Ireland, at 9.30am on Wednesday Group financial statements comply that the Annual Report and financial 22 July 2015.
Shareholders who are with applicable law and Article 4 of statements, taken as a whole, is fair, unable to attend may submit questions the International Accounting balanced and understandable and provides beforehand via email to agmquestions@ Standards Regulation: the information necessary for shareholders experianplc.
com or on the prepaid card to assess the Companys performance, taking such steps as are reasonably sent to shareholders with the notice of business model and strategy.
open to them to safeguard the assets meeting.
The questions will be addressed of the Company and the Group, and at the meeting, via the Companys website By order of the Board to prevent and detect fraud and other at www.
com or individually irregularities: and Charles Brown as appropriate.
The notice of meeting has the maintenance and integrity of the Company Secretary been circulated to shareholders and can statutory and audited information also be viewed on the Companys website.
11 May 2015 on the Companys website.
Jersey Independent auditor legislation and UK regulation governing Corporate headquarters: the preparation and dissemination of The auditor,  LLP, Newenham House financial statements may differ from has indicated their willingness to continue Northern Cross requirements in other jurisdictions.
in office and a resolution that they be reMalahide Road appointed as the Companys auditor will Dublin 17 In addition, the directors consider that, be proposed at the AGM.
Ireland in preparing the financial statements: Registered office: suitable accounting policies have been 22 Grenville Street selected and applied consistently: St Helier judgments and estimates made Jersey have been reasonable and prudent: JE4 8PX the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union:
