Governance Report on directors remuneration 95 Policy table The remuneration policy, set out in the following table, was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and will apply until the 2017 AGM at the latest.
The Committee will honour any commitments to make remuneration payments and payments for loss of office where the payment terms were agreed before the policy came into effect or when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the Committees opinion, the payment is not in consideration for the individual becoming a director.
For these purposes, payments include the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
All contractual commitments or awards made which are consistent with the remuneration policy in force at the time the commitments were made will be honoured, even if they would not be consistent with the policy prevailing when the commitments are fulfilled.
Performance metrics, Element and Maximum potential value weightings, relevant time link to strategy Operation and payment at target period and clawback Base salary When the Committee Reflects the competitive Base salary is paid in equal instalments during The annual salary considers salary market salary for the the year.
increases for executive increases, it takes into role and takes account directors are normally Salaries are reviewed annually, with any increases account individual of personal contribution in line with those for the generally taking effect from 1 April in any year.
performance over the and performance against Group as a whole.
Salary levels and increases take into account the Higher increases may prevailing economic conditions, best practice, be made as a result positioning against the market and the approach of a change in role or to employee remuneration throughout the Group.
responsibility, and will take account of market practice in relation to the new role.
Such increases may also be made where the current salary level is behind market benchmarks.
Benefits Benefits are provided as The Group provides a range of market-competitive The Committee sets None.
part of a competitive and benefits that includes, but is not limited to, benefits at a level it cost effective package.
healthcare, death in service provision, company considers appropriate car or allowance, financial and tax advice and against relevant Further benefits may membership fees.
market practice for be provided to support comparable roles in expatriates, where they In the USA, eligible executive directors may similar companies, and have relocated.
participate in a deferred compensation plan, sufficient based on which is standard market practice.
the role and particular circumstances for Executive directors can also participate in any of example where the the Groups all-employee share plans, on the same individual is required basis as other eligible employees.
For expatriate assignments, we retain the flexibility to tailor benefits to the circumstances of the assignment.
Additional benefits may include relocation expenses at the beginning and end of each assignment, housing allowance and school fees.
96 Governance Report on directors remuneration Directors remuneration policy continued Performance metrics, Element and Maximum potential value weightings, relevant time link to strategy Operation and payment at target period and clawback Pension Provides competitive In the UK, the Group operates a defined contribution In the UK, the cash None.
plan with company contributions set as a percentage payment or pension of base salary.
An individual may elect to receive a contribution for executive cash allowance instead.
directors is normally equal to 20% of annual The Group also operates a defined benefit plan gross salary but may which is now closed to new entrants, except in the be increased if market exceptional circumstance that this was necessary, for practice changes.
example, to recruit an executive director to the Board.
In the USA, the In the USA, executive directors are eligible to join a contribution rate is defined contribution plan.
equivalent to 4% of earnings, up to an As agreed on his appointment to the Board in annual compensation 2006, a supplementary unfunded defined benefit limit set by the Internal arrangement was provided in the USA for Don Revenue Service.
Robert, which broadly mirrors the pension that would have been provided through the UK defined benefit plan.
Annual bonus Motivates and rewards The Committee approves the performance targets Minimum payout is zero.
The annual bonus the achievement of at the start of each financial year.
is entirely based on For below-target specific financial financial performance.
At the end of the financial year, the Committee performance, a payout objectives, linked to determines the extent to which these have been would generally The Committee will Experians strategy to satisfied, based on audited results, and agrees the only be made if the exercise its judgment drive profitable growth.
Committee judges that on whether to vary circumstances justify it.
the level of payout, if Payment is made as soon as practicable after the it considers that the financial year-end, unless the executive director Bonus of 100% of payout determined by elects to defer some or all of their bonus into the CIP.
salary is payable for measuring performance target performance.
is inconsistent with the Groups actual Bonus of 200% of underlying financial and salary is payable for operational performance.
CIP Use of stretching Participants are invited to invest between 50% and Minimum vesting of Vesting of awards is based financial metrics 100% of their annual bonus in Experian shares.
on financial performance, incentivises subject to the Committee A conditional award of matching shares is granted on Nothing vests for belowperformance.
being satisfied that the a two-for-one basis, and will vest subject to achieving target performance.
vesting is not based on Aligns with shareholder performance targets tested over a three-year period.
materially misstated For target performance, interests through financial results.
Dividend equivalents accrue on conditional awards matching shares vest personal investment of shares.
The Committee will exercise its judgment For maximum Encourages participants on whether to vary the performance, matching long-term commitment level of vesting, if it shares vest on a two-forto the Group through considers that the level one basis.
of vesting determined by measuring performance is inconsistent with the Groups actual underlying financial and operational performance.
Governance Report on directors remuneration 97 Performance metrics, Element and Maximum potential value weightings, relevant time link to strategy Operation and payment at target period and clawback PSP Use of stretching Annual award of conditional shares which vest Normal maximum Vesting of up to 25% of financial metrics subject to achieving performance targets tested award levels are 200% the awards is based on a incentivises over a three-year period.
Awards of up share-based metric, with performance.
to 400% of salary may the balance based on Dividend equivalents accrue on conditional awards be made in exceptional financial performance.
Aligns with shareholder of shares.
circumstances such as interests through delivery Awards are also subject on recruitment.
to a financial underpin Minimum vesting of whereby vesting is awards is zero.
subject to the Committee being satisfied that it is Nothing vests for belownot based on materially target performance.
For target performance, The Committee will 25% of the shares vest.
exercise its judgment on whether to vary the For maximum level of vesting, if it performance, 100% considers that the level of the shares vest.
Share Option Plan SOP Provides focus on Options are granted with an exercise price equivalent Normal maximum The vesting of options increasing Experians to the market value of an Experian share at the date awards are 200% of is based on financial share price over the of grant.
These vest subject to achieving performance salary.
However, the rules performance targets.
targets that are tested over a three-year period and of the SOP allow awards Clawback provisions apply.
are exercisable for a seven-year period thereafter.
No option grants have been made since 2009 and Minimum vesting of the Committee has agreed that no further awards awards is zero.
will be made, unless warranted by exceptional Nothing vests for belowcircumstances such as recruitment.
For target performance, 25% of the options vest.
For maximum performance, 100% of the options vest.
98 Governance Report on directors remuneration Directors remuneration policy continued Performance metrics, Element and Maximum potential value weightings, relevant time link to strategy Operation and payment at target period and clawback Chairman and non-executive director NED fees Attract individuals The Chairman is paid a fee in equal instalments.
The Committee sets No performance-related with a broad range The Group may provide the Chairman with a the Chairmans fees arrangements are in of experience and limited range of benefits such as a company and benefits at a level it place for the Chairman skills, to oversee the car or allowance, healthcare and tax advice.
considers appropriate, or the NEDs.
implementation of against comparable roles The NEDs are paid a basic fee plus additional fees our strategy.
for chairing a Board Committee and for the role of Deputy Chairman Senior Independent Director.
NED fees are set by the Board as a whole.
NED fees are paid in equal instalments during the year.
Fees are normally NEDs receive an additional fee where attendance at reviewed every two Board meetings involves intercontinental travel from years, against those of their home location.
The Company may settle any Chairmen and NEDs in tax due on travel expenses incurred by the Chairman companies of similar and NEDs.
size, international reach and complexity.
Notes The remuneration policy for executive directors, and for around 600 members of our senior management, is more heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other employees.
This makes the greater part of their remuneration conditional on successfully delivering our business strategy and, in turn, high levels of corporate performance and shareholder returns.
This underpins the link between creating value for shareholders and the pay of our most senior leaders.
The performance measures used in the annual bonus and the long-term incentive plans are all financial or share-based.
The  process, which we use throughout Experian, assesses executives against both financial and non-financial objectives.
Performance against these individual objectives ultimately supports our financial performance, so the Committee believes it is appropriate that financial metrics remain the key measures.
These seek to ensure that the underlying financial performance of the business is good, while clearly aligning the interests of shareholders and executive directors.
For all elements of variable pay, the growth targets are based on benchmarks that reflect stretching internal and external expectations.
These benchmarks include brokers earnings estimates, competitors earnings estimates, straight-line profit growth consistent with median or upper-quartile shareholder returns, latest projections for the current year, budget and strategic plan.
Targets are structured as a sliding scale, with maximum rewards only payable for achieving significant levels of performance.
We use external consultants to calculate the extent to which the performance conditions have been met.
At its January 2015 meeting the Committee decided to introduce formal clawback features that will apply to the annual bonus plan and the Plans, whereby the Committee may determine that clawback will apply in circumstances which have: resulted in a level of vesting or payment which is higher than would otherwise have been, as a result of a material misstatement of the Groups financial results: or led to a material financial or reputational loss for the Group, due to serious individual misconduct.
Such features apply with effect from 1 April 2015, apart from the annual bonus payable in 2015 or the CIP award to be granted in 2015, as the arrangements for these were already in place without reference to clawback.
Clawback will apply to the annual bonus payable and the CIP awards in respect of 2016.
