12 Strategic report Our strategy Our strategy Summary Our strategy is based on maximising our core strengths in data, analytics, software and our expertise.
This will allow us to take advantage of a wide range of opportunities, to deliver attractive rates of growth and superior returns for our shareholders.
In November 2014, we outlined a strategy with five priorities.
Here we explain what these mean and what we are doing to achieve them.
Our five strategic priorities What this means What we are doing Focus on our We will focus our activities We are prioritising our most important geographies and business lines where we key strengths on those where we have: can most successfully combine our core capabilities in data, analytics, software and expertise.
We are evaluating our position in smaller geographies and in areas of the Bigger businesses business which may be peripheral to our core activities.
Scale advantage Competitive differentiation Seize We have significant We are investing in a number of high-quality growth opportunities.
attractive opportunities to meet new In consumer information, our growth plans are centred on five key strategies, namely: growth demands from existing i data leadership, where we are investing in differentiated data assets and innovative opportunities clients and to expand our data solutions, for example through our Data Labs: ii product and technology, addressable market by where we are investing in scalable global technology platforms as well as alternative acting for new clients technology models which bring new applications to clients: iii a proactive regulatory across our core activities.
strategy, to meet regulators and consumers emerging requirements, and to help our clients: iv vertical expansion, where we use our core data to open opportunities in new industry segments: and v optimising our geographic footprint, so we focus on scale opportunities and those with high growth potential.
In business information, we see opportunity to grow by offering more sophisticated products and to expand our position within the small and medium enterprise segment.
We are also investing in our capability to deliver international credit risk data and we see opportunity to expand in business-to-business marketing and analytics.
In US health, we are focusing on opportunities to further expand in revenue cycle management, where we help hospitals and physician practices to manage their processes, from initial patient registration through to collections.
We also see new opportunities emerging in fraud detection, data and analytics, and consumer engagement.
We are expanding our range of fraud and identity products into newer markets and to clients who want a broad solution from a single provider, to help them combat the fast-growing problem of fraud.
We are investing in our software and analytics capabilities, to help our clients make sense of the vast quantities of data they accumulate and to manage the risk of growing and managing their customer portfolios.
We do this through software, where we have added cloud and instant-on products to our portfolio of on-premise software.
We are also creating new methods to analyse data, which we then standardise and turn into mass-market products.
p52 We implement our strategy in the context of our corporate responsibilities these are outlined in the Corporate responsibility section of the Strategic report.
Strategic report Our strategy 13 p24 Please see the Chief Executives review for more on how we have implemented our strategy this year.
Our five strategic priorities Focus on Seize Deliver Drive Rigorously our key attractive performance operational optimise strengths growth improvements efficiency and capital opportunities productivity Our five strategic priorities What this means What we are doing Deliver Some parts of our business We are working to improve our performance in three areas: performance have scope to improve their In North America Consumer Services, Experian.
com is now the main brand that we improvements performance and we have offer directly to consumers.
We have introduced unique features and enhanced the been taking action within products usability in order to deliver a better experience for consumers.
to introduce new features, beyond credit reports and scores, to offer consumers still greater value.
In Marketing Services, we are focusing on three areas in which Experian has leading market positions.
These are data, data quality and cross-channel marketing.
By prioritising our effort on these areas we expect to improve growth rates.
In Brazil, we are focused on: i reinforcing our market leadership by transforming our sales infrastructure: ii driving efficiencies: iii developing new offers in our Data Labs and for new high-growth markets such as fraud and identity management, putting consumers at the centre of new propositions: and iv leveraging our global platforms and best practices.
Drive We see the potential We are making changes to: operational to improve operational Place the client and consumer at the heart of everything we do and serve them better.
efficiency and efficiency by leveraging Increase the speed of our internal decision making.
productivity global systems, processes Promote collaboration across business lines, with a focus on integrating client solutions.
We are putting in place plans to Increase innovation.
Free up resources to invest in innovation and meet cost challenges from regulatory This will ensure we can and other areas.
fund new growth initiatives, Eliminate unnecessary complexity.
absorb areas of cost inflation, and still deliver good earnings growth.
Rigorously We intend to make the best We are: optimise use of the cash we generate, Focusing on the best strategic opportunities and deploying a new internal capital by balancing investment in methodology to assess the risk profile and value-creation potential of investments.
the business with the most Taking a balanced approach between increasing our efficiency and maintaining a efficient capital structure.
prudent balance sheet structure, whilst retaining flexibility for future investments.
We aim to grow our ordinary dividends at least in line with earnings and we intend to return funding surpluses to shareholders periodically.
p16 The ability to implement our strategy and to deliver long-term performance may be affected by certain risks and uncertainties these are outlined in the Protecting our business section of the Strategic report.
