com STEEL, NORTH AMERICA SEGMENT INPUT PRODUCTION CHAIN RESOURCES INPUT STEELMAKING & ROLLING Crude steel Billets Long Own scrap collecting Own scrap collecting facilities facilities EVRAZ ELECTRIC ARC CONTINUOUS HOT ROLLING Pueblo FURNACE CASTING Third parties scrap 759 kt Third parties billets HOT ROLLING Tubular Tubular Steel segment slabs Crude Slabs steel Own scrap collecting Own scrap facilities collecting 480 facilities kt EVRAZ ELECTRIC ARC CONTINUOUS HOT ROLLING Third parties scrap Regina FURNACE CASTING Third parties slabs Third parties scrap Third parties HRC Slabs Flat Employees Steel segment slabs 3,849 EVRAZ employees Third parties slabs Portland HOT ROLLING EVRAZ Third parties Annual Report & Accounts 2015 67 Business review OUTPUT STEELMAKING & ROLLING CUSTOMERS KEY PRODUCTS Long 514 kt Rail Rails Seamless 35 kt Seamless OCTG Wire rod Domestic and 238 kt Wire rod Export Tubular Wire rod 635 kt LD & SD Line Pipe EVRAZ Helical LD Regina, HSAW pipe Portland 140 kt COLD ROLLING ERW OCTG SD line Flat Domestic pipe Coiled Plate EVRAZ and Camrose, ERW 556 kt Plate ERW Red Deer, Discrete Plate Export OCTG COLD ROLLING Calgary 950 kt Coiled Plate Straight LD pipe LSAW EVRAZ Camrose COLD ROLLING Domestic Plate and Coiled Plate Export 68 www.
com Steelmaking & Rolling Facility Production facilities | The Pueblo, Colorado, site Ownership: 100% EVRAZ Pueblo comprises three rolling mills: a rail mill: a seamless Employees: 1,077 people USA pipe mill that produces OCTG products for use in Finished products: 1,034 kt per year oil and gas exploration: and a wire rod and coiled reinforcing bar mill.
EVRAZ also operates one EAF Output by key products, kt and a billet caster that supplies round billets to the hot rolling mills.
The site also owns and operates Construction products the C&W railway, a short-line route that serves the Wire rod and rebar 238 Groups mills and connects the site to both the Railway products Burlington Northern Santa Fe and the Union Pacific Rails 514 Tubular products railway lines, which results in minimal delivery costs to these customers.
Seamless pipe 35 Production facilities | The Regina, Saskatchewan, Ownership: 100% EVRAZ Regina site is the largest steelmaking operation in Western Canada Employees: 1,007 people Canada, comprises two electric arc furnaces EAFs, Finished products: 998 kt per year a ladle furnace, a continuous variable-width slab caster, and a Steckel mill capable of rolling coil and Output by key products, kt plate up to 72 wide.
The Regina site produces carbon steel slabs, flat-rolled discrete plate and coil, SDP and Flat-rolled products LDP.
This pipe mill operations comprise a 24 rolling Coil 808 ERW mill, a 2 ERW mill, and four LDP HSAW mills.
Plate 58 The Regina tubular mills are important suppliers to Tubular products the energy markets in both Canada and the US.
HSAW large-diameter line pipe 218 ERW small-diameter line pipe 144 Production facilities | The Portland site comprises Ownership: 100% EVRAZ Portland a Steckel rolling mill, a plate quench and tempering Employees: 620 people USA facility, a structural tubing mill, and two helical submerged arc-welded HSAW mills for large-diameter Capacity pipe LDP.
The Portland rolling mill is the only plate mill on the West Coast.
Its location near the confluence of Finished products: 0.8 mt per year the Willamette and Columbia rivers gives deep-water access to the Pacific Ocean and access to Class I Output by key products, kt railways and trucking routes serving the whole of North Tubular products America.
The Portland rolling mill produces a wide Large-diameter line pipe 84 range of products, including armour and heat-treated Hollow structural shapes 11 plate.
Flat products Plate 499 Coil 141 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 69 Business review Key developments Facility Production facilities | The Red Deer, Alberta, site Ownership: 100% EVRAZ Red Deer comprises an ERW pipe mill producing OCTG and Employees: 152 people Canada small-diameter pipe SDP and threading facilities for both API and premium connections.
Capacity Finished products: 0.15 mt of pipe Output by key products, kt Tubular products ERW casing 53 ERW line pipe 31 Production facilities | The Calgary site comprises an EVRAZ Calgary Ownership: 100% electric resistance welding ERW pipe mill specialising Canada Employees: 180 people in oil country tubular goods OCTG, including heattreated casing.
At this site, EVRAZ also operates tubing Capacity finishing facilities comprising upsetting, testing and threading, as well as small-diameter casing testing and Finished products: 0.25 mt of pipe threading.
Output by key products, kt of pipe Tubular products ERW casing and tubing 87 Production facilities | EVRAZ operates two pipe mills in Ownership: 100% EVRAZ Camrose Camrose, an ERW mill and a LSAW LDP mill.
The ERW Employees: 319 people Canada mill converts coils into line pipe up to 16 in outside diameter, primarily used in transportation of oil and Capacity gas from the well head to larger transmission lines.
The LSAW mill converts plate into LDP used for energy LSAW LDP: 0.22 mt per year transmission.
ERW small-diameter line: 1.45 mt mt per year Output by key products, kt Tubular products Large-diameter LSAW line pipe 60 ERW line pipe 98 70 Steelmaking & Rolling www.
com KEY DEVELOPMENTS NPD REVIEW EVRAZ Pueblo EVRAZ Pueblo Achieved the second highest annual level of rail production on record.
Commenced in-track testing of the Apex G2 next generation rail.
EVRAZ Regina Finalised laboratory level testing of rail Commenced installation of a new LDP mill.
welding technology to minimise heatEntered into a joint venture with WASCO Coatings Limited to build and operate a affected zone.
new LDP coating facility at the Regina site.
Commenced installation of a new LDP coating facility.
EVRAZ Portland fide-bottlenecked the double jointer area and increased finishing line productivity.
Completed laboratory testing of alloying, rolling, and quenching processing EVRAZ Portland parameters of ASTM 533 high-nickel plate.
Finalised development of API plate for Sold the structural tubing mill generating proceeds of c. US$50 million in cash.
Ramped up the LDP mill to full utilisation.
EVRAZ Red Deer EVRAZ Red Deer Launched 9 5 8 OD premium connections Extended premium and semi-premium connections product lines.
Launched heavy-wall premium and semiEVRAZ Calgary premium connections to supply shale Completed upgrading the existing heat treat line and achieved an increase of applications.
c. 50 thousand tpa in capacity.
EVRAZ Calgary EVRAZ Camrose Qualified EVRAZ alloy casing grades to Implemented automated barcoding of line pipe to enhance identification and supply Region 1 sour service conditions.
Other Tony Engel succeeded Glenda Minor as CFO.
Sold all remaining property of EVRAZ Claymont.
In 2015, EVRAZ Pueblo launched a next-generation rail, Apex G2 head-hardened rail.
Its design enhances track safety and INTRODUCING APEX G2 performance, increases rail life and decreases lifecycle cost, all critical factors for class I and heavy-haul railway customers.
Full HEAD-HARDENED RAIL production is expected in 2016.
Apex G2s superior performance is due to the combination of a patent-pending alloy design and heat treatment.
Its increased strength and durability result in improved wear resistance.
A 20% improvement in ductility the ability to deform under stress over conventional rail is unique and exceptional.
While improved fracture toughness is usually sacrificed with greater strength, this is not the case with Apex G2.
In addition, its weldability ensures ease of implementation and utilisation without the need for modified welding programmes.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Steelmaking & Rolling Business review 71 Business review KEY PROJECTS OUTLOOK As we enter 2016, EVRAZ outlook for the North American market remains cautiously optimistic in REGINA STEEL UPGRADES: terms of overall demand.
Install a vacuum degasser, upgrade rolling mill, down coiler, and cooling bed EVRAZ expects end demand to remain robust for in Regina rails, LDP and plate, and continued weakness for Current state: Proceeding on-schedule OCTG and wire rod.
Engineering complete Equipment foundations, roofing and wall Rail cladding proceeding as scheduled The Group expects demand to remain robust, Equipment acquired from USP has been with flat to marginally lower volumes compared shipped to Regina with 2015, and continued improvement in premium rail penetration.
CAPEX IRR LDP US$149 million 35% EVRAZ outlook for this market remains positive for the next few years c. 1.5 million tpa with some downside risk due to low utilisation of competitors both in North America and offshore and the inherent uncertainties in the timing of regulatory approvals.
NEW LDP MILL IN REGINA: OCTG Install a two-step LDP in Regina The Group expects demand to remain subdued, Current state: Proceeding on-schedule as drilling activity is likely to remain well below New buildings structure complete that in 2014.
Distributor inventory overhang Equipment foundations, roofing and wall could be largely eliminated by H2 2016. cladding proceeding as scheduled Equipment acquired from USP has been Plate market shipped to Regina Prices are at historic lows.
Non-residential construction and machinery sectors partly offset subdued agricultural equipment and orders for yellow goods.
Access to imported slabs maintains CAPEX IRR attractive spreads and will likely provide a cost advantage over domestic EAF-based producers.
com Marketing, sales, services and logistics Customer focus strategy Customer focus initiatives, 2015 results | During 2015, EVRAZ North America maintained a tight focus across three main activities: In railway products, EVRAZ North America secured agreements to test the Apex G2 premium rail and welding technology and expanding its presence in the Brazilian rail market.
In tubular products, EVRAZ North America successfully expanded its portfolio of premium and semi-premium connections for shale and thermal applications of OCTG.
Additionally, it established joint research programmes with LDP customers to optimise alloy designs, further enhance the field-weldability of pipe and offer expanded quality assurance and technical services to major customers.
In the flat division, EVRAZ North America started shifting the plate product portfolio towards higher-added-value products and succeeded in securing agreements with major end customers for trial batches of high-nickel plate ASTM 533.
It also obtained certifications from Lloyd and DNV for naval plate, and established sales channels for armour plate in Mexico, Dubai, Eastern Europe and Asia.
CUSTOMER FOCUS TARGETS OUTLOOK KEY DEVELOPMENTS Continue shifting plate portfolio towards higher-added-value products Long products Obtain qualification by major users for high-nickel plate for LNG tanks applications.
Commenced in-track testing of the next Achieve full certification of API plate for offshore applications and secure initial generation of premium rails and of enhanced orders.
Leverage new armour sales channels to grow export volumes.
Secured second allotment of trial rail wheels from North American Class I railways.
Fully utilise EVRAZ Red Deer premium threading capacity and expand the Obtained qualification for supplying portfolio of premium and semi-premium connections for OCTG locomotive wheels.
Grow share of premium connections, semi-premium connections, and heat-treated Expanded rail sales in Brazil.
pipe connections in Western Canada.
Tubular products Begin in-track testing of next-generation premium rails and of new welding Together with a major LDP customers, technology and maintain full production levels in the Pueblo rail mill launched a research initiative to develop Conclude in-track testing and begin commercialisation of next-generation rail.
the next generation of steel alloys for energy pipelines.
Build pro-active end customer technical relationships Achieve qualification of internal and external coatings for pipe line.
Flat products Expand LDP product range to include thicker wall pipe.
Established sales channels and distribution for armour products in Mexico, Dubai, and Eastern Europe and obtained approvals for use of plate in shipping applications.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 73 Business review Marketing, sales, services and logistics MARKETING STRATEGY EVRAZ North America intends to expand further in its main markets, continue enhancing its portfolio of engineered products, and continuously improve safety, quality and cost.
In the short term, it aims to: Commercialise its sixth generation of premium rails, which offer superior wear resistance and fracture toughness, along with rail welding technology that minimises the effect of the heat affected zone.
Optimise the capacity utilisation of its pipe-making assets to meet market demand, while investing in further improving quality across its steel value chain.
At the Regina site, the Group has announced investments in a new large-diameter pipe LDP mill and new LDP coating joint venture, and upgrades to its steelmaking facility to further improve its ability to meet customers quality and volume requirements.
Continue gaining market share in the oil country tubular goods OCTG segments in Western Canada by exploiting its geographical advantage and heat treatment capabilities, and boosting production of premium connectors.
Continue expanding its portfolio of engineered products across all lines and harnessing its technology centres to broaden technical relationships with customers and develop cost-effective products that meet their high requirements.
