com MANAGEMENT I am positive that the updated organisational structure opens up new opportunities and will enable EVRAZ to most efficiently tackle current challenges, including further reduction of costs, improving the quality of products and services to strengthen the Companys leading position in the market, ensuring a higher efficiency of investments.
Alexander Frolov CEO Pavel Tatyanin Leonid Kachur Aleksey Ivanov Scott Baus Senior Vice President, CFO Senior Vice President, Business Senior Vice President, Vice President, Support and Interregional Relations Commerce and Business EVRAZ Business System development Natalia Ionova Alexander Kuznetsov Artem Natrusov Vsevolod Sementsov Vice President, Human Resources Vice President, Strategic Vice President, Information Vice President, Corporate Development and Operational Technologies Communications Planning Ilya Shirokobrod Michael Shuble Sergey Stepanov Vice President, Sales Vice President, Health, Safety and Vice President, Head of the Coal Environment Division Annual Report & Accounts 2015 109 Governance New appointments Born in 1974.
Mr Andriasov joined EVRAZ in November Alexey Soldatenkov was appointed Vice 2015.
Prior to his appointment as Vice President, Head of the Siberia Division in President, Head of the Urals Division, he December 2015.
Prior to joining EVRAZ Alexey had held various managerial positions worked at Severstal, holding positions of in OJSC Tyumen Oil Company, OJSC Business Development Director of Severstal Sidanko, and TNK-BP.
Starting from Russian Steel and Chief Technical Officer 2012, Mr Andriasov worked in PJSC ANK of PAO Severstal.
Prior to this Alexey held Maksim Andriasov Bashneft, as Head of regional sales and Alexey Soldatenkov managerial positions at Magna Technoplast, Vice President, later as first Vice President, processing Vice President, Head of the Siberia participated in the commissioning of Ford, Head of the Urals Division and sales.
Division General Motors, Renault, Volkswagen facilities in Russia.
Denis Novozhenov has been with Mr. Yegorov was appointed Vice-President EVRAZ since 1996.
He started for Legal, EVRAZ, in April, 2015.
Prior as economist at EVRAZ NTMK, to joining EVRAZ, Mr. Yegorov held the subsequently holding a number of position of Director for Legal, Corporate and managerial positions at EVRAZ VGOK, International Affairs at Russian Post.
In to that, he was in charge of legal support at 2011, he was appointed General RUSAL in Russia and CIS and held various Denis Novozhenov Director of the Steel Mill in Smolensk Anton Yegorov managerial positions with IFK Alemar and Vice President, Head of the Ukraine Vice President, Legal region.
Mr. Vasiliev was appointed Vice President for Compliance with Business Procedures and Asset Protection in July 2015.
Lieutenant-General of Police, Sergey Vasiliev held a number of managerial positions in the Internal Affairs of the Russian Federation from Sergey Vasiliev 1988 to 2015.
Vice President, Compliance with Business Procedures and Asset Protection
