94 Governance Report on directors remuneration Directors remuneration policy The Directors remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and the Committee intends to implement this policy for the three years to July 2017.
The policy has been adjusted for clarity to include information on the introduction of clawback provisions in line with the revised 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
As it is not subject to shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM, it is included here for reference only.
The original version of the policy, as approved by shareholders, is available in the 2014 Annual Report on the Experian plc website.
Remuneration philosophy and principles Experians remuneration philosophy for executive directors is that we should use reward to drive long-term, sustainable business performance.
The Committee therefore aims to have remuneration principles that are consistent with Experians business objectives and are designed to: drive accountability and transparency, and align remuneration with shareholders interests: provide a balanced portfolio of incentives, which align both short-term one-year and longer-term three-year performance, to deliver sustainable growth and value for our shareholders: apply demanding performance conditions to deliver sustained profitable growth across the Group, whilst setting these conditions with due regard to actual and expected market conditions: pay base salaries that are market-competitive and appropriate, given an individuals performance and experience and the remuneration arrangements throughout the Group: deliver competitive benefits, to complement the other components of the remuneration package: provide competitive performance-related remuneration, which influences performance and helps to attract and retain executives, by allowing them to earn commensurate rewards for outstanding and sustainable performance that leads to long-term shareholder value creation: and strengthen the directors alignment with shareholders, through share ownership guidelines that apply to both executive and nonexecutive directors.
These principles have always underpinned Experians remuneration policy.
The Committee considers that the policy has stood the test of time and is evidenced by Experians superior performance.
The Committee remains confident that the policy will continue to serve the interests of all of our stakeholders, through the strong performance and reward culture that we promote throughout our workforce.
In line with these principles, the Committee compares our remuneration arrangements with those of other relevant organisations and companies of similar size and scope.
The Committee also reviews our remuneration arrangements in light of market conditions, which have once again been challenging and are expected to remain so for the foreseeable future.
Performance-related incentives are targeted at upper-quartile levels, for achieving stretching objectives.
Long-term incentives are measured over a three-year performance period, which the Committee considers is appropriate for the business and its strategic time horizons.
Our shareholding guidelines are set at high levels 300% of base salary for the CEO and 200% for the other executive directors to maintain the alignment of interests with shareholders over the longer term.
While the Committees primary focus is the executive directors remuneration, it also approves the remuneration structure for other senior executives and works closely with the Human Resources team to ensure a consistent approach.
When setting the remuneration policy for the executive directors, the Committee takes into account the pay, employment conditions and remuneration trends across the Group, especially when determining annual salary increases, although no specific remuneration ratios are used.
Although the Committee does not consult employees on executive directors pay or expressly include employees views in its deliberations, it is mindful of the results of our periodic Global People Survey which focuses, in part, on remuneration, reward and performance.
