com EVRAZ BUSINESS MODEL MARKET STRATEGIC OUR 1 2 3 OVERVIEW VISION PRIORITIES EVRAZ is a leader in infrastructure To be a leader EVRAZ is implementing Market demand and dynamics are the key inputs steel products globally and in the the strategy based on five success to our strategy and initiatives pipeline and have direct immediate impact on our financial results.
factors each of which is of crucial To maintain leading market positions in domestic importance.
geographies as well as the global market place EVRAZ maintains a continuous effort to develop new products and increase the share of highvalue-added products in our portfolio.
See pages 18-27 EVRAZ has changed one of its success factors from growth to asset development, highlighting the shift from external business expansion to cost efficiency.
Health, Safety & Environment Encouraging 100% safe working conditions and 100% environmental compliance Human Capital Appreciating the Groups people by providing professional development and career growth opportunities Customer Focus Responding to the evolving needs of our customers, providing tailored services and developing new products Asset Development Maintaining cost leadership, applying new technologies and optimising asset configurations EVRAZ Business System Continuous operational improvements and implementing a culture driving for change See pages 14-17 SUP PORTING 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | Environment Safety Health Human BUSINESS resources PROCESSES See pages 87-92 See pages 84-86 See pages 84-86 See pages 95-101 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 13 Strategic report EVRAZs strategy is to be at the forefront of the industry with a world-class product portfolio and sustainable low-cost position.
BUSINESS COMPETITIVE 4 SEGMENTS 5 ADVANTAGES Steel Our competitive advantages provide lasting, group-wide benefits which are critical to our Steel segment of EVRAZ is mainly focused Iron ore mining on steel production in the CIS from closely ability to generate, sustain and capture value located raw materials to serve the domestic Steelmaking over the long-term.
infrastructure and construction market while maintaining export flexibility.
Leader in infrastructure steel products steelmaking business is self-covered in iron ore by 85%.
Processing vanadium slag from Premium portfolio of railway, construction and tubular steelmaking operations also decreases Logistic & sales products with firm footprint in Russian, North American and production cost and is the base for the EVRAZ global markets vanadium business.
Strong position in coking coal market Largest coking coal producer in Russia with attractive North portfolio of hard and semi-hard coking coal grades Steel America 3.
Vertically integrated low-cost operations The North American steel segment business Scrap recycling Sound base of steel and coal assets in the first quartile of the model serves premium markets of Western global cost curve United States and Western Canada with high Steelmaking value-added steel products for infrastructure, rails and LD OCTG pipes.
Being vertically Rolling integrated in scrap and re-rolling slab from Russian steel operations also helps protect margins.
Customers See pages 66-73 Coal EVRAZ Coal segment not only supplies own Coal mining steel mills with necessary raw material but also provides coking coal to major Russian Coal washing coke and steel producers and serves export markets with its own sea port.
Being the Logistic & sales largest coking coal producer in Russia EVRAZ is able to capture additional margins due to an attractive product portfolio and a low-cost Customers position.
See pages 74-79 See pages 4-51 10 | 11 | 12 | EVRAZ BUSINESS SYSTEM Corporate Risk and Quality management governance management See pages 50-51 See pages 103-149 See pages 115-117
