100 Governance Report on directors remuneration Directors remuneration policy continued Approach to recruitment remuneration Experian is a global organisation, competing for market share and executive talent in nearly 40 countries.
We are a leader in the information services industry, where demand for talented leaders often outstrips supply.
Therefore, from time to time it is necessary to appoint high-calibre executives to the Board, either by recruiting externally or by promoting from within the Group.
The Committee does not believe in over-paying.
In developing a remuneration package for a newly appointed executive director, the Committee will look to set a base salary which takes into account factors such as the individuals skills and experience, the role the individual will be taking up, internal relativities, the marketplace in which the executive will operate and the individuals current remuneration package.
The incentive arrangements and benefits offered, including any relocation arrangements, would typically be in line with the remuneration policy set out in this report.
The Committee would also take into account the likely vesting and resulting value of any equity or other incentives that the new hire would be giving up.
In the case of an internal promotion to the Board, any existing variable pay element or benefit may be allowed to continue on the same terms.
The Committee has set the normal maximum level of variable remuneration on recruitment at 800% of base salary.
This is in line with the normal levels currently available under our variable remuneration structure, and covers the maximum annual bonus, the maximum face value of a matching award under the CIP and the normal maximum face value of an award under the PSP.
p95 As detailed in the policy table in the Directors remuneration policy report, the rules of the incentive plans provide for award limits as set out in the following table: Award level Normal maximum Exceptional maximum Annual bonus 200% 200% CIP 400% 400% PSP 200% 400% SOP 400% When recruiting an executive director, the Committee will always seek to apply the normal maximum limits but may, in exceptional circumstances, make awards up to the higher limits if it felt it was necessary to secure the appointment of a particular individual.
In the case of an external appointment to the Board, the Committee may offer further one-off cash and or share-based remuneration, when an individual would be forfeiting remuneration awarded to them by their former employer.
In establishing the value and conditions attached to such remuneration, the Committee would seek to provide equivalence in value by taking into account the likelihood of vesting, and the timeframe in which such vesting was scheduled to occur.
Such awards may be granted under the terms of UK Listing Rule 9.4.
Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office The policy for new hires is that service contracts will generally be limited to 12 months notice of termination of employment and will follow the UK Corporate Governance Code guidelines.
The Committee believes this policy is in line with best practice, remains market-competitive and allows Experian to recruit key individuals who we identify as critical to our future performance.
The Committees policy for the treatment of executive directors leaving the Group subject to the current contractual commitments described opposite is set out in the table opposite.
For executive directors who leave the Group in other circumstances, the treatment will normally fall between the two treatments described.
In any event, the overall treatment will be subject to the Committees judgment.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments to discharge an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a directors office or employment.
Governance Report on directors remuneration 101 Voluntary resignation or termination for Other circumstances such as death, ill health, retirement, disability misconduct or poor performance or redundancy or any other reason as defined by the Committee Base salary, Paid up to the date of termination Paid up to the date of death or leaving and for any untaken holidays pension and benefits and for any untaken holidays as at as at that date.
If, in the judgment of the Committee, exceptional circumstances apply, such as in the case of death, the Committee may agree to a different approach from that outlined above, for example not applying time prorating to a payment.
Annual bonus Normally no annual bonus is paid Annual bonus will usually be paid on the normal bonus payment date, in respect of the year in which the in line with performance achieved, pro-rated for the proportion of the date of termination falls.
If, in the judgment of the Committee, exceptional circumstances apply, in the case of death for example, the Committee may agree that it is not appropriate to apply time pro-rating to the annual bonus payment.
Any election already made to defer annual bonus under the CIP will not apply.
CIP invested shares Invested shares will be transferred Invested shares will be transferred to the individual.
CIP matching shares Unvested awards will lapse.
Any In the case of death, performance conditions will cease to apply and and PSP awards vested awards structured as nilunvested awards will vest immediately.
The number of shares that vest are cost options which have not been pro-rated for time unless, in the judgment of the Committee, exceptional exercised may be exercised up to circumstances apply.
In all other cases, subject to the Committees discretion, unvested awards will vest at the end of the performance period and remain subject to the relevant performance conditions.
In all circumstances, the number of shares vesting will normally be reduced pro rata, to reflect the number of months from the start of the performance period to the date of cessation of employment as a proportion of the performance period.
Vested awards structured as nil-cost options which have not been exercised may be exercised up to the normal lapse date.
Executive Unvested share options will lapse.
In the case of death, unvested share options will vest immediately and share options will remain exercisable for 12 months.
Any vested share options will also Vested options will not lapse remain exercisable for 12 months.
and will remain exercisable for six months, unless the reason In all other cases, any vested options will remain exercisable for six months for leaving is dismissal for following cessation of employment.
Unvested options, subject to the misconduct, in which case, Committees discretion, will vest at the end of the performance period and subject to Committee discretion, remain subject to the relevant performance conditions.
The number of the options will lapse on the date options vesting will normally be reduced pro rata, to reflect the number of of cessation of employment.
months from the start of the performance period to the date of cessation of employment as a proportion of the performance period.
These options will be exercisable for six months following vesting.
Awards under AllIn accordance with the relevant In accordance with the relevant tax regulations or plan rules.
Employee Plans tax regulations or plan rules.
At the Committees discretion, leavers may receive disbursements such as legal fees and outplacement support.
102 Governance Report on directors remuneration Directors remuneration policy continued Current contractual arrangements Brian Cassin and Lloyd Pitchford have service agreements with Experian Limited that are terminable by 12 months notice from Experian Limited or six months notice from the director.
The agreement provides for payment in lieu of notice in respect of base salary only.
Kerry Williams has a service agreement with Experian Services Corporation ESC that is terminable by 12 months notice from ESC or six months notice from Kerry Williams.
Other than as described above, the service contract of each of the executive directors does not provide for any benefits on the termination of employment.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts but each has a letter of appointment with no provision for any termination payment.
Each appointment is for a renewable three-year term, subject to election re-election by shareholders, but may be terminated by either party with one months written notice six months notice in the case of the Chairman.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views In advance of the AGM, the Chairman of the Committee normally writes to our largest shareholders typically around 25 with the most significant shareholdings and investor representative bodies, such as the Investment Association, ISS and the National Association of Pension Funds, to provide information on any changes to our remuneration structure.
Where requested by these shareholders or bodies, the Committee engages in further discussion and clarification, to help them make an informed voting decision.
If any major concerns are raised, these are discussed with the Committee Chairman in the first instance, and the rest of the Committee as appropriate.
At its first meeting following the AGM each year, the Committee considers all shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM.
This feedback, and any additional feedback received during any meetings or from any correspondence, is then considered as part of the Committees annual review of remuneration policy, which normally takes place at meetings in October and January.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee Charles Brown Company Secretary 11 May 2015
