08 Strategic report Our business lines Our business lines Credit Services Decision Analytics % % 3.8m 49 US$500m 12 We produce 3.8 million Contribution to We help our 10 largest clients to Contribution credit reports in a Group revenue detect and prevent fraud worth to Group typical day US$500 million each year revenue Credit Services We hold, protect and manage data that that customers are treated more fairly when Market position we are the number helps businesses and organisations applying for credit, and it widens access to one or two in most of our markets.
to lend fairly, consistently and credit across society, by providing a rational Competitors include Equifax, responsibly, and prevent fraud.
It also helps to TransUnion and Dun & Bradstreet.
ensure credit is extended responsibly, by Our bureaux hold information about the Financial characteristics primarily taking into account whether a credit product credit that people and businesses have transactional, pricing is volume-tiered, is suitable for an individual or business and applied for and their history of repaying it.
whether they can afford to repay it.
This helps lenders decide quickly whether The laws governing data hosting and people or businesses applying for credit access vary by country.
To check the credit can afford it and are likely to repay.
The history of a person or business and to lenders can then make more informed REVENUE BY REGION store data with us, a company must have credit decisions, from setting terms for new a legitimate reason for doing so and must North America 47% accounts, through to managing existing usually notify the applicant of its intention.
Latin America 33% customer and supplier relationships more UK and Ireland 12% effectively.
Importantly, decisions are based We do not make lending decisions EMEA Asia Pacific 8% on factual evidence this helps to ensure or offer any comment or advice on particular applications.
Decision Analytics We use data science, analytics and We integrate our data, analytics and Market position we are a markettechnology to unlock the value hidden software platforms to provide our clients leading provider in our major regions.
in data, helping to provide insights to with relevant, market-led solutions: Competitors include Fair Isaac, clients so they can understand the data W e combine our data with data from our SAS and smaller niche providers.
and make fast, efficient decisions to clients and third parties, and then apply Financial characteristics scores improve their business performance.
analytical models to transform this into and checks are sold on a transactional, Companies and organisations are amassing meaningful information and insights.
Software and system vast quantities of data.
Interpreting this has O ur platforms help our clients to carry sales include implementation fees, become ever more vital, so they can provide out complex, day-to-day activities, such recurring licence fees and transactions.
the best possible service to their customers as compiling, standardising and and grow their businesses.
retrieving data, and managing decision REVENUE BY REGION For example, we help our clients make making and workflows.
decisions on hundreds of millions of online North America 32% O ur industry specialists work credit applications every year, including Latin America 8% collaboratively with our clients, to help checking that applicants are who they UK and Ireland 38% them identify issues and focus on say they are to prevent fraud.
Online preEMEA Asia Pacific 22% solutions that add value to their business approval for credit can now take seconds and increase their return on investment.
