24 Strategic report Chief Executives review Chief Executives review Introduction I am pleased to report that we achieved a positive outcome during a year of transition for Experian.
Earlier this year, we laid out five key strategic priorities to position the Group for sustained growth and were executing well against the key elements of our plan.
Brian Cassin Chief Executive Officer As expected, organic revenue improved In Marketing Services, we saw strong growth Regional highlights as we exited the year.
For the year, total in cross-channel marketing offset by some North America revenue growth from continuing activities attrition on legacy email products.
Were In North America, we made further progress was 1% at actual rates, 3% at constant making steady progress in cross-channel, across Credit Services and Decision exchange rates, and organic revenue with a good pipeline of prospects which Analytics: Marketing Services was stable growth was 1%.
This represented flat well seek to convert over the coming year.
and weve taken a number of important steps organic revenue in the first three quarters to reposition Consumer Services.
Were encouraged by progress in North of the year and 3% in the final quarter, America Consumer Services.
Whilst Our core consumer bureau continued with the uplift coming mainly from uncertainty remains and we continue to perform well as the environment for improved performances in North to invest in the brand and products to lending improved with steady expansion America Consumer Services and move the business forward, we believe in volumes.
Performance was further Decision Analytics.
we have passed the peak rate of decline.
boosted by strong growth across the Our strategy is focused on transforming We saw strong growth during the year non-consumer bureau component, now our consumer offering by differentiating from North America Credit Services, the accounting for around 40% of Credit ourselves as a data owner and providing UK and Ireland, and across Asia Pacific.
Services revenue in North America.
a compelling consumer experience, while Latin America showed good progress Business information recovered well, also using our firepower in consumer despite the subdued economy in Brazil, following the actions weve taken to marketing to make Experian.
com the and whilst North America Consumer strengthen and refocus our activities.
Key Services was a headwind, weve made Automotive had another outstanding year milestones in the year included making further progress towards transforming our as we increase market penetration with FICO scores available to consumers consumer proposition and leveraging the dealers, manufacturers and auto-lenders, through Experian.
com, which we launched Experian.
and Im delighted with the progress in December 2014.
Response rates since weve made in health, where Passport We generated significant cash flow during have been favourable, with an increase in has exceeded our expectations.
The the year, enabling us to support our growth membership revenue for Experian.
com of integration of Passport has gone smoothly ambitions, announce increasing returns 14% year-on-year in the fourth quarter of and were seeing significant growth in to shareholders and reduce net debt.
A further development took place both bookings and implementations as grew Benchmark EPS by 8%, at constant in March when we successfully migrated we expand our position with existing exchange rates and 4% at actual rates, freecreditreport.
com customers to hospital and physician clients and add increased equity dividends by 5%, and Experian.
This was an important step new ones.
Were also laying foundations reduced net debt by US$592m, while as we seek to simplify our platforms and to expand our product range, to address continuing to invest for growth.
Over new healthcare segments in the future.
the coming year we expect to introduce Decision Analytics had another solid additional functionality in order to further year, fuelled by significant software enhance the consumer experience, deals, and were making considerable and with this we expect to make further progress in analytics, as lending activity steady progress throughout the year picks up and clients seek tools to refine ending 31 March 2016 in North America their decision making and ability to Consumer Services.
