com STRATEGIC PRIORITIES AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS EVRAZs strategy focuses 1 | Health, Safety on five success factors.
Each 2 | Human Capital factor has an established set & Environment of strategic goals.
Based on these strategic goals EVRAZ Strategic goal | Health and safety of employees is Strategic goal | EVRAZ prioritises executes agreed initiatives a primary focus for EVRAZ.
The Groups strategic goal the development of its people providing a is to have 100% safe work conditions, safe behaviour, competitive salary for leading productivity with and tracks the process environmental compliance and to become the steel a long-term target to involve 80% of the total of strategy deployment industry leader in healthy lifestyle among employees.
Overview | HSE initiatives during year 2015 Overview | During 2015 EVRAZ key initiatives were focused on a LOTO Lockout, Tryout energy were aimed at optimizing support and isolation programme and safety trainings with maintenance personnel by outsourcing certain behaviour conversations.
functions and implementing a number of projects on labor productivity increases.
Outlook | In 2016 EVRAZ will continue its efforts in communicating safe behaviour and include Outlook | Looking into 2016 the Groups focus health topics in the training.
The Group will also will be on creating a unified system of selection, improve internal audit processes to identify hazard evaluation and training for site employees, areas and establish standards of safe work.
developing the principle of long-term labor cost planning and further headcount optimisation.
Comments on KPI | Despite the Groups efforts, there were 13 fatalities 10 employees and Comments on KPI | The Group was able to 3 contractors at its sites during the year, while the decrease its labor costs per tonne of steel LTIFR excluding fatalities reached 2.18x, compared products in 2015 to US$42.8 per tonne down with 1.60x in 2014 due to more transparent reporting.
by 22% from US$54.7 per tonne in 2014 due to EVRAZ remains committed to the goal of reaching local currencies devaluation and its continuing zero fatalities at its sites and will continue efforts to labor productivity improvements.
KPIs EVRAZ measures its overall progress LTIFR excluding fatalities per million hours Labour productivity, US$ t using key performance indicators KPIs.
This year the Group has 2015 2.18 2015 42.8 amended its KPI list to more accurately reflect the development 2014 1.60 2014 54.7 of its business, the evolution of its business systems and to align with 2013 2.05 2013 divisional management focus.
57.9 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 15 Strategic report 3 | Customer Focus Steel Steel, North America Coal Strategic goal | EVRAZ aims to be the leader Strategic goal | EVRAZ North America aims to be Strategic goal | The Groups strategic goal is to in Russian infrastructure and construction steel the largest producer of large-diameter pipes with maximize market share in Russia and Ukraine, products, a global leader in rails and to increase superior market position, product capabilities and while expanding export sales to prime customers the share of high-value-added products in its asset footprint: the largest producer of rails with in Asian and Europe.
strong technical partnerships with customers.
Overview | Last year the Groups efforts helped Overview | Last year the Groups major initiatives Overview | During 2015 the Group increased us to keep stable domestic market share and targeted expansion of export capabilities by the share of its premium rails sales, upgraded increase export shipments to premium markets of receiving the necessary certifications and its OCTG product mix with high-value-added heatJapan and South Korea.
reaching the new markets of Brazil, Malaysia treated pipe and started two investment projects and other with its railway products, improving at Regina mill aimed at production of thicker-wall Outlook | During 2016 the Group will be focused the product portfolio of its 100-meter rails with large-diameter pipes for the very strong oil & gas on the expansion of its coal grades presence in premium grades and the increase in production midstream transmission market in United States the Ukrainian market, and improving its coking of high-value micro-alloyed pipe grade slabs for and Canada over the next 3-5 years.
tubular customers that accounted for US$50 million EBITDA effect in 2015.
Outlook | In 2016 the Group will work on LD pipes projects, focus on sales sustainability at its Outlook | In 2016 the Group will continue the rail mill and increase plate sales to 3rd parties.
expansion of its product portfolio in construction, railway and mining segments in Russia and CIS, increase export presence of rails, beams and rebar and work on the development of engineering services for its clients.
com 4 | Asset development Steel Steel, North America Coal Strategic goal | EVRAZ aims to be a low-cost Strategic goal | The Groups strategic goal is to Strategic goal | The Groups strategic goal is to vertically integrated producer of infrastructure be the lowest-cost producer of rails, LD, OCTG be the safety, technology and productivity leader steel products both in domestic and international pipes and plate products when delivered to in coking coal mining in Russia.
Western United States and Western Canada.
Overview | During 2015 EVRAZ were able Overview | In 2015 the Group focused on Overview | Last year the Groups initiatives to increase mining volumes, reduce auxiliary yield improvements at its rail mill, optimised were focused on slab supply management, G&A materials consumption, 3rd parties service costs headcount and G&A expenses, realized projects reduction, stability of LD pipe production and and G&A expenses due to operational synergies on slag recycling and energy efficiency and operational performance improvements at Groups at Raspadskaya and Yuzhkuzbassugol with a deconsolidated EVRAZ Highveld Steel and OCTG mills.
Also EVRAZ was were able to close financial contribution of US$72 million.
Vanadium that had an immediate effect on our certain cash flow negative and non-core assets.
All these initiatives improved EBITDA by total, these initiatives contributed US$58 million.
Outlook | In 2016 the Groups main focus will US$190 million last year.
be on improvements in its mining operations Outlook | 2016 years pipeline includes to increase volumes and improve yields in its Outlook | In 2016 the Group will develop a conversion costs reduction, capacity utilisation processing facilities.
long-term continuous cost reduction program improvements, scrap purchase strategy and for each of the Groups plants, create a capacity further G&A costs reductions.
Comments on KPI | Cash cost of the coal optimisation strategy and focus on logistics, yield segment was US$31 per tonne in 2015, lower by improvement, energy consumption and G&A cost 33% from US$46 per tonne in 2014 due to reduction initiatives.
mines optimization, G&A reduction and currency devaluation.
Comments on KPI | Cash costs of semi-finished products was US$195 per tonne in 2015, lower by 29% from US$275 per tonne in 2014 due to operational improvement, volume stability and currency devaluation.
KPIs KPIs 1 ash cost of semi-finished products, US$ t Cash cost of coking coal concentrate, US$ t Conversion costs, $ t Cash cost of coking coal concentrate, $ t 2015 195 2015 31 2014 275 2014 46 2013 367 2013 64 1 Cash cost of slab and billets produced at Russian steel mills Annual Report & Accounts 2015 17 Strategic report 5 | EVRAZ Business System Strategic goal | EVRAZ Business system EBS is the methodology applied by the Groups people to continually improve the effectiveness of its business using lean principles.
EVRAZ aims to create a culture of continuous improvements with 100% of employees involved.
Developing the methodology, providing necessary trainings and creating the motivation for change allows EVRAZ to be successful in lean implementation throughout the whole organization from the top management to workers at the shop floor.
Each division of EVRAZ has a pipeline of initiatives on lean philosophy implementation that are targeted on the improvement of its profitability.
Overview | During 2015 EVRAZ was able to train 20% of the entire workforce on lean practices, started to develop the EVRAZ inventory management system and expanded its lean model Results in 2015 lines using more advanced tools.
Outlook | Next years initiatives will be aimed Last years cost cutting initiatives resulted in a US$321 million EBITDA effect.
Combined at lean projects in equipment maintenance with US$53 million of customer focus efforts EVRAZ total EBITDA improvements were procedures and the further development of US$374 million for 2015. inventory management systems while enhancing the Groups lean training efforts.
Despite our strong initiatives market headwinds led to overall EBITDA of US$1,438 million, less by 38.9% than US$2,355 million in 2014.
Free cash flow was US$799 million in 2015, down by 21.0% from US$1,012 million in 2014.
The decrease is less than EBITDA due to changes in working capital, CAPEX reduction and cash flows from asset disposals.
