STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Leonardo Building, Viability Assessment Crawley and Statement Viability assessment and statement The 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Board to make a viability statement which considers the Companys current position and principal risks and uncertainties combined with an assessment of the future prospects for the company, in order that the Board can state that the Company will be able to continue in operation over the period of their assessment.
The Board conducted this review over a 5 year time horizon, a period thought to be appropriate for a Company investing in commercial property with a long-term investment outlook: with primary borrowings secured for a further 9 years and a property portfolio with an average unexpired lease length of 6.9 years.
The assessment has been undertaken, taking into account the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group which could threaten its objective, strategy, future performance, liquidity and solvency.
These risks and uncertainties are highlighted in the Business Model and Strategy section of the Report on page 12.
The major risks identified as relevant to the viability assessment were those relating to a downturn in the UK commercial property market and its resultant effect on the valuation of the investment property portfolio, the level of rental income being received and the effect that this would have on cash resources and financial covenants.
The Board took into account the illiquid nature of the Companys property portfolio, the existence of the long-term borrowing facility, the effects of any significant future falls in investment property values and property income receipts on the ability to repay and re-negotiate borrowings, maintain dividend payments and retain investors.
These matters were assessed over an initial period to March 2021, and the Directors will continue to assess viability over 5 year rolling periods, taking account of foreseeable severe but plausible scenarios.
Based on their assessment, and in the context of the Groups business model, strategy and operational arrangements set out In the ordinary course of business, the Board reviews a detailed above, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group financial model on a quarterly basis, incorporating market consensus will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they forecast returns, projected out to the maturity of its principal loan of fall due over the 5 year period to March 2021.
For this reason, the 260 million which is due to mature in 2024 and coincides with the Board also considers it appropriate to continue adopting the going next continuation vote.
This model uses prudent assumptions and concern basis in preparing the Report and Accounts.
factors in any potential capital commitments.
For the purpose of assessing the viability of the Group, the model has been adjusted to look at the next 5 years and is stress tested with projected returns On behalf of the Board comparable to the commercial property market crash experienced between 2007 and 2009.
The model projects a worst case scenario C Russell of 45 per cent fall in capital values over the next two years, followed Director by three years of zero growth.
The model demonstrated that even under these extreme circumstances the Company remains viable.
4 April 2016 12 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report and Accounts 2015 | 13 FOREIGN & COLONIAL INVESTMENT TRUST PLC St Christophers Place, London 14 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report and Accounts 2015 | 15
