F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Business Model and Strategy The Company carries on business as a closed-ended property The Company uses gearing throughout the Group to enhance investment company.
Its shares are traded on the Main Market of the returns over the long-term.
Gearing, represented by borrowings as a London Stock Exchange.
percentage of total assets, may not exceed 50 per cent.
However, the Boards present intention is that borrowings of the Group will be limited The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall stewardship of to a maximum of 35 per cent of total assets at the time of borrowing.
the Company, including investment and dividend policies, corporate strategy, gearing, corporate governance procedures and risk Investment of Assets management.
Biographical details of the Directors, all of whom are At each quarterly Board meeting, the Board receives a detailed independent non-executive Directors, can be found on page 21.
The presentation from the Managers which includes a review of investment Company has no executive Directors or employees.
performance, recent portfolio activity and a market outlook.
It also The Board has contractually delegated the management of the considers compliance with the investment policy and other investment investment portfolio and other services to the Managers.
A summary restrictions during the reporting period.
An analysis of how the portfolio of the terms of the management agreement is contained in note 2a was invested as at 31 December 2015 is contained within the Managers to the accounts.
Review on pages 15 to 19 and a portfolio listing is provided on page 20.
Investment Strategy The Groups borrowings are described in notes 13 and 14 to the accounts.
Objective The Companys investment objective is to provide ordinary Environmental Policy shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the The Property Managers acquire, develop and manage properties on potential for capital and income growth from investing in a diversified behalf of the Company.
It is recognised that these activities have both UK commercial property portfolio.
direct and indirect environmental impacts.
The Board has endorsed Investment Policy the Property Managers own environmental policy, which is to work The Companys policy is to hold a diversified portfolio of freehold and in partnership with contractors, tenants and consultants to minimise long leasehold over 60 years remaining at the time of acquisition those impacts, seeking continuous improvements in environmental UK commercial properties.
It invests principally in three commercial performance.
property sectors: office, retail and industrial.
It also has a small exposure to residential property and student housing.
Continuation Vote Following the adoption of new articles of incorporation in November The Company invests in properties which the Board, on the advice of 2014, the next continuation vote of the Company will be in 2024. the Managers, believes will generate a combination of long-term growth in income and capital for shareholders.
Investment decisions are based Discount Control on an analysis of, amongst other things, prospects for future income The policy regarding share buy backs was set out in a Circular issued and capital growth, sector and geographic prospects, tenant covenant to shareholders ahead of the General Meeting in November 2014.
This strength, lease length, and initial and equivalent yields.
detailed the Companys continued commitment to the application of Investment risks are spread by investing across different share buy backs to limit any discount to the NAV per share at which the geographical areas and sectors and by letting properties to low Companys shares may trade.
A discount of 5% or more remains a level risk tenants.
The Company has not set any maximum geographic at which the board will review share buy back implementation.
exposures, but the maximum weightings in the principal property The review will take into account the current and the likely prospective sectors at any time stated as a percentage of total assets are: level of discount to the value of your Company's high quality but, by their office: 50 per cent: retail: 65 per cent: and industrial: 40 per cent.
nature, illiquid assets, which are independently valued every quarter.
It No single property may exceed 15 per cent of total assets and will also consider other factors that the Board believes might promote the the five largest properties excluding indirect property funds may achievement of the Companys long-standing, stated objectives.
not exceed 40 per cent of total assets in each case at the time of acquisition.
Short leasehold properties with less than 60 years These factors include alternative property investment opportunities, remaining may not exceed 10 per cent of total assets at the time whether direct or indirect, which may be standing at greater levels of of acquisition.
discount to underlying value than the Companys own shares: the impact on net asset value accretion and improvement in dividend cover from The Company is permitted to invest up to 15 per cent, at the time share buy backs: and the levels of liquidity, gearing and loan to value of acquisition, of its total assets in indirect property funds including within the Company.
listed property companies which invest principally in UK property, but these investments may not exceed 20 per cent of total assets at Shareholder Value any subsequent date.
The Company is permitted to invest cash, held The Board and the Managers recognise the importance of both marketing by it for working capital purposes and awaiting investment, in cash and share buy backs in increasing demand for the Companys shares.
deposits, gilts and money market funds.
10 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report and Accounts 2015 | 11 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT 10 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report and Accounts 2015 | 11 F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED In terms of marketing, the Managers offer a range of private investor savings schemes, details of which can be found on page 65.
In addition, meetings are held regularly with current and prospective shareholders and stockbroking analysts covering the investment company sector.
Share buy backs can help reduce the volatility of any discount of the share price to the net asset value per share and enhance the net asset value per share for continuing shareholders.
Communication of quarterly portfolio information is made through the Companys website.
Principal Risks and Risk Management As stated within the Report of the Audit Committee on page 27, the Board applies the principles detailed in the internal control guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council, and has established an ongoing process designed to meet the particular needs of the Company in managing the risks and uncertainties to which it is exposed.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company are described below and in note 18, which provides detailed explanations of the risks associated with the Companys financial instruments.
Market the Companys assets comprise direct investments in UK commercial property and it is therefore exposed to movements and changes in that market.
Investment and strategic poor investment decisions and incorrect strategy, including sector and geographic allocations, use of gearing, inadequate asset management activity and tenant defaults could lead to poor returns for shareholders.
Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could lead to suspension of the Companys London Stock Exchange listing, financial penalties or a qualified audit report.
Management and control changes that cause the management and control of the Company to be exercised in the United Kingdom could lead to the Company becoming liable to United Kingdom taxation on income and capital gains.
Key Performance Indicators The Board uses a number of performance measures to assess the Operational failure of the Managers accounting systems or Companys success in meeting its objectives.
The key performance disruption to its business, or that of other third party service indicators are as follows: providers, could lead to an inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring, leading to a loss of shareholders confidence.
Net asset value total return and total return of the property portfolio compared with relevant Investment Property Databank indices: Financial inadequate controls by the Managers or other third party service providers could lead to misappropriation of Premium discount of share price to net asset value: assets.
Inappropriate accounting policies or failure to comply Dividends per share and dividend yield: and with accounting standards could lead to a qualified audit report, Ongoing charges as a ratio of net assets.
misreporting or breaches of regulations.
Breaching Guernsey solvency test requirements or loan covenants could lead to a loss The Companys performance against the key performance indicators of shareholders confidence and financial loss for shareholders see for the year under review is reported within the Chairmans Statement notes 13 and 14 for details of the principal loan covenants.
on pages 8 to 9, the Managers Review on pages 15 to 20 and the Performance Summary on page 6.
A historic record of these The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these risks through continual indicators is contained in the Financial Highlights on page 3 and in the review, policy-setting and enforcement of contractual obligations.
It also Historic Record on page 62. regularly monitors the investment environment and the management of the Companys property portfolio.
The Managers seek to mitigate these The Chairmans Statement on pages 8 to 9, Business Model and risks through active asset management initiatives and carrying out due Strategy on pages 10 to 12, Viability Assessment and Statement diligence work on potential tenants before entering into any new lease on page 13, Managers Review on pages 15 to 19, and Property agreements.
All of the properties in the portfolio are insured.
Portfolio on page 20 all form part of this Strategic Report.
12 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report and Accounts 2015 | 13
