FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT Board of Directors Peter Niven FCIB, CDir Chris Russell FCA, FSIP Status: Independent non-executive director and Chairman of Status: Chairman and independent non-executive Director.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
the Management Engagement Committee Date of appointment: 21 January 2005 Date of appointment: 31 October 2009 appointed Chairman 19 May 2011.
Country of residence: Guernsey Country of residence: Guernsey Experience: Peter Niven has over 35 years experience in the financial services industry both in the UK and offshore.
He was Experience: Chris Russell was, until 2001, an executive director of Gartmore Investment Management plc.
He is a a senior executive in the Lloyds TSB Group until his retirement in 2004.
He was, until March 2013, a director of Resolution director of Schroders C. I.
Limited, Enhanced Index Funds PCC and Hanseatic Asset Management LBG.
He is a director of a number of Guernsey based investment funds and a captive insurance PCC.
Other public company directorships: JPMorgan Japan Smaller Companies Trust plc, HICL Infrastructure Company Other public company directorships: SQN Asset Finance Income Fund Limited.
Limited and Chairman of Macau Property Opportunities Fund Limited.
Trudi Clark ACA Brian Sweetland Status: Independent non-executive director and Chairman Status: Independent non-executive director of the Audit Committee Date of appointment: 21 January 2005 Date of appointment: 4 February 2014 Country of residence: UK Country of residence: Guernsey Experience: Brian Sweetland was, until May 2005, an Experience: Trudi Clark is a former Chief Executive executive director of Friends Provident plc FP and a Officer of Schroders C. I.
Limited and has over 25 years member of its investment committee.
As a solicitor, Mr experience in the financial services industry.
She is a nonSweetland was the General Counsel and Group Secretary executive director of a number of Guernsey based funds of the FP Group for over 20 years.
Other public company directorships: None Other public company directorships: Sapphire PCC Limited Sapphire IV Cell, and River and Mercantile UK Micro Cap Investment Company Limited.
Martin Moore MRICS Peter Cornell Status: Independent non-executive director and Senior Status: Independent non-executive director independent director Date of appointment: 1 May 2015 Date of appointment: 31 March 2011 Country of residence: Guernsey Country of residence: UK Experience: Peter Cornell was, until 2006, Global Experience: Martin Moore was, until June 2013, Managing Partner of Clifford Chance.
He then joined Terra Chairman, of M&G Real Estate Ltd, the property asset Firma Capital Partners where he was Managing Director management arm of Prudential plc.
He was non-executive Director of Circle board adviser to The Crown Estate and a board member Holdings PLC from 2011 to 2013.
He is a founding partner of the British Property Federation.
of Metric Capital Partners and has a wealth of legal and commercial experience.
Other public company directorships: SEGRO plc and Secure Income REIT plc.
Other public company directorships: None.
David Preston Status: Independent non-executive director Date of appointment: 1 May 2015 Country of residence: Guernsey Experience: David Preston is Managing Director of First Names Guernsey Limited, a Guernsey based fiduciary and fund services business.
He is a Director of a number of regulated, unlisted open and closed-end real estate funds invested in the UK, Europe, Asia and the USA.
He is a Chartered Accountant and has significant property, financial, corporate administration and regulatory experience.
20 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report and Accounts 2015 | 21
