F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and accounts of the Group for the As explained in more detail under Corporate Governance on pages year ended 31 December 2015.
25 to 26, the Board has agreed that all Directors will retire annually.
Mrs T Clark, Mr M R Moore, Mr P Niven, Mr C Russell, Mr P Cornell Results and Dividends and Mr D Preston will retire at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Mr B W Sweetland The results for the year are set out in the attached accounts.
has indicated that he will not stand for re-election and will therefore The Group paid interim dividends during the year ended retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
31 December 2015 as follows: Payment Rate per The Directors believe that the Board has an appropriate balance of date share skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to enable it to provide effective strategic leadership and proper Ninth interim for prior year 30 January 2015 0.5p guidance of the Company.
The Board confirms that, following the Tenth interim for prior year 27 February 2015 0.5p evaluation process set out in the Corporate Governance Statement Eleventh interim for prior year 31 March 2015 0.5p on pages 25 and 26, the performance of each of these Directors Twelfth interim for prior year 30 April 2015 0.5p continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
First interim 29 May 2015 0.5p The Board therefore believes that it is in the interests of shareholders Second interim 30 June 2015 0.5p that these Directors are re-elected.
Third interim 31 July 2015 0.5p There are no service contracts in existence between the Company Fourth interim 31 August 2015 0.5p and any Directors but each of the Directors has been issued with, Fifth interim 30 September 2015 0.5p and accepted the terms of, a letter of appointment that sets out Sixth interim 30 October 2015 0.5p the main terms of his or her appointment.
Amongst other things, the letter includes confirmation that the Directors have a sufficient Seventh interim 30 November 2015 0.5p understanding of the Company and the sector in which it operates, Eighth interim 31 December 2015 0.5p and sufficient time available to discharge their duties effectively taking into account their other commitments.
These letters are It is the policy of the Directors to declare and pay dividends as available for inspection upon request at the Companys registered interim dividends.
The Directors do not therefore recommend a final office.
Three further interim dividends, each of 0.5p per share, were paid on 29 January 2016, 29 February 2016 and 31 March Management 2016.
The twelfth, and last, interim dividend in respect of the year, of 0.5p per share, will be paid on 29 April 2016 to shareholders on the The Board has appointed F&C Investment Business Limited register on 8 April 2016.
It is the intention of the Directors that the referred to throughout this document as FCIB or the Investment Company will continue to pay dividends monthly.
Managers as the Companys investment managers and BMO REP Asset Management plc referred to throughout this document as Principal Activity and Status BMO REP or the Property Managers as the Companys property managers.
FCIB and BMO REP are both part of the F&C Asset The Company is a  company registered Management plc group F&C and, collectively, are referred to number 50402 and, during the year, carried on business as a in this document as the Managers.
FCIB was appointed as the closed-ended property investment company.
The Companys shares Companys AIFM on 18 July 2014. are traded on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
The principal activities of the Companys subsidiaries are included in The Managers provide investment management and other services note 1b and note 21 to the accounts.
Details of the arrangements between the Company and the Managers in respect of management services are provided Directors in note 2a to the accounts.
Biographical details of the Directors, all of whom are non-executive, The Board keeps the appropriateness of the Managers can be found on page 21.
As disclosed in last years Annual appointment under review.
In doing so the Board reviews Report, Mr Peter Cornell and Mr David Preston were appointed as performance quarterly and considers the past investment independent non-executive Directors with effect from 1 May 2015 performance of the Company and the capability and resources and Mr Nick Tostevin retired at the close of the last AGM.
There of the Managers to deliver satisfactory investment performance were no other changes to the composition of the Board during the in the future.
It also reviews the length of the notice period of year.
22 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report and Accounts 2015 | 23 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT the investment management agreement and the fees payable to the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational the Managers, together with the standard of the other services existence for the foreseeable future and the Board believes it is provided.
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are satisfied with the Managers ability to deliver satisfactory investment performance and the quality of other Annual General Meeting services provided.
It is therefore their opinion that the continuing The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, to be held on 2 June appointment of the Managers on the terms agreed is in the interests 2016 is set out on pages 59 to 61. of shareholders as a whole.
Directors Authority to Allot Shares Depositary Resolution 11 seeks an authority from shareholders to allow the JPMorgan Europe Limited acts as the Companys depositary in Directors to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of accordance with the AIFM Directive.
The depositarys responsibilities 799,366, being equivalent to approximately 10 per cent of the which are set out in an Investor Disclosure Document on the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 4 April 2016.
Companys website, include cash monitoring, segregation and safe keeping of the Companys financial instruments and monitoring Resolution 12 seeks an authority from shareholders to disapply the Companys compliance with investment limits and leverage pre-emption rights in relation to the issue of shares as set out in the requirements.
Listing Rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority under Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended.
Resolution 12 gives the Directors, for the period until the conclusion Substantial Interests in Share Capital of the Annual General Meeting in 2017 or, if earlier, on the expiry As at 31 December 2015 the Company had received notification of of 15 months from the passing of the resolution, the necessary the following holdings of voting rights under the Financial Conduct authority either to allot securities or sell shares held in treasury, Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules : otherwise than to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis, up to Number of an aggregate nominal amount of 799,366.
This is equivalent to Ordinary Shares Percentage approximately 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Held Held Company as at 4 April 2016.
Aviva Group 181,308,005 22.7 The Directors will only allot new shares pursuant to the authority granted by Resolutions 11 and 12, Guernsey law and the authority Investec Wealth & to allot shares contained in the articles of incorporation of the Investment Limited 78,609,886 9.8 Company if they believe it is advantageous to the Companys Based on 799,366,108 Ordinary Shares in issue as at 31 December 2015. shareholders to do so and in no circumstances that would result in There have been no changes notified to the Company in respect of a dilution to the net asset value per share.
the above holdings, and no new holdings notified, since the end of the year.
Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares The Company did not buy back any shares during the year.
Going Concern The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of In assessing the going concern basis of accounting the Directors Ordinary Shares expires at the end of the Annual General Meeting have had regard to the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting and Resolution 13, as set out in the notice of the Annual General Council.
They have reviewed detailed cash flow, income and Meeting, seeks renewal of such authority until the earlier of the expense projections in order to assess the Companys ability to Annual General Meeting in 2017 and 18 months from the passing pay its operational expenses, bank interest and dividends.
Any buy back of Ordinary Shares will be made Directors have examined significant areas of possible financial risk subject to Guernsey law and within any guidelines established from including cash and cash requirements and the debt covenants, in time to time by the Board and the making and timing of any buy particular those relating to loan to value and interest cover.
They backs will be at the absolute discretion of the Board.
Purchases of have not identified any material uncertainties which cast significant Ordinary Shares will only be made through the market for cash at doubt on the ability to continue as a going concern for a period prices below the prevailing net asset value of the Ordinary Shares of not less than 12 months from the date of the approval of the as last calculated where the Directors believe such purchases will financial statements.
The Directors have satisfied themselves that enhance shareholder value.
The price paid will not be less than the 22 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report and Accounts 2015 | 23 F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Report of the Directors continued nominal value of 1p per share.
Such purchases will also only be Disclosure of Information to the Auditor made in accordance with the rules of the UK Listing Authority which The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Report provide that the price to be paid must not be more than the higher of the Directors confirm that: of i 5 per cent above the average of the middle market quotations so far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Exchange for the Ordinary Shares for the five business days before each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought the shares are purchased: and ii the higher of the last independent to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue of any relevant audit information and to establish that the which the purchase is carried out.
Any shares purchased under this Companys auditor is aware of that information.
authority will be cancelled or held in treasury within the following limits: Auditor no more than 10 per cent of the Companys issued shares will As explained on page 27, it is proposed that  be held in treasury at any time: and CI LLP PwC be appointed as auditors to the Company following shares will only be re-issued out of treasury at a premium to the a tender process carried out towards the end of 2015.
expressed their willingness to take office as the Companys auditor and a resolution proposing their appointment will be submitted at Amendments to the Articles of Incorporation the Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 14 seeks shareholder approval to make certain changes to the Company's articles of incorporation the Articles.
These Statement Regarding Annual Report and Accounts amendments have been proposed to reflect the recent changes Following a detailed review of the Annual Report and Accounts by that have been made to the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 by the Audit Committee, the Directors consider that taken as a whole, the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 Amendment Ordinance, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 2015 and to include provisions regarding the reporting requirements necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, applicable to the Company under FATCA and the Organisation for business model and strategy.
In reaching this conclusion, the Economic Co-operation and Developments Common Reporting Directors have assumed that the reader of the Annual Report Standard CRS.
and Accounts would have a reasonable level of knowledge of the The principal changes introduced to the Articles include the investment industry in general and the investment company sector following amendments: i clarifying the conflict of interest provisions in particular.
which mean that a Director will no longer be required to determine the monetary value of such interest: ii the updating of the notice provisions to set limits on when shareholders will be deemed On behalf of the Board to have received notices sent by post or by email: and iii the inclusion of a definition of FATCA CRS and provisions relating to the reporting requirements in connection therewith.
There are also additional minor amendments to reflect minor changes made to the Guernsey Company Law and to conform certain language C Russell throughout the Articles.
Director A copy of the existing Articles and the proposed new Articles 4 April 2016 marked to show the changes will be available during normal business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the registered office of the Company and the offices of F&C Asset Management plc, Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2NY up to and including close of business on 2 June 2016 and at the venue of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to the start of the meeting and up to the close of the meeting.
24 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report and Accounts 2015 | 25
