F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Company Summary The Company The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 being satisfied, ordinary F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited the Company is an shareholders are entitled to all dividends declared by the Company Authorised Closed-Ended Guernsey incorporated investment and to all of the Companys assets after repayment of its borrowings company.
Its shares have a premium listing on the Official List of and ordinary creditors.
the UK Listing Authority and are traded on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
Guernsey Regulatory Status The Company is an Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Scheme The Annual Report and Accounts of the Company also consolidate domiciled in Guernsey and was granted an authorisation declaration the results of its subsidiary undertakings, which collectively are by the Guernsey Financial Services Commission in accordance with referred to throughout this document as the Group, details of which Section 8 of The Protection of Investors Bailiwick of Guernsey Law are contained in note 1b and note 21 to the accounts.
1987, as amended and rule 6.02 of the Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Schemes Rules 2008, on 9 June 2009.
At 31 December 2015 Group total assets less current liabilities were 1,389 million and Group shareholders funds were 1,080 million.
How to Invest The Managers operate a number of investment plans which facilitate Objective investment in the shares of the Company.
Details are contained on The investment objective of the Company is to provide ordinary page 65.
You may also invest through your usual stockbroker.
shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the potential for capital and income growth from investing in a diversified Website UK commercial property portfolio.
The Companys website address is: www.
co. uk Investment Policy The Companys investment policy is contained on page 10.
Management The Board has appointed F&C Investment Business Limited referred to throughout this document as FCIB or the Investment Managers as the Companys investment managers and BMO REP Asset Management plc referred to throughout this document as BMO REP or the Property Managers as the Companys property managers.
FCIB and BMO REP are both part of the F&C Asset Management plc group F&C and, collectively, are referred to in this document as the Managers.
Further details of the management arrangements are provided in note 2a to the accounts.
F&C is wholly owned by Bank of Montreal BMO and is part of the BMO Global Asset Management group of companies.
Capital Structure The Companys equity capital structure consists of ordinary shares Ordinary Shares.
Subject to the solvency test provided for in 4 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report and Accounts 2015 | 5
