Business model Our services help to create strong, vibrant and sustainable local economies and our opportunity is to be the provider of choice for the customers and communities we serve.
FirstGroup has a competitive advantage Our vision as a result of our scale and the diversity Our vision is to provide solutions of our market-leading portfolio of transport for an increasingly congested businesses: we design and operate more networks in partnership with more communities, world keeping people moving we hire, train and manage more employees, and communities prospering.
we procure, maintain and deploy more vehicles, and we transport more passengers than any other operator.
Our overall strategy is to leverage our scale and the breadth of our global expertise for the benefit of our local markets.
Through this strategy we are ideally placed to provide the transport solutions increasingly needed by our customers see pages 10-11, and to deliver the promises embodied in our vision and underpinned by our values.
Each of our five divisions are exposed to different geographies, customers, revenue models, demand drivers and competitors within the overall transport industry, and are therefore run in a decentralised way so as to be responsive to the needs of our local customers.
The diversity of our revenues by geography and customer type typically makes the overall Group relatively resilient through the business cycle.
Our lean corporate centre focuses on fostering a high performance culture, sets the strategic direction, raises and allocates capital, establishes key targets and standards, monitors performance and provides challenge.
Our values While the detailed drivers differ by division, and are reviewed in depth inthe business review see pages 20-39, the business model of any Committed to our customers transport operator is in principle simple.
Revenues are generated either from passengers paying for the transportation service directly, or the We keep our customers at the heart serviceis procured on behalf of passengers by government or other ofeverything we do.
The operator must ensure appropriate vehicles are available where and when they are needed, staffed by suitably qualied and Dedicated to safety engaged employees, and that the service provided meets the safety, reliability, environmental and other needs of the passengers and Always front of mind, safety is our communities served.
Successful execution of this business model wayoflife.
delivers gains for a wide range of stakeholders: passengers get wherethey want to go via attractive, modern services: employees Supportive of each other havea rewarding career: governments facilitate increased economic We trust each other to deliver and work activity: local communities limit congestion and other environmental costs of transport: suppliers are part of a successful ecosystem: and tohelp one another succeed.
shareholders receive an appropriate return, even after the substantial reinvestment necessary to sustain the business model for the Accountable for performance longterm.
Every decision matters, we do the right Successful delivery of our financial targets, and sustained value thing to achieve our goals.
creation as a Group in the longer term, depend on our five strategic objectives.
With the strategic objectives guiding our actions, and our Setting the highest standards values underpinning the way we work together as a Group, we will We want to be the best, continually deliver the promises made to our customers and communities as embodied in our vision, and the commitments made to our other seekingabetter way to do things.
12 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report For more information Strategic objectives Pages 14-15 Chief Executives strategic review Pages 08-09 Business review Pages 20-39 Corporate responsibility Pages 40-43 Our business model Focused and disciplined bidding 1 in our contract businesses Approximately half our revenues are backed by contracts or franchise agreements with national government, regional and local authorities in the UK, and state and municipal authorities, local school boards, universities and private companies in North America.
Across the Group we manage over 1,600 such contracts, which are typically competitively tendered, and of multi-year duration.
Continuing to build on our many years of experience formulating successful bids at appropriate levels Our customers of risk, and managing the delivery of the resulting contracts, is critically and communities important for our business.
Driving growth through attractive commercial propositions 2 in our passenger revenue businesses Our other main source of revenues is directly from our passengers, 1 2 who represent a very broad demographic mix and use our services for a wide range of business, commuting, educational, medical, social and recreational purposes.
All of our markets are highly competitive, and therefore a strong understanding of the changing needs of our local customers is vital to ensure our services continue to grow.
Offering a responsive range of destinations, frequencies and ticket options at competitive prices is a key objective in our passenger revenue businesses.
Continuous improvement in operating and 3 financial performance By its nature, the transport industry involves the risk of injury to employees, passengers and third parties, which is why it is central to our culture and values to keep safety front of mind.
No less important for our customers is delivering a consistent and attractive service on which they 4 3 5 can rely.
In both areas we constantly reinforce standards and seek out best practice from across the Group and beyond in order to strive for ever more stretching improvement targets.
This focus on disciplined operations and continuous improvement is also brought to bear on our financial performance, where we must manage employee productivity, asset fuel efficiency, procurement, overheads, insurance and other costs Safe and reliable transport for to ensure efficient use of our resources.
2.4bn people every year Prudent investment in our key assets eets, systems 4 profit and cash generation and people Through successful execution of the first three strategic objectives, we delivered safe and reliable transportation services for around 2.4 billion people last year, and generated profits and substantial operating cash ow.
To continue to deliver for all of our stakeholders over the longer term, reinvesting appropriately in the future is vital.
Shareholder value and returns Our most important assets are our 110,000 people we invest heavily in hiring, supporting and developing our employees to ensure we continue to have the best people delivering our services.
We also invest to ensure our eets of nearly 60,000 vehicles across the Group are t for purpose and offer the safety systems and other services that passengers want such as smart ticketing, real-time information and Wi-Fi.
We also invest in our systems and processes to support other strategic objectives, such as the current programme to transform Greyhounds pricing, seat management and ticketing systems, for example.
A pproximate Group revenue A pproximate Group revenue by type by geography Maintain responsible partnerships with our customers 5 and communities Our final strategic objective is to invest time, energy and capital in what matters to our key stakeholders.
We focus on building long term partnerships with our customers and communities, learning what they want and striving to deliver it for them.
Our long term success is built on being a responsible partner to all our stakeholders, an approach that is about much more than meeting certain licence to operate contractual stipulations.
In reality we act as a responsible corporate citizen because the long term success of our business is tightly entwined with the aspirations, opportunities and success of our customers and communities.
We can only create value and deliver Passenger revenue 53% UK 51% sustainable returns to our shareholders if our services help to create strong, vibrant and sustainable local economies, where we are the Contract or franchise revenue 47% US 41% provider of choice for the customers and the communities we serve.
Canada 8% FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13
