Fidessa group plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report continued required in this region, which Sell-side trading Across its sellcurrently has some of the most Across its sell-side business Fidessa side business stringent regulations anywhere in has seen increasing opportunity as Fidessa has seen the world.
Progress in Asia has also customers react to the changing continued in the mature Asian environment.
Whilst both the volatility increasing markets with a number of new deals and the changes within the markets opportunity as signed in Japan, including for a large are putting Fidessas customers under customers react service-based equity platform.
This pressure, Fidessa believes the overall has further strengthened Fidessas impact of the changes creates an to the changing position in Japan with six of the top opportunity as firms seek a partner environment.
eight domestic brokers now using who can provide the complex trading Fidessa for agency trading, as well infrastructure they need, as a cost as many of the countrys mid-tier effective service.
This enables them to brokers.
Fidessa has also signed deal with the upcoming regulatory additional deals with Chinese challenges and focus on the unique brokers operating out of Hong elements of their business model Kong, further strengthening its whilst keeping a tight control on position in this segment.
This effect has already been a key driver in the establishment of Whilst Asia has seen the strongest Fidessas derivatives platform and is growth, Fidessa has also seen good now also noticeable within Fidessas growth across the Americas.
Within this has been further expansion in Latin business there has been a marked America, particularly with increase in interest for larger serviceopportunities in Mexico and Chile, based equity platforms and this has but there has also been good growth led to new deals for large equity across North America.
In this region platforms being signed across Fidessa has been able to expand its Europe, the Americas and Asia relationship with existing customers during 2015. as well as win new customers.
Moving into 2016 Fidessa is seeing Within the regions, growth has been a more forward looking approach particularly strong across Asia, driven developing within its North American by a more dynamic market and customer base and this is expected interest from super-regional brokers to lead to continued opportunity looking to provide services across the within this region.
region rather than on specific markets.
In particular, Fidessa has During 2015, Fidessa announced its continued to make progress within new low touch, low-latency Direct the ASEAN region with the expansion Market Access DMA platform which of its office in Singapore and provides brokers with highdeliveries to large regional brokers performance, scalable and consistent such as Maybank Kim Eng and RHB access to global equities and Investment Bank.
The platform have demonstrated the ability of insulates customers from the everFidessas expanded coverage and changing global trading landscape, infrastructure to support the risk allowing them to focus on innovation checks and local compliance rules
