Fidessa group plc 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report continued the introduction of some of the Overview We still expect that proposed regulatory changes have During 2015, while financial markets the themes we have recently been announced, we do not remained volatile, we saw a continued seen in 2015 will believe this will have a significant improvement in our end markets as impact on the opportunities that we they entered a new phase of the continue, with see and believe that the investments recovery, with structural and more opportunities we have made during the downturn regulatory changes starting to have opening up as our leave us well positioned to benefit an impact.
These improvements have from these opportunities.
The closures resulted in new opportunities and customers position and consolidations we have seen high levels of new business activity, their businesses for within our customer base during 2015 enabling us to deliver solid revenue the future.
mean that we are anticipating a higher growth in 2015 and building on that level of headwind in 2016, and while achieved in 2014.
As anticipated we expect to see some further in the 2014 preliminary results closures and consolidations during announcement, the increased 2016, we believe this will reduce as investment pipeline resulting from the markets stabilise.
Despite the new opportunities has had a small increased headwind, we still expect impact on the operating margin.
2016 constant currency growth to be During 2015 the restructuring within at a similar level to that which we have our customer base meant that we seen in 2015 with good single-digit saw some further closures and growth in our core equities business consolidations, however the and continued double-digit growth in headwind resulting from these during recurring derivatives revenues.
For many years we have had the As we move into 2016 the recent objective of providing strong returns movements in the financial markets for shareholders through both capital clearly demonstrate the challenging growth and dividend returns and this environment in which our customers continues to be a core part of our are still operating.
For 2015 we are pleased still expect that the themes we have to confirm both final and special seen in 2015 will continue, with more dividends, bringing the total 2015 opportunities opening up as our dividend pay out to 83.5p per share.
customers position their businesses Furthermore, we do not believe that for the future.
