Fidessa group plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 in their own business.
This type Fidessa maintains control over the customer for the derivatives trading of platform is fast becoming a client experience both technically and platform, was also named Best Bank commodity that firms have to be commercially.
In this way Fidessa is of the Year at the same FOW awards.
able to offer, with their customers able to offer a route for innovative The level of investment Fidessa is expecting them to own their companies to access the Fidessa making in the derivatives platform execution so they are in full control community and to meet the complex is now starting to normalise as it of the execution service they offer.
compliance and information security achieves scale, and Fidessas Besides low-latency market access, requirements mandated by derivatives business is currently on the service also includes frameworks regulators.
For Fidessas customers track to achieve profitability within around smart order routing, they are able to benefit from an even three years.
In addition to being a internalisation, algorithmic trading greater diversity of applications within valuable business in its own right, the and risk management.
This platform is their Fidessa platform helping them derivatives business also provides an ideal area for Fidessa, utilising its to differentiate their business.
Fidessa with a natural entry point into core strengths of ability to handle The first partner for this programme further asset classes within the global scale combined with strong went live during 2015. sell-side.
technical performance alongside Fidessa has continued to make good With the changing market conditions, proven delivery.
As a result, this is a progress with its derivatives platform Fidessa has been investigating the particularly exciting area for Fidessa delivering strong growth within this potential of further extensions to the and one in which the pipeline is segment.
New derivatives platform asset classes it supports and during developing rapidly.
deals announced during 2015 2015 has been looking specifically at Across all regions the overall theme included a global platform for the the rates segment of the fixed income of a market in transition is strongly in Royal Bank of Scotland and a new market.
This research is continuing, evidence with more focus around platform for CIMB in Asia.
These firms with the delays to MiFID II allowing service differentiation and execution joined Barclays in rolling out the some additional flexibility in the quality.
With this background Fidessa derivatives platform during 2015. approaches that can be taken.
Fidessa has continued to expand its equity Across the market Fidessa is seeing expects to continue its investigation offering with the development of growing demand for platforms to into this area during 2016. tools for optimised trading, including support exchange based derivatives Buy-side trading the Order Performance Monitor and trading and Fidessa is also Whilst 2015 saw a gradual Fidessa Prospector tools.
These tools broadening into further segments of improvement in market conditions, shift the whole process of monitoring this market by providing platforms for sentiment within the buy-side and achieving best execution from a Commodity Trading Firms CTFs.
Fidessa post-trade activity into real-time, Fidessa has continued its investment saw a slightly higher headwind from exception based monitoring.
This is in the derivatives platform, with consolidation, restructuring and something which traditional extensions into the middle office and closures within the buy-side than was transaction cost analysis TCA tools further extension into hedge seen within the sell-side and there cannot do as they are not integrated management is planned for 2016. were also some instances where into the real-time workflow.
Fidessa has continued to receive mid-tier buy-side firms looked to accolades for its innovative To further assist customers to outsource their operations to larger derivatives platform, winning Futures differentiate, Fidessa has also buy-side firms.
Whilst these factors and Options Worlds FOW sell-side established a new partnership resulted in a 3% drop in buy-side trading system of the year for both programme.
This programme enables revenues during 2015, Fidessa their International awards and also carefully selected third parties to expects that they will reduce during their Asia awards, both wins for the integrate their innovative applications 2016 resulting in an improved third time in a row.
Citi, a Fidessa within the Fidessa environment, while performance.
