Fidessa group plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Fidessa remains committed to playing an increasingly important role in the markets as customers focus on efficiency, transparency, compliance and performance.
and Information Security NIS and risk management, pushing stabilise.
Despite the increased Directive, which aims at improving for a more integrated trading headwind, Fidessa still expects 2016 national cyber security capabilities, infrastructure with centralised risk constant currency growth to be at a reached political agreement in view and kill-switch functions.
similar level to that which it has seen December 2015.
It is clear that firms in 2015 with good single-digit growth Throughout all regions the increasing will remain under increasing pressure in its core equities business and focus on regulatory scrutiny and to have tighter integration of all continued double-digit growth in management of risk will put their electronic flow for risk and recurring derivatives revenues.
significant pressure on in-house compliance, and to ensure that developments, as well as raising the Looking further ahead, Fidessa workflow across all the regulated bar for all firms looking to provide believes that it is entering a period asset classes is well managed.
As this where opportunity is returning to the Despite the delays, liquidity venues happens, Fidessa expects to benefit markets.
Fidessa expects that it will are starting to share their upgrade as firms look to move away from their make further strong progress with its plans for MiFID II, requiring changes in-house developments and identify multi-asset initiative and believes it is from all the firms that connect Fidessa as one of the increasingly on track to achieve profitability within to them.
few vendors with the scale and its derivatives business within the next In the US, additional compliance infrastructure necessary to handle three years.
Fidessa will continue to continues to be focused mainly these compliance demands.
look at the possibility of extending its around new reporting and asset class coverage further, and will Outlook functionality requirements update the market as progress is Looking into 2016, Fidessa believes associated with the Tick Size Pilot made.
Fidessa believes that across all the recent movements in the financial along with initial preparations for asset classes, the market is moving markets clearly demonstrate the the Consolidated Audit Trail CAT towards service-based offerings and challenging environment in which its NMS plan.
The Tick Size Pilot, believes that there are increasingly customers are still operating.
Despite created as a result of the Jumpstart few vendors capable of meeting its this, Fidessa still expects that the Our Business Startups Act JOBS customers business requirements themes it has seen in 2015 will Act, is a programme aimed at whilst also having the scale and continue, with more opportunities improving liquidity in smaller infrastructure necessary to handle opening up as its customers position quoted companies.
At the end of the latest compliance demands their businesses for the future.
Whilst 2015 a proposal to move forward being made by the regulators.
further delays in the introduction of with Regulation Automated Trading Fidessa remains committed to playing some of the proposed regulatory RegAT was unanimously an increasingly important role in the changes have recently been approved by the Commodity markets as customers focus on announced, Fidessa does not believe Futures Trading Commission efficiency, transparency, compliance this will have a significant impact on CFTC.
Once finalised, RegAT and performance, and expects that as the opportunities that it sees and seeks to create a more defined risk markets stabilise this will provide it believes that the investments it has and trading regime for all futures with significant opportunities for made during the downturn leaves it contracts traded algorithmically further growth.
well positioned to benefit from these on exchanges in the US.
The closures and The Asia Pacific region saw a surge consolidations Fidessa has seen within of regulatory scrutiny in 2015, its customer base during 2015 mean especially around pre-trade risk that it is anticipating a higher level of checks in relation to electronic headwind in 2016, and while it expects trading.
This is forcing many to see some further closures and sell-sides and buy-sides to reconsolidations during 2016, Fidessa evaluate their existing workflows believes this will reduce as markets
