Fidessa group plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors and corporate governance report This section of the Annual Report outlines how the Board maintains high standards of corporate governance as well as providing a summary of how each of the Boards Committees function.
The Board believes in good governance and recognises the importance of complying with the various aspects of the UK governance framework.
Over the last two years the Board has seen a number of changes.
2014 saw the retirement and appointment of two new non-executive directors and in October 2015 the Board welcomed Andy Skelton as the new Chief Financial Officer, succeeding Andy Malpass who will step down as an executive director in February 2016.
Andy Malpass has served as Chief Financial Officer for the past two decades, during which time Fidessas revenues have grown from 7 million to 295 million 2015.
Andy played a key role in our stock market flotation in 1997 and since then has been instrumental in helping develop the business into a global leader.
Andys knowledge, commitment, integrity and pragmatic style are all highly valued within Fidessa, but are also widely recognised and admired in the investment community, where his solid and consistent approach has served all of Fidessas shareholders extremely well.
Andy has also helped ensure a smooth transition period and handover for his successor, Andy Skelton.
We all thank Andy for his invaluable contribution to Fidessa and sincerely wish him all the very best for the future.
The Board also looks forward to working with Andy Skelton during the next phase in Fidessas development.
The Board continues to welcome interaction with shareholders and I and the other non-executive directors are available for dialogue as an alternative to meetings with the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
Finally, as part of the Boards ongoing commitment to good corporate governance, a full evaluation of the Board was completed in October 2015.
The evaluation was facilitated by David Mensley of EquityCommunications Ltd and it was concluded that the Board was operating effectively.
The observations arising from the evaluation were discussed by the Board during 2015.
Further details are set out in this report.
John Hamer Chairman The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for Fidessa group plc company number 03234176 for the year ended 31st December 2015.
These will be laid before the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 27th April 2016.
The Strategic Report is incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
All sections of the Annual Report contain certain forward looking statements which by their nature involve risk and uncertainty.
The forward looking statements are based on the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation and on what are believed to be reasonable judgements.
A wide range of factors may cause the actual results or events to differ materially from those contained within, or implied by, these forward looking statements.
The forward looking statements should not be construed as a profit forecast.
Directors For the majority of 2015, the Board comprised a Chairman, four independent non-executive directors and two executive directors.
Currently there are three executive directors during the handover of responsibilities of Chief Financial Officer, the number of executive directors will revert to two in February 2016.
The Board considers its overall size and composition to be appropriate, having regard to the experience and skills which the Board members bring together and the fact that the Board considers the non-executive directors to be independent of management.
The serving directors are: John Hamer age 56, Chairman John Hamer joined Fidessa in 1983.
in Computer Science from Leeds University and was Chief Executive of the Group between 1992 and 2001 when the Group had multiple divisions, each division having its own Chief Executive.
John became Chairman in 2001 when the Group focused on the Fidessa business by divesting the help desk and call centre software businesses.
The Board considers the Chairman role to be similar to that performed prior to 2001 when there were multiple businesses and there to be no conflict with Chris Aspinwall, the Chief Executive, who was already the Chief Executive of the Fidessa business prior to 2001.
He currently has no other material business commitments.
Fidessa group plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors and corporate governance report continued Chris Aspinwall age 52, Chief Executive Chris Aspinwall joined Fidessa in 1986 as a software engineer and was appointed to the Board in 1992.
He became Chief Executive of the Fidessa business in 1992 and has grown it to its current world leading position.
In 2001 he became Group Chief Executive.
in Computer Science from York University.
Andy Skelton age 44, Chief Financial Officer Andy Skelton joined Fidessa in October 2015 as Chief Financial Officer.
He was previously Deputy Chief Financial Officer at CSR plc, a global fabless semiconductor company that was listed on the London Stock Exchange and on NASDAQ, before its acquisition in 2015 by Qualcomm Incorporated.
Prior to joining CSR, Andy held a number of senior finance positions at Ericsson and Marconi, including two years as Chief Financial Officer of Ericsson Nikola Tesla in Zagreb, Croatia.
He has a BA in Accounting and Finance from Heriot-Watt University and qualified as a chartered accountant in 1994.
Andy Malpass age 54, Executive Director Andy Malpass joined Fidessa in 1995 and was Chief Financial Officer until October 2015 and has over 30 years experience in the software industry, with both private and public companies.
He will be retiring from Fidessa in February 2016.
in Accounting and Finance from Lancaster University and is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
He is also a non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Kainos Group plc.
Ron Mackintosh age 67, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Ron Mackintosh was appointed to the Board in 2004.
Ron has held a number of senior executive positions in European technology companies.
Between 1992 and 2000 he was Chief Executive of Computer Sciences Corporations CSC European business which had revenue of $2.5 billion.
He has been Chairman of each of CSR plc, SmartStream Technologies Limited, Northgate Information Solutions plc, Differentis Limited and Alertme.
com Limited and is a former director of Gemplus SA.
Elizabeth Lake age 73, Independent Non-Executive Director Elizabeth Lake was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in October 2008.
Until June 2009, Elizabeth was a director and president of Securities Processing Solutions International, a subsidiary of Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc Broadridge, a global provider of technology based outsourcing solutions to the financial services industry.
She was a partner in the consultancy practice of KPMG and has also held senior executive positions at CSC Index within the financial services sector and at Ziff Davis Technical Information Company, where she was responsible for software products and services for the financial services industry.
Elizabeth is also an adviser to the Tokushukai Medical Group, a privately held Japan based organisation which has 68 hospitals, together with a number of primary care facilities, retirement homes and dialysis centres, including the Tokuda Hospital in Sofia, Bulgaria of which she is Chairman.
John Worby age 65, Independent Non-Executive Director John Worby was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in May 2014.
John is a chartered accountant who is an experienced executive and non-executive director.
In 2013 he retired as Group Finance Director of Genus plc, having previously been Group Finance Director and Deputy Chairman at Uniq plc formerly Unigate PLC.
John is the senior independent director and Chairman of the Audit Committee at Carrs Group plc and has held a number of other nonexecutive positions including at Connect Group PLC formerly Smiths News PLC and Cranswick plc.
John is a member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
Fidessa group plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ken Archer age 64, Independent Non-Executive Director Ken Archer joined the Board as a non-executive director in November 2014.
He is Chairman of Gresham Computing plc, where he has been a non-executive director since 2010.
Ken was Chief Executive Officer of SmartStream Technologies until 2009 and prior to that, the President, European Business Development of Computer Sciences Corporation where he managed the sales team responsible for large scale outsourcing projects across Europe.
Ken has also worked at J. P. Morgan, where he served as VP, Information Services and subsequently at Mercantile Information Services and The Savings Corporation.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code Code, and with the exception of Andy Malpass, all the directors offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
As announced in August 2015, Andy Malpass, will retire as an executive director in February 2016.
Andy Malpass remained on the Board following Andy Skeltons appointment as Chief Financial Officer to facilitate a well-managed handover of responsibilities.
In 2013 Ron Mackintosh completed nine years of service as non-executive director of Fidessa.
Following consultation in October 2013 with the largest 13 shareholders holding over 60% of Fidessas shares at that time the Board reappointed Ron and he was re-elected by shareholders at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
During 2015, the Board undertook a rigorous review of Rons independence and contribution to the Board and continues to conclude that he remains independent in character and judgement.
The Board believes that Rons considerable experience within the technology sector in UK listed companies is both rare and very valuable and given recent changes in other parts of the Board it is beneficial to the Company to retain Rons services both as an independent non-executive director and as the Senior Independent Director.
The Board further considers his valuable contribution to, and in-depth understanding of, Fidessas business together with his fair and transparent participation in Board discussions as beneficial and valuable to the Board and Fidessa as a whole.
Accordingly, the Board recommends that Ron be re-elected as an independent non-executive director at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
As announced by the Company on 11th January 2016, Ron Mackintosh stepped down as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with Ken Archer assuming that role and also becoming a member of the Nominations Committee, both with effect from 8th January 2016.
After a formal review, the Board confirmed that John Worby, Elizabeth Lake and Ken Archer are independent in character and judgement.
When reaching its decision on independence, the Board considered the independence criteria set out in paragraph B.
The Chairman confirms that the performance of each of the directors continues to be effective and that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles, bringing their considerable commercial experience to Fidessa: accordingly their re-election is recommended.
The Senior Independent Director, Ron Mackintosh, confirms, on behalf of the non-executive directors, that the performance of the Chairman continues to be effective and his re-election is accordingly recommended.
Directors interests in shares and share incentives in Fidessa group plc are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
At the date of this Directors and Corporate Governance Report, indemnities are in force under which Fidessa has agreed to indemnify the directors and the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law and by Fidessa group plcs Articles of Association in respect of losses arising in their capacity as officer of any member of the Fidessa group.
In addition, Fidessa has purchased and maintained throughout the year, directors and officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its directors and officers.
Fidessa group plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors and corporate governance report continued The Board At 31st December 2015 the Board comprised the Chairman, three executive directors and four non-executive directors whose Board and Committee responsibilities are set out in the table below: Board Audit Remuneration Nominations John Hamer Chairman Chairman Chairman Chris Aspinwall Chief Executive Member Andy Skelton Chief Financial Officer Member Andy Malpass Executive Director Member Ron Mackintosh Senior Independent Member Member Chairman Member Non-Executive Director John Worby Independent Member Chairman Member Member Non-Executive Director Elizabeth Lake Independent Member Member Member Member Non-Executive Director Ken Archer Independent Member Member Member Non-Executive Director The Board meets formally on a regular basis to monitor operating issues, risk and trading performance, to review forecasts, strategy and policy, to consider key projects and major investments and to oversee appropriate shareholder reporting.
During 2015 the Board met on 10 scheduled occasions for this purpose.
In addition, if required, impromptu Board meetings occur to consider specific issues as and when necessary.
Meetings were held by the Chairman with the non-executive directors, without the executive directors present, to discuss the performance of the executives.
The Chairman and non-executive directors also held meetings throughout the year with various senior managers to improve insight into the business operations and marketplace.
The attendance of individual directors at Board meetings and Committee meetings is presented in the table below: Board meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee attended meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended John Hamer 10 10 2 2 Chris Aspinwall 10 10 Andy Skelton 3 3 Andy Malpass 10 10 Ron Mackintosh 10 10 4 4 3 3 2 2 John Worby 10 10 4 4 3 3 2 2 Elizabeth Lake 9 10 4 4 3 3 2 2 Ken Archer 8 10 4 4 2 3 Andy Skelton was appointed to the Board on 26th October 2015.
Absences were due to prior commitments or illness.
The Board is responsible for corporate governance and delegates operational control to the executive directors.
At each Board meeting it considers strategic issues, finance, business development, governance and risks facing the business.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the decision of the Board that covers key areas of Fidessas affairs.
The schedule includes approval of the Annual Report and any other financial statements, the adoption of budgets or business plans, decisions on acquisitions and disposals, material financial commitments and the release of inside information.
Certain matters require Board approval and other matters may be approved by senior management, but notification to the Board is required.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed annually.
Fidessa group plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 A procedure exists to allow the directors to seek independent legal advice in respect of their duties at Fidessas expense where the circumstances are appropriate.
No such advice was sought by any director during the year.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary for his advice and services.
There was a rigorous formal evaluation of the performance of the Board during 2015.
This consisted of an externally facilitated evaluation undertaken by an independent consultant, David Mensley of EquityCommunications Ltd.
This consisted of a review conducted by way of a performance evaluation questionnaire which was based on the Code and included questions related to the following areas: Board structure and diversity, effectiveness, administration, decision making, strategy, training, risk oversight, succession planning and Committees.
Questionnaires were completed by the directors and Company Secretary and submitted for compilation.
The report produced by the independent consultant was discussed by the Board, together with potential improvements that could be made.
The conclusion was reached that the Board is operating effectively and that each director continues to contribute effectively and demonstrates commitment to their role.
An evaluation of the Chairman by the non-executive directors without the executive directors present was also carried out and it was concluded that he was performing his role effectively.
In accordance with the requirements of paragraph B.
6.2 of the Code, the next independent evaluation of the performance of the Board is scheduled to be conducted during 2018.
There is a formal written policy on the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive such that their roles are complementary to each other.
John Hamer as Chairman is principally responsible for leading the Board, promoting constructive debate amongst the Board and facilitating communication with shareholders as well as overseeing strategy.
Chris Aspinwall as Chief Executive is responsible for all aspects of Fidessas operations: he leads and develops the strategy plans for the business and identifies risk factors and the steps required to mitigate them.
Directors undergo a thorough, formal and tailored induction process on joining and, following regular reviews by the Chairman of training and development requirements, receive ongoing updates to improve their skills and knowledge according to their personal and external needs.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board and updating it on governance and regulatory matters.
The Companies Act 2006 imposes a statutory duty on directors to avoid conflicts of interest.
The Articles of Association allow the directors to consider and, if they deem fit, to authorise conflicts of interest.
The Articles of Association set out the process for authorisation of such conflicts and any such conflicts will be recorded in the Board minutes and maintained on a register which will be reviewed on an annual basis by the Nominations Committee and by the Board.
No conflicts have arisen since that legislation came into effect.
The Board uses succession planning to help maintain a continuous level of quality in management and to reduce the level of instability that may arise following unforeseen events, such as the departure of a key individual.
The Board, in conjunction with the Nominations Committee, formally discusses succession planning at least once a year to identify those individuals with potential for Board and other senior management positions: part of those discussions include the development requirements of those identified individuals.
Committees of the Board The constitution and responsibilities of the Boards Committees are set out below.
