The world we live in Keeping people moving and communities prospering in an increasingly congested world is ever more important.
Urbanisation The influence of transport availability can be seen most clearly on Meeting the diverse needs twoscales efficiency and density.
The falling costs of long distance transport have resulted in an increasingly efficient, globalised economy.
of passengers in our In addition, cities and mega-cities continue to grow in importance increasingly complex and because their high densities allow so many more people to interact witheach other.
As a result cities are centres of innovation and change, congested world will require social mobility, and economic growth.
More than half of global GDP is ever more sophisticated generated in just the largest 600 cities globally, a proportion that is expected to increase.
More than half of the worlds population today transport solutions.
already live in urban areas, up a quarter from as recently as 1950.
Despite the advent of ever more sophisticated forms of long distance Improvements in personal mobility and efficient transportation of goods communication, the rapid rise of cities globally is expected to continue, and services have always been important for economic growth, at least given the importance of face-to-face interactions in increasingly as long ago as the catalytic effect of the steam train on the industrial knowledge-based economies.
People need to travel for a wide range of reasons business, education, healthcare, social and recreational andthe ease, Congestion, quality of life and complexity speed and efficiency with which they do so has a major impact on the Urbanisation and the prosperity it brings also create new challenges.
prosperity of their local economy and the ourishing of their community.
With 1.5 million people moving into urban areas every week worldwide, As the time, effort and financial costs of travel reduce, theaddressable it is becoming increasingly critical that transport services both within market of a business increases, the catchment area ofan employer and between cities innovate and change to keep pace with demand.
widens, and the coverage range of highly specialised institutions such Increasing congestion and poor connectivity threaten the rationale for as universities, healthcare services or cultural centres grows.
As a living closer together, and exact an increasing cost in lost productivity result, the need for efficiency and innovation in transport at all levels is a 2 for example, some estimates put the annual cost of trafc congestion critical enabler of prosperity.
in thehundreds of billions for the US by the 2030s.
Our core markets Our core markets in the UK and North America share several demographic, social and political characteristics which make them attractive for transport operators.
Both are heavily and increasingly urbanised just over 80% of the population in the UK and North America live in urban areas today, increasing 1 to nearly 90% by 2050.
High and increasing proportions of both populations are either in education or retirement age, demographic bands where use of our services is proportionately higher just over 40% 3 currently, rising to more than 45% by 2050 in both.
Although car ownership is relatively high 53 passenger vehicles per 100 people in the 4 UK and 78 per 100 in the US, national and local authorities in both markets are actively seeking to encourage greater use of alternatives.
Indeed some analysts believe that peak car has already occurred in the UK and 5 potentially in the US.
Both markets also have a long history of transport deregulation, with mature business models and regulatory frameworks that encourage partnering with the private sector for transport infrastructure and services.
1 4 6 UN Population Division, World Centre for Economics and Business OECD: Environment at a Glance UK data from DfT National Travel Urbanization Prospects 2014.
US data from US 2 3 5 Department of Commerce, Census 2013 report by transportation analytics UN Population Division, World Have we really reached peak car?, Bureau 2011. provider INRIX in collaboration with the Population Prospects 2013.
10 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report 33bn Every week 1.5m people Congestion is expected to 1 move into urban areas cost the UK nearly 33bn 2 a year by 2030 In many cities which continue to rely heavily on the passenger car, the Meeting a diverse range of needs cost of urbanisation is also counted in air quality degradation and an While urban areas continue to grow and the range of transport options increasing contribution to carbon emissions.
Where alternative modes becomes more complex, passenger requirements for safety, comfort of transportation to the car do exist, they are under increasing pressure and convenience are continuing to increase.
Competition between as demographic and social changes increase the proportion of city different transport options and amongst different operators continues dwellers who are reliant on mass transportation, such as those in to drive up quality and performance standards throughout the industry.
education, retired, or unable to drive themselves.
In addition, more It is becoming increasingly important to deliver services that are highly andmore particularly young urban dwellers are choosing not to responsive to changing passenger needs, especially as value for drive, given the costs of buying and maintaining a car and the issues money remains an important criterion for passengers and taxpayers.
ofparking congestion and sustainability concerns.
The digital economy Travellers often use more than one mode of transport to complete is also offering more opportunities to access transport as a service, theirjourneys, so thinking on a transport system-wide level is also through car sharing and other applications.
In response national and local governments have encouraged a range The future of measures to improve the connectivity and efficiency of transport Access to efficient and attractive transport solutions will continue to networks, such as a multiplication of the number of transport modes, play a vitally important role in keeping people moving to and from the investment in improved infrastructure and increased interconnectivity activities that they value and need.
Their quality of life and the prosperity between modes.
Passengers are being encouraged to use a broader of their communities is enabled by the transport options linking people range of travel options than ever before, but with this complexity comes together.
Increasing urbanisation will continue to create challenges of additional challenges in terms of interconnecting the various options and congestion, environmental impact and complexity, and more and more giving passengers access to the information necessary to make best use people will become reliant on mass transport solutions.
An increasingly of them all.
Employing a range of measures such as differentiated pricing, broad range of skills, expertise and capabilities and the ability to link advertising and loyalty programmes to manage demand for different them together is becoming more and more important to the delivery transport options has also become increasingly important.
of the transport services passengers will want and need in the future.
