Governance Other statutory information details of the Companys issued share capital are shown in note 8 Directors tothe Company financial statements.
The Directors of the Company who served during the year and their biographical details are shown on pages 56 and 57, together with The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
DavidBegg, Colin Hood and John Sievwright who stood down from the Board on 24 June 2014.
Details of Directors interests in shares A list of main subsidiary undertakings and their principal activity, is canbe found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
givenin note 3 to the Company financial statements.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that each Director Substantial shareholdings whohas been appointed by the Board since the last Annual General As at the date of this Governance section, the Company had been Meeting must retire from ofce and stand for election by the shareholders notied under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment.
Wolfhart Financial Conduct Authority of the following interests in its total voting Hauser, having been appointed to the Board on 18 May 2015, will be rights of 3% or more: seeking election as a Director at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Number of ordinary % of total allother Directors excluding John McFarlane whowill be stepping Name of holder shares voting rights down from the Board at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting will retire and submit themselves for re-election at Schroders plc 64,283,712 5.34 theCompanys forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Details of Franklin Mutual Advisers, LLC 60,595,200 5.03 Directors contracts or letters of appointment are included in the Jupiter Asset Management Limited 60,603,024 5.03 Directors Remuneration Report.
Orbis Investment Management Limited 60,263,833 5.00 The performance of each Director was reviewed and it was found that Results each of them continues to make an effective and valuable contribution The results for the year are set out in the consolidated income to the deliberations of the Board and demonstrate commitment to the statement on page 106. role.
The performance of the Chairman was reviewed by the Senior Independent Director.
Articles of Association The following description summarises certain provisions of the During the year, no Director had any interest in any shares or Companys Articles of Association and applicable Scottish law debentures in the Companys subsidiaries, or any material interest concerning companies the Companies Act 2006.
This summary inany contract with the Company or a subsidiary being a contract isqualied in its entirety by reference to this Companys Articles of ofsignicance in relation to the Companys business.
Association and the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys Articles Directors indemnities and liability insurance ofAssociation may be amended by a special resolution of the Directors and Ofcers liability insurance is maintained by the Company Companys shareholders.
and is in place at the date of this report.
The Company reviews its level Shares of cover on an annual basis and is satisfied that it remains adequate.
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company are dened The Directors also have the benefit of indemnity provisions in the in the Companys Articles of Association.
No person has any special Companys Articles of Association.
These provisions are qualifying third rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares party indemnity provisions as dened in section 234 of the Companies are fully paid.
Details of the Companys issued share capital are set out Act 2006. in note 8 to the Company financial statements.
Annual General Meeting Voting rights The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 1.30pm Shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at any general meeting onThursday 16 July 2015 at Norwood Hall Hotel, Garthdee Road, ofthe Company.
It is the Companys practice to hold a poll on every Aberdeen AB15 9FX, United Kingdom.
Details of the meeting venue resolution at general meetings.
Every member present in person or by and the resolutions to be proposed, together with explanatory notes, proxy has, upon a poll, one vote for every share held.
In the case of joint are set out in a separate Notice of Annual General Meeting which holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts.
inperson or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes A summary of the business carried out at the Annual General Meeting ofthe other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority shall be will be published on the Companys website www.
determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members in respect of the joint holding.
The Notice of the 2015 Annual Share capital General Meeting accompanying this document species the deadlines As at 31 March 2015, the Companys issued share capital was for exercising voting rights.
1,204,926,756 ordinary shares of 5p, each credited as fully paid.
As atthe date of this Governance report, the Company holds 157,229 Dividend rights ordinary shares in treasury, and the issued share capital of the Shareholders may by ordinary resolution declare dividends but the Company which carries voting rights of one vote per share comprises amount of the dividend may not exceed the amount recommended 1,204,769,527 ordinary shares excluding treasury shares.
The Directors are not recommending payment of a final dividend this year.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 101 Other statutory information continued Transfer of shares Employee involvement There are no specic restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the An informed and consultative approach to employee communication transfer of shares which are both governed by the general provisions istaken across the Group.
As well as more traditional forms of ofthe Companys Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
communication, employees can also access online facilities.
TheDirectors are not aware of any agreements between holders of Theemployee portal provides an opportunity for employees to share theCompanys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer information and work in collaboration with other Group employees ofsecurities or on voting rights at any meeting of the Company.
onareas of mutual interest and benefit to the Group.
Work will be undertaken during the next 12 months to develop further the portal Employee share plans toprovide learning and performance management capabilities.
In The Company operates a number of employee share plans details addition, management teams work to ensure that communication is ofwhich are set out in note 33 to the consolidated financial statements.
cascaded face to face throughout their business areas and employees Kleinwort Benson Guernsey Trustees Limited, as trustee of the are encouraged to discuss any issues with management at any time FirstGroup plc Employee benefit Trust EBT, holds shares in the and events, such as executive roadshows, are arranged periodically Company in trust inorder to satisfy awards made to participants in the toallow employees the chance to feed back to senior management.
Companys LTIP, EABP and SAYE plan.
The EBT waives its rights to vote and to dividends onthe shares it holds which are unallocated.
A significant proportion of the workforce belongs to trade unions, withour employees represented by approximately 30 different unions.
Under the rules of the FirstGroup plc Share Incentive Plan BAYE, The majority of our employees in North America, approximately 76% employees buy shares and receive free matching shares in the ofour UK Bus employees and a significant proportion of our UK Rail Company.
In order to preserve certain tax benets these shares are employees are represented by unions.
held in a trust by Computershare for employees.
Whilst these shares are held in trust, the voting rights attached to them are exercised by the Throughout the Group, regular dialogue with employee representatives, trustee, but only at the direction of the employees.
The trustee does not such as trade unions, is maintained.
Each division has its own vote on the shares if no direction is given to it.
information and consultation arrangements and levels of employee involvement in the business differ.
All of the Companys employee share plans contain provisions relating tochange of control.
On a change of control, options and awards As well as gathering feedback throughout the year through formal and granted to employees may vest and become exercisable, subject to informal channels, all employees are also given the opportunity to make thesatisfaction of any applicable performance conditions at the time.
their voice heard through regular employee surveys.
These surveys at Group, divisional and local level provide a useful insight into what Powers of the Directors employees think about the Company.
The priorities identied by The Directors are responsible for the management of the business employees help to shape the future employee strategy.
ofthe Company and may exercise all powers of the Company subject toapplicable legislation and regulation and the Companys Articles Policies concerning disabled employees ofAssociation.
Full and fair consideration is given to applications for employment bydisabled persons.
We are committed to supporting disabled Purchase of own shares employees including employees who become disabled persons At the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2014 authority was duringtheir employment with regards to training, career development granted for the Company to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares.
During the year no ordinary shares were purchased.
Under the existing authority the Company may purchase up to 120,400,000 ordinary shares.
This authority remains in place until the Annual General Meeting on 16 July 2015 when it is intended to seek a renewal.
Political donations The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the United Kingdom nor did it make any donations to EU political organisations orincur any EU political expenditure during the year.
102 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance c Joint venture agreements Change of control significant agreements The Company has joint venture agreements with Keolis UK Limited a Financing agreements inrelation to First TransPennine Express and with Danske Statsbaner The Group has a 800m multi-currency revolving credit and guarantee Danish State Railways in relation to DSB First Aps and DSB Sverige AB.
facility between, amongst others, the Company and The Royal Bank of As is customary, these joint venture agreements include provisions Scotland plc dated 15 May 2014.
This renanced the Groups existing addressing change of control.
revolving credit and guarantee facility.
Following any change of control of the Company, individual lenders may negotiate with the Company Financial risk management with a view to resolving any concerns arising from such change of The Companys policies on financial risk management, including the control.
If the matter has not been resolved within 30 days an individual Companys exposure to liquidity risk, credit risk and certain marketbank may cancel its commitment and the Company must repay the based risks including foreign exchange rates, interest rates and fuel relevant proportion of any drawdown.
prices, can be found in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
The US$150m 4.26% notes due in three instalments of US$50m from Audit information 2016 to 2017, the 250m 6.125% bonds due 2019, the 300m 8.125% The Directors who held ofce at the date of this Governance report bonds due 2018, the 350m 8.750% bonds due 2021, the 200m confirm that so far as they each are aware, there is no relevant audit 6.875% bonds due 2024 and the 325m 5.250% bonds due 2022 information being information needed by the auditors in connection issued by the Company may also be affected by a change of control with preparing their audit report, of which the Companys auditor is ofthe Company.
A change of control in respect of the 250m 6.125% unaware, and each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he or bonds due 2019 may result in an increase of 1.5% per annum in the she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or interest rate payable on those bonds.
However, the interest rate on the herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that bonds will only be so increased if certain further thresholds in relation theCompanys auditor isaware of that information.
tothe credit rating of the bonds are also met.
In respect of the 300m 8.125% bonds due 2018, the 350m 8.750% bonds due 2021, the Auditor 200m 6.875% bonds due 2024 and the 325m 5.250% bonds due Deloitte LLP has indicated its willingness to continue in ofce as 2022, upon a change of control of the Company, provided that certain auditors of the Company.
Upon the recommendation of the Audit further thresholds in relation to the credit rating of the bonds are met, Committee, resolutions seeking to reappoint Deloitte as auditors the bondholders have the option to require the Company to redeem andtoauthorise the Directors to determine its remuneration thebonds.
In respect of the US$150m 4.26% notes due from 2016 to willbeproposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
2017, upon a change of control, the Company must make an offer to noteholders to prepay the entire unpaid principal amount of the notes Going concern held by each bondholder at par together with interest accrued thereon Whilst the Group is affected by macro-economic developments, but without any yield maintenance amount.
ithasa strong balanced portfolio of businesses with approximately halfofGroup revenues secured under medium term contracts with b UK Rail government agencies and other large organisations in the UK and The Groups franchised passenger rail operators, First TransPennine North America.
Express and First Great Western, are each party to a franchise agreement with the Secretary of State for Transport.
These franchise While any changes in economic activity will impact UK Bus and UK Rail agreements are subject to termination clauses which may apply on a passenger numbers this potential risk is reduced in UK Bus by the change of control.
These operators and the Groups non-franchised rail ability of the Group to modify services on relatively short notice.
In operator, First Hull Trains, each hold railway licences as required by the North America, the First Student and First Transit businesses are highly Railways Act 1993 as amended : these licences may be revoked on contracted and, whilst Greyhound is more susceptible to the economy, three months notice if a change of control occurs without the approval its costs are largely variable.
of the Ofce of Rail and Road.
All of these operators also require and The Group has a diversied funding structure which is largely hold track access agreements with Network Rail Infrastructure Limited represented by medium term unsecured committed bank facilities and under which they are permitted to access railway infrastructure.
Failure long term unsecured bond debt.
The Group has a 800m committed by any of the operators to maintain its railway licence is a potential revolving banking facility, which expires on 28 June 2019. termination event under the terms of the track access agreements.
The Groups railway operators also lease rolling stock from specialist rolling The Groups management of exposure to financial risk, including stock leasing companies such as Eversholt Rail Group, Porterbrook liquidity, currency, interest rate and commodity risks, is disclosed in Leasing Company Limited and Angel Trains Limited.
A material number note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
of the individual leasing agreements include change of control provisions.
The Group is also involved from time to time in bidding The Directors have carried out a detailed review of the Groups 2015 16 processes for UK rail franchises and transport contracts further aeld budget and medium term plans, with due regard to the risks and which customarily include change in circumstance provisions which uncertainties to which the Group is exposed of which the principal would be triggered on a change of control and could result in termination items are set out on pages 45 to 49, the uncertain economic climate or rejection from further participation in the relevant competitions.
and the impact that this could have on trading performance.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 103 Other statutory information continued Based on this review, the Directors believe that the Company and the The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and forthe foreseeable future which is for this purpose a period of at least disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements.
the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared on a going comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible concern basis.
forsafeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and Post-balance sheet events otherirregularities.
There have been no material post-balance sheet events as at the date of this report.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of thecorporate and financial information included on the Companys Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation ofthe annual report and the financial statements and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for inother jurisdictions.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European for preparing a Strategy report, Directors remuneration report and Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have chosen to prepare Governance section that comply with that law and those regulations.
the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Responsibility statement Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Each Director confirms to the best of his or her knowledge that: Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Q Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors taken as a whole: arerequired to: Q the Strategic report and Governance section include a fair review Q select suitable accounting policies and then apply them of the development and performance of the business and the consistently: position of the Company and the undertakings included in the Q make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of and prudent: theprincipal risks and uncertainties that they face: and Q Q state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and balanced and understandable and provides the information explained in the financial statements: and necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys and the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Q prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will The Strategic report comprising pages 2 to 54 and the Governance continue in business.
section comprising pages 56 to 104, and including the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts referred to in these pages, have been In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Standard 1 requires that Directors: Q properly select and apply accounting policies: Q present information including accounting policies, in a manner thatprovides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable Robert Welch information: Company Secretary 10 June 2015 Q provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 395 King Street, Aberdeen AB24 5RP requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events andconditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and Q make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as agoing concern.
104 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements This section contains thenancial statements, theauditors report, the accounting policies andthe notes to the accounts, together withaglossary of key terms, information for shareholders and the financial calendar.
Consolidated income statement 106 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 107 Consolidated balance sheet 108 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 109 Consolidated cash ow statement 110 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 111 Independent auditors report 160 Group financial summary 164 Company balance sheet 165 Notes to the Company financial statements 166 Shareholder information 174 Financial calendar 175 Glossary 176 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 105
