Fidessa group plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report continued has maintained its buy-side Compliance operates at a transaction Technology Innovation Awards.
investment, focusing this into specific level, rather than a portfolio level, and The service currently supports global areas to address particular challenges can monitor regulations, tax rules and equity and fixed income instruments, seen within the industry.
client instructions as trading activity with further asset classes planned occurs.
It also provides a uniform, for 2016.
Compliance has always been a key single, centralised control framework area within the buy-side workflow, Regulation that imposes a consistent approach, and the increasing regulatory focus The regulatory environment around regardless of the system being used on buy-side firms means this is the world remains complex, with or the region or asset class involved.
significant amounts of detailed Fidessas Sentinel portfolio The roll-out of the latest version of regulation still under discussion and compliance solution is already Fidessas Investment Management subject to change.
However, despite established as a leading product in System continued over the year, with the delays there is an increasing helping buy-side firms ensure that the majority of clients now either consensus across the markets about they are managing their portfolios upgraded or actively engaged in the the areas that will be affected and correctly against their strict process.
This version incorporates a the changes that firms will have to mandates.
Recent enhancements range of new tools operating across make to accommodate them.
As this include a new Analytic Builder which all stages of workflow, from intelligent is happening, Fidessa is working empowers business users to directly modelling to smart order routing and closely with its customers to develop introduce new data and calculations, maintains Fidessas strong position in a comprehensive programme which and an Auditing Workbench which the centre of the buy-side workflow will support the new rules and help provides internal and external for larger firms.
them maintain their compliance auditing tools.
These additions have across all regions.
With its significant coverage of the helped win new customers for both post-trade affirmation process on In Europe, despite a level of enterprise and service-based both the buy-side and sell-side, uncertainty around the rules and the solutions in 2015, and were also Fidessa is uniquely positioned to drive European Commissions proposal for recognised by the industry when forward the adoption of new open a further one year delay to the MiFID Sentinel won best buy-side standards within the industry.
In the II timeline, Fidessa is seeing market compliance solution at the same way that the FIX standard has participants press on with their MiFID Compliance Register Platinum transformed the order routing programmes.
Firms have already Awards, and best compliance product process, Fidessas Affirmation started to understand the extent of at the Buy-side Technology Awards.
Management Service AMS is looking the changes that are likely to be During 2015, Fidessa also delivered to do the same in the post-trade required and are taking advantage of against a significant compliance space.
AMS was launched into the delay to progress some of these development agreement with a production in the second half of 2015 areas.
From what Fidessa tier-one investment firm.
This and is already processing thousands understands so far, it is clear that agreement has seen Sentinel of transactions between a number of MiFID II will have widespread extended into the trading firms across North America, Europe implications for many market compliance space to address the and Asia.
This level of activity is participants.
Emphasis is being placed evolving needs of asset managers expected to build as more firms use across firms on having risk checks who are increasingly focused on the system to process their post-trade at a number of different levels within trading control and operational risk, affirmations and as adoption within their workflow along with new driven by the cost of unwinding the buy-side community expands.
requirements around algorithmic trading errors and the reputational trading and algo identification.
The AMS service was also recognised damage caused by adverse publicity In addition, across the board, as the best new post-trade solution associated with poor trading information security is becoming an for buy-side firms at the FTF News practices.
Sentinel Trading increasing focus and the EU Network
