Fidessa group plc 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 trading in the marketplace and are Fidessa has consistently been regional coverage and build provided to both the buy-side and profitable and generated cash, and out its global infrastructure.
Traditionally with the very small number of These investments have positioned the solutions were delivered on a acquisitions has built a healthy cash Fidessa well in helping its customers highly configured, enterprise basis, balance.
The annual dividend has a to address the cost of nonbut in recent years the predominant pay-out ratio of approximately 45% differentiating activities through a delivery mechanism has been as a which provides a reasonable return robust, multi-asset, service-based managed service through Fidessas to shareholders whilst also providing delivery platform.
During 2015 these own global connectivity network and funds for potential acquisitions and programmes have been further data centres.
In the extended with new applications to absence of acquisitions, Fidessa has enhance the level of differentiating Fidessas buy-side solutions operate a track record of returning additional functionality customers can achieve across all asset classes, whereas its cash to shareholders in the form of with Fidessa whilst also broadening sell-side solutions have historically special dividends.
In recent These enhancements have principally years Fidessa has expanded its Market review been focused in the areas of trade sell-side suite to cover listed Introduction optimisation and measurement, derivatives as well.
Long-term During 2015 the financial markets alongside a new partnership commitments are required for started to enter a new phase of programme enabling carefully each asset class in order to build the recovery and this has been selected third parties to leverage functionally rich offerings that are characterised by a switch away from Fidessas infrastructure and bring effective in all regions.
purely cost focused strategies innovative applications to the Fidessa within Fidessas customer base.
Further initiatives Fidessa maintains ownership of its This change in focus has centred address compliance, for both product and service architecture and on three specific drivers: monitoring and reporting as well as is committed to internal development information security at all levels to obtain tight integration throughout Differentiation, where firms are across both buy-side and sell-side.
As a result of this looking to focus their offerings to Fidessa has also put in place approach, growth has been deliver unique benefits to their initiatives to enable its customers to predominantly organic and there customers in order to secure extend their use of Fidessa more have been only a very small number competitive position.
widely across their organisations, of acquisitions.
Providing tailored Cost efficiency, where firms are automating more business processes products and services to a broad increasingly looking at and helping them to further improve range of customers on both the outsourcing and service-based efficiency.
These investments, across buy-side and sell-side means Fidessa platforms as well as making both buy-side and sell-side, will help has a unique understanding of the broader use of their technology secure Fidessas central position complete marketplace.
in order to reduce the total cost within the financial markets over the of ownership.
Fidessa charges for its solutions longer term and provide a strong Compliance, where firms are primarily on a rental and base for further growth.
looking for ways to meet their subscription basis which is reflected increasingly complex regulatory Fidessas connectivity network has in the high level of recurring revenue and information security maintained its central position within reported each period.
This gives requirements in the most cost the market with flow of around increased stability to the business efficient manner possible.
However, the and allows Fidessa to commit to the continued pressure on headcount long-term development of its Throughout the financial crisis Fidessa within the finance industry has seen products and services.
has invested to extend the range of the total number of users drop asset classes it supports, expand its slightly to around 23,000.
