Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Viability Statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the UK Scenario 3 Corporate Governance Code, and taking into account the Groups Tailings dam breach at a mine A tailings dam collapses and tailings are current position and its principal risks for a period longer than the released into the surrounding area, twelve months required by the going concern statement, the Board causing environmental damage.
A fund is established a working team to make recommendations on the created by the Company to be used to remediate and compensate for any preparation of the viability statement.
The investigation into the causes of the event is drawn out and further time is needed for all environmental permits to be reinstated.
As a result the mine remains closed This team included two designated Directors, It was determined that none of the individual throughout the viability assessment the CEO, CFO, COO, Head of Business risks, except for prices, would in isolation period.
Principal risk E Planning, and Head of Risk, with the Audit compromise the Groups viability.
The Committee overseeing the process.
Directors therefore went on to group principal risks into the following severe but plausible Scenario 4 After analysing various options, a period of scenarios, in each case determining the risk Flooding at a mine five years, to December 2020, was chosen for proximity how soon could the risk occur and the purpose of the viability assessment, in velocity the speed with which the impact of A mine floods as a result of cutting into an line with the Companys five-year forecast a risk will be felt : unforeseen fault containing water, which period normally used to evaluate liquidity then enters the mine and exceeds and contingency plans which is key to us pumping capacity, thereby halting given that Fresnillo covers the full value chain production.
Production ramp-up to Scenario 1 from exploration to mine operation.
It allows pre-event levels commences once Impact of global macroeconomic for modelling of capital expenditure and management determines that it is safe developments development programmes planned during to do so.
Singular event Over a period of a year, precious metal the timeframe and reflecting cash flows prices fall and then remain at a low level generated by the projects currently under for the following four years of the viability development.
Due to the long business period, varying between US$972- Scenario 5 cycles in the mining industry, the Directors US$1,033 oz for gold and US$14.0- Action by the Government at a mine believed a shorter time period would be US$14.8 oz for silver.
To create this insufficient to perform an in depth analysis Explosives are stolen on site causing impartial projection for the future low of viability.
authorities to suspend the explosives metal price environment, an average of permit at the mine.
Production is halted at the three lowest forecasts from each year Reporting on the Companys viability requires the mine whilst an investigation into the of the assessment were used, based on the Directors to consider those principal risks matter is completed.
Once permits have consensus estimates published by that could impair the solvency and liquidity been restored, production ramps back up Bloomberg at the end of December 2015. of the Company.
In order to determine those to pre-event levels.
Principal risk C This low metal price environment was risks the Directors robustly assessed the deemed to be the most significant risk Group-wide principal risks and operationand pervasive across the Company.
specific risks by undertaking consultations Principal risk A Scenario 6 with Executive Management, mine Access to land at a mine managers and other personnel across the operations.
Through these conversations the Conflicts with local communities arise resulting in the Company having to cease Directors also identified low probability, high Scenario 2 loss scenarios singular events with the operations, until negotiations can be Bench collapse at an open pit mine finalised and the land can be re-occupied.
potential magnitude to severely impact the A landslide occurs covering the lower pit solvency and or liquidity of Fresnillo.
Principal risk B of one of our mines.
Due to the unexpected nature of the event, fatalities For the purpose of assessing the Groups occur.
Production is gradually then viability, the Directors identified that of the ramped back up and re-established to full Scenario 7 principal risks detailed on page 37 the capacity.
Singular event A project suspension due to following are the most important to the Government actions assessment of the viability of the Group: Due to local opposition, sufficient pressure A.
Impact of global macroeconomic is mounted on the Government by developments, specifically volatility in environmental groups leading to the the prices of gold and silver over a period Government declaring the zone of time surrounding the project a protected area B.
Access to land and withdrawing all environmental C. Potential actions by the government permits, thereby resulting in the project which could include a delay in obtaining being suspended for the duration of the permits and or new restrictive regulations viability period, while mitigating actions D. Project delivery risks can be established.
Principal risks C & D E. Environmental incidents 48 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations The scenarios on the previous page are All scenarios were first evaluated using Strong risk management and internal 1 hypothetical and extremely severe for the average metal prices, and modelled to occur control systems are in place see page 36 purpose of creating outcomes that have the when each scenario would have the most throughout the Company.
Through the ability to threaten the viability of the Group: significant impact on cash resources.
Once internal control systems, the Directors however, multiple control measures are in the mitigation plans of deferring capital monitor key variables that have the ability place to prevent and mitigate any such expenditure had been applied to the extent to impact the liquidity and solvency of occurrences from taking place.
In the case of necessary, there was no threat to the viability the Company and are confident that these scenarios arising, various options are of the Group.
To create a more stringent test management is able to sufficiently mitigate available to the Company in order to and further challenge the resilience of the any situations as they might occur.
maintain liquidity so as to continue in Group, all scenarios were then overlaid with Nevertheless, as a result of this assessment operation, such as suspending some or all of scenario one, low metal prices and then certain actions for the reinforcement of the following capital expenditures: Pyrites re-evaluated.
controls and their monitoring have been plant US$176.3 million, Orisyvo US$393.3 identified and will be implemented to further million, Centauro Deep US$363.8 million After these had been modelled, the only strengthen the control environment.
and Centauro Extension US$155.0 million, scenario that caused a certain degree of which are described in more detail on pages stress to cash flows was scenario number Based on the results from these scenarios, 50 to 65.
A further option available to the three in combination with the low metal and having considered the established Company is the reduction of exploration prices scenario number one, albeit the controls for the risks and the available expenses by up to 50% on an annual basis Directors consider the assumptions used for mitigating actions, the Directors have a USD$71 million annual average.
To quantify this scenario were greatly amplified for the reasonable expectation that the Group will the impact on the Groups viability from the purposes of this assessment.
In addition to be able to continue in operation and meet its expected financial impact and remediation suspending capital expenditure, a further liabilities as they fall due over the five-year period for each of the above risks, mitigating action could include a 50% period of their detailed assessment.
This management benchmarked its own reduction in the exploration budget for the longer-term assessment process supports experience against publicly available first three years.
the Directors statements on both viability, information on relevant and similar incidents as set out above, and going concern, in the mining industry.
1 Analyst consensus, Bloomberg, December 2015: Analyst Gold & Silver Forecasts.
Going Concern Statement The Groups business activities, together US$14.2 oz and US$973 oz respectively concentrate on production with a higher with the factors likely to affect its future throughout this period, whilst maintaining margin in order to accelerate cash development, performance and position current budgeted expenditure and only generation without affecting the integrity are set out in the Strategic Review on considering projects approved by the of the mine plans.
The financial position of Executive Committee.
This resulted in the Group, its cash flows and liquidity our current cash balances reducing over After reviewing all of the above position are described in the Financial time, but maintaining sufficient liquidity considerations, the Directors have Review on pages 87 to 95.
In addition, throughout the period.
a reasonable expectation that note 32 to the financial statements management has sufficient flexibility includes the Groups objectives, policies The Directors have further calculated in adverse circumstances to maintain and processes for managing its capital: prices US$12.8 oz and US$920 oz for adequate resources to continue in its financial risk management objectives: silver and gold respectively, which operational existence for the foreseeable details of its financial instruments and should they prevail to the end of 2017 future.
The Directors, therefore, continue hedging activities: and its exposures to would result in cash balances decreasing to adopt the going concern basis of credit risk and liquidity risk.
to minimal levels by the end of 2017, accounting in preparing the annual without applying mitigations.
In making their assessment of the Groups ability to manage its future Should metal prices remain below the If the necessity arose to employ any or cash requirements, the Directors have stressed prices above for an extended all of the above mitigations for an considered the Company and Group period, management have identified extended period, it may be that these budgets and the cash flow forecast specific elements of capital and could impact the Companys ability to for the period to 31 December 2017. exploration expenditure which could be achieve its targets for production and or In addition, they reviewed a more deferred without adversely affecting reserves by 2018. conservative cashflow scenario with production profiles.
Finally, management reduced silver and gold prices of could amend the mining plans to 49
