Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Directors Report In accordance with section 415 of the Companies Act 2006, the Articles of No shareholder holds securities carrying special rights Directors of Fresnillo plc present their report for the year ended Association as to the control of the Company.
There are no 31 December 2015. continued limitations on the holding of securities.
There are no restrictions on voting rights or any arrangements by The Directors believe that the requisite components of this report are which, with the Companys co-operation, financial set out elsewhere in this Annual Report and or on the Companys rights carried by securities are held by a person other website, www.
The table sets out where the than the holder of the securities.
There are no necessary disclosures can be found.
agreements between holders of securities that are known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of voting rights.
Directors Directors that have served during the year and summaries of the current Directors key skills and The Sterling Deferred Shares only entitle the experience are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 102 and 103. shareholder to payment of the amount paid up after repayment to Ordinary Shareholders on winding up or Results and Results for the year ended 31 December 2015 are set on a return of capital.
The Sterling Deferred Shares do dividends out in the Financial Review on pages 87 to 95 and the not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or Consolidated Income Statement on page 147. to receive notice or to attend and speak at any Information regarding the proposed final dividend general meeting of the Company.
The Company may can be found in the Financial Review on page 95. also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Shares Dividend payments made during the year ended at a price of 1.00 or, as custodian, purchase or cancel 31 December 2015 can be found in the notes to the the Sterling Deferred Shares or require the holder to Financial Statements on page 180. transfer the Sterling Deferred Shares.
Except at the option of the Company, the Sterling Deferred Shares Articles of The Companys full Articles of Association can be are not transferable.
Association found on the Companys website at www.
Any Share capital Details of the Companys share capital are set out in amendments made to the Articles of Association note 19 to the Financial Statements on page 179. may be made by a special resolution of shareholders.
Authority to Details on the Companys current authority to The following is a summary of the structure, rights and restrictions of the Companys share capital: purchase own purchase its own shares and that being sought at the shares forthcoming Annual General Meeting are set out in The Company has two classes of share capital: the Corporate Governance Report on page 113.
736,893,589 ordinary shares of US$0.50 Ordinary Directors Details of the Directors beneficial interests are set out Shares and 50,000 deferred shares of 1.00 each interests in the Remuneration Report on page 132.
The Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Mexican Directors The Company has given indemnities to each of the Stock Exchange.
The rights and obligations attaching indemnities Directors in respect of any liability arising against to these shares are governed by UK law and the them in connection with the Companys and any Companys Articles of Association.
associated companys activities in the conduct of their duties.
These indemnities are subject to the Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice conditions set out in the Companies Act 2006 and and to attend and speak at any general meeting of remain in place at the date of this report.
On a show of hands every shareholder Directors and Directors and Officers Liability Insurance cover is in present in person or by proxy or being a corporation Officers place at the date of this report.
Cover is reviewed represented by a duly authorised representative shall Liability annually and the last was carried out in October 2015. have one vote, and on a poll every shareholder who is Insurance present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share held.
The Notice of Annual General Major Notifiable major shares interests of which the Meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights interests in Company has been made aware are set out on page and appointing a proxy or proxies.
shares 113 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Change of Details setting out the effect of a change of control of There are no restrictions on the transfer of the control the Company on significant agreements are set out Ordinary Shares other than: on the Companys website at www.
com the standard restrictions for a UK-quoted company who-we-are corporate-governance.
set out in article 32 of the Articles of Association: where, from time to time, certain restrictions may Political and The Company did not make any donations to political become imposed by laws and regulations for charitable organisations during the year: information regarding example, insider trading laws : and donations the Companys charitable donations can be found in pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial the Strategic Report on page 33.
Services Authority whereby certain Directors, Greenhouse Details of the Companys greenhouse gas emissions officers and employees of the Company require gas emissions can be found in the Sustainability Report on pages 66 the approval of the Company to deal in the to 86 of the Strategic Report.
124 F Fre res sn ni illo llo T To od da ay y S St tr ra at te egi gic c R Re ep por ort t C Cor orp por ora at te e G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S Sta tate tem me en nt ts s Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations The Directors Report has been approved by the Board of Directors of Employees Information regarding the Companys employees, Fresnillo plc.
including policies on human capital, can be found in the Sustainability Report on pages 84 to 86 of the Signed on behalf of the Board.
Note 8 to the Financial Statements on page 170 also provides further information on Guy Wilson employee expenses and numbers.
Senior Independent Director Financial risk Details of the Companys policies on financial risk 29 February 2016 management are outlined in note 32 to the Financial Statements.
Fresnillo plc Registered Office: Future Details about the Companys future developments can 21 Upper Brook Street developments be found in the Strategic Report on pages 12 to 65.
London W1K 7PY Auditors The auditors, Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their United Kingdom willingness to continue in office and a resolution Company No: 6344120 seeking to re-appoint them will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Additional Listing Rule Disclosures Disclosure requirements under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 C are identified below Post balance There have been no post balance sheet events.
along with cross references indicating where the relevant information sheet events is set out in the Annual Report: Audit Each of the Directors at the date of the approval of Capitalised interest for the year ended 31 December 2015 and information this report confirms that: information regarding tax relief can be found on pages 171 to 173. so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit Details of significant contracts with controlling shareholders can be information of which the Companys auditors are found on pages 185 to 186. unaware: and Details pertaining to services provided to the Company by Peoles he she has taken all the reasonable steps that he are set out on page 123. she ought to have taken as a Director to make Statement confirming agreement has been entered into with himself herself aware of any relevant audit controlling shareholder and that independence provisions are information and to establish that the Companys complied with can be found in the Corporate Governance Report auditors are aware of the information.
The confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
