Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Business Model and Strategy We seek to create sustained value for stakeholders across precious metal cycles, focusing on high potential silver and gold projects that can be developed into low cost, world class mines.
Our value creation strategy is intrinsically linked to the business model.
At the heart of our business is gold and silver mining.
We generate revenue by selling the metals contained in the ore we extract and process: to generate sustainable growth and ensure our longevity, we rely on a business model that creates value for all our stakeholders.
1 Operate Maximise the potential of existing operations while maintaining our position as a leading low cost producer 1 Operate Assets 2 Develop Deliver profitable growth by advancing new 2 projects towards commissioning, while Develop optimising cash flow and returns Projects 3 Explore 3 Ensure business continuity and growth Explore Prospects by replenishing depleted reserves and maintaining a robust growth pipeline 4 Sustainability 4 Uphold our licence to operate Sustainability Licence to operate Strategic resources Financial strength Experienced management Strategic Technology and control and skilled personnel relationships and relationships Safeguard, deploy and invest in our strategic resources, and nurture and Risk Management Framework strengthen our strategic relationships Risk management framework Embed a culture of risk awareness through an effective risk governance structure 18 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Precious metal value chain Fresnillo plc Exploration Development & Mineral Smelting for mineral construction of extraction and Brokers Buyers and refining resources new mines beneficiation Value creation Job creation Infrastructure Payment for Treatment and Dividends Tax revenue Knowledge goods and refining Wages and Education Capital gains GDP Increased services charges benefits healthcare contribution influence Support for Profit sharing Arts athletics local economy Professional Conservation development Quality of life p2223 Strategic relationships Shareholders Membership Employees Communities Suppliers Customers Government and Partners organisations Productivity Access Quality Timely intake Capital Concessions Best practices and payment Commitment Trust Fair prices Permits Increased Flexibility influence Respect Technical Access to support capital markets Stakeholder support 19 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Business Model and Strategy continued Business model components 1 Operate 2 Develop The extraction and beneficiation of ore from our operating mines The development and construction of new operating mines and facilities Strategic focus: Maximise the potential of existing operations Strategic focus: Deliver growth through development projects Priorities: Optimise capacity and recovery rates by adjusting Priorities: Adhere to strict delivery timelines and capex mining methods and beneficiation processes: budgets generate continuous improvements in productivity and cost controls: leverage expansion opportunities KPIs: Production by metal, cost per tonne by mine, KPIs: Project delivery against budget timeline productivity by mine ore milled or moved per person Competitive In most of our mines, AISC on a life of mine basis Competitive All projects meet stringent viability criteria, advantages: are significantly lower than current and projected advantages: including environmental impact, sustaining capital market prices for gold and silver, positioning our expenditures and rates of return: our district cost performance competitively amongst consolidation strategy offers synergy potential industry peers with our other prospects and projects, reducing total capex requirements: engineering and construction are carried out by our in-house teams Key assets Key assets Asset Type Main Metal Year In progress: San Julin Underground mine in the Estimated 10.3 moz silver and Fresnillo district prospective San Julin district.
44,000 oz gold per year Fresnillo Underground Silver primary 1554 Phase 1 start-up 2Q16: Phase 2 Saucito Underground Silver primary 2011 4Q16 Cinega district Cinega Underground Gold Silver 1992 Pyrites treatment plant San Ramn Underground Gold Silver 2012 Facility to process historical and On hold post detailed engineering.
Cinega satellite ongoing tailings from Fresnillo Annual production expected to and Saucito mines to increase average 3.5 moz silver and 13,000 Herradura district metal recovery rates oz gold: production less than two Herradura Open pit Gold 1997 1 years from reinstatement pending Soledad-Dipolos Open pit Gold 2010 Noche Buena Open pit Gold 2012 market conditions 1 Operations at Soledad-Dipolos are currently suspended.
Key risks: Key risks: Impact of global macroeconomic developments Impact of global macroeconomic developments Access to land Access to land Potential actions by the government Potential actions by the government Security Security Public perception against mining Public perception against mining Union relations Projects performance risk Human Resources Union relations Human Resources See pages 5059 for a detailed review of our mining operations.
See pages 6061 for a detailed review of our development projects.
20 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 3 Explore 4 Sustainability development The search for ore deposits that expand our resource base and Policies and practices that ensure the responsible operation of our replenish reserves business Strategic focus: Extend the growth pipeline Strategic focus: Advance and enhance the sustainability of our business, today and for future generations Priorities: Allocate funding across metal price cycles: Priorities: Eliminate unsafe workplace conditions and advance prospects and projects along the behaviours: improve and maintain the health of exploration pipeline in accordance with strict our people: minimise the environmental impact criteria from early stage to drilling to advanced : of our activities: engage with and support the convert resources to reserves development of our communities: secure the talent pipeline and ensure a fair workplace: fully integrate the HSECR system across the organisation KPIs: Total attributable resources by metal KPIs: Fatalities and injuries, greenhouse gases, water, community investment Competitive We hold one of the largest sets of mining claims Competitive Deep understanding of our home market culture advantages: in Mexico: prospects must meet strict criteria on advantages: and communities, enabling us to meet best ore grades, metallurgical recoveries and practices domestically and in line with environmental impact, and have a minimum international standards potential of 100 moz of silver or 2 moz of gold equivalent in order to advance along the pipeline Key assets Key pillars Asset Main Metal Fresnillo district Health Safety Juanicipio Silver Cinega district Las Casas, Cebollitas Cluster Silver and gold Environment Community relations Herradura district Centauro Deep Gold Chihuahua greenfield Orisyvo Gold People Other early stage projects and prospects, Mexico and Peru Key risks: Key risks: Impact of global macroeconomic developments Potential actions by the government Access to land Security Potential actions by the government Public perception against mining Security Safety Public perception against mining Human Resources Exploration Environmental incidents Human Resources See pages 6686 for a detailed review of our sustainability practices and performance.
See pages 6265 for a detailed review of our exploration pipeline.
21 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Business Model and Strategy continued Customers Risk management Strategic relationships Partner with refiners and smelters who help Our key stakeholders for and with whom framework maximise our revenue stream.
The identification, evaluation and mitigation of the principal risks that could affect the All the primary products originating from our Strategic focus Companys ability to execute its strategy mines in 2015 were sold to the Met-Mex Nurture and strengthen our strategic and deliver on its commitments.
Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. refining and smelting relationships.
facility in Torren, Coahuila Mexico under a Strategic focus series of supply agreements that enable us Contract and unionised labour Embed a culture of risk awareness through to benefit from relatively low transport costs Provide a safe, equitable and fair work an effective risk governance structure.
associated with the proximity of their environment.
The terms of the supply See pages 8486.
Priorities agreements with Met-Mex are set on an Identify, assess and mitigate risk at all levels arms length basis based on international of the organisation, including the Board.
The Group has sold to other Communities refiners and smelters in the past and may Invest directly and through partnerships in Competitive advantages do so in the future if conditions warrant.
a range of initiatives that aim to enhance Our conservative approach towards risk, and quality of life and long-term wellbeing, with a ability to mitigate and manage it, supports Shareholders and note holders focus on environment, education, health and our long-term value creation strategy.
Balance returns with investment in long-term social integration, entrepreneurship and growth.
See pages 3647 for a detailed review of social infrastructure.
our risk management programme Peoles holds 75% of the issued share capital See pages 8083. of Fresnillo plc and has been the principal investor in Group assets for over 50 years, as Strategic resources well as a significant supplier to and customer Suppliers The key inputs required to sustain our value of the Company, as described above.
We Negotiate long-term purchase agreements creation model.
believe Peoles is committed to our long-term to secure better pricing and ensure timely growth and development.
The remaining 25% availability of key equipment, materials Strategic focus of Fresnillo plc shares trade on the London and and services.
Safeguard, deploy and invest in our strategic Mexican Stock Exchanges, and bondholders non-mineral resources human, financial, IT own US$800 million of Senior Secured Notes The Group contracts Servicios and nurture and strengthen our strategic due 2023.
The Group maintains a regular Administrativos Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. SAPSA, relationships stakeholders.
dialogue with its independent investors and a subsidiary of the Companys controlling note holders as described in the Corporate shareholder, Industrias Peoles, S. A.
B. fide C. V. Experienced management and skilled Governance Report.
Peoles, to supply administrative services.
personnel The relationship is regulated by a Services Select, recruit, train, develop, compensate Partners Agreement NSA, or New Services and retain personnel with the requisite Enter into and execute mutually beneficial Agreement, ensuring that all services are knowledge and experience to execute business agreements.
delivered at arms length and on normal our strategy.
commercial terms as per the Relationship The Group owns a 56% interest in Minera Agreement with Peoles.
Technology Juanicipio S. A. fide C. V. with MAG Silver See page 111.
Deploy systems and methods that support Corporation holding 44%: the agreement exploration efforts, increase productivity, was entered into for the development of the reinforce sustainability, enhance Juanicipio concession.
We also partner with accountability, and support decision-making a number of junior exploration companies and financial planning processes.
to conduct early stage prospecting.
Financial strength and control Maintain strict control of cash, assets, costs and expenses to maintain our solid balance sheet and competitive position as a low cost producer, ensure resources to finance growth opportunities and guarantee operational continuity, and deliver shareholder returns.
22 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Social acceptance of our Engagement of community in reforestation at Cinega projects is our most valuable intangible asset Rafael MacGregor Chairman, Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations Committee Authorities and regulators In Mexico and Peru, secure mining concessions and adhere to the laws and regulations governing all companies, and those for natural resources and mining companies in particular, including environmental, construction, explosives and labour laws, among others: in Mexico and London, adhere to issuer requirements of the London and Mexico Stock Exchanges, as well as financial and regulatory oversight from securities regulators.
Membership organisations Learn about, advocate for and advance initiatives that support our strategic objectives.
We belong to a number of industry and trade groups: CAMIMEX, the Mexican Mining Chamber, which promotes sector agreements, advocates industry positions, and sets benchmarks for the mining sector: CESPEDES Sustainable Development Studies Commission for the Mexican Private Sector, part of the Mexican Business Coordinating Council, or CCE, which coordinates the private sector stance on key issues such as the transition towards a green economy and greenhouse gas mitigation efforts in the country: and the Mining Cluster for the State of Zacatecas, through which mining industry participants in Zacatecas state promote the development of economic, social and environmental best practices across the supply chain.
