DELIVERING SUSTAINABLE VALUE T E Business model SERVICES AND ORGANISATION POSITIVE, LONG-TERM SCALE AND CAPABILITIES We are a global business with many DEMAND FOR OUR SERVICES years of experience and expertise With our global footprint, we have in the security industry.
We recruit, a strong understanding of security screen and deploy over 150,000 market trends.
The security outlook new people each year and deliver around the world is generally efficient services to many thousands becoming more challenging, creating of customers.
With 566,000 dedicated positive demand for our core employees and operations in around services around the world.
The 85 countries, our ability to deploy increasingly challenging economic skilled staff on a global basis to outlook in emerging markets presents support local and international both opportunities and challenges customers is central to our business for the group.
This coverage means we more detailed discussion of some can share learning and experiences of the market growth drivers.
across our markets to the benefit of our customers and our business.
VALUES The group values underpin what we do and are discussed in more detail on page 19.
In addition, we work in line with relevant international standards and strive to achieve consistent high quality engagement, health and safety performance and ethical business practices across all our operations.
BRAND AND HERITAGE Our strategy addresses We believe that the G4S the positive long-term brand and our heritage as a security company for demand for our services over 100 years is a strong and our strategic differentiator with customers.
priorities are the safety and security of our customers and our people, sustainable growth, productivity and disciplined financial Developed markets management.
Our Emerging markets No presence business model is how we execute that strategy through providing a OUR REGIONS broad range of security products and services North America UK & Ireland Asia Middle East Services as outlined on pages Security and facilities management % % % Security systems and technology 2 and 3 and through 24 23 21 Care and justice services oursix regions covering Revenue Revenue Revenue Specialist outsourcing around 85 countries.
Cash solutions and secure logistics From 1 January 2016, the Asia Middle East Europe Latin America Africa region was split into Asia Pacific and Middle East and India.
For a detailed summary of % % % our activities, employees and performance 18 8 6 by region see the Business Review section Revenue Revenue Revenue on pages 39 to 45.
Excludes businesses held for sale or closure in 15 countries.
12 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 K R A M Y T I R U C E S L A B O L G E H T N I N O I T I S O P R U O E L P O E P Strategic report R U O D N A S R E M O T S U C R U O F O Y T I R U C E S T D E N SERVICES AND ORGANISATION STRATEGIC PRIORITIES We build customer understanding STAKEHOLDER VALUE INVESTMENT IN PEOPLE through dedicated sector experts, We invest in selection, training, Shareholders involvement in industry bodies and support and development of our Our business model addresses a academic institutions, strategic work people.
We have invested in new positive, long-term demand outlook with customers, customer service leadership, operations and sales for our core services and seeks to assessments and feedback.
We have training programmes and ensured deliver sustainable, profitable growth.
a broad-based contract portfolio we have the right recognition, and our contract review process incentives and rewards for Employees is detailed on page 48. performance see page 36.
Our employees are critical to our service delivery and by treating our FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE INVESTING IN CUSTOMER employees fairly and ensuring they We have a disciplined financial RELATIONSHIPS have the right training and skills to framework, operating a group wide Understanding customer needs undertake their roles, we can be contract approval process and capital is central to our success.
This an employer of choice.
rationing to ensure that we invest enables us to align our organisational in those opportunities with the best objectives to those of our customers risk return ratios.
We have focussed and means we can help our working capital management and customers to be successful.
See an active portfolio management pages 2 and 3 for an overview programme see pages 27 to 29. of our service lines.
GLOBAL SCALE DEEP CUSTOMER AND EXPERTISE UNDERSTANDING VALUES VALUE FOR COST-EFFECTIVE CUSTOMERS, AND INNOVATIVE SHAREHOLDERS SOLUTIONS AND EMPLOYEES GROWTH AND INNOVATION A key part of our business model is to grow revenues through leveraging elements of delivering sustainable the opportunity to design, sell and profitable growth see page 22. deliver more sophisticated, complex solutions in more countries to our OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE existing customer base and to new We are restructuring operations, customers.
Such services tend to designing lean operating processes have longer contract terms and higher and using technology to make margins than manned security alone.
our operations reliable, effective and efficient.
SERVICE EXCELLENCE Excellent customer service is one Having invested in a strong of our core values and for the last health and safety framework, three years we have been investing our focus is now on the operational in capability, processes and implementation of health and performance measures to drive safety actions where they can growth, customer retention and have the most impact and save customer satisfaction critical lives see page 18.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 13 K A R A Y M T E Y F T A I S R U C E S L A B O L G E H T N I N O I T I S O P R U O Market growth drivers What are these threats and migration and governments require support in the management of how must G4S position itself migrants and refugees.
The attention to be of assistance to its GROWING of the world is also focused on multinational portfolio of a number of other areas where customers around the world?
borders are disputed, or where there is international tension or International terrorism DEMAND armed conflict.
G4S is in a position A new era in international terrorism to support its government and began in 2001 with the attack on corporate clients as they navigate the World Trade Centre.
The security The world is facing a series of these difficult geopolitical waters.
industry has played its part in new and diverse threats to which responding to this threat, adapting to the needs of governments Economic stability national governments, multilateral and multilateral organisations Besides geopolitical and strategic organisations and multinational in the conflict zones of Iraq and concerns, the global economy Afghanistan.
In 2015, the armed companies will be required to is subject to ever increasing conflict in Iraq and Syria has interdependency between nations.
The uncertainty and undermined the stability of borders Market volatility and economic instability created by those threats and the integrity of nation states in instability is having far reaching the Middle East and North Africa.
consequences on national will challenge the security services We have seen a new wave of economies, with the potential industry to develop innovative and international terrorism, requiring for security implications in some not just protective security, but countries, whilst strong economic forward-thinking solutions in order heightened intelligence and analysis growth provides opportunities to help its customers to mitigate services such as those being in other markets such as India.
developed by G4S for more the risks that are emerging.
As a strategic and trusted partner information see pages 30 and 31. to its customers, G4S supports corporate customers with the full range of security solutions from Mass migration traditional physical security through The wars in the Middle East have to risk assessment and enhanced resulted in a massive wave of intelligence solutions such as irregular migration as hundreds of Risk 360 and GIS see page 31. thousands of people seek sanctuary.
The receiving countries require far-reaching measures to secure Pandemic disease their borders and manage migration.
The threat posed by pandemic The maritime and ports sector in disease is global, and international particular is being impacted by mass travel exacerbates the risk.
The impacts of pandemics are even worse in countries that are affected Early warning Indonesia by poverty.
High rates of uncontrolled In Indonesia we have begun mass migration could potentially work with a large forestry bring a heightened risk of the spread company to protect against of disease, requiring a renewed squatting, illegal logging and focus on border controls and health.
Our initial offering Economic migrants within countries consisted of manned security are also moving increasingly to cities which has since grown in a growing phenomenon seen significantly following our around the world, particularly success in working with the in Africa, Asia and Latin America.
Forest fires in Governments and multinational Borneo were a global news corporations will be pressured to story in 2015.
We are currently respond to the challenges posed working on a pilot with cameras by these social trends and they which will provide early warning will require novel approaches from of fires, enabling crews to provide the security services industry.
G4S early containment of the fire already works with communities, and reduce the smog which supporting livelihoods and created poor air quality development, and as risks intensify throughout south east Asia.
this will need to increase.
G4S understands the importance of Corporate Social Responsibility, respect for human rights and the promotion of local prosperity in todays interconnected world for global stability, security and the success of customers.
14 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Climate change Global security market by region $m There is now broad recognition % 100,000 that climate change is impacting the 6.8 natural environment and that nations and people around the world could Expected 80,000 face severe consequences.
Nations market growth are responding to the threat of rising from 2013 sea levels with contingency plans and 60,000 to 2023 resilience measures.
The populations per annum of less developed countries will suffer 40,000 the results of climate change worst, Source: Freedonia and many will suffer earliest.
Crop World Security cycles are changing as climatic Services report 20,000 conditions change, displacing the November 2014, communities that rely on their yields excluding residential security or forcing them to develop other 0 crops, and possible subjecting them 2008 2013 2018 2023 to poverty.
Food security in fragile Asia Paci c North America Latin America economies will be impacted by these agricultural changes and this could Western Europe Africa & Middle East Eastern Europe lead to conflict for resources, Source: Freedonia World Security Services report November 2014 excluding residential security.
The supply chains of multinational corporations whose operations are dependent upon customers.
G4S has expertise Cyber crime crops and agricultural produce will Finally, as governments and in delivering solutions in complex be adversely affected.
This is not business environments and we corporations become ever more just a future threat: it is apparent For a more reliant upon technology and the focus on delivering a holistic in the world today.
Governments detailed security solution together with digital world, they are increasingly and multinational corporations will description of exposed to the threat posed by software partners across the cyber be required to secure their food G4S products service spectrum, from physical cybercrime.
Cyber security is an resources and supply chains, requiring and services essential feature of a companys to technological.
innovative security solutions by please see pages resilience and it is required in More than ever, governments and companies such as G4S.
For G4Ss all aspects of operations.
It is corporations will seek the support business model estimated that 60% of cyber of companies such as G4S that and its customer security breaches relate to the can help them meet the challenges approach please company itself current and posed by these risks.
see pages 12 former employees, current and and 13.
Source: G4S Risk Consulting former service providers and Dynamic Risk Assessment UK Dynamic risk assessment is a tool we are developing to ensure that we are on the front foot in a changing risk environment.
We engage with customers to initially risk assess their facilities and from that, agree and implement a security solution that best meets their business needs.
We then deploy the Dynamic Risk Assessment tool which takes real time information from internal e. g. incident reports and external e. g. crime statistics sources and assesses on an ongoing basis if there is a change in the risk rating for the facility, and takes mitigating actions against the emerging risk immediately within parameters pre-agreed with customers.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 15
