62 Directors Report The directors present their Annual Report and audited financial The directors are authorised on an annual basis to issue shares, statements for the Group for the year ended 30 June 2015. to allot a limited number of shares in the Company for cash other than to existing shareholders, and to make market purchases of Principal activities shares within prescribed limits.
Resolutions to be proposed at the Galliford Try is a housebuilding and construction group, primarily 2015 AGM will renew all three of the directors standing authorities operating in the UK.
Galliford Try plc, registered in England and relating to share capital, which are further explained in the Notice Wales with company number 00836539, is the Group Parent of AGM sent separately to shareholders.
Other than usual activity Company.
More detailed information regarding the Groups in connection with the Groups share plans, no shares have activities during the year under review, and its future prospects, been issued or purchased by the Company under the relevant is provided on pages 1 to 31.
The principal subsidiaries and authorities either during the financial year or to the date of this jointventures operating within the Groups divisions are Annual Report.
showninnotes 12 and 36 to the financial statements.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys shares, Strategic Report with the exceptions that certain shares held by the Galliford Try The Group is required by section 414A of the Companies Act 2006 Employee Share Trust EBT are restricted for the duration of the to present a Strategic Report in the Annual Report.
This can be applicable performance periods under relevant Group share plans, found on pages 1 to 37. and directors and persons discharging managerial responsibilities are periodically restricted in dealing in the Companys shares The Corporate Governance Report on pages 40 to 64 is a statement under the Group Dealing Code, which reflects the requirements for the purposes of Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2.
1. of the Model Code published by the UK Listing Authority under its Listing Rules.
In certain specific circumstances, the directors are The Annual Report and Financial Statements use financial and permitted to decline to register a transfer in accordance with the non-financial KPIs wherever possible and appropriate.
There are no other limitations on holdings of securities, and no requirements to obtain the Results and dividends approval of the Company, or other holders of securities in the The profit for the year, net of tax, of 92.3 million is shown in Company, prior to the share transfer.
The Company is not aware the consolidated income statement on page 71.
The directors of any agreements between holders of securities that may result have recommended a final dividend of 46 pence per share, inrestrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
which together with the interim dividend of 22 pence declared in February, results in a total dividend for the financial year of There are no securities carrying specific rights with regard to 68pence.
The total dividend for the financial year will distribute a control of the Company, with the exception that the EBT holds total of 56 million.
Subject to approval by shareholders in general shares in the Company in connection with Group share plans meeting, the final dividend will be payable on 25 November which have rights with regard to control of the Company that 2015, to shareholders on the register at close of business are not exercisable directly by the employee.
from voting in respect of any shares so held.
The EBT currently holds 0.55% of the issued share capital of the Company for the Share capital, authorities and restrictions purposes of satisfying employee share options or share awards The Company has one class of ordinary share capital, having a 2014: 0.82%.
The ordinary shares rank pari passu in respect of voting and participation and are listed for trading on Articles of Association the London Stock Exchange.
At 30 June 2015, the Company had The Articles of Association, adopted in 2009 to reflect the 82,289,865 ordinary shares in issue 2014: 82,274,395.
Companies Act 2006, set out the internal regulations of the Company, and define various aspects of the Companys constitution including the rights of shareholders, procedures forthe appointment and removal of directors, and the conduct ofboth directors and general meetings.
In accordance with the Articles, directors can be appointed or removed either by the Board or shareholders in general meeting.
Amendments to the Articles require the approval of shareholders in general meeting expressly by way of special resolution.
Copies of the Articles are available by contacting the General Counsel andCompany Secretary at the registered office.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials 63 Significant direct and indirect holdings The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications As at 16 September 2015, being the date of this Annual Report, the for employment from disabled persons, having regard to Company had been made aware, pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure their particular aptitudes and abilities.
We carry out regular & Transparency Rules, of the following beneficial interests in 3% workplace assessments, and provide occupational health checks ormore of the Companys ordinary share capital: and advice to support both employees and line managers.
Appropriate arrangements are made for the continued training Shareholder Interest % capital and employment, career development and promotion of Standard Life Investments 5,754,388 6.99 disabled persons.
If members of staff become disabled, the Aberforth Partners 3,535,408 4.32 Group endeavours to continue employment, either in the same or alternative position, with appropriate retraining being given ifnecessary.
There were no material changes in any of the significant holdings between the financial year end and the date of this Annual Report.
Further information on the Groups employees, employment practices and employee involvement is provided in the Strategic Change of control provisions Report on pages 32 to 37 and the Remuneration Policy and There has been no change in the Groups contractual change Report on pages 48 to 61.
Information on the Groups approach of control provisions during the financial year, further related to environmental, social and community matters, including information can be found in the related disclosure on page 58 aconsideration of the impact of the Groups business on the ofthe 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
environment, is provided in the Strategic Report on pages 32 to 37.
Board and directors interests Significant agreements Summary biographies of the Board directors as at the date Except for the agreements underpinning the Groups refinancing ofthisAnnual Report are on pages 38 and 39.
Peter Ventress ofits revolving credit facility in February 2015, there are no andGavin Slark were each appointed as a Non-executive Director persons with which it has contractual or other arrangements with effect from 30 April 2015 and 13 May 2015, respectively.
whichare essential to its business.
Amanda Burton, Ian Coull and Peter Rogers stepped down fromthe Board on 16September 2014, 21 October 2014 Charitable and political donations and30April 2015, respectively.
For information regarding charitable donations please refer to the Strategic Report on page 36.
There have been no other changes to the Board, either during orsince the financial year end, other than the appointment It is Group policy to avoid making political donations of any ofPeterTruscott with effect from 1 October 2015. nature and accordingly none were made during the year.
However, the Group notes the wide application of Part 14 of the The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company Companies Act 2006, but does not consider the housebuilding are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 58, and construction industry bodies of which it is a member to be where details of executive directors service contracts and  for the purposes of the Act.
executive directors letters of appointment can also be found.
Creditor payment policy The Company operates a formal ongoing procedure for the Group policy regarding creditor payment is to agree payment disclosure, review and authorisation of directors actual and terms contractually with suppliers and land vendors, ensure the potential conflicts of interest, in accordance with the Companies relevant terms of payment are included in contracts, and to abide Act 2006.
In addition, conflicts of interest are reviewed, and as by those terms when satisfied that goods, services or assets have necessary further authorised, by the Board on an annual basis.
been provided in accordance with the agreed contractual terms.
Details of Directors and Officers Liability Insurance and qualifying In November 2013, the Group became a signatory to the Prompt third party indemnities are given on page 42 of the Corporate Payment Code which contains, among other things, commitments Governance Report.
to pay suppliers within agreed contract terms.
Employees Financial instruments The Group is committed to employment policies, which follow Further information regarding the Groups financial instruments best practice, based on equal opportunities for all employees, including interest rate hedges, related policies and a consideration irrespective of sex, race, age, colour, disability or marital status.
of its liquidity and other financing risks can be found in the financial We value everyone as an individual, recognising that everyone review from page 16, and in note 25 to the financial statements.
isdifferent and has different needs at work.
We respect peoples differences and treat everyone with dignity and respect.
We create a culture in which everyone feels valued as an individual and is motivated to give their best in their jobs.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 64 Directors Report continued Important developments since year end Fair, balanced and understandable There have been no material events or developments affecting the In accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Company or any of its operating subsidiaries since 30 June 2015.
Code and as further described on pages 43 and 44, the Group has arrangements in place to ensure that the information presented Going concern in this Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on The directors consider, on the advice of the Audit Committee, Going Concern and Liquidity published in 2009, the requirements that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and of the UK Corporate Governance Code and Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3, understandable and provides the information necessary for the directors have conducted a rigorous and proportionate shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business assessment of the Groups ability to continue in existence for the model and strategy.
This has been reviewed during the financial year, taking into account the Groups refinancing of its core Approval of Report revolving credit facility agreed in February 2015, and the directors This Directors Report, including by reference the Strategic Report have concluded that there are no material uncertainties that may on pages 1 to 37 and the Corporate Governance and Directors cast significant doubt on the Companys ability to continue as a Remuneration Reports on pages 40 to 61, was approved by the going concern.
Furthermore, the Group has adequate resources Board of directors on 16 September 2015. and visibility as to its future workload, as explained in this Annual Report.
It is therefore justified in using the going concern basis For and on behalf of the Board inpreparing these financial statements.
Kevin Corbett Independent auditor General Counsel and Company Secretary Each of the directors at the date of approval of this Annual Report 16 September 2015 confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditor is unaware: and the director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
A resolution is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM for the reappointment of  LLP as auditor of the Company, at a rate of remuneration to be determined by theAuditCommittee.
AGM The AGM will be held at the offices of Royal Bank of Scotland, 3rdFloor Conference Centre, 250 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4AA on 13 November 2015 at 11am.
The notice convening the AGM, sent to shareholders separately, explains the items of business which are not of a routine nature.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
