Our strategy MULTIPLE SERVICE SOURCES FINANCIAL GROWTH EXCELLENCE DISCIPLINE OF VALUE We focus on increasing profitable growth through a combination of: During a time of great positive Revenue retention change for the company, we have Growing existing prioritised areas that deliver real accounts momentum and create value.
OPERATIONAL New customer wins Weve come a long way and New product and today we have a better, EXCELLENCE services sales stronger business.
Global accounts Investment in INNOVATION sales and business development One of the strengths of our strategy is that there are multiple sources of value organic opportunities to drive revenue growth and opportunities to We design, market improve PBITA margins through and deliver innovative productivity improvements and solutions that add value portfolio management.
Our for our customers and financial and risk management support their objectives.
processes have been strengthened We invest in innovation and we are implementing and technology centres a cash matters culture.
PEOPLE & VALUES Watch our 2015 results and 2016 strategic update online at: www.
com investors 16 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report SERVICE FINANCIAL GROWTH EXCELLENCE DISCIPLINE We aim to manage risk effectively and ensure we have profitable OPERATIONAL cash generative services through: EXCELLENCE Installing a cash matters culture within the organisation Embedding risk management INNOVATION within the business Ensuring portfolio management is a key part of capital discipline We aim to provide our and ensures focus and customers with an outstanding performance management for service experience through: the group.
We divested 10 We aim to ensure secure, businesses in 2015 and a safe, reliable and efficient Investment in training further five businesses in the operations through: and development first two months of 2016 and Investment in best in class Investment in systems continue to evaluate further and technology operating and safety standards portfolio rationalisation.
Subject matter experts: Skilled account managers operations, security and safety Investment in account and Investment in technology, relationship management IT and procurement Investment in business and process restructuring Our employees Values Our financial performance During 2015 we reviewed our values.
Read more on page 19. is underpinned by recruiting, developing and deploying the We act with best people.
To do this we invest in building robust recruitment, INTEGRITY AND RESPECT screening and vetting processes to underpin our commitment We are passionate about to delivering consistent service excellence and high standards SAFETY, SECURITY AND SERVICE EXCELLENCE of ethical and legal compliance.
We achieve this through INNOVATION AND TEAMWORK Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 17 Our strategy continued OUR VALUES AND PEOPLE & VALUES INVESTING IN PEOPLE Our people and the group values underpin our strategic priorities.
We need highly motivated and engaged employees who believe in the company, follow the group values and do their best to provide our customers with great service every day.
Health and safety Employee engagement The safety of our employees and During 2015, we conducted our those in our care is a key priority fourth global employee engagement 449,000 for the group.
We have made survey to help us assess whether we improvements to our health and are delivering our commitments to employees completed the safety across the business, with a our employees and maximising their 2015 employee survey, particular focus on management levels of engagement.
The survey, which we believe to be accountability as well as accident which we believe is the largest of the largest of its kind prevention and best practice its kind globally, was completed by sharing including: 449,000 employees world-wide.
This response equates to almost Undertook health and safety three quarters of our workforce leadership training with and represents an 11% increase 1,000 managers on the last survey in 2013.
The Developed and launched questions were based on our a new road safety policy employee engagement model Completed six health and safety called PRIDE, which sets out how we will Protect, Respect, Involve, critical country reviews in countries where serious incidents occurred Develop and Engage our people.
As this was the fourth global It has been a challenging year and engagement survey, the results whilst the added focus on health tracked improvements over time and safety has led to a reduction and also provided feedback from Employee gender diversity in 2015 % in the number of fatal accidents and employees to new questions on attacks in some regions during 2015, the groups values.
Overall the 100 46of our colleagues lost their lives feedback was extremely positive 8 251 during 2015 41 in 2014 which and all questions had a favourable is unacceptable.
response rate in excess of 75%.
80 Further details on this and an We will continue to invest in safety additional senior management survey awareness and training as part of an 60 can be found in the CSR report.
on-going programme to evolve the safety culture of the company and Both the employee and senior 40 achieve our aim of zero fatalities.
management surveys included Our approach on health and safety questions on the groups values will focus directly on the actions of to establish whether these are fully 20 staff on the front line resources understood and, whether they help 2 will be re-aligned to the areas where shape employees behaviour at work.
32 0 they can have the most impact From senior managers there was reviewing health and safety practices positive feedback about the at our offices, branches and customer introduction of a health and safety sites and taking remedial action to value in 2014 and in the wider address every-day breaches of our employee engagement survey it health and safety guidelines.
was encouraging to see 90% of respondents confirming they know Female how to behave in accordance Male with the groups values.
18 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Board Senior management Total 86,677 523,323 employees Strategic report Talent and succession Training and development For a long time we have recognised our continuing success will be Building a pipeline of talented future Having employees who are well leaders remains a strategic focus for trained and know how to respond impacted by our ability to harness the great diversity of ideas and the business.
As well as sourcing new in a wide range of situations is a talent externally to bring fresh ideas core human resources standard experience that exists in the business.
To do this, we need to foster an and expertise, we also strive to and a key customer requirement, so promote from within and develop it was reassuring to see that in the inclusive working environment where employees views are welcomed the knowledge and capabilities of employee engagement survey, 85% existing managers so that we retain of our employees who responded and where different perspectives are seen as vital in shaping our competitive advantage in the indicated that they had been well marketplace.
In 2015, a new regional trained to do their job.
leadership programme was launched Offering career progression is Our on-line cultural training tool, across three of the six regions.
available to all employees worldequally important to our employees We are refreshing our induction and the extent to which the company wide, is helping to build greater programmes for 2016 so that new cultural understanding and make does this was also rated positively managers have a comprehensive in the global employee engagement working in diverse teams easier.
introduction to the business, our Developing a global mindset is a survey increasing from a favourable values and the behaviours expected score of 78% to 80%.
core leadership competence so the of them.
tool is utilised in the new regional Providing development opportunities leadership programme launched in means employees can realise their Reward and recognition 2015 to help participants explore potential and our customers gain Our compensation and benefit and understand the impact of from an increasingly experienced strategy aims to ensure terms cultural differences at work.
and conditions compare favourably Our efforts at building an inclusive with others in the sector so that workplace appear to be recognised we can attract and retain high calibre Diversity and inclusion by our employees who responded employees.
In some countriespay We encourage our businesses positively to the question about rates are mandated by legislation to reach out to the widest talent diversity in the employee engagement and where they are not, but we pools and to ensure that any survey completed in 2015.
Over have collective agreements in place, succession pipelines they develop 80% of the 449,000 respondents we will agree appropriate rates are reflective of the diverse talent indicated they believe the company following agreement with trade required to run a global and respects and values people from union or employee representatives.
LIVING OUR VALUES We act with INTEGRITY AND RESPECT Our values Our values are the standards we set We are passionate about for ourselves and they are reflected in the culture of our organisation SAFETY, SECURITY AND SERVICE EXCELLENCE through our behaviours and actions.
They help us to attract and retain We achieve this through employees, to win and keep important customers and to obtain appropriate INNOVATION AND TEAMWORK long-term investment in the group Integrity and Respect all of which contribute to achieving Safety, Security and Innovation Teamwork our goal of achieving sustainable Our business Service Excellence We invest in We work together activities and profitable growth.
We work in a safe technology and as a team to achieve relationships are built way and take great best practice to the best results for on trust, honesty and care to protect our continually improve our customers openness.
We deliver colleagues and our service offering.
on the promises we customers from We challenge Everyone has a valid make and treat our harm.
We are experts ourselves to find opinion and their colleagues, customers in security and use new ways of helping contribution is valued.
and those in our that knowledge our customers.
care with the to protect our utmostrespect.
We are passionate about delivering high levels of customer service.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 19 Our strategy continued Human rights Ethical conduct provides customers, employees, Our human rights framework partners and communities with the confidence supports the continued development of an ethical and that they are working with an ethical organisation.
sustainable business model that Acting with integrity across the world is a key encourages the improvement of element of our business strategy and a positive standards, job creation, community support and broader beneficial differentiator with customers.
impacts on societies throughout the world.
The framework has been embedded across the group, along with newly-developed processes for assessing the groups human rights risks in many areas such as bidding In 2016 we will continue our the confidence that they are for major contracts, entering new commitment to building an inclusive working with an ethical organisation.
markets and analysing our existing workplace focusing on improving Acting with integrity across the countries of operation.
These our gender balance and on supporting world is a key element of our practices are driven by an annual people who have complex barriers business strategy and a positive assessment of human rights risks impacting their ability to secure work.
and a series of assessments and Every year we review our business reviews in markets where risks exist.
Labour relations and freedom ethics policy to ensure it reflects Where risks or concerns are of association the current business and political identified, action is taken to make With over 30% of our employees environment and addresses any risks sure that we put in place processes covered by collective bargaining which may exist.
Implementation to mitigate or reduce any risk.
agreements, some of which have of the standards described in the In some cases, this means that been in place for decades, we have policy is the responsibility of local a business or operation can be experience at building trusting managers.
These are subject to scrutinised intensely by either and constructive union relations review through our internal audit G4S or independent experts.
to jointly improve the working programmes and from investigations conditions of our employees and triggered by whistleblowers or More detail on human rights risk seek to drive up standards across colleagues raising concerns with assessment can be found in the the industry where we can.
Compliance risk management section and the statements are now signed by groups separate CSR report.
The Ethical Employment Partnership the businesses and regions on EEP agreement which was signed a quarterly basis.
with the GMB union and global union UNI in 2008, continues to In 2015, we implemented an safeguard industrial relations stability.
upgraded global whistleblowing The agreement helps to ensure system and case management tool that any serious labour issues are to enable us to capture information handled in a constructive manner on whistleblowing cases across the to prevent them escalating into 2015 employee percentage % group and to analyse trends and disputes which may have a Group total including joint ventures issues raised on a more systematic significant business impact.
The events at our Medway facility in 2015 underline the The group is committed to respecting importance of this on-going the rights established through the programme.
Our ethics steering core labour conventions of the ILO group works to ensure the International Labour Organisation.
appropriate focus on whistleblowing The EEP reaffirms this commitment and ethical behaviour across the and provides an additional avenue group and makes sure that we are for matters of concern relating to constantly challenging ourselves ethical practices to be aired, to meet the highest standards.
particularly in relation to countries where international labour laws may From time to time, concerns about not be well embedded.
the conduct of our colleagues or our business partners are brought Africa 21% Business ethics and anti-bribery to our attention.
We take all such Asia Middle East 42% and corruption concerns seriously and work Ethical conduct is not just a solution Latin America 13% with internal audit and external to the challenges of legal compliance, investigators to ensure all issues Europe 10% but a means of doing business which raised are addressed appropriately.
North America 9% provides customers, employees, Information on current issues can UK and Ireland 5% partners and communities with be found in our CSR report.
20 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report ADDRESSING THE GROWTH GROWTH OPPORTUNITY Despite an uncertain economic outlook, we believe the long-term demand for our services remains strong and we expect to grow by around 4-6% per annum.
We continue to sustain contract retention rates of around 90%, have won new business and more than replenished our sales pipeline.
Over the last two and a half years Importantly were now getting we have invested heavily in sales better at qualifying our pipeline leadership, sales and service training, early, to ensure we focus our customer relationships and account resources on the most promising management.
This also includes global opportunities.
As we get better at accounts and improving how we pipeline qualification we should see identify the best global customer our win rate improve, because we opportunities which has delivered are focusing on opportunities that success with customers such as GSK we have a better chance of winning see page 30.
Our sales pipeline and and a better chance of executing sales management has improved with well against.
com now mandatory for our sales people, giving us better visibility on our pipeline.
Increasing win rate bn Large, diversi ed sales pipeline as at 1 January 2016 1.5 Large diversified sales pipeline During 2015 we won new work 1.2 0.6 with an annual contract value of 1.3 billion 2014: 1.1 billion 0.5 and total contract value of 2.4 0.9 1.0 billion 2014: 2.1 billion.
3.9bn We continue to build and 0.6 0.7 replenish the sales pipeline 0.6 Leads and prospects unrisked which, after taking into account 0.3 continued strong conversion in 2015, had an annual contract value of 5.7 billion at the end 0.0 of the year.
2013 2014 2015 The pipeline is diversified by service, geography and customer segment.
1.1bn H1 Bidding H2 Note: 2013 data not available for 0.7bn H1 vs H2 Negotiation Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 21 Our strategy continued SERVICE EXCELLENCE SERVICE EXCELLENCE We have a strong and diverse list of customers Revenue by customer type in 2015 % and we aim to provide our customers with an outstanding service experience.
Some of the areas where we have Contract risk management been investing in our customers and delivery assurance and service excellence include: Our enhanced contract management processes are now Investment in training embedded across the group.
There and development are clear, reserved powers for the Investment in systems approval of contracts at group and technology executive committee and board Skilled account managers level to approve bidding for major, Government 24% including industry specialists complex contracts.
A more detailed Financial Institutions 16% description of our contract risk Investment in account and Private energy utilities 8% management and governance relationship management model can be found in the risk Transport & Logistics 2% management section on page 48.
Ports & airports 4% Leisure & tourism 2% Retail 7% Major corporates & industrials 32% Consumers 5% LIVING OUR VALUES Safety, Security and Service Excellence RBS, UK After more than 10 years of service providing a full suite of security services including manned guarding, reception, and patrol and response security across multiple sites including head offices, retail and investment sites, G4S was named number one in RBS 2015 Annual Supplier Survey.
The survey assesses a wide range of areas such as service delivery, customer satisfaction, innovation and social and environmental impact.
The 2015 survey sought feedback on 66 of RBS key suppliers.
APPROVED SUPPLIER 2016 22 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report INNOVATION INNOVATION Global security intelligence We have invested in the development Security systems revenue systems such as GIS by region in 2015 % and marketing of new products and Software tools including incident services to strengthen our service management and travel advisory systems such as Risk360 and offering, to support growth and TravelAware see page 31 improve margin mix over time.
Cash solutions Some of our new services which For our bank and retail customers have begun to gain commercial we are looking at innovative and momentum in key markets are efficient services.
For example: highlighted here: We have a strong opportunity to grow sales through development, Secure solutions marketing and sales of CASH360 In our secure solutions business and Deposita cash recycling we continue to invest in product Africa 7% systems in USA, UK, Europe, and service innovation including Asia Middle East 10% Africa, Asia and Middle East.
the development of: Latin America 5% We also offer a lower cost option Proprietary security systems such Europe 45% to small retailers for banking as AMAG and SecureConnect North America 24% takings called Bank to You, a access control systems UK & Ireland 9% lower cost cash transportation Video and intelligent cameras service for smaller retailers using Visitor management systems lighter vehicle fleets.
Safety, Security and Service Excellence Belgium Snow and ice are major challenges for airport operations and in 2015, G4S Belgium won the contract at Brussels Airport to operate specialist winter equipment.
Safety remains the top priority and following several months of planning, intensive training and live exercises, G4S in partnership with the airport worked to ensure normal operations could resume as soon as possible in winter conditions.
solution is not a replacement for Innovation Mobile Banking a traditional bank branch, but rather Solution Bank in a Box a secured, semi-permanent cash Mobile Banking Solution is a processing facility, that will save portable, fully equipped, secured our customers and their employees, ATM unit that was designed by G4S time and money.
The concept Africa and can be tailored to the brings together some of G4Ss customers needs.
Launched recently main service offerings, including our customers employees are able remote cash solutions, secure to withdraw wages securely and solutions, CCTV monitoring and perform basic banking functions, as response, first line maintenance, first time bankers in remote facility management and technology.
The Bank in a Box Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 23 Our strategy continued RE-INVESTING FOR OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE PROFITABLE GROWTH Operational excellence is an important lever which drives G4S multiple sources of value.
A significant portion of the gains we are making in being more efficient have been re-invested in the business to increase our opportunities for growth as well as driving further efficiency.
Our organisational efficiency up over time leading to inefficiency programmes address: and lack of accountability.
The aim of introducing organisational efficiency Efficient organisational design is to re-design the organisation starting Management delayering with a blank sheet of paper.
One Lean operating processes example is the re-design of the regional and branch structures in Efficient reporting and India which reduced the number assurance processes of branches from 132 to 85 and Upgraded IT systems management layers from 18 to Efficient procurement seven see case study below.
Some of the key ongoing initiatives Lean operating processes in each of these areas are: Direct Labour Efficiency A key enabler of efficient direct Efficient organisation design and management delayering labour management is the deployment of lean order The formation of the group was based historically on many bolt-on to cash process management enabled by the development acquisitions.
In many cases, these acquisitions were not integrated.
and implementation of a standard IT system for manned security With the group offering a broad range of services in a large number operations.
During 2014 the group of countries, this resulted in an set up and communicated clear inefficient organisational design with standards and best practices for many management layers being built the management of direct labour.
LIVING OUR VALUES Multiple regional and zonal business Some of the other achievements were: Investing in operational and units have been consolidated from 18 service excellence India into seven hubs, each with a profit and With support from group human Processes and governance loss account focus similar to that of Standard processes and service resources, G4S India initiated an smaller countries.
organisation design evaluation delivery across all branches and hubs and change programme which More than half the savings achieved concluded at the end of 2015 with Controlled governance to ensure from these initiatives were re-invested an efficient and customer-oriented visibility of service delivery and into upgrading the talent at all levels organisation.
In order to eliminate sales at the management level and investing in a sales and marketing multiple layers of duplicate work, organisation to ensure sustainable branches were consolidated to have People and organisation business growth.
the best geographical coverage with Standard and clear roles optimum asset utilisation.
In addition, and responsibilities across the processes were streamlined to organisation to enable career fide-layer the organisation.
and succession planning 24 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Reinvesting for growth Reduce costs and improve productivity through: FINANCIAL GROWTH DISCIPLINE SERVICE Efficient organisation design EXCELLENCE Management delayering Lean operating processes Efficient reporting and OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE assurance processes INNOVATION Upgraded IT systems Efficient procurement In 2015, our focus has been to including coaching and driver training Route optimisation engage subject matter experts with the objective of overall driver Our route scheduling programme globally, working with the groups IT behaviour improvement and involves the use of equipment and leadership to complete a functional sustaining an acceptable level software that enables our businesses specification for a best practice of driving efficiency and safety.
to plan and operate optimal routes order to cash solution which for collections, deliveries and site will be piloted in 2016. visits.
When deployed successfully Benefits Reduced fuel usage by at least the programme can: Vehicle management 8-12% in each country where reduce both vehicle Route planning and telematics telematics is deployed and crew requirements emissions by an Reduced CO Telematics 2 result in balanced working additional 6,356 tonnes over The telematics programme involves hours for crew 2014 reductions the installation and use of electronic reduce distance leading to tracking and driver behaviour Improved CSR Rating through a smaller carbon footprint monitoring devices that enable us to reducing environmental impact improve customer service reduce fuel and maintenance costs, Reduced vehicle maintenance by helping our crews to meet while improving driver and road safety.
and collision repair costs delivery and collection windows At the end of 2015 some 4,700 Safer crew and fewer accident of our cash solutions vehicles were related sick days fitted with telematics devices.
Reduced at fault driver accidents The information is used by the on average between 10-20% operations team to highlight driver Reduction in costs of own and behaviour that could be improved third party accident damage and and deploy corrective actions, repair by 12% since devices fitted Branch optimisation programme Consolidation of skills to ensure optimum productivity through 1.
Process review shared functions Before After duplication identification Focused role and function 2.
Branch optimisation model for growth and innovation 3.
Span of control design principles: Sales and service delivery Focused customer strategy 1.
8-10 direct reports through sales transformation head for each manned security Hub which would improve overall 4 service delivery head head top and bottom line 3.
Geographical dispersion 7 constraints Enhanced customer satisfaction Regional 4.
Optimum of no layers through customer lifecycle head in the service delivery 14 management organisation to enhance Branch head control Enabled 360 degree customer 85 Branch head view to both business development 132 and service delivery Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 25 Our strategy continued emerging markets.
These deals have PROCUREMENT leveraged the G4S scale within the different geographies which we believe enables us to be the customer of choice for our suppliers.
17 global deals We focused on telephony contracts in four regions and have achieved savings ranging from 25% to 75% in all areas we have addressed.
We 60 now have new deals in the UK, regional deals North America, Latin America, and several countries in Europe.
We have contracted with a global real estate provider in the UK, Africa and Europe 250 to provide advice and support on country deals key strategic property consolidation delivering By the end of August 2015 the cash During 2015 we focused our main projects, for example our central solutions business had generated procurement efforts at a regional London property portfolio has 5.5 million of savings through level and completed 17 global reduced by 50% from four to route scheduling and optimisation contracts covering the IT, fuel and % 10-25 two locations and now occupies programmes deployed in 37 cash travel categories.
These delivered savings properties with regional teams.
solutions businesses, with an savings in the range of 10%-25%.
annualised saving of 10 million The contracts have led to closer Finally, at a country level we have for 2015. global relationships with customers continued to consolidate our suppliers and have enabled us to control costs to remove risk from the supply Procurement and property in these global categories.
We now chain and have completed over have agreements with eight global rationalisation 250 local engagements and vehicle manufacturers to provide The group procurement function contracts with smaller suppliers.
new vehicles for both our soft skin was established in late 2014 and car and van and our armoured by the end of Q1 2015 it had Shared service centres vehicle fleets along with a new reviewed G4S spend and supply During 2015, we completed global deal for ballistic glass an chain profile across all our regions the consolidation of the manned essential safety feature on all cash and spend categories 65,000 security business in Canada into in transit fleets.
We now use Shell suppliers accounted for spend the US shared service centre.
In to supply fuel in all our operating of 1.5bn in 2014.
Asia Middle East, we moved the regions where Shell are present.
transaction processing of five We set out on a category-focused We enjoy preferential pricing, fuel countries operations into a newly regional procurement programme card flexibility and support to our established shared service centre to reduce cost through better bunkered fuel in Africa.
This has in India and further progressed procurement and align our critical strengthened our relationship consolidation of operations into suppliers with G4S values and with this key customer.
the UK shared service centre.
This analysis informed the investment needed to build At a regional level we have a global and regional procurement completed over 60 regional supplier category-based capability.
This was contracts that either fully cover supported by introducing global large operating regions like North policies in procurement, and a America and the UK or cover global supplier code of conduct.
multiple countries across our LIVING OUR VALUES decommissioning around 45 legacy Teamwork Google Apps In 2015, G4S unified the office email platforms and to simultaneously improve the efficiency of staff in productivity suite for all users in all G4S businesses across the globe the use of the same cutting edge technology in all businesses for the onto Google Apps within 11 months the first truly global first time.
The project ran on time and on budget with around 65,000 IT programme in the companys history.
The goal of the project was employees successfully migrated to the new platform by early 2016. to reduce maintenance costs by 26 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report STRATEGIC FOCUS FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE Portfolio management remains important for strategic focus, capital discipline 281m and performance management.
Since 2013, the group has divested 23 businesses raised to date, realising proceeds of 281 million and more than 40 other businesses are being at least a further sold or exited.
We have focused our activities and reduced the underlying 250-350 million expected countries of operation from around 120 to around 85.
During 2015 the businesses which and productivity programmes It also reduces the risk profile of the we have sold or closed have generally where we expect to see good group because many of the businesses been sub-scale, low growth, poor returns on our investment.
We we have sold were small or immaterial cash generators, low margin and continue to keep our portfolio but required a disproportionate with limited turnaround potential.
under review to ensure that we are amount of management attention.
Some of them are businesses where achieving the levels of return which there are better opportunities for we and our shareholders expect.
Outlook growth with a new owner.
Our We expect to raise at least a further Continued portfolio management is portfolio management programme 250-350 million over the next a good capital discipline.
It sharpens has improved our strategic focus.
12 to 24 months from the sale of the groups strategic focus, ensuring We have released capital at 38 smaller businesses and four larger we apply our resources to the best attractive multiples overall.
businesses including G4S Israel, UK opportunities where we have the Utility services, US Youth Justice These proceeds have been highest chance of success.
services and UK childrens services.
re-invested in the organic growth Update on portfolio management progress 2013 Forecast of G4S PBITA in 2016 by country Cumulative PBITA % Disposal or Disposal closure in 100 % complete progress Total Number of businesses 23 38 61 Revenue m 873 325 1,198 PBITA m 14 44 30 80 Total proceeds m 281 281 Active portfolio management 60 During 2013, we conducted a bottomup analysis of all of our businesses, evaluating their performance and prospects.
The results showed that 62 40 62 out of around 120 countries were Countries expected to contribute 95% of the contribute total PBITA expected in 2016.
Since then we have reviewed over 60 95% of 20 businesses, looking at strategic value, 2016 PBITA risk profile and materiality of contribution growth, PBITA and cash generation.
In addition we are selling four further 0 businesses UK childrens services, UK 1 11 21 31 41 51 61 71 81 91 101 111 Utility services, G4S Israel, US Youth Country 2016 PBITA High to Low services which had combined revenues of around 400 million in 2015.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 27 Our strategy continued IMPROVING FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE CASH FLOW Driving improvement in underlying operating cash flow has been at the heart of our financial and risk management activities in 2015.
Underlying operating cash flow in culture across the group.
By this 2015 was 460 million representing we mean that the implications % 108% of PBITA 2014 restated: on cash flow are taken into 108 131%, which was towards the consideration at every step in lower end of the groups aim the decision making process.
This Underlying of between 105% to 125%.
The is a journey which takes time.
operating cashflow acceleration of growth in the second conversion in half of 2015, and the migration The key strands of this drive to 2015 2014 to our UK financial shared service improve cash generation include: restated: 131% centre increased working capital Leaner working capital on a temporary basis.
Consequently, management cash generated from operating Sharing best practice and tools to businesses of 449 million reduced enable the businesses to optimise by 14% compared to 2014 524 their order to cash cycle.
million excluding one-off corporate items of 27 million.
Leveraging the groups procurement programme to Whilst weaker cash flow generation review supplier payment terms in 2015 compared to 2014 is and maximise the groups disappointing, the group is committed purchasing power.
to embedding a cash matters LIVING OUR VALUES Safety, Security and Service Excellence India During 2015 G4S India ran a programme for employees using motorcycles, where experience has shown that there is increased likelihood of a safety incident.
Called Safety on the Go, the programme raises safety awareness as well as aiming to ensure compliance with the Driving Force Rules, a G4S health and safety initiative introduced in 2014.
More than 900 employees took part in Safety on the Go, which included defensive driving training.
As well as an extensive communication campaign, new personal protective equipment was introduced to improve the visibility of motorcyclists and other security officers who work in close proximity to vehicles.
28 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Order to cash reviews Invoice automation, removing the Capital discipline in our key markets delay and resource requirement All capital investment undergoes During 2015 detailed order to associated with manual invoicing rigorous review to ensure that the cash reviews were completed groups return on investment hurdle Seeking to distribute all invoices in a number of our key markets rates are met and all major capital electronically removing the including: India, Malaysia, North investment projects are approved delay and cost associated America and UK & Ireland.
Best by the executive committee.
Please with postal distribution practice and tools shared under see page 27 for how our portfolio the cash matters initiative will management programme remains Strengthening collections facilitate similar reviews across performance through: important for capital discipline as the business during 2016. well as for strategic focus and Changing incentive plans at management and branch level performance management.
These end to end reviews focus with greater emphasis on cash flow on key contracts and transactional Changing behaviours Improved management data to identify both the root cause To ensure the cash culture becomes information to increase issues impacting timely cash collections embedded across the group, 2016 accountability and drive and action plans to address these.
incentive plans: behaviours Improvements implemented include: Place an even greater weighting Embedding weekly calls attended by finance and operations, to on operating cash generation Bid frameworks contract and incentivise cash generation drive timely collections management on a monthly basis across the year Strengthening bid evaluation Managing accounts payable Include challenging operating frameworks to increase focus The groups days payable cash targets to reduce the level on frequency of invoicing and outstanding of 31 days of aged debt and accrued income shorter payment terms 2014: 37 is shorter than which totalled 406 million days sales outstanding of Reducing the time from event at December 2015 net of 50 days 2014: 47 days.
to billing allowance for doubtful debt Ensuring that supply side Improving processes and contracts are back to back automating event billing with customer contracts information such as hours worked, milestones met, Negotiating improved terms collections and deliveries in through procurement on the cash solutions business global and regional deals Centralising collection of billing events of global and strategic accounts in some countries Improving cash flow India An order to cash review of our business in India during 2015 significantly strengthened cash conversion.
The order to cash cycle was reduced by c. 6 days, resulting in a reduction in accrued income, by strengthening process automation hours worked and invoice generation and switching customers from cheque to electronic settlement: and Overdue debt was reduced by G4S cash matters c. 30% by increasing collections In order to have a deeper accountability, improving KPIs understanding of cash matters, and differentiating the collection a simple guide to cash flow was strategy adopted for strategic deployed and distributed to the accounts and small and medium top 220 managers in March 2016 size businesses.
to educate and provide best practice tools to improve operating cash flow across the business.
The booklet is being translated for the Asia Middle East and Latin America regions.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 29
