Strategy in action The world market for integrated There is a growing trend security services, encompassing for companies to design and INTEGRATED specialised services such as procure fully integrated security pre-employment screening, services, where consultation, specialist training, global travel risk technology, installation, staffing SECURITY SERVICES: management, private investigations and maintenance are considered and systems integration, is to be mutually dependent offerings.
projected to rise 6.4 per cent This growing demand for joined annually to $30.2 billion in 2018 -up customer propositions will source: Freedonia World Security create advantages for companies Services report, November 2014, such as G4S with global scale excluding residential security, and a broad product portfolio.
GSK influenced by heightened concerns regarding global stability, terrorism and the local security environment.
G4S has signed a new five year with G4S continues to mature: THE G4S SOLUTION GSK Master Service Agreement MSA becoming a strategic partnership, with GSK, commencing on 1 January helping to protect not just physical GSK is a science-led global 2016.
G4S has been providing assets but also GSKs reputation healthcare company that researches security services to GSK for more and consequential losses.
than six years, originally delivered and develops a broad range of The contract is predominantly as a country model expanding to a manned security plus, contract.
pharmaceuticals, vaccines and a regional then global model.
Over Working together to introduce the 100 GSK sites have transitioned consumer healthcare products.
provision of the additional service under the MSA and G4S is currently lines has bonded our relationship, G4S has become a strategic partner delivering a variety of services which in turn has supported the to GSK, providing a number of in 36 countries.
creation of additional opportunities innovative security products The new MSA continues in for expanding the G4S service the spirit of the previous MSA, beyond manned security.
extending to achieve the operational and G4S recognise the value of efficiencies and cost avoidance the partner relationship and that programme by partnering at all it is key to the success of the G4S levels of the global operational and GSK contract.
The relationship 30 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report This chart Integrated security solutions: shows how many countries our secure solutions Risk and intelligence services are services offered in and Software: Integrated schematically security and risk shows the incremental Consultancy value added on services the vertical scale and improved Monitoring and margin on the response horizontal scale.
Systems: design, install and maintain Manned and mobile security Margin TRAVELAWARE MOBILE APPLICATION As a result of the networking and collaborative approach on other security matters, G4S is now the trusted supplier of the new G4S Risk Consulting travel awareness application for mobile devices Travelaware.
GSK has many employees travelling per month and the Travelaware app has been initially rolled out across workers operating in vulnerable environments in Africa and Latin America.
BUSINESS CONTINUITY EMERGENCY CASH TRANSPORTATION & STORAGE SERVICES As a result of the European economic crisis and its impact on the Greek economy, G4S provided support to ensure GSK and its suppliers and employees would continue to be paid in the event Services currently supplied Vacant property management of the crisis deepening.
by G4S to GSK: Valuables in Transit Manned security Risk consulting ANTI-COUNTERFEITING Alarm monitoring OPERATIONS Spot risk assessments for Patrols and response services Asia Pacific & South America corporate intelligence In 2016, G4S risk consulting Emergency cash transportation Global Intelligence System GIS will be assisting GSK by providing & storage services Travelaware app.
Mobile anti-counterfeiting intelligence Access control and CCTV tracking services and operational support for GSKs installation and maintenance Shuttle bus services existing operations in South Executive protection America and Asia Pacific region.
Lone traveller escorting Convoy escorting Services being introduced: Document storage & transport Controlled Drug & Alcohol Drugs destruction testing of employees Vehicle tracking Safety teams Fire fighting Anti-counterfeiting assistance Ambulance services First Aid prime responder services Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 31 Incremental value added K N Strategy in action continued In developed markets, this structural MARKET DRIVERS decline will encourage trends to CASH SOLUTIONS: extract greater efficiencies in cash G4S is selective about markets in handling across the counting, sorting, which it operates cash solutions storing and re-distribution cycle.
TM businesses, depending on market We believe that in markets where characteristics and offers cash central banks have made deliberate solutions services in 48 countries.
efforts to step back from cash CASH 3 60 The global use of cash, although processing, additional outsourcing varying considerably by market, will opportunities are expected to continue to diminish structurally, emerge, particularly in high-street driven by the penetration of banking.
Across the retail sectors non-cash payments, and the in developed markets, structural trend towards minimising costs declines in cash volumes over the among retail and central banks.
medium term will accelerate the For G4S bank customers: THE G4S SOLUTION TM CASH360 Retail Solutions TM offers innovative cash CASH360 Retail Solutions is an innovative solution management solutions to for the handling of cash between retailers and banks.
retail customers that deliver financial savings to the bank It automates the cash handling within a store: Enhances the banks overall customer relationship with key retailers Turns a cost into a revenue stream For G4S retail customers: Achieves efficiencies to allow more time with customers Provides faster access to funds Eliminates and reduces cash transportation costs Ensures less time on backCash credits office activities to bank account Provides robust reporting and alerting Achieves greater SHOP TM CASH360 visibility over the Cashier Automated cash G4S CLIENT entire cash cycle collects oats collections Reduces the amount of time spent handling cash Cash validated Increases focus on sales: building brand and Cash counted Cash secured customer satisfaction TM The CASH360 solution can include all or some of the elements Real time integration into in the illustration.
The following case internal financial systems study describes our solution in the United States: ACCOUNTS Retail Solutions in the United States In partnership with a major bank, G4S Retail Solutions USA has developed CASH360 and a Smart Safe programme to provide cash automation solutions for Big Box and Small Box retailers respectively.
32 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 A B ATM t a o h s a C Strategic report This chart shows Cash solutions: our cash solutions adoption of services to fully services, outsource cash processing, schematically Cash handling offering retailers efficiencies showing the management services and working capital advantages incremental through products which process Recycling devices value added on and software the vertical scale and credit cash balances in store.
and improved Cash processing In most emerging markets, margin on the horizontal scale.
population growth, the low ATM Replenishing penetration of retail banking and and engineering inflation will continue to drive increases in cash in circulation International secure logistics over the medium term.
Cash in transit Source: G4S European Cash Report 2016.
Margin CASH360 is provided as a managed the level of cash holdings e. g. to reduce non-vaulted e. g. service and has proven to reduce: operating fund in each retail customers depositing funds at store.
The key components of the bank branches transactions.
Cash room labour costs Inventory Management modules Bank processing fees are depicted in the chart below.
US Retailers Armoured carrier G4S has currently deployed The Integration Services module transportation costs CASH360 at approximately of CASH360 is largely focused 375 stores and has commitments Cash leakage on integration of third party recycler for stores with a number of retailers and smart safe products and banks In addition, CASH360 provides ensuring a significant US presence into Cash Manager.
CASH360 for the cash solutions business.
bank-owned cash and same day was designed to be both hardware credit to significantly improve a and bank agnostic to maximise retailers cash flow.
Bank-owned Smart Safe market opportunities.
cash allows a retailer to free up We have installed Smart Safe at The Reporting and Analysis module the trapped cash used as float 700 of one retailers stores.
We is strategically important for both to manage day-to-day commercial have commitments for another customers and retail solutions operations.
At the end of each 750 stores our this could increase team members.
Providing insight business day, CASH360 calculates to 1,000 stores in 2016.
We are to inventory levels of notes and the net change in cash position investing in business development coin, machine availability, carrier and sends a file to the bank for resources to further accelerate performance, and deposit the purpose of providing the retail Smart Safe sales in 2016. management and reconciliation, customer with same day credit.
the reporting and analysis module Outlook The Smart Safe programme was is mandatory to provide quality We are now focused on additional launched in 2015 to address the service delivery.
Big Box retailer opportunities to cash automation of Small Box further grow our business in 2017 As a deposit-only service for Small retailers.
A deposit-only service, and 2018 in the US.
We also expect Box retailer, the Smart Safe offering a Smart Safe, reduces armoured to accelerate our Smart Safe is significantly less complex than carrier transportation costs, and cash programme to become a market CASH360.
A subset of Cash leakage whilst providing faster access leader in the small box retailer space.
Manager functions are used to to cash through same day credit.
Product design CASH360 Benefits to banking partners While a recycler is a key component Elevating profit margins through the Forecast of CASH360, it is a softwarereduction of cash handling processes centric solution at its core.
Powered Cash Generate is a priority of the banking sector.
extraction by a G4S developed software change CASH360 reduces the volume analysis order platform, Cash Manager comprises of cash deposits at bank vaults that three functional modules: Inventory allows banks to reduce overall fees Inventory Management, Integration Services to their retail clients while improving Management Manage and Reporting and Analysis.
the margins associated with Reconcile modules change order CASH360s business model depository services.
compliance applies the key principles of Smart Safes allow banks inventory management to the Calculate to offer this service directly to net change process of managing cash.
Replenish strategic retail customers as in cash opposed to the armoured carrier position Cash Managers Inventory companies providing the service Management module optimises Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 33 Incremental value added Strategy in action continued CARE & JUSTICE SERVICES: reduce rates of re-offending, consider how to extend their MARKET DRIVERS whether in, custody or in the use to tackle other issues such community.
Rehabilitation and as domestic violence.
G4S Care and justice services education programmes for those In immigration, asylum, deportation, delivers more than 10% of secure in custody are widely seen as youth custody and associated solutions revenue and 9% of effective and appropriate responses services, declining margins coupled group revenue.
It is concentrated to address offending behaviour with greater reputation risk are primarily in the UK, US, Australia ofprisoners.
expected to contribute to a more and New Zealand.
Accordingly, we continue to challenging operating environment.
As the numbers of those in custody see attractive long-term growth across the world continue to opportunities in ancillary custodial rise, governments are focusing services, such as electronic increasingly on programmes to monitoring, as governments PORT PHILLIP PRISON G4S will receive service payments of approximately 1.3bn for the 20 year operation and maintenance of the maximumsecurity prison 34 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report to live a stable and productive Care & Justice: This chart lifestyle.
In addition to the treatment shows care programmes the unit runs a street and justice Electronic soccer programme, they propagate services monitoring plants and vegetables for donation schematically, Custody to local community initiatives and showing the and detention the unit has seen, to great success, incremental value added on the introduction of therapy animals.
Patient transport the vertical scale and improved Penhyn Y outh Unit margin on the Secure health The Penhyn Youth Unit houses young horizontal scale.
adult men aged 18-25 and offers Forensic medical offending behaviour programmes and and police support services targeted at these prisoners.
Secure The establishment of a groundtransport breaking small business programme, Doin Time, involves young prisoners Margin being mentored by local business people and supported by some of Australias largest companies.
The THE G4S SOLUTION small business programme has been active for over eight years and has The care applied by our staff is reflected in high raised over 75k for various charities.
standards of service provided for our customers and Education end users.
Port Phillip Prison is a maximum security The flexible learning education adult male prison in the state of Victoria, Australia.
centre within the prison offers courses in areas such as literacy Safety and security are the paramount Port Phillip Prison is the largest and numeracy, information features of our philosophy as well as of Victorias 14 prisons, receiving technology, occupational health incorporating fairness, respect for its first prisoners on 10 September and safety, cooking, horticulture human rights and the personal dignity 1997 and one of only two privately as well as full time education with of the people entrusted to our care.
Recidivism access to distance education.
Koori G4S has been active within the justice reoffending is around 44.1% in art and education is also offered as sector in Australia since 1995 and we Victoria, slightly lower than the part of the curriculum as around successfully manage and care for the national average of 44.3%.
Source: seven percent of inmates are of offender population and prepare Report on Government Services indigenous Australian heritage.
them for their future in society.
PPP supports Port Phillip Prison PPP can Industry a number of rehabilitation and accommodate up to 1,107 prisoners The prison operates industries community reintegration programmes and as Victorias largest prison, its from 10 complexes and a number which work towards reducing the primary roles include the management of satellite facilities located across the rate of prisoners reoffending and of prisoners in custody, administering site.
Some of the industries operated support a safer Victorian community.
custodial sentences, delivering a at the prison include ground and These programmes are aimed at range of significant health services, building maintenance, laundry, powder assisting prisoners to address their programmes, education and industries coating, kitchen, carpentry, garment offending behaviour and personal in an environment that encourages assembly and packaging for goods and development by focussing on issues positive behaviour and attitudes services used both in-house and relating to drug and alcohol, anger leading to self-directed rehabilitation.
Prisoners are management, offending behaviour The prison is a complex and diverse also employed in service industries and re-establishing family ties.
facility accommodating the following in the accommodation units, hospital, prisoner cohorts: protection, youth, admissions and across other Marlborough Unit Joint medical, mainstream, management, programmes.
Treatment Programme intellectually disabled and prisoners Launched in 2007, the Marlborough with psychiatric needs.
Towards the Health Services Unit was designed to create a end of 2015, G4S renewed its The prison delivers acute medical, protected environment for cognitively contract to run Port Phillip Prison.
surgical and psycho-social care impaired prisoners within the G4S will receive service payments as well as secondary and tertiary correctional system.
In this safe of approximately 1.3 billion in-patient care for all prisoners in environment, they are given nominal undiscounted cost, using the state.
In addition to the in-patient opportunities to learn new ways G4S foreign exchange and indexation facilities the prison also maintains of living through programmes assumptions for the 20 year a 10 bed secure ward at nearby providing transitional, educational operation and maintenance of StVincents Hospital in Melbourne.
The aim is to manage them in a nominal undiscounted cost, treatment environment and then using G4S foreign exchange and indexation assumptions return them to the community Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 35 Incremental value added Key performance indicators FINANCIAL KPIs KPIs 1 1 Our progress in 1 1 Underlying revenue bn Underlying PBITA m Underlying revenue bn Underlying PBITA m implementing our strategic objectives is measured using key 6.4bn 427m 6.4bn 427m performance measures aligned to those objectives and the group values: 7 500 6 6.4 6.2 400 People & values 427 5.9 404 5 372 Growth 300 4 Innovation 3 200 Service excellence 2 100 Operational excellence 1 Financial discipline 0 0 13 14 15 13 14 15 Description We have an organic growth strategy The group has a number of based on strong market positions in productivity programmes to structural growth markets.
We are drive efficiency and operational investing in improved customer improvement across the group.
service, innovation and sales and These include efficient organisation business development capabilities.
design, management delayering, We believe there is also great lean operating processes, efficient potential to sell more complex reporting and assurance processes, solutions which tend to have longer upgraded IT systems and contract terms and higher margins.
Performance In 2015, revenues grew 4.0% In 2015, PBITA grew 5.7% to 427m to 6.4bn 2014 restated: 6.2bn, 2014 restated: 404m as a result with emerging markets growing of these initiatives starting to have 8.6% with broad growth across some benefit.
PBITA in emerging all three regions and developed markets was up 9.2% and in markets growing 1.6%, with strong developed markets PBITA growth in North America and decreased by 1.0%.
a return to growth in Europe offsetting a decline in the UK.
Link to strategic objectives 1 For details of the basis of preparation of underlying results see page 97.
36 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report 1 1 1 Cash generated by continuing Underlying EPS Underlying operating cash fl ow Underlying EPS pence per share NON-FINANCIAL KPIs operations m pence per share In addition to the financial KPIs, the group has a set of performance 460m 14.
7p measures aligned to its strategic 460m 14.7p priorities.
A description of these performance measures and our progress against them is shown on pages 10 and 11.
550 15 14.7 528 440 12 12.9 460 12.1 435 330 9 220 6 110 3 0 0 13 14 15 13 14 15 A key priority for the group is to drive G4S is looking to deliver sustainable improved cash generation, through growth in earnings over the long leaner working capital management term.
EPS growth is a component and capital discipline and embedding of both the annual and long term a cash matters culture throughout management incentive plans.
the group as outlined in more detail on pages 28 and 29.
An even greater emphasis has been placed on cash in management incentive plans from 2016.
Underlying operating cash flow Helped by revenue growth, was 460m 2014 restated: 528m, improved PBITA margins and lower down 13% mainly due to a temporary interest costs underlying earnings increase in working capital associated increased 14% to 227m 2014 with strong revenue growth in the restated: 199m in 2015.
Underlying second half of 2015 and transition to EPS also increased 14% to 14.7p a UK financial shared service centre.
For more detail on the groups strategic priorities please see pages 10 and 11.
For more detail on 2015 financial performance please see the Chief Financial Officers review on pages 96 to 105.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 37
