38 Directors and Executive Board Greg Fitzgerald Graham Prothero Ken Gillespie Executive Chairman Finance Director Chief Operating Officer Graham Prothero joined Galliford Try as Ken Gillespie joined the Group and its Executive Greg Fitzgerald was appointed to the Board Finance Director on 1 February 2013.
He was Board in March 2006 on the acquisition of in July 2003 and was Managing Director previously with Development Securities plc, a Morrison Construction, of which he was of the Housebuilding division before being listed property developer and investor in the UK, Managing Director.
He joined Morrison in 1996 appointed Chief Executive on 1 July 2005. where he was Finance Director from November having spent the previous 13 years holding He was appointed Executive Chairman on 2008.
From 2001 until 2008, Graham was a senior positions with George Wimpey.
He was a founder of Midas partner with Ernst & Young.
Graham is a member appointed as an Executive Director of Galliford Homes in 1992 and its Managing Director when of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and Try on 1 March 2013, and Chief Operating it was acquired in 1997, subsequently chairing previously held the position of Finance Director Officer on 30 April 2015, having previously been Midas Homes and Gerald Wood Homes.
with Blue Circle Properties and Taywood Homes.
Ken was Heis a Non-executive Director of the National appointed as Chairman and Director of the House-Building Council, and was appointed a Aged 53.
Scottish Contractors Group Limited in 2013.
Governor of South Devon College in July 2015.
Gavin Slark Peter Ventress Non-executive Director Deputy Chairman and Senior IndependentDirector Gavin Slark joined the Board on 13 May 2015.
Peter Ventress joined the Board on 30 April 2015.
He is currently Chief Executive Officer of Grafton He is a Non-executive Director of Premier Farnell Group plc, an independent company operating plc and was formerly Chief Executive Officer of in the merchanting, DIY retailing and mortar European textile service business Berendsen manufacturing markets in Britain, Ireland and plc.
Prior to joining Berendsen in 2010, Peter Belgium.
He joined Grafton Group in April 2011 spent 10 years in senior management positions and was appointed Chief Executive Officer in Europe and Canada in the office products in July 2011.
He was previously Group Chief distribution industry with Corporate Express Executive of BSS Group plc, a leading UK N. V. becoming Chief Executive in 2007.
In 2008 distributor to specialist trades including the he was appointed head of all Staples activities plumbing, heating and construction sectors.
outside the United States and Canada.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials 39 Directors and Executive Board Andrew Jenner Ishbel Macpherson Terry Miller Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Andrew Jenner was appointed to the Board Ishbel Macpherson was appointed to the Board Terry Miller was appointed to the Board in January 2009.
Andrew was Group Chief on 1 February 2014.
She is a Non-executive on 1 February 2014.
Terry was previously Financial Officer of Serco Group plc from Director of Dignity plc and Senior Independent General Counsel for The London Organising 2002 to 2014.
Prior to joining Serco in 1996 he Director of both Dechra Pharmaceuticals plc and Committee of the Olympic Games and worked for Unilever and Deloitte & Touche LLP.
She has previously Paralympic Games, and is currently an served as Non-executive Director, Chair of the independent Non-executive Director of the Aged 46.
Remuneration Committee, Senior Independent British Olympic Association, a Director and Director and Chair of Speedy Hire plc, as well Trustee of the Invictus Games Foundation, as non-executive directorships of GAME Group and a Non-executive Director of Goldman plc, MITIE Group plc, Synthomer plc, May Sachs International Bank.
Prior to her LOCOG Gurney Integrated Services plc and Hydrogen appointment, Terry was International General Group plc.
Ishbel has over 20 years experience Counsel for Goldman Sachs, having spent in investment banking with Dresdner Kleinwort 17years with Goldman Sachs based in London.
Wasserstein, Hoare Govett and Barclays.
Andrew Richards Kevin Corbett CEng MICE MIStructE Managing Director, Linden Homes General Counsel and Company Secretary M ember of the Executive Board.
Andrew Richards was appointed Managing Kevin Corbett joined the Executive Board of Member of the Audit, Nomination and Director of Linden Homes and joined the Galliford Try plc on 1 February 2012 and was Remuneration Committees.
He was promoted appointed General Counsel and Company from Managing Director of the Investments Secretary on 1 March 2012.
Kevin was division, having joined the Group through previously Chief Counsel Global for AECOM.
the acquisition of Morrison Construction Aged 55. in March 2006, which he joined in 2000 having previously worked for investment bank Dresdner Kleinwort from 1997.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
