Business continuity Risk trend Description Mitigation A major disruption to internal facilities or the external supply Ongoing maintenance and replacement programmes for chain could be caused by natural disaster or damage, or key assets and facilities.
destruction of a key facility or asset.
Flexible sourcing arrangements for key supplies.
Effective supply chain management to ensure appropriate The Group has a small number of facilities and assets which are inventory levels are maintained.
key to maintaining production levels for major customers and Targeted incident response and business continuity plans.
Changes in 2015 In addition, certain of the Groups businesses are exposed to a There has been no significant change in the inherent risk profile during higher inherent risk of natural disasters because of their 2015.
All divisions continue to focus on risk mitigation, including geographical locations.
regular testing of business continuity and disaster recovery plans, ongoing reviews of supplier dependence and critical assets, and prioritisation of capital investment.
Potential impact A sustained disruption to internal facilities or production could result in major operational disruption, a significant adverse impact on our ability to meet customer requirements and additional contractual liabilities, and could have a consequential impact on financial performance.
Pension funding Risk trend Description Mitigation The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension plans Close co-operation with scheme fiduciaries regarding with aggregate net liabilities of 1,558 million at 31 December management of pension scheme assets and liabilities, 2015.
These plans are exposed to the risk of changes in asset including asset selection and hedging actions.
values, discount rates, inflation and mortality assumptions.
Alternative funding and risk mitigation actions are implemented where appropriate.
Potential impact Increases to the pension deficit could lead to a requirement for Changes in 2015 additional cash contributions to these plans, thereby reducing the During the year, against an economic backdrop which has seen pension liabilities remain at a high level versus historical norms, driven by the amount of cash available to meet the Groups other operating, exceptionally low yields on long-term bonds, we have continued to investment and financing requirements.
undertake pension risk reduction initiatives.
These include extending a partial buy-in transaction in the UK and finalising a pension increase exchange exercise to further mitigate inflation risk.
The Group continues to have a reasonable degree of visibility over the range of shortto medium-term funding cash flows, but will continue to monitor the impact of market volatility ahead of the planned April 2016 funding valuation in the UK.
Read more about the Groups pension arrangements in note 24 to the financial statements GKN plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
