Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our Corporate Executive Team Our CEO, with the assistance of the Corporate Executive Team, is responsible for the management of the business, developing the Groups strategic direction for consideration and approval by the Board and implementing the agreed strategy.
Simon Dingemans Dr Moncef Slaoui Sir Andrew Witty Chief Financial officer Chairman, Global Vaccines Chief Executive officer For biographical details, see page 74.
Nick Hirons Abbas Hussain Roger Connor Senior Vice President, Global Ethics and President, Global Pharmaceuticals President, Global Manufacturing & Supply Compliance Abbas joined CET in 2008 and was appointed Roger joined CET in 2012 and was appointed as President, Global Manufacturing & Supply Nick was appointed to CET in September President, Global Pharmaceuticals in October 2014 as Senior Vice President, Global Ethics 2014, having joined the company as President, GMS in 2013, after working for a year as and Compliance and is responsible for Emerging Markets & Asia Pacic in June 2008.
compliance, risk management and corporate He joined the ViiV Healthcare Ltd. Board in Roger joined GSK in 1998 from AstraZeneca security and investigations.
October 2009. and has worked in finance and manufacturing Nick joined GSK in 1994 as an International Previously, he spent 20 years at Eli Lilly where strategy roles, including at GSK sites in Cork Auditor in the UK.
He was later Head of Audit he held positions including President, Europe in Ireland and Ware in the UK.
Prior to his & Assurance, where he combined five and before that Vice President, Europe.
He position in GMS, Roger was Vice President, separate audit functions into an independent also held positions with Eli Lilly in Australia, Ofce of the CEO and Corporate Strategy, team operating with a common risk-based the US, India, Turkey and Germany in several from February 2010. methodology.
In June 2013, Nick took up a roles including business development, sales He holds a degree in Mechanical and role in China, where he established a new and marketing, and management.
Manufacturing Engineering from Queens governance model for our China business that He has a degree in Medicinal Chemistry & University Belfast and a Masters in created a consistent approach to compliance.
Pharmacology from Loughborough University Manufacturing Leadership from Cambridge Nick is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of and was born in Madras, India.
He is also a Chartered Accountant.
78 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information David Redfern Claire Thomas Phil Thomson Chief Strategy officer Senior Vice President, Human Resources Senior Vice President, Communications and Government Affairs David joined CET as Chief Strategy officer Claire was appointed to CET as Senior Vice in May 2008 and is responsible for corporate President, Human Resources in May 2008.
Phil joined CET in 2011 and was appointed development and strategic planning.
In Senior Vice President, Communications Claire joined the company in 1996 as Senior addition, he was appointed Chairman of the and Government Affairs in 2014.
He has Manager, Human Resources, Sales and Board of ViiV Healthcare Ltd. in April 2011 responsibility for Media Relations, Investor Marketing Group, UK Pharmaceuticals before and a Non-Executive Director of the Aspen Relations, Corporate Responsibility, Internal becoming Director of Human Resources for Pharmacare Ltd. Board in February 2015.
Communications, Product Communications, UK Pharmaceuticals in 1997.
She was Government Affairs and GSKs Global Brand.
Previously, he was Senior Vice President, appointed Senior Vice President, Human Northern Europe with responsibility for GSKs Resources, Pharmaceuticals Europe in 2001, He joined Glaxo Wellcome as a trainee in 1996, pharmaceutical businesses in that region and, and Senior Vice President Human Resources moving from pharmaceutical brand marketing to prior to that, was Senior Vice President for International in 2006. product communications.
In 1999, he became Central and Eastern Europe.
David joined Director of Media Relations for Glaxo Wellcome Prior to joining the company she worked GSK in 1994 and was Finance Director of plc and was then Director, Investor Relations for Ford Motor Company, holding various the European business from 1999 to 2002. from 2001 to 2004, when he returned to positions in Human Resources.
Corporate Media Relations as Vice President.
David has a Bachelor of Science degree from Claire has a Bachelor of Science degree Phil has worked on numerous corporate, Bristol University in the UK and is a Chartered in Economics, Management and Industrial product and reputational matters at GSK.
Relations from the University of Wales.
Phil earned his degree in English and History from Durham University.
Dan Troy Patrick Vallance Emma Walmsley President, Pharmaceuticals R&D CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare Senior Vice President & General Counsel Dan joined GSK and the CET as Senior Patrick joined CET in 2010 and was Emma is CEO of GSK Consumer Healthcare, Vice President & General Counsel in appointed President, Pharmaceuticals R&D, which includes the joint venture with Novartis September 2008. in January 2012.
Prior to this he was Senior and the listed Consumer Healthcare Vice President, Medicines Discovery and businesses in India and Nigeria.
The business He was previously a Partner at the Development.
is split almost equally between OTC Washington law rm Sidley Austin LLP, medicines and fast moving consumer goods where he represented mainly pharmaceutical Patrick joined the company in 2006 as Head brands, across four categories of Wellness, of Drug Discovery.
Prior to joining GSK companies and trade associations on matters Oral health, Nutrition and Skin health.
related to the US Food and Drug Patrick was a clinical academic and led the Division of Medicine at University College Prior to this Emma was President of GSK Administration FDA and government regulations.
Dan was formerly Chief Counsel London.
He has over 20 years experience Consumer Healthcare and has been a of research clinical medicine, general internal member of CET since 2011.
She joined for the FDA, where he served as a primary liaison to the White House and the US medicine, cardiovascular medicine and clinical GSK in 2010. pharmacology.
He was elected to the Department of Health and Human Services.
Prior to this, Emma worked with LOreal for Academy of Medical Sciences in 1999.
Dan is a graduate from Cornell Universitys 17 years.
She has a degree in Classics and Patrick has been on the Board of the UK Modern Languages from Oxford University.
School of Industrial and Labor Relations, and earned his law degree from Columbia Ofce for Strategic Co-ordination of Health Emma became a non-executive director of Research OSCHR since 2009.
Dan was named Diageo plc with effect from 1 January 2016. a Legend in the Law at the Burton Awards.
