Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Board, business awareness and training Accountability To ensure that our Non-Executive Directors develop and maintain a greater insight and understanding of the business, they are Internal control framework invited to attend internal management meetings, including The Board recognises its responsibilities to present a fair, meetings of the CET, the Research & Development Executive balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position RADEX, the Product Executive, the scientific Review Board, the and prospects.
The Board has accountability for reviewing and Portfolio Investment Board, the US Commercial Accountability approving the effectiveness of internal controls operated by the Board and the Risk Oversight and Compliance Council ROCC.
Group, including financial, operational and compliance controls, They also meet employees informally during visits to the Groups and risk management.
operations and at receptions held around Board meetings.
The GSK Internal Control Framework the Framework is The Chairman also meets with each Director annually on a one-tothe means by which GSK assures compliance with laws one basis to discuss his or her ongoing training and development and regulations, the reliability of financial reporting and the requirements.
The Board is kept up-to-date on legal, regulatory effectiveness of risk management.
The Framework assists in the and governance matters through regular papers from the Company ongoing process of the Boards identication, evaluation, and Secretary and presentations by internal and external advisers.
management of the companys Principal Risks as required by the FRCs Code, and is designed to manage rather than eliminate the The Board members undertook specic refresher training on, and risk of not achieving business objectives.
A t-for-purpose internal under the provisions of, the CIA in March 2015.
Each new Board control framework, in conjunction with embedding the GSK Values member is required, as part of his or her induction programme, to and our Speak Up reporting lines, ensures that our Principal Risks receive comprehensive training on the CIA.
Philip Hampton and are actively and effectively controlled.
For more information see Urs Rohner, in January 2015, Vindi Banga, in September 2015, Our approach to risk on pages 16 to 17. and Jesse Goodman, in January 2016 have each taken part in such a training session as part of their induction programmes.
The Framework is designed to ensure the risks associated with conducting our business activities are effectively controlled in line 2015 Internal evaluation of the Board with GSKs risk appetite.
We believe the Framework provides The Board carries out an evaluation of its performance and reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material that of its Committees every year and the evaluation is facilitated misstatement or loss.
The progress of the Board against the To ensure effective governance and an ethical culture, GSK has agreed action points of the 2014 evaluation, which was externally established the Risk Oversight and Compliance Council ROCC.
facilitated by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Limited, are This team of senior leaders is authorised by the Board to assist disclosed on page 81. the Audit & Risk Committee the Committee in overseeing risk The 2015 Board and Committees evaluation process was management and internal control activities.
It also provides the conducted internally by the Secretary, at the request of the business with a framework for risk management, upward reporting Chairman and the CEO, who: of significant risks, GSK Values and policies.
Each business unit prepared surveys that were completed by Board members and global support function has a risk board structure which and held interviews with each Director: reports to the ROCC.
These Risk Management and Compliance Boards RMCB are responsible for local tone from the top, risk discussed the outcomes and recommendations with the management and internal controls.
Chairman: and The ROCC and the RMCBs are assisted by Global Ethics and following discussion with the Board as a whole, identied areas Compliance GEC, which is responsible for supporting risk for improvement as agreed by the Board.
management and the development and implementation of Amongst the areas reviewed were Board oversight issues, practices that facilitate employees compliance with laws and shareholders and other stakeholder relationships, Board culture policy.
GEC also provides assistance to help employees meet and how it balances challenge and support, ethics, strategy high ethical standards by operating in accordance with our Values, and priorities.
and to comply with applicable laws and regulations and corporate The Board is viewed by all members as effective, strong and well responsibility.
able and equipped to navigate the challenges ahead.
The action GSKs Audit & Assurance A&A provides an objective view points arising from the 2015 evaluation are disclosed on page 81. i. e. assurance to senior management and the Board of how risk is Chairman and Non-Executive Director evaluation being managed across the Group in line with an agreed Assurance The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director SID sought Plan.
This assurance helps them meet their oversight and advisory feedback on the Chairmans performance and canvassed views responsibilities in fullling our strategic and operational ambitions on the Chairmans performance from the Non-Executive Directors and building trust with our patients and other stakeholders.
The results of the Chairmans effectiveness review has a dual reporting line into the CFO and the Committee.
were then discussed by the Chairman and the SID.
The Committee receives reports from Business Unit Heads, GEC The Chairman met with each Non-Executive Director to discuss and A&A on areas of significant risk to the Group and on related individual contributions and performance, together with training internal controls.
These reports provide summaries of changes to and development needs.
He also shares peer feedback that is the control environment within each Principal Risk area.
Following provided as part of the evaluation process.
In addition, the consideration of these reports, the Committee reports annually to Chairman met with all the Non-Executive Directors independently the Board on the effectiveness of controls.
GSK Annual Report 2015 85 R t Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information o e s P p r o o b n l e d i m s s n l s d g o n r r a e t t d n t i n r o a W C g t M S n i & a r M o n t o a i n n g i t e o t e h c o M n g t r m i a i n s r s n r e G u e s g e s S n e v s m t k K n O A s i s t i V Corporate governance continued The Board, through the Committee, has conducted a robust This is in accordance with the provisions of the FRCs Code, assessment of the Groups Principal Risks and the Framework, which provide that the Board is responsible for determining the and has considered the effectiveness of the system of internal nature and extent of the Principal Risks it is willing to take in controls in operation across the Group for the year covered by achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board provides oversight this Annual Report and up to the date of its approval by the Board.
to help ensure that the Group maintains sound risk management The Boards review focuses on the company and its subsidiaries and internal control systems.
The Framework has been in operation and does not extend to material associated undertakings, joint for the whole year and continues to operate up to and beyond ventures or other investments, although it considers the risk of the the date of the approval of this Annual Report.
companys participation in these activities.
There are established A review of the Groups risk management approach is further procedures and controls in place to identify entities whose results discussed in Our approach to risk section of the Strategic Report must be consolidated with the Groups results.
Our management and mitigation of each We believe the process followed by the Board, through the Principal Risk is explained in Principal risks and uncertainties Committee, in reviewing regularly the system of internal controls on pages 231 to 240.
The Groups viability is discussed in the and risk management arrangements is in accordance with the Group financial review section of the Strategic report on page 52.
Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting issued by the FRC.
These ongoing review and monitoring arrangements were expanded during the year to include the impact of the Novartis transaction that closed on 2 March 2015.
For further details see page 88.
Our internal control framework Governance structure of risk management Responsible for our system Board of of corporate governance, Directors strategy, risk management and financial performance Responsible for reviewing Audit & Risk and approving the adequacy Committee and effectiveness of our risk management and internal controls Business Activities Corporate Supports the CEO in managing our business Executive Team and activities Authorised by the Board Risk Oversight to assist the Audit & Risk and Compliance Committee in overseeing the Council risk management and internal control activities of the Group Responsible for identifying, Business units Key assessing and managing risks within their businesses Individual Accountability Line Management Accountability with Compliance Business Management Accountability with Compliance Risk Oversight Ensure that appropriate Audit & Assurance internal controls for effective risk and Compliance management are implemented Council Complemented by Country Executive Risk Boards to ensure a consistent approach to risk management across local geographies 86 GSK Annual Report 2015 e s s n R a s u C e e l i B r d u s o p n e t s r m e s n e A p t e m e n d d E u n n I n e i p c e a t d d t n i n n e o a I n m e n e i l c p r i o c f s i n D T E r a i n i n g Accountability for monitoring Responsibility for implementing
