DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued The performance of the strategic measures included the following: Strategic measures Objectives Outcome Address market Win new business in strategic Solid progress across the Group, with GKN Powder Metallurgy challenges areas as well as improving margin performing particularly well winning new business.
Develop e-drive and additive Good progress, with nomination as tier one status on an important manufacturing technology hybrid platform.
Progress operational Implement defined continuous Excellent progress across all divisions, with improvement across our excellence improvement systems key operational metrics.
Strengthen governance Implement diversity and inclusion All divisions successfully rolled out the Groups diversity and and risk programme inclusion programme.
Map key risks and controls in each All divisions mapped and reviewed their quality, contract management division and programme management systems in line with the plan.
STVRS deferred shares Aimed at aligning executive Directors interests with those of shareholders and aiding retention of executives.
How the DBP works Any STVRS payment above 65% of base salary is deferred into shares under the DBP for a two-year period.
The release of awards is subject to continued employment and malus provisions.
There were no DBP awards granted during 2015 as the STVRS payment for the prior year did not meet the 65% of salary threshold required for deferral.
DBP awards will be granted in 2016 in respect of the 2015 STVRS amounts in excess of 65% of salary see page 79 for further details.
Implementation of policy for 2016 STVRS and DBP The STVRS performance measures are reviewed annually.
For the 2016 STVRS, the maximum opportunity for the strategic objectives has increased from 20% to 25% of salary while the maximum opportunity for profit has reduced from 50% to 45% of salary.
The weightings for each measure are set out below: % of salary Target Maximum Profit 22.5 45 Cash 15 30 Margin 5 10 Strategic objectives 12.5 25 55 110 There are no changes to the DBP.
Any STVRS payment above 65% of base salary earned in respect of 2016 will be deferred into shares.
Long-term incentives Aimed at improving alignment with the Groups growth strategy and shareholders interests as well as rewarding and encouraging sustained earnings performance over the long term.
How the SEP works SEP awards take the form of a core award and a sustainability award and are normally granted annually to executive Directors and to the senior management population.
For 2016, the award levels for executive Directors both core and sustainability awards will be 198% of salary.
Malus and clawback provisions will apply to SEP awards.
The chart below illustrates how the SEP operates.
Year 1 Year 2Year 3Year 4Year 5 Core performance period Sustainability period Core award Deferred Core award 50% Core award released 50% Core award released Sustainability award Sustainability award will be Sustainability award vests reduced to the extent that the at the end of year 5 subject core target is not satis ed over to the achievement of the the core performance period sustainability target GKN plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Total of Core and Sustainability Awards: 174% of salary
