Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Corporate governance Board governance Our strategy and progress towards its delivery are set out in the Strategic Report.
The following pages provide information about the Board and its oversight of the Groups activities during 2015.
The Board The Board is pleased to report that in 2015 it was in full compliance with the requirements of the Financial Reporting Councils FRC UK Corporate Governance Code Code, with the exception of Code provision C. 3.7. which requires audit contract tenders to be undertaken at least every 10 years.
Page 92 sets out the details of this years audit contract tender process.
A copy of the Code is available on the FRCs website, www.
co. uk The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the company and is accountable to our shareholders for ensuring that the Group is appropriately managed and governed.
We believe that our governance structure provides the right base to help us deliver our strategy to Grow a diversied business, Deliver more products of value and Simplify our operating model, and in doing so create additional long-term value for our shareholders.
2015 Board programme The Board met face to face six times in 2015 and each Board member attended all scheduled Board meetings.
The Board agendas were shaped to create more time for strategic discussion and debate by closely managing time allocated to routine items to ensure focused consideration of our strategic priorities.
During 2015, the agendas for Board meetings included the following business: Month Strategy Board and risk oversight Governance January Review of CEO objectives 2014 Review of 2014 financial results Secretarys Report including and 2015 and outlook for 2015 regulatory and governance updates Review of 2014 investor activity Re-appointment of auditors and 2015 activity Novartis transaction update Approval of 2015 Budget and 2015-2017 Plan March Review of reshaped Consumer Review financial results for the Secretarys Report including Healthcare and Global Pharmaceuticals year to date regulatory and governance updates businesses Ebola Vaccines update Mandatory annual Corporate Integrity Deep Dive US Pharmaceuticals Agreement CIA training pricing and formulary access May Review revised 2015-20 Plan and Review of financial results for the Secretarys Report including long range forecasting following year to date regulatory and governance updates completion of Novartis transaction Global Manufacturing & Supply Preparation for AGM annual update Novartis transaction update Review Annual CIA agreement compliance resolutions July Annual Review of Talent and Leadership Review of financial results for the Secretarys Report including Development strategy year to date regulatory and governance updates Review of funding strategy and Vaccines annual update including treasury policy integration and pipeline Review of Pensions and Insurance strategies Proposed agenda for annual Board & CET Strategy meeting Review of Going Concern assumptions October Annual Board & CET strategy meeting Review of financial results for the Secretarys Report including regulatory Review of output from the annual year to date and governance updates Board & CET strategy meeting R&D annual update Quality update New Healthcare professional HCP model update December Review of 2016 Budget and Review of financial results for the Secretarys Report including regulatory 2016-2018 Plan year to date and governance updates Supply Chain update Nucala launch plans Pricing update During the year, all Board members were invited to attend the Audit & Risk Committee meetings where risk matters were routinely discussed.
80 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Board governance continued 2015 Board performance action points Progress against the conclusions of the 2014 Board evaluation review, independently facilitated by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Limited, is set out below: Key findings Action points Progress Achievement The composition of the Board is due to change over the next two to three years which A Board composition assessment exercise will require a carefully planned and thoughtfully executed refreshment programme.
has been undertaken to enable the Nominations Committee to plan for the Board The Chairman Designate, together with the Nominations Committee, will seek to enhance the changes due to occur in the next few years governance processes relating to Board composition, tenure and size.
and to ensure that the Board has the They will review and seek to develop objective specications and plans for all the Boards roles necessary skills.
in alignment with our strategy, the external landscape, and the companys evolving circumstances.
The Directors have identied gaps in the Boards current composition relating to US The Board was pleased that Vindi Banga and pricing and healthcare, emerging markets and consumer healthcare knowledge.
Dr Jesse Goodman, as SID designate and SME respectively, agreed to join the Board.
Closing these knowledge and experience gaps will be considered as part of the process of Their appointments have helped to ll the recruitment of new Non-Executive Directors combined with the refreshment of designated identied skills gaps.
The Nominations specialist roles on the Board, such as scientific and medical expertise SME and the Senior Committee continues to refresh the Board Independent Director SID.
to meet the Companys future needs.
Given the speed and complexity of the external landscape changes, and potential for Such characteristics have been factored surprises, highly experienced Non-Executive Directors are a crucial component of the into the individual search proles and selection Boards composition.
process to recruit new Non-Executive Directors.
The critical skill sets of potential candidates, such as international markets and cultural experience, crisis and stakeholder management, will be considered and the composition choices of peer group Boards will be benchmarked.
The replacement of the current SID who is due to retire at the 2016 AGM is a priority issue.
Vindi Banga, whose background and experience fullled the requirements of our The Chairman Designate is leading the search involving internal and external candidates for SID specication was appointed as SID this role.
designate in September 2015 and will A SID specication is being developed that balances the replacement of existing knowledge succeed Sir Deryck Maughan, our current SID, with the ability to work well with the Chairman Designate, conduct robust Board evaluations, at the conclusion of our 2016 AGM.
interact well with shareholders and be able to commit the necessary time to the role.
Consideration should be given to reducing the size of the Board, if it is judged to have a The Board has, on the recommendation of strong enough composition and dynamic.
the Nominations Committee, agreed and is working towards an ideal Board size of around This aspiration will be considered against a refreshed Board competence skills matrix that is 12 directors.
being used as part of the Board refreshment programme, and is linked to the companys strategy.
Consideration should be given to enhancing the Non-Executive Director evaluation process.
The Chairman concluded this review and agreed to introduce peer evaluation to further The Chairman Designate will lead this process and consider best practice techniques, such as inform his annual review meetings with each a combination of annual individual and peer evaluations.
Board performance action points for 2016 The agreed action points arising from the 2015 Board evaluation review, internally facilitated by our Company Secretary, Victoria Whyte, against which progress will be disclosed in GSKs 2016 Annual Report, are set out below: Executive succession Deep dives and Board materials Strategy and NED refreshment sites visits Shareholders and logistics Assist newer Directors Further increase the focus Consider further deep Review and look to Continue the drive to make with additional background on executive succession dives particularly on: further enhance how the Board Committee materials brieng materials ahead of plans and ensure the R&D strategy and pipeline, company communicates more concise and also debates on strategy.
effectiveness of the product launches, with shareholders.
effective in highlighting disaster recovery plan.
US pricing, joint ventures, issues and concerns.
Arrange more regular new business models discussion of medium and Consider alternative Aim to have less and GMS.
longer term strategy with suggestions for Nonpresentation time and fresh insights from different Executive Director Consider holding one site more time for discussion perspectives.
visit to an operational site and debate at meetings.
Implement suggestions Allow for social time for to further enhance the Board members to get to effectiveness of the annual know each other better Board & CET strategy given the number of new meetings.
