Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information GSK financial architecture: driving improved returns to shareholders Sales growth Operating leverage EPS Returns to shareholders Financial efficiency Free cash ow Cash ow growth Earnings per share EPS Total EPS in 2015 saw a significant increase to 174.3p, primarily Approach to tax driven by the profit on the disposal of our Oncology business.
Core We understand our responsibility to pay an appropriate EPS declined 15%, mainly reecting the short-term dilution of the amount of tax.
In 2015 the Group paid corporate income Novartis transaction but also the impact of the continuing transition tax of 2,062 million 2014 1,108 million on profits of of our Pharmaceuticals business, particularly in Respiratory.
The corresponding accounting In 2016, we expect core EPS percentage growth to reach tax charge on profits was 2,154 million 2014 137 million.
The base for this growth is the 2015 core EPS of 75.7p.
Tax risk is managed by a set of policies and procedures to seek to ensure consistency and compliance with tax legislation.
Free cash ow Our Audit & Risk Committee and the Board are responsible for Free cash ow generation in 2015 has been impacted by the approving our tax policies and risk management.
ongoing transition of our pharmaceutical portfolio, particularly the decline in Seretide Advair but also the short-term impact of We seek to maintain open, positive relationships with governments the Novartis transaction and, in particular, the inherited levels and tax authorities worldwide and we welcome constructive debate on taxation policy.
There continued to be a significant of cost and investment that are being addressed as part of our international focus on tax reform during 2015 including the synergy and integration plans.
OECDs Base Erosion and profit Shifting BEPS project The restructuring costs of these plans and other costs of the Novartis and European Commission initiatives such as the proposed transaction are being funded from the proceeds of the disposal of the Anti-BEPS Directive and the increased use of scal state aid Oncology business and other non-strategic assets, consistent with investigations.
The OECD BEPS reports clarify the important our general approach to funding the costs of restructuring.
principle that tax should be paid on profits throughout the supply chain, commensurate with where the profit making activity Excluding the cash restructuring charges incurred during the year takes place.
GSK supports this approach and has been active of 1.1 billion and the initial tax payments due on the Oncology in providing relevant business input to assist in the successful disposal, as well as legal payments, free cash ow generated in delivery of the aims of the BEPS project.
In particular, we support 2015 was 2.5 billion compared with 3.9 billion in 2014, when the implementation of the OECDs recommendations on Countryadjusted on a comparable basis.
by-Country Reporting CBCR, including the exchange of CBCR data between tax authorities, as being key to its success.
This In addition to rebuilding our cash generation capacity, we continue data, validated against existing information held on taxpayers, will to focus on improving the efficiency of capital investment and our support their ability to ensure multinational groups pay the right use of working capital to reduce internal cash requirements.
is expected to allow us to build operating cash ows more quickly while maintaining the dividend, returning the Group to growth and We do not engage in articial tax arrangements those without protecting our credit prole.
At the same time we have a responsibility to our shareholders to be nancially efficient and Returns to shareholders deliver a sustainable tax rate.
The ongoing alignment of our Group The Board approved an ordinary dividend of 80 pence for 2015, structure to reect our mix of operations and geographies has helped together with a special 20 pence dividend to be paid from the net us maintain an efficient effective tax rate.
Our core tax rate for 2015 proceeds of the Oncology business and other asset disposals.
However, some This will be distributed in April 2016 alongside the regular fourth moderate upward pressure on the rate is expected over the next quarter dividend for 2015.
We also expect to pay annual dividends several years, given the Groups momentum and changing earnings of 80 pence for 2016 and 2017. mix in favour of the US in particular.
For 2016 a core tax rate in the 20-21% range is expected.
A fuller review of the financial results is set out on pages 54 to 72.
Our approach to tax is set out in detail within the Public Policy positions section of our website.
Further details about our corporate tax charges for the year are set out on page 158.
Simon Dingemans Chief Financial officer GSK Annual Report 2015 53
