Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our approach to risk Rigorous and consistent risk management processes and systems help us assure the integrity of our business operations.
Effective risk management is key to sustainable business success.
Our Principal risk established risk management framework, and denition coupled with our internal controls, helps us maintain our focus on managing the principal risks affecting our business.
The principal risks listed in the table opposite are those we believe could cause Patient safety our results to differ materially from expected Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow up, or report adverse events and historical results.
They are also the risks from all potential sources, and to act on any relevant findings in a timely manner.
that may signicantly impact our strategic priorities of Grow, Deliver and Simplify.
Intellectual property Our Corporate Executive Team review the Failure to appropriately secure and protect intellectual property rights.
principal risks annually in the fourth quarter to assure appropriateness for the following year.
In 2015, it was agreed to consolidate the reporting and descriptions of a number of principal risks to align with how these Product quality are managed across the business, this Failure to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices cGMP or consolidated list is reported opposite.
inadequate controls and governance of quality in the supply chain covering supplier standards, manufacturing and distribution of products.
Within the table, we have summarised how we define each risk and our assessment of the change in risk during 2015.
This Financial control and reporting assessment is based on the external Failure to comply with current tax law or incurring significant losses due to environment in which we operate, our treasury activities: failure to report accurate financial information in compliance business operations and the impact of our with accounting standards and applicable legislation: failure to maintain adequate internal controls on the severity of the risk in governance and oversight over third-party relationships.
Our risk exposure is continually reviewed by senior management and is therefore subject to change as a result of internal and external factors, future events Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABAC or otherwise.
For full details on the denition, Failure to prevent GSK employees and third parties not complying with our ABAC context, potential impact and mitigating principles and standards, as well as with all applicable legislation.
Progress in 2015 We established a Global Risk Management Ofce to help drive best practices and Commercialisation Failure to execute business strategies, or manage competitive opportunities or standards across the business.
Its remit threats effectively and in accordance with the letter and spirit of legal, industry includes standardising our methodology for and company requirements.
managing the principal risks and identifying significant emerging risks to our business.
We continued to evolve our anti-bribery and corruption team, with enhanced Research practices resourcing and focus, with a remit that Failure to adequately conduct ethical and sound preclinical and clinical research.
includes third party oversight TPO.
We also In addition, failure to engage in scientific activities that are consistent with the letter commissioned external assessors to evaluate and spirit of the law, industry, or the Groups requirements.
our highest risk suppliers and distributors.
Building on efforts in 2014, we enhanced Environment, Health and Safety and Sustainability EHSS and standardised our approach to regional Failure to manage EHSS risks in line with our objectives and policies and with reviews of our internal controls, with our relevant laws and regulations.
Pharmaceuticals business the first to be assessed using our new approach.
The Information protection annual reviews, which enable us to confirm Failure to protect and maintain access to critical or sensitive computer systems that company standards, local laws and or information.
regulations are understood and adhered to, will take place in all our businesses in 2016.
Our viability statement on page 52 sets out our assessment of the prospects of the Group Crisis and continuity management over the next three years, and has been made Inability to recover and sustain critical operations, including key supply chains, with reference to, amongst other things, our following a disruption, or to respond to a crisis incident, in a timely manner.
principal risks and how these are managed.
16 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information How we manage the risk and our assessment of the change in risk during 2015 Increased risk No change to risk Decreased risk Our Chief Medical officer leads a large Global Safety and Pharmacovigilance team, which maintains global policies to guide our employees.
This risk remains of paramount focus for us and we have mature and rigorous controls in place to manage it.
Our Global Patents group continually analyses changes in patent laws and regulations and ensures that they are incorporated into our processes.
Our continued focus on ensuring we have robust and effective processes in place has meant that our assessment of this risk has not changed from 2014.
Our Chief Product Quality officer is accountable for our Quality Management System including implementation of associated policies and leading our global network of Quality Councils.
In our view, this risk has continued to escalate due to increased regulations and sanctions across all companies in our sector.
In response, we have signicantly invested in, reinforced and strengthened the quality culture of the organisation.
Our Chief Financial officer and Group Financial Controller oversee our internal controls relating to financial information and reporting, tax and treasury.
We introduced additional resources and monitoring to ensure that robust financial controls were maintained during 2015, effectively managing risks while the initial phase of integrating the former Novartis businesses into our control and reporting framework were implemented, and the ongoing transformation and upgrade to our financial systems and processes continued.
Additional risk mitigation was introduced by amending the programme timelines of the ongoing system upgrades.
We have an extensive global ABAC programme, policy and procedure, which includes training of all our employees.
Whilst this risk remained significant to GSK in 2015, the continuous improvements in our compliance training programmes as well as a review and reduction of our presence in a number of 'high risk' markets, manage the bribery and corruption risk exposure presented through our global business operations.
We have a single global standard for promotional and marketing activities for GSK products to which all employees including third parties acting on our behalf must comply.
In 2015 we introduced changes to how we engage with healthcare providers and implemented a new sales force incentive model globally, which we believe has decreased the level of risk.
Our business is also structured to provide access to fast growing demand for healthcare and a balanced exposure to future changes in the industry environment.
We have governance systems and controls to oversee our clinical trial research, use of biological samples, and data integrity in all of our key systems.
While there is continued focus on regulatory inspections, we have in place established quality assurance programmes ensuring we have continued adherence to regulatory requirements.
We have global EHSS standards that support clear policies which all employees are trained on.
We believe the overall management of EHSS risk remains effective.
GSK is reducing risk in both employee harm and traditional enterprise disruption categories such as process safety at our high risk chemical manufacturing facilities.
Our Chief Information Security officer oversees our global information policy and programme and regularly assesses changes by monitoring both our internal systems and the external environment.
We believe this risk has increased for all major companies during the year including ourselves, due to the prominence of external threats.
Internally, we continue to invest in improving capabilities and technological solutions to counter this threat.
Our Crisis and Continuity Management CCM governance board, supported by a team of CCM experts ensure that critical business operations have plans in place.
Potential disruptions to our business will continue to be a risk, but we have established governance boards within each of our businesses and continue to learn from plan activations, enabling us to continue to drive improvements in our programme.
GSK Annual Report 2015 17 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Pharmaceuticals 18 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our Pharmaceuticals business discovers, develops and commercialises medicines to treat a broad range of the worlds most common acute and chronic diseases.
In numbers c. 60,000 a number of employees bn 2.3 core R&D spend in 2015 c. 2 billion packs of medicine produced in 2015 40 around 40 new potential medicines and vaccines in our pipeline b proled at R&D event a Including GMS, R&D and dedicated support functions staff.
