4 DELIVERING TODAY SHAPING TOMORROW Our strategy focuses on delivering value for ourstakeholders today, while ensuring we position ourbusiness to create even more value in the future.
Here we highlight some of the key events in the last 12months, as we successfully implemented this strategy.
MARCH 2015 Completed the acquisition of a majority stake in IVB, the worlds leading commercial bovine IVF company The acquisition adds to Genuss technology toolbox, enabling us to accelerate the rate of genetic improvement through the selection of both superior males and females, and expand our global presence in the commercial dairy and beef segments.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 5 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION SEPTEMBER 2014 NOVEMBER 2014 JANUARY 2015 Strategic porcine Delivered 1,000th pregnancy Won a significant commercial multiplication agreement from our proprietary gender validation trial in Russia inChina skew product We entered over 58,600 pigs for evaluation against a key competitors We have delivered over 1,000 We signed an exclusive multi-year product.
The trial was run with a agreement with Riverstone, Genuss pregnancies in field tests and key Russian customer, producing achieved commercial-scale first commercial multiplier in China, c. 3 million pigs per annum.
We to stock and sustain Riverstones production validation.
1 won the trial by c. 1.70 per pig, new pig production project.
The representing a potential customer project with an expected total Royalties from our strategic 2 benefit of over 5m per annum.
herd of 24,000 sows will allow partnership with ABP Food us to reduce our farming risk and Group align our business model in China with our global porcine model.
In May 2014, we entered into a strategic partnership with ABP to develop sustainable, higher quality Acquired Birchwood Genetics beef products by leveraging Genuss PIC completed the acquisition of genomics technology platform.
Birchwood Genetics Inc. Birchwood Under the agreement, Genus is paid is a boar stud partner providing a royalty for demonstrable genetic male PIC genetics to midand benefit delivered to our partner.
small-sized customers in the US.
MAY 2015 JUNE 2015 JULY 2015 Capital Markets event Produced the first Celebrated the 2015 Members of the Genus Executive commercial units from our Chairmans award Leadership Team presented Genuss proprietary genomic bulls The coveted Chairmans Award for business model and its initiatives innovation went to a team from ABS We collected the first units available to further strengthen its position in North America, for devising Net for sale to customers globally from as a leader in animal genetics.
The Profit Genetics, a programme helping ABS JOURNEY, a genomic, born from event was the first of its kind since dairy customers to think differently our own elite female nucleus herd.
2012 and was attended by current about sire selection for their herds.
and prospective investors, and other financial stakeholders.
1 Exchange rates assumed as GBP RUB 79.23.
