GKN AEROSPACE REVIEW continued Fokker acquisition strengthens GKN Aerospace In October, we completed the acquisition of Fokker Technologies Group B. V. A specialist tier one supplier in aerostructures, electrical wiring systems, landing gear and support services, Fokker operates across the commercial, military and business jet markets.
Headquartered in the Netherlands, the business has become an operating division of GKN Aerospace making the combined business the global number two in aerostructures, while adding a new competence as the global number three in electrical wiring systems.
Fokker overview Fokker Technologies is a global aerospace specialist in aerostructures, electrical systems, landing gear and through-life aircraft support systems.
The company has 100 years heritage in the industry and operates through four principal business units: Fokker Aerostructures: light-weight aerostructures such as tails, wing components, and fuselage panels Fokker Elmo: electrical wiring and interconnect systems Fokker Landing Gear: landing gear technology Fokker Services: aircraft and parts availability services.
The Fokker business brings around 5,000 colleagues to GKN Aerospace, as well as 21 new locations in nine countries: the Netherlands, US, China, Turkey, India, Canada, Mexico, Romania and Belgium.
How Fokker fits within GKN GKN Aerospace has the following business units Aerospace Engine Systems, Aerostructures North America, Aerostructures Europe and Special Products Group.
They are all supported by Global Engineering & Technology.
Fokker will join GKN Aerospace as a new business unit.
GKN plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Operator at Fokker Elmo China Fokker is an excellent strategic and cultural t which supports our growth strategy, strengthening GKN Aerospaces market Expanding manufacturing leadership, manufacturing footprint and in China technology.
This transaction will increase our Fokker has been active in China for more shipset value on key growth programmes in than 15 years, having established a joint-venture facility in Langfang in 1997 both the commercial and military markets, employing more than 900 people.
The and integration is now under way.
Langfang facility supplies advanced wiring systems and electrical panels and boxes Nigel Stein to most of the leading commercial aircra Chief Executive and aircra engine programmes worldwide for customers including Airbus, Boeing and Rolls-Royce.
In 2012, Fokker broadened its portfolio by signing a contract with Shanghai Aircra Design and Research Operator working on the Airbus A380 composite Operator working on Glare fuselage panel for the Institute, a subsidiary of Commercial outboard flap in Papendrecht Airbus A380 at Fokker in Papendrecht Aircra Corporation of China Ltd, to work together on the electrical wiring and interconnection system for Chinas first commercial regional aircra, the ARJ21.
Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II photo by Kevin Grin Bringing new technology with Glare Glare is short for glass-bre reinforced aluminium a revolutionary lightweight material, also known as FML bre metal laminate.
It is a laminate of thin aluminium together with resin epoxy in a sandwich with layers of Adding content on glass bre.
The material is about 25% lighter than aluminium and has Joint Strike Fighter much better fatigue resistance as The Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II is well as improved impact tolerance.
a family of single-seat, single-engine, all-weather stealth h generation Fokker worked closely with the multirole ghters.
Fokker has been part Technical University of Del and the of the F-35 programme since 2002, and Dutch national aerospace laboratory in has designed and manufactured the developing Glare, then partnered with electrical wiring interconnection systems, Airbus to deliver Glare on the Airbus flaperons, in-flight opening doors, A380, reducing weight by almost 25% titanium engine parts and arresting gear compared with traditional material.
The for all F-35 aircra currently flying and A380s upper fuselage has a covering 2 in production.
Fokker has since been of nearly 500m 27 Glare panels up awarded the contract for the drag chute to 11 metres long while Glare is also fairing assembly, and the next phase used on the leading edge of the vertical development contract for the composite n and on the horizontal stabiliser.
Customers in the F-35 programme are Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, Pratt & Whitney and UTAS.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts
