Contract risk Risk trend Description Mitigation Across our businesses an increasing percentage of revenues are Robust bid and contract management processes including generated through contracts which are long-term in nature and thorough reviews of contract terms and conditions, contractsubject to complex terms and conditions.
Contracts include specific risk assessments and clear delegation of authority commitments relating to pricing, quality and safety, and technical for approvals.
Continuous review of contract performance.
Both our aerospace and automotive businesses enter into Changes in 2015 design and build contracts.
These are complex contracts that During the year we reviewed our contract management processes in are often long-term, so it is important that the contracted risk is each division to ensure they continue to be effective in response to the carefully managed.
increased risks associated with more complex design and build contracts.
Processes have been further strengthened to focus on key areas of contract risk.
Specifically within GKN Aerospace, the Group has risk and revenue sharing partnerships with key engine manufacturers.
Read more about key examples of new business wins in 2015 in the divisional These contain formalised risk-sharing arrangements relating to business reviews on pages 16 to 33 risks which are not always within GKN management control.
Potential impact A failure to fully understand contract risks or to anticipate technical challenges and estimate costs accurately at the outset of a contract can lead to unexpected liabilities, increased outturn costs and reduced profitability.
Programme management Risk trend Description Mitigation Many of the programmes entered into by the Group are complex Embedded programme management, including investment and long-term and are subject to various performance conditions phasing and product testing activities.
which must be adhered to throughout the programme.
The Periodic impairment reviews of capitalised development costs, management of such programmes brings risks related to: including formal review at half year and year end.
delays in product development or launch schedules Ongoing review and approval of key programmes by the failure to meet customer specifications or predict technical Executive Committee and the Board.
problems Periodic inspection of programmes by customers.
inability to manufacture on time for the start of production or to required production volumes Changes in 2015 dependence on key or customer-nominated suppliers During the year we thoroughly reviewed our risk management systems failure to manage effectively internal or customer-driven change in this area, further strengthening our processes, organisation and training programmes where required.
This will continue as an area of inability to forecast accurately and to manage costs.
Potential impact Ineffective programme management could result in damage to customer relationships or cancellation of a contract resulting in claims for loss and reputational damage.
Poor performance against a contract could also undermine the Groups ability to win future contracts and could result in cost overruns and significantly lower returns than expected.
GKN plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
