Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Overview of 2015 In 2015, we made substantial progress to accelerate new product sales growth, integrate new businesses in Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare and restructure our global Pharmaceuticals business.
This progress means the Group is well positioned to return to core earnings growth in 2016.
Sir Andrew Witty, Chief Executive officer Performance summary bn bn bn bn 23.9 10.3 5.7 3.9 Group turnover Total operating profit Core operating profit Cash dividends paid a up 6% CER up 1% CER down 9% CER down 3% in 2015 up 100% CER a a pro-forma CER pro-forma p p bn % 2.0 174.3 75.7 100 b New product sales Total earnings per share Core earnings per share Markets now operating up 100% up 100%, primarily down 15% CER, primarily new commercial model reecting impact of reecting short-term dilution a transaction gains of the Novartis transaction % st 40 20 13 1 Potential new medicines Potential to le up to Estimated internal In Access to Medicine and vaccines proled at R&D 20 assets with regulators rate of return in R&D Index event, 80% of which have by 2020 in 2015 c potential to be first-in-class Footnotes a We use a number of adjusted measures to report the performance of our business, as described on page 54.
These include core results, CER growth rates and pro-forma CER growth rates.
A reconciliation of total results to core results is set out on page 62. b New products dened as: Pharmaceuticals: Relvar Breo Ellipta, Anoro Ellipta, Incruse Ellipta, Arnuity Ellipta, Eperzan Tanzeum, Nucala, Tivicay, Triumeq.
Vaccines: Menveo, Bexsero, Shingrix not yet approved.
Front cover story Innovation is at the heart of all we do Katherine, pictured left, is one of a team of scientists continuing to develop Nucala after almost 20 years of focused R&D, including nine distinct patient studies.
Nucala is a monoclonal antibody that stops IL-5 from binding to its receptor on the surface of eosinophils.
In people with asthma, eosinophils a type of white blood cell cause inammation in the lungs, making it difficult to breathe and increasing the risk of asthma attacks.
The 2015 European and US regulatory approvals of Nucala the first-in-class approved targeted biologic therapy for people with eosinophilic-driven severe asthma consolidates GSKs leading global position in respiratory medicine.
Katherine, GSK senior scientist, Stevenage, UK B GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Contents Strategic report At GSK, our mission is to Our investor proposition 02 Our business 04 improve the quality of human Chairmans statement 06 CEOs statement 07 life by enabling people to do Our global marketplace 08 Our business model 11 Our strategic priorities 12 more, feel better, live longer.
How we performed 14 Our approach to risk 16 Pharmaceuticals 18 Vaccines 26 Consumer Healthcare 32 Responsible business 38 Group financial review 50 Governance & remuneration Our Board 74 Our Corporate Executive Team 78 Board governance 80 Corporate governance framework 82 Committee reports Audit & Risk 88 Nominations 95 Corporate Responsibility 98 Remuneration report Chairmans annual statement 102 Annual report on remuneration 103 Remuneration policy summary 127 Find out more www.
com Financial statements Directors statement of responsibilities 130 Independent Auditors report 131 Financial statements 138 Notes to the financial statements 142 Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc prepared under UK GAAP 211 Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements The Groups reports led with or furnished to the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, including this document Investor information and written information released, or oral statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, may Quarterly trend 218 contain forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements give the Groups current expectations or forecasts of future events.
An investor can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current Five year record 222 facts.
They use words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, intend, will, project, plan, believe and other words and Product development pipeline 225 terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance.
In particular, these Product, competition and include statements relating to future actions, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, intellectual property 228 and financial results.
Other than in accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations including under the UK Listing Risk factors 231 Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, the Group undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Share capital and share price 241 The reader should, however, consult any additional disclosures that the Group may make in any documents which it Dividends 243 publishes and or les with the SEC.
All readers, wherever located, should take note of these disclosures.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and shareholders are cautioned not to place Financial calendar 243 undue reliance on the forward-looking statements.
Annual General Meeting 2016 243 Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, inherent risks and uncertainties, many of which relate to factors Tax information for shareholders 244 that are beyond the Groups control or precise estimate.
The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors, Shareholder services including those in this document, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statement.
Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Risk factors on pages and contacts 246 231-240 of this Annual Report.
Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Group speak only as of the US law and regulation 248 date they are made and are based upon the knowledge and information available to the Directors on the date of this Group companies 250 Annual Report.
Glossary of terms 259 All expectations and targets regarding future performance should also be read together with Assumptions related to 2016-2020 outlook on the inside back cover.
A number of adjusted measures are used to report the performance of our business.
These measures are dened on page 54 and a reconciliation of core results to total results is set out on page 62.
