Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Group financial review continued Foreign exchange risk management Treasury policies Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on internal and external trade ows are not typically hedged.
Our objective is We report in Sterling and pay dividends out of Sterling profits.
to minimise the exposure of overseas operating subsidiaries to The role of Corporate Treasury is to monitor and manage our transaction risk by matching local currency income with local external and internal funding requirements and financial risks currency costs where possible.
Our internal trading transactions in support of our strategic objectives.
We operate on a global are matched centrally and we manage inter-company payment basis, primarily through subsidiary companies, and we manage terms to reduce foreign currency risk.
Foreign currency cash ows our capital to ensure that our subsidiaries are able to operate as can be hedged selectively under the management of Treasury and going concerns and to optimise returns to shareholders through the TMG.
These include hedges of the foreign exchange risk an appropriate balance of debt and equity.
Treasury activities are arising from acquisitions and disposals of assets.
Where possible, governed by policies approved annually by the Board of Directors, we manage the cash surpluses or borrowing requirements of and most recently on 8 July 2015.
A Treasury Management Group subsidiary companies centrally using forward contracts to hedge TMG meeting, chaired by our Chief Financial officer, takes place future repayments back into the originating currency.
on a monthly basis to review treasury activities.
Its members receive management information relating to these activities.
In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, we seek to denominate borrowings in the currencies of our principal assets Treasury operations and cash ows.
These are primarily denominated in US dollars, The objective of our treasury activity is to minimise the post-tax Euros and Sterling.
Certain borrowings can be swapped into other net cost of financial operations and reduce its volatility in order currencies as required.
We use a variety of financial instruments to finance our operations and derivative financial instruments to Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies manage market risks from these operations.
These derivatives, that match investments in overseas Group assets may be treated principally comprising forward foreign currency contracts, foreign as a hedge against the relevant assets.
Forward contracts in major currency options and interest rate swaps, are used to swap currencies are also used to reduce exposure to our investment in borrowings and liquid assets into currencies required for Group overseas Group assets.
The TMG reviews the ratio of borrowings purposes and to manage exposure to financial risks from changes to assets for major currencies monthly.
in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Counterparty risk management We do not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes We set global counterparty limits for each of our banking and and our Treasury policies specifically prohibit such activity.
All investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings from transactions in financial instruments are undertaken to manage Moodys and Standard and Poors.
Corporate Treasurys usage of the risks arising from underlying business activities, not for these limits is monitored daily by a Corporate Compliance officer speculation.
CCO who operates independently of Corporate Treasury.
Any breach of these limits would be reported to the CFO immediately.
Capital management Our financial strategy, implemented through our Financial The CCO also monitors the credit rating of these counterparties architecture, supports the Groups strategic priorities and it is and, when changes in ratings occur, noties Corporate Treasury regularly reviewed by the Board.
We manage the capital structure so that changes can be made to investment levels or to authority of the Group through an appropriate mix of debt and equity.
In addition, relationship banks and their credit ratings are reviewed regularly and a report is presented annually to Our long-term credit rating with Standard and Poors is A the TMG for approval.
stable outlook and with Moodys Investor Services Moodys is A2 negative outlook.
Our short-term credit ratings are A-1 and P-1 with Standard and Poors and Moodys respectively.
Liquidity risk management Our policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated Strategic report funding requirements.
Our cash ow forecasts and funding requirements are monitored by the TMG on a monthly basis.
The Strategic report was approved by the Board of Directors on Our strategy is to diversify liquidity sources using a range of 16 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by: facilities and to maintain broad access to funding markets.
Each day, we sweep cash from a number of global subsidiaries to central Treasury accounts for liquidity management purposes.
Simon Dingemans Interest rate risk management Chief Financial officer Our objective is to minimise the effective net interest cost and 16 March 2016 to balance the mix of debt at xed and oating interest rates over time.
The policy on interest rate risk management limits the amount of oating interest payments to a prescribed percentage of operating profit.
