RISK MANAGEMENT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES con nued Joint ventures Risk trend Description Mitigation A sizeable portion of the Groups profits and cash flows are The Group seeks to participate only in ventures in which its generated by a small number of joint ventures.
In these interests are complementary to those of its partners.
circumstances, there is an inherent risk that the objectives of the Thorough pre-transaction due diligence procedures on any joint-venture partners in regard to the joint venture may diverge.
Continual focus on sustaining strong relationships with joint venture partners.
Potential impact Such a misalignment of objectives could result in the Groups inability to pursue its desired strategy.
Consequently, the Groups Changes in business and future results may be adversely aected.
In 2014 we sold our stake in Emitec: there have been no significant changes in our ongoing revenues and profits generated by other joint venture partners.
Relationships relating to our largest joint venture, Shanghai GKN HUAYU Driveline Systems Co Limited SDS, remain strong and continue to develop positively.
Read more about the Groups joint ventures in note 13 to the financial statements Laws, regulations and corporate reputation Risk trend Description Mitigation The Group is subject to applicable laws and regulations in the A strong culture of doing the right thing which is regularly global jurisdictions and industries in which it operates.
This emphasised by senior management.
includes certain territories where strong ethical standards may Group-wide governance policies and procedures, ongoing not be well established or where parts of the markets in which we compliance training and strong oversight.
Regulations include those related to Ongoing monitoring of regulatory developments in major export controls, environmental and safety requirements, product jurisdictions.
safety, tax laws, intellectual property rights, competition laws Ongoing monitoring of employee concerns through our and other ethical business practices.
Tax in particular is a complex area where laws and their Changes in interpretation change regularly, leading to potential uncertainty in There have been no significant new regulations impacting the Group tax exposures.
during 2015, but our markets continue to be subject to robust enforcement activities in relation to existing regulations, particularly in relation to vehicle safety.
Potential impact Non-compliance could expose the Group to fines, penalties, In response, we have taken steps to reinforce our commitment across damage to reputation, suspension or debarment from government the Group to doing the right thing in all activities.
This includes contracting or suspension of export privileges.
emphasising its importance to all senior managers at each of our divisional leadership conferences and completing the roll-out of the new GKN Code to remind employees of the standard of behaviour we expect.
We continue to strengthen our risk management systems.
As part of the ongoing integration of Fokker, we will align our risk and governance procedures taking account of specic regulatory risks associated with the acquired business.
During 2015 we introduced a new online export control training course and, to date, 97% of the target audience has completed it.
Read more about doing the right thing on pages 48 to 55 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts
