12 Business Model CLEAR PATH TO CREATING, DELIVERING & SHARING VALUE Genuss Competitive Advantages Genuss business model is built on competitive advantages which help us create value for our customers and shareholders.
Our strategy see pages 14 and 15 reinforces and builds on these advantages.
Our competitive edge comesfrom: continuously improving our proprietary lines of breeding animals, using the best science available: our global distribution capability, through our supply Produce Differentiated chain, technical service and sales network: Animal Genetics long-lasting customer relationships, enhanced by our services to help farmers get the best from our products: and Genus accelerates genetic a business model and multi-species approach that improvement by exploiting allow us to continually strengthen and leverage our rapid advances in molecular technology platform.
We do this through our world-class in-house team of scientists and technicians, and by strategically collaborating with universities and other biotech companies.
Our proprietary techniques help us determine the best animals to mate, so our customers see faster genetic gains.
To determine breeding goals, we use proprietary indices of desirable animal traits.
We own elite animals, Genus is absolutely focused on driving genetic and supplement them with elite genetics from outside our herds.
improvement faster than ever, delivering this improvement to our customers more quickly We work closely with customers and efficiently, andcapturing a share of the and tailor our genetic programmes to their needs.
This enables value we deliver to our customers.
us to deliver outstanding and differentiated products, to maximise Karim Bitar our customers profitability.
Chief Executive Driving genetic improvement faster than ever... Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 13 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Distribute Genetics Share in the Value Delivered Our porcine business owns ABS with a significant distribution We look to capture an genetic nuclei herds, where platform.
Weprocess and appropriate share of we continuously improve the distribute genetics to over the value we deliver to genetic traits of our proprietary 40,000 customers worldwide, customers.
We do this by: elite pig lines.
We then cross and selling directly in 23 countries targeting customers who will multiply these lines, to provide and through distributors in a value Genus genetics: breeding stock for commercial further 54 countries.
Following demonstrating the value of pig production.
We do this our acquisition of 51% of IVB, our genetics: and through more than 500 breeding Genus ABS also produces and aligning Genuss interests with herds in 35 countries, around distributes embryos.
Through its customers, by linking our 98% of which are owned by embryo production, we are prices to higher productivity our customers or third-party able to provide our customers and the genetic improvement multipliers.
This structure is a with an elite genetic product, delivered.
significant strength, allowing by controlling the selection us to meet demand for our of both male and female genetics throughout the world, parent donors see page 4. protect our intellectual property and reduce our exposure to To maximise our products farming and commodity risk.
potential, our technical service teams assist customers to achieve Genus ABS operates owned the best results in nutrition, studs in the UK, US, Canada reproduction, health management and Brazil, with a further stud and other areas.
Our teams currently under construction in help customers select the right India.
We also house our bulls genes to meet their goals, and in third-party owned studs in we also benchmark our products North America, Europe, Australia against our competitors.
and Latin America, providing... delivering improvement to... and capturing a our customers more quickly share of the value and efficiently... we deliver to our customers.
