Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Value earned from long-term incentives LTIs 2013 awards with a performance period ended 31 December 2015 audited The Committee reviewed the performance of the PSP and DABP matching awards granted to Executive Directors against targets set in 2013.
The performance achieved in the three years to 31 December 2015 and the vesting levels are set out in the table below.
The Committee previously provided estimates of vesting for 2013 awards in GSKs 2013 and 2014 Annual Reports.
Those estimates were based on performance achieved at that time and the following reects performance achieved over the course of the whole performance period.
In line with the Committees agreed principles for each measure, actual performance against targets was reviewed and adjustments made as appropriate to reect the impact of the Novartis transaction on the business and to ensure that the vesting outcome reected genuine underlying business performance.
Performance Vesting measures and relative % of % of weighting Performance targets and performance achieved maximum award R&D new The R&D new product performance measure was based on an aggregate three-year revenue 82% 20.5% product target for New Product sales.
New Products are dened as products launched in the performance period and the two preceding years.
Therefore products launched in the years performance 2011 to 2015 were included.
Aggregate sales for the period were 6.19 billion.
25% The vesting schedule is shown below with straight-line vesting between these points.
This vesting schedule has been adjusted to exclude the impact of the Novartis transactions, i. e. revenues from divested Oncology products were removed from the target and outcome for 2015 in determining performance.
One acquired Vaccines product, Bexsero, was judged to meet the condition of a new product and has therefore been included in the target and outturn.
Target % vesting Maximum 6.61bn 100% 6.01bn 75% 5.71bn 50% Threshold 5.41bn 25% Business The target originally set for this element at the time of grant was based on aggregate revenues from 69% 17.25% diversication Vaccines, Consumer Healthcare and Emerging Markets, and Japan with the purpose of incentivising performance and rewarding the growth of a globally diversied business.
25% The Remuneration Committee determined that the original target was not sustainable in light of the transformational three-part transaction with Novartis.
The Committee therefore reviewed both the original target and performance in light of the additional sales from the acquired Vaccines business and the Consumer Healthcare joint venture, and overall progress made towards the strategic goal of diversication.
The Committee noted several strong performances from business initiatives over the period including in relation to Fluarix Flulaval following the launch of the Quadrivalent formulation, strong Emerging Market sales from products such as Synorix and Rotarix, progress in Japan in transitioning the respiratory portfolio to the new Ellipta portfolio, and the successful OTC switch of Flonase in Consumer Healthcare.
All of these factors have supported the Groups ambition of creating a long-term business with global scale and reduced exposure to risk and volatility, consistent with the strategic targets identied at the start of the performance period.
It was subsequently determined that in light of the progress made during the performance period, vesting for this element should be between threshold and maximum and that 69% of this element of the award should vest.
Adjusted free The Adjusted Free Cash Flow AFCF vesting schedule which was disclosed at the time of grant 0% 0% cash ow had a vesting threshold of 14.06 billion, and maximum vesting for achieving 16.66 billion.
performance During 2015, the Committee reviewed the target and vesting schedule in light of the completion 25% of the Novartis transaction and determined that it should be adjusted to reect the impact of the transactions and other restructuring.
The adjusted vesting schedule is: Target % vesting Maximum 13.88bn 100% 13.28bn 75% 12.07bn 50% Threshold 11.71bn 25% AFCF for the three years was 11.08 billion which, in line with the Committees agreed principles, included adjustments for a number of material distorting items, including legal settlements, exchange rate movements and special pension contributions.
The threshold level of performance was not met and this element therefore lapsed.
Relative TSR GSKs TSR rank position was 10th in the comparator group of ten pharmaceutical companies 0% 0% performance GSK and nine other companies and this element therefore lapsed.
The vesting schedule and comparator group is as set out for the 2016 awards on page 112.
25% No adjustments were made to reect the Novartis transaction.
Total vesting in respect of 2013 awards 37.75% GSK Annual Report 2015 109
