The annual bonus opportunity is signicantly below GKNs Further details on the market data that we will use to calculate international peer groups, including our US competitors.
The US the EPS targets for the 2016 SEP awards are set out on page 84. is an important market for us, where we generate around one The Group expects that the continuing increase in book tax rate third of our sales and compete for talent.
We do not expect to will create a headwind to EPS growth of between 1% and 1.5%.
match reward packages in that market, but having recently lost Based on current forecasts, management will need to achieve some senior US executives, we cannot ignore its practices.
compound annual growth in earnings before tax of more than The retention risk is exacerbated by the fact that the 2013 SEP 5.5% to achieve the threshold vesting level for the 2016 SEP award will not pay out in 2016 and subsequent awards now look awards.
This will be challenging given current economic unlikely to vest in 2017 or 2018.
While management profit before uncertainty.
tax has grown steadily, slowing global GDP and an increasing tax rate for GKN mean that an annualised compound growth in For the 2016 SEP we will measure EPS growth using the EPS of 6% to 12% is overly stretching.
management EPS reported on page 11, which is based on book The resignation of three senior executives in recent years, tax rather than cash tax.
This will improve the connection including the resignation in 2015 of Andrew Reynolds Smith to between the financial information that we report to our join another industrial company, emphasises the importance of shareholders and the SEP performance measure, and will aid ensuring that our reward packages are competitive.
Based on current forecasts, we expect both the believe we currently have a very strong executive team, the cash tax rate and the book tax rate to increase by similar Committee is mindful of the importance of a period of stability amounts over the period relevant to the 2016 SEP. to the long-term success of the Group.
The 2015 management EPS to be used as the baseline for the The Committee has carefully considered these points against the 2016 SEP award will be adjusted upwards to include a notional challenging stock market conditions seen at the start of 2016. full year of Fokker earnings and to ignore the eect of the FokkerFollowing shareholder consultation we have decided not to related transaction costs incurred during 2015 so that we propose any policy changes for 2016 but to help address the compare like with like when we assess performance over the above issues we have implemented some changes within our core performance period.
On this basis, the baseline EPS for the existing remuneration policy, as described below.
We will carry 2016 SEP will be 27.9 pence.
out a full policy review during the course of 2016: it is likely that we will propose further changes in 2017 when the remuneration For the 2016 SEP we have expanded the Committees discretion policy comes up for approval by shareholders under the normal to reduce any SEP pay-out so that the Committee can take three-year cycle.
We will retain our rigorous, principled and fair account of both the quality of earnings as was the case in approach to setting reward levels, while seeking to ensure that relation to previous SEP awards and EPS performance against we can attract, motivate and retain the right talent across our shareholder expectations.
This change was made in light of global markets.
Taking into consideration the succession planning risks Our approach for mentioned above, we intend to grant the 2016 SEP awards to our STVRS executive Directors with a maximum opportunity of 165% for the We are proposing to increase the proportion of the STVRS based core award and a further 33% for the sustainability award.
This on strategic measures from 20% to 25% of salary, with the overall is a relatively small increase of 20% of salary for the core award maximum bonus opportunity remaining at 110% of salary.
This and 4% for the sustainability award, and is within our current change helps ensure that there is an appropriate balance between remuneration policy.
the delivery of strategic objectives that help the Group in the medium to long term and annual profit, margin and cash targets.
The following pages describe in further detail how we The targets remain stretching and we will continue to take a implemented our remuneration policy in 2015, together with our disciplined approach to measuring performance.
Our remuneration policy is due to be renewed and approved by shareholders at the 2017 annual general SEP meeting AGM.
We are likely to propose changes to our policy at For 2016 we are changing the way we set EPS targets and the SEP that time and will consult with shareholders during the course of award levels for executive Directors.
GKNs overriding strategic objective is to achieve above market growth relative to our end markets.
To better align EPS targets with our strategy, EPS performance will be assessed relative to actual automotive and aerospace end market growth.
Market growth will be assessed using third-party data reporting the Richard Parry-Jones CBE average growth in the number of vehicles produced and the value Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of aircra sold during the performance period of the 2016 SEP. 22 February 2016 This means that our senior management population will only receive shares through the SEP if they succeed in delivering our strategy of growing above the market.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts
