RISK MANAGEMENT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Highly competitive markets Risk trend Description Mitigation GKN operates in highly competitive markets with customer Maintaining a balanced portfolio of businesses across our decisions typically based on price, quality, technology and markets provides some protection against competition in service.
Contracts for major programmes are subject to highly particular markets.
competitive bidding processes and the strength of our Regular review of competition and market trends.
competitors and general market conditions continue to drive Targeted investment in engineering, and a commitment to price pressure and more challenging contractual terms.
Lean manufacturing, quality and customer relationships.
Flexible management of our variable and xed cost base Strong margins may come under pressure if our competitors including outsourcing and low-cost sourcing initiatives improve or as a result of customer actions.
An inability or delay in where appropriate.
developing or maintaining sucient or appropriate engineering and manufacturing capabilities in high growth markets could Changes in further increase the risk.
Strong competition and customer pricing pressures have continued to increase throughout 2015.
Pressure on margins was particularly strong Customer vertical integration including OEMs taking production in some areas of the aerospace market and the Chinese automotive market.
Despite these challenges, we continue to win new business in-house, the entry of new competitors, and the consolidation of and dierentiate ourselves through our technology.
existing competitors also contribute to increased competition.
Read more about the trends in each of our markets on pages 4 and 5 Potential impact Competition risk, if not mitigated, could result in reduced sales and profit margins and potentially lost growth opportunities in high growth markets.
An inability to secure new business awards on major programmes could signicantly impact future growth, cash flow and profitability.
Supply chain Risk trend Description Mitigation Our suppliers are key to our success.
It is essential that suppliers Ongoing communication of our expectations of suppliers and subcontractors continue to meet our high standards of through our Supplier Code of Conduct.
technical competence, innovation, product quality, reliability, Contract terms and conditions that require our suppliers to delivery performance, cost, financial stability, safety, ethics and meet specified performance standards.
Ongoing assessment of supplier technology and dependency.
Monitoring of the financial and operational viability of key Our supply chain network is exposed to potentially adverse suppliers.
events such as physical disruptions, environmental and industrial Ongoing monitoring of inventory levels to ensure availability in accidents, scarcity of supply, or insolvency of a key supplier which times of production volatility.
could impact our ability to deliver orders to our customers.
Contingency plans designed to enable us to secure alternative key material supplies at short notice, to transfer or share The cost of our products can be signicantly aected by the cost production between manufacturing sites and to use substitute of the underlying commodities and materials from which they are materials where required.
Fluctuations in these costs cannot always be passed on to Dual sourcing where appropriate to reduce dependence on our customers.
Supplier quality reviews and audits.
Potential impact A sustained supply chain disruption, or the delivery of defective Changes in product to us, could impact our ability to meet customer Supply chain risk has increased in line with the growing complexity of requirements, result in additional contractual liabilities and have certain of our products and programmes.
It remains critical that our suppliers are able to support our requirements across our extended a consequential impact on financial performance.
We continue to carefully manage and monitor our supply chains and, where appropriate, build on long-term supplier relationships.
A Supply Chain Steering Committee was established to lead our supply chain excellence strategy.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts
