20 Genus PIC Strategic Progress We have continued to make significant strategic progress, including further increases in the rate of genetic gain and a reduction in genetic lag.
We see the potential for further growth across the world and have developed robust plans to help us seize these opportunities.
Bill Christianson Chief Operating Officer, Genus PIC Increasing Genetic Control Targeting Key Markets and Product Differentiation and Segments Progress Against 2015 Objectives Progress Against 2015 Objectives We aimed to: We aimed to: increase the rate of genetic gain by a further 10%: build on our strength in the Americas: increase our enhance our products, by completing the integration presence in the top 40 European accounts: and of Gntiporc: and reduce genetic lag by four months.
introduce a relationship management system, enabling the global deployment of our Key Account During the year, we: Management and Technical Service offering to meet increased the rate of genetic gain by more than 10%, customers needs.
by applying genomic analysis across all traits and product lines: During the year, we: integrated Gntiporc, including embedding its genes increased volumes across the Americas by 8% and in our improvement programme and assimilating its grew our share of business with the regions top 50 employees: customers: acquired Birchwood Genetics to strengthen our reshaped the European team to focus on the top 40 genetic distribution platform serving midand customers, while maintaining performance: and small-sized customers in North America: and introduced a global relationship management system, reduced genetic lag globally by two months, despite the Targeted Customer Interface TCI, to draw the impact of PEDv in North America.
together information and insights on customers worldwide.
2016 Priorities We will: 2016 Priorities continue to harness genomics to accelerate the rate of We will: genetic improvement: continue to build our presence and share of business develop two new product lines, combining our with large customers in every region: proprietary genes with those acquired from strengthen and standardise processes and customer Gntiporc: offerings across our business, such as adopting a invest in product validation trials, to demonstrate the consistent global approach to key account value of our products against the top five competitors management: and in each market: continue to build relationships with key industry increase global distribution of our elite boars: and stakeholders, for example through our biennial global reduce genetic lag by two months.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 21 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION CASE STUDY LINK TO STRATEGY PARTNERING TO SUPPORT A GROWING BUSINESS Sandy Pine Systems and Genus PIC have enjoyed a long and fruitful partnership.
Owners Greg and Vicki Wilke started their multiplier relationship with PIC in 1983, with 450 grandparent sows.
Today Sandy Pine has 140 employees and 16,800 sows, producing more than 175,000 Camborough Isowean gilts each year.
It has added a 440-head PIC boar stud and 7,800 Camborough commercial sows, and doubled its multiplier to 11,000 sows, as well as completing a state-of-the-art feed mill.
This growth has been made possible by the Wilkes continued belief in PICs genetic value, sustained over more than 30 years.
Tailoring the Business Model Strengthening Core Competencies Progress Against 2015 Objectives Progress Against 2015 Objectives We aimed to: We aimed to: continue the transition to a royalty pricing model in complete our first product validation trials in Asia: and South America, Europe and Asia: establish and stock develop and roll-out further training modules through three new sire line nucleus farms across the US and our Key Account Manager Academy.
Latin America: and further increase supply chain efficiency.
During the year, we: completed and won validation trials in China and During the year, we: Thailand, and started to extend trials to Europe: and increased the proportion of global volumes under the introduced seven new modules to our PIC Academy, royalty model, including increases of 11% in Asia and which is our training resource for key account 21% in Europe: managers around the world.
established sire line nucleus farms in Quebec Canada, Ohio US, and Chihuahua Mexico : and 2016 Priorities increased effectiveness across our supply chain, We will: including through closing inefficient units and continue to invest in our Academy and develop new managing transport costs.
training modules: implement customer-centric sales techniques across 2016 Priorities our porcine business: and We will: continue to enhance the culture of employee health continue to implement a more consistent approach to and safety across our business, including developing, our global supply chain: implementing, communicating and measuring ensure our facilities remain open and operational at progress on global standards.
least 90% of the time, and make them more resistant to livestock disease: and add 10,000 sows to large multiplier sites and remove at least 5,000 from smaller sites, to further increase efficiency.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 22 Genus PIC Operating Review CORN KEY MARKETS PORK KEY MARKETS Performance Corn Key Markets Pork Key Markets PER TONNE PER KG per tonne per kg Genus PIC performed very strongly, with operating profits including 300 3.0 JVs up 17% in constant currency, on revenue growth of 15% to 175.5m.
Volumes grew by 8%, with all 250 2.5 regions contributing.
Operating margins per MPE improved through 200 completion of the integration of 2.0 Gntiporc and the benefit of synergies a year ahead of schedule 150 and price and cost management.
1.5 100 In North America, profits were up 11% in constant currency, on volume 1.0 50 growth of 8%.
Following the PEDv outbreak in 2014, royalties were impacted during the first half of this 0.5 0 financial year.
However, this was Aug 12 Aug 13 Aug 14 Aug 15 Aug 12 Aug 13 Aug 14 Aug 15 offset by strong animal shipments, US Brazil EU China US Brazil EU China Russia as customers started to expand and improve their herds once the impact of Market year, prices had fallen back to more the disease became better contained.
Market conditions for Genus PICs normal seasonal patterns.
However, There was also the benefit of a full customers were generally favourable the outlook remains positive for the year of Gntiporc and Birchwood throughout the year, with the Brazilian pork sector, with strong contributed positively, as expected.
In North America, domestic consumption expected and the outbreak of PEDv that peaked continuing export demand helped by Latin American profits improved in early 2014 led to tight pork supply the devaluation of the Brazilian Real.
42% in constant currency on a 14% and record pig prices in the first half volume increase, helped by an of this financial year.
Combined with In Europe, the first half of the exceptionally strong operating profit low input costs, this gave producers financial year was affected by performance from the Agroceres PIC exceptional margins.
A strong rebound continuing production expansion JV up 98%.
Agroceres PIC benefited in supply during the second half of and export bans, primarily to Russia, from a full years contribution from the year led to a considerable drop in leading to oversupply and a 21% Gntiporc, investments made in US pork prices, to levels that are more decline in pork prices compared updated genetics and an improved reflective of long-term averages.
Despite some supply chain, market share gains stabilisation of prices in the first half and favourable market conditions.
In Brazil, pig prices reached a record of calendar year 2015, helped by We also saw strong profit growth in high in October 2014 helped by increased exports, prices were still Mexico up 38%, while Latin Americas strong exports, particularly to Russia, 17% below the prior year and farmer overhead costs were well controlled.
following the ban on exports from margins were generally negative.
By the end of the CASE STUDY LINK TO STRATEGY TRANSFORMING OUR JOINT VENTURE Agroceres PIC is our JV in Brazil and Argentina with the Agroceres Group, a leading agriculture supplier.
In recent years, Agroceres PIC has transformed its business and performance.
Major changes include conversion from upfront sales to a royalty model, the construction of South Americas largest and most modern boar stud and the creation of key account management and technical services, dedicated to the top 80 accounts.
The result has been a market share increase from 42% to 53% and impressive operating profit growth in the last two years.
The business is now well positioned to deliver further strong growth in these highly important markets.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 23 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Constant Actual currency currency 2015 2014 Movement Movement m m % % Revenue 175.5 152.8 15 15 Adjusted operating profit exc JV 57.2 49.9 15 13 Adjusted operating profit inc JV 61.9 52.6 18 17 Adjusted operating margin exc JV 32.6% 32.7% 0.1 pts 0.5 pts In Europe, volumes increased 2% During the financial year, we We have shown it is possible and operating profit increased 5% in successfully integrated Birchwood to have good results at low constant currency, as we continued and Gntiporc into our operations, to make progress with our strategy cost, through high health delivering the expected synergies to target the larger integrated pork from both acquisitions ahead of the status, nutrition and the producers.
Progress with a number of planned timeframes.
Genus PIC also genetic support of PIC.
key accounts was encouraging and continued to invest in technology the proportion of volumes sold under particularly genomics, distribution Claudio Freixes royalty contracts increased to 59% networks, technical service capabilities General Manager, during the year 2014: 38%.
At the and key account management, to Kekn same time, we took further action to help us add even greater value for reduce our exposure in directly owned customers.
We made continued operations, including streamlining progress in demonstrating the and standardising the UK boar stud strength of our product offering operations: establishing European through increased validation trials focused support in Technical Services, with a number of large integrated Genetic Services, Health Assurance pork producers around the world.
and Supply Chain: and expanding the supply of high indexing animals at multiplication partners, to supply our best products to European customers.
CASE STUDY LINK TO STRATEGY BENEFITING FROM OUR ROBUST GENETICS Kekn is Mexicos leading pork producer, with 61,500 sows.
It operates feed manufacturing and processing plants, and sells through its 272 retail stores and via export.
PIC has partnered with Kekn since 1992, supplying top genetics and technical expertise.
The climate makes conditions difficult for intensive rearing but the robustness of our genetics has helped Kekn increase sales by over 100% in the last five years, to 153,000 tonnes in 2014.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 24 Genus ABS Strategic Progress We grew business volumes by 8% during 2015, by working to deliver the right products and services to our customers in all regions.
Wealso invested in developing a more differentiated and proprietary genetics offer.
The acquisition of IVB is a significant step on this journey.
Saskia Korink Romani Chief Operating Officer, Genus ABS Increasing Genetic Control Targeting Key Markets and Product Differentiation and Segments Progress Against 2015 Objectives Progress Against 2015 Objectives We aimed to: We aimed to: increase genetic control and bovine product continue implementing our customer segmentation differentiation: strengthen our portfolio of genomic model around the world, helping us identify and meet dairy bulls: and develop a genetic nucleus herd for beef.
the needs of each segment: grow in our existing dairy markets and explore new markets: and pursue direct During the year, we: service agreements with integrated beef or dairy grew our genomic bull presence in public ranking suppliers.
indices by 18%: established a nucleus herd for beef and expanded our During the year, we: elite dairy female breeding programme, complementing grew revenue by 9% 13% in Latin America, 9% in our existing bulls: North America and 5% in Europe : developed the two highest-ranking tropical bulls in used our segmentation model to start tailoring Brazil, with proprietary type and management offerings to different customer types: and information: and built relationships with leading integrated beef acquired 51% of IVB, to help accelerate genetic producers worldwide, with the aim of replicating the improvement in our customers herds by enabling the model established with ABP Group.
selection of both male and female parents through the use of IVF technology.
2016 Priorities We will: 2016 Priorities build partnerships with customers seeking to improve We will: operational efficiency and profit, tailoring our offering maintain competitiveness in public ranking indices, to meet their needs: while positioning our products by introducing develop and deliver innovative approaches for more proprietary indices: transactional customers, with appropriate pricing and further strengthen the elite female programme and service levels: and develop plans to ring-fence our proprietary genetics: continue to grow volumes and market share in existing develop our beef nucleus herd and begin to identify markets, while exploring opportunities in new markets.
bulls with the best genetic potential: and continue to develop our proprietary gender skew technology.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 25 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION CASE STUDY LINK TO STRATEGY GROWING OUR BUSINESS THROUGH TAILORED MODELS Our French business drives growth by tailoring its offering to different market segments.
For example, we target dairies with up to 500 cows by using our Genetic Management System to help customers achieve the traits they want in their herds.
For breeder herds, who demand our elite genetics, our field sales team is leveraging the breadth of our proven and genomic bull line up.
We also have an alliance with a leading co-operative, Genes Diffusion, to provide selected genetics to traditional AI customers.
This tailored approach has enabled us to triple our sales in France over the last decade.
Tailoring the Business Model Strengthening Core Competencies Progress Against 2015 Objectives Progress Against 2015 Objectives We aimed to: We aimed to: demonstrate the benefits of our genetics by using our upgrade our GMS, to help customers select products Genetic Management System GMS : and work with for more breeding situations: refine our supply chain large integrated beef supply to validate our genetics in processes, to improve product availability: and deploy a beef-on-dairy offering.
new systems and processes, so our sales and technical service teams can meet their objectives.
During the year, we: increased GMS use by 16%: During the year, we: tested Net Profit Genetics with profit-focused upgraded our hand-held GMS tool for dairy customers, aligning the value of our genetics with customers: their commercial goals: enhanced our product forecasting techniques, to progressed our beef-on-dairy offer, harnessing dairy improve the efficiency of our supply chain: herds to disseminate beef genetics: and introduced tablet technology and tools, to help sales worked with Powerline partners and beef processors, staff communicate with customers: and to assess the value of our genetics.
certified 30 Reproductive Management System technicians and delivered Technical Service solutions 2016 Priorities to more than 1,000 customers with over 1 million cows We will: in 25 countries.
emphasise the economic value of genetic improvement using our genetic toolbox: 2016 Priorities introduce globally consistent offerings for partnerWe will: oriented customers: roll-out phase 1 of our GMS software rewrite: conduct further trials for our beef-on-dairy and promote knowledge sharing and develop an Angus-on-Nelore products: and integrated go-to-market strategy with IVB in key launching IVB USA, to capture the demand for markets: and commercial IVF.
continue to invest in our people, particularly leadership and sales effectiveness.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 26 Genus ABS Operating Review DAIRY KEY MARKETS BEEF KEY MARKETS Performance Dairy Key Markets Beef Key Markets PENCE PER LITRE LIVE CATTLE PER KG Pence per litre Live cattle per kg Genus ABS had a flat operating profit in constant currency, on 45 3.0 volume growth of 8% and revenue growth of 9%.
Higher regional profit contributions in all regions were offset 40 by increased central supply chain 2.5 costs, principally due to royalties 35 on leased genomic bulls, adverse foreign exchange cross-rates on 30 US produced semen, and a higher 2.0 mix of sorted semen.
Effective sales management enabled a 2% 25 improvement in average selling prices 1.5 blend across the business and 20 ancillary product sales also improved.
In North America, profits grew by 15 1.0 13% in constant currency, driven Aug 12 Aug 13 Aug 14 Aug 15 Aug 12 Aug 13 Aug 14 Aug 15 by a 1% volume increase, increased US Brazil EU China Russia US Brazil blend, strong cost management India and additional contributions from Market remain depressed, with global supply adjacent products.
Beef performance Following a period of buoyant prices still exceeding demand and countries was strong, with volumes up 18% in the early part of 2014, dairy prices with milk production deficits having over the prior year, including the declined significantly in Europe, North already taken advantage of low continued increased use of beef America and Latin America.
This prices to stockpile imports.
Market semen in dairy cows.
Sorted resulted from a number of causes, predictions are for a gradual recovery semen volumes grew 54%.
including: a Russia dairy import at best, towards the end of this ban: the slow down of China milk calendar year and going into 2016.
In Europe, profits improved 7% in powder imports: intense pressure in constant currency.
France, UK and many international retail consumer Beef prices have continued on their the European Distributor business markets: the impact of the removal upward trajectory in the US, with helped volumes to grow 14%.
of EU dairy quotas in the spring average prices 11% higher than they However, the strong growth in the of 2015: and favourable weather were a year ago as demand continues European Distributor business, where conditions in key dairy producing to outstrip supply.
The Brazilian beef product is sold at wholesale prices, countries, resulting in oversupply.
market should also remain strong, with led to an overall 5% blend decrease the Brazil export industry continuing in Europe.
Profit growth of 3% in By June 2015, global dairy prices to expand with countries such as the core markets of the UK, Italy were down 32% over the prior year, China looking overseas to meet their and France was tempered by the with Europe down 19%, the US down demand, and the weakening Real challenging dairy market conditions.
In the short providing a competitive advantage.
term, dairy prices are expected to CASE STUDY LINK TO STRATEGY UNDERSTANDING AND MEETING CUSTOMER NEEDS Genus ABS focuses on its customers needs.
To do this, we segment our customer base and tailor our offer to individual requirements.
This can range from supplying quality genetics to a full Reproductive Management System RMS package, which helps customers to optimise their herd pregnancies.
We also innovate to improve performance.
Research showed that non-RMS customers found it challenging to detect when cows were in heat.
In response, we helped to develop Breeder Tag.
More than 150 farms now use the system across Europe.
It increases the number of pregnancies by nearly 50% in the first year, subsequently generating a significant return on investment.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 27 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Constant Actual currency currency 2015 2014 Movement Movement m m % % Revenue 167.8 157.4 7 9 Adjusted operating profit 24.0 24.3 1 2 Adjusted operating profit inc non-controlling interest 23.5 24.3 3 0 Adjusted operating margin 14.3% 15.4% 1.1 pts 1.0 pts Across Latin America, profits were IVB made a positive initial up 4% in constant currency on a contribution to results, in line 9% increase in volumes, combined with a 4% blend increase.
Argentina with expectations, and the performed well, despite the difficult integration is progressing economic environment in the country, well.
and profits improved in Mexico as we extended coverage into new regions Saskia Korink Romani in the country.
Volume growth of 9% Chief Operating Officer, in Brazil was driven by the strength Genus ABS of beef sales, which increased 17%.
IVB, of which 51% was acquired at the end of March 2015, made a positive initial contribution to the results, in line with expectations.
The integration process for the business is progressing well and customers and employees have welcomed the opportunity to benefit from the combination with ABS.
CASE STUDY LINK TO STRATEGY TAKING A NEW APPROACH TO MARKET IN TURKEY Turkey is the worlds ninth largest milk producer, with 5.3 million cows.
In the early 1990s, we started collaborating with Tayyip Turkaslan, who had multiple distributorships in Istanbul.
Now we are working with his son, Cansin, who is a genetics and immunology graduate and holds an MBA.
In Turkey, genetics are traditionally traded through sub-distributors and vets who provide inseminations.
Together with our distributor Cansin, we decided to take a more direct approach to selling to larger farms and to further differentiate our offer through technical support.
This has resulted in a closer relationship with customers and a more accurate assessment of the genetics that will succeed in a Turkish dairy environment.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 28 Genus Asia Strategic Progress Despite some challenging market conditions during the year, especially in China and Russia, we maintained overall performance.
We also continued to invest in the capabilities that position us to seize the long-term opportunity in this region, and are beginning to see positive signs for FY16.
Jerry Thompson Chief Operating Officer, Genus Asia Increasing Genetic Control Targeting Key Markets and Product Differentiation and Segments Progress Against 2015 Objectives Progress Against 2015 Objectives We aimed to: We aimed to: expand our range of genomic bulls and embryo continue implementing PICs key account strategy and programme in India: grow key accounts in China: and grow business with leading Chinese integrated pork demonstrate the value of porcine products and drive producers: grow in Japan, Korea and Vietnam: and product differentiation.
expand our bovine sales channels in India.
During the year, we: During the year, we: strengthened the pipeline of genomic young sires in grew business with key Chinese accounts, despite India and now own the leading Holstein, Jersey and challenging markets: Murrah buffalo bulls: grew in Vietnam with our partner GreenFeed and grew our share of key Chinese accounts and secured began selling animals from the nucleus herd commercial relationships with seven of Chinas top 20 established in 2014: and pork producers: broadened routes to market in India, building conducted and won porcine validation trials with relationships with leading milk producers, developing leading integrators, demonstrating superior economic our distribution and trialling television advertising.
performance against our competitors: and reduced porcine genetic lag by 0.7 years, by importing 2016 Priorities genes from PIC in North America.
We will: further grow our share of large integrated pork 2016 Priorities producers in China, Russia, the Philippines and We will: Thailand: keep growing our portfolio of genomic bulls in India: work directly with large milk producers by providing disseminate the latest PIC genetics, including tailored genetic products and services, while populating two new sire line nucleus units in the strengthening relationships with distributors: and Philippines: grow our business in India, harnessing the new Chitale source the most suitable dairy and beef genetics, JV stud and our broader sales channels.
through the global supply chain: and further validate our products and grow our business with integrated pork producers.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 29 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION CASE STUDY LINK TO STRATEGY EXPANDING OUR CAPABILITY IN CHINA Genus PIC has an exclusive agreement to stock and sustain Riverstones major new pig production project in China.
In May 2015, we completed the first stocking of 6,200 gilts.
The unit can now produce more than 35,000 gilts a year, representing a unique capability to supply large Chinese farms with high health, top genetic breeding pigs.
The great grandparent boars were imported from Genus PIC US genetic nucleus and a dedicated Genus PIC service team will now maximise the effectiveness of the genetic improvement programme.
The agreement provides us with significant new contracted multiplication and will enable us to develop our royalty model in China.
Tailoring the Business Model Strengthening Core Competencies Progress Against 2015 Objectives Progress Against 2015 Objectives We aimed to: We aimed to: build a new Chitale JV bull stud in India and increase build strong local teams by developing employees genomic semen sales and prices: pursue contracted knowledge and expertise through tailored training and production of PIC breeding stock: increase our development programmes, and expatriate Chinese royalty business: and grow in the Philippines.
assignments: and continue cross-fertilisation of skills from other parts of the Group.
During the year, we: prepared the Chitale stud for population during H2 During the year, we: 2015 and increased genomic semen sales volumes and implemented tailored training programmes in the selling prices in India: region and in the Americas and Mexico, working with signed Riverstone as our first commercial grandparent Genus colleagues and external veterinarian and gilt multiplier in China, delivering 6,200 gilts on a production groups: royalty basis: and supported continuous improvement in health and increased royalty revenue and expanded our share of safety by harnessing training materials in multiple key accounts in the Philippines.
languages: and strengthened technical and key account skills and 2016 Priorities knowledge in teams across the region.
We will: work directly with key accounts in China dairy, while 2016 Priorities also expanding our distributor relationships: We will: develop contracted pig production in China: invest in our teams commercial skills, to promote the extend the porcine royalty model across the region, benefits of our high-quality genetics to customers: including in China: and and tailor our approach to developing and growing in new leverage the global Genus network and increase the markets.
number of overseas assignments, as part of structured training and development programmes.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 30 Genus Asia Operating Review China Pork Producer profitability In the Philippines, pig prices were lower than last years record high but 0.6 still ahead of expectations.
Producers 3.0 are profitable and the industry continues to attract investment.
2.6 0.4 Dairy prices across Asia have been impacted by the fall in global dairy 2.2 prices, caused at least in part by a 0.2 reduction in Chinese milk powder 1.8 imports, as well as the Russian ban on dairy imports from Europe, 0 North America and other countries.
1.4 However, in Russia prices are up 3% due to the supply constraints caused -0.2 1.0 by the import bans.
In Australia, dairy prices have remained stable, helped by the fall in the currency, -0.4 0.6 while in India, prices are down 12% Aug 12 Feb 13 Aug 13 Feb 14 Aug 14 Feb 15 Aug 15 compared to the prior year.
profit Loss Liveweight price Performance Adjusted operating profit including Market into China are a small proportion of JVs was unchanged in constant Market conditions continued to be the market approximately 24%, currency, while revenue declined by challenging across much of the region the recent increase in price and low 9%, primarily due to lower porcine in the period.
In China, a slow down domestic supply may provide some sales in Russia, which was affected in demand for higher priced protein support to the global market as a by the border closure and the foods combined with over supply whole in the next financial year.
Results in actual continued to depress pork prices for currency were lower than constant much of the year, impacting pork Russia implemented a ban on pig currency, primarily due to the producer profitability.
The total sow imports from Europe and North devaluation of the Russian Rouble.
herd over the last 18 months reduced America for much of the period.
by 19%, or almost 9.5 million animals.
However, weakness in the general Porcine By way of comparison, the total economy and reduced access Overall results for the porcine business US sow herd size is approximately to finance have had a significant reduced, with volumes 7% lower, 6 million.
The reductions in supply impact on producers willingness to revenue 18% lower and operating led to a recovery in the pork price expand, despite the business being profit including JVs 7% lower.
In of approximately 15% towards the profitable and the country needing Russia, operating profit reduced by end of the financial year, helping further growth in agriculture to 1.2m in constant currency 1.8m in producers margins to return to become self-sufficient.
As we enter actual currency.
Although upfront positive in June 2015 based on the new financial year, Russia has sales of gilts and boars were heavily Genuss analysis.
Though imports approved imports from Canada affected by the market conditions, which should benefit Genus.
the royalty business model and our CASE STUDY LINK TO STRATEGY EXPANDING OUR PRESENCE IN INDIA ABS India is expanding rapidly.
Having grown from 700,000 units of semen in 2011 to over 2 million in 2015, ABS India is now investing in a greenfield production facility, through our JV with Chitale.
The state-of-the-art facility is scheduled to commission in the second quarter of FY16.
It will be able to produce over 7million semen straws a year and draws on our global best practice in health and safety, product development and production.
It will fast-track the genetic progress of our stud, reducing the genetic gap for Indian dairy animals.
The investment demonstrates our commitment to the Indian dairy market and our belief in its long-term growth.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 profit Loss per kg Price per kg STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 31 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Despite market challenges Constant Actual currency currency inChina and Russia, 2015 2014 Movement Movement m m % % Genusmaintained overall Revenue 41.4 46.5 11 9 performance with profits Adjusted operating profit exc JV 5.7 6.8 16 9 flatin constant currency.
Adjusted operating profit inc JV 5.5 6.0 8 0 Jerry Thompson Adjusted operating margin inc JV 13.3% 12.9% 0.4pts 1.3pts Chief Operating Officer, Genus Asia strong customer relationships kept We continued to have good growth The Australian business was the business profitable and healthy.
in the Philippines where operating operationally stable during the As the industry resumes growth to profit grew by 24% and in Vietnam, year but incurred a loss on the sale enhance self-sufficiency, and with volumes grew by 37%.
Distributor the border recently opening to businesses grew royalty revenues.
markets were lower due to reduced imports from Canada, Genus is well volumes in Japan in the first half, positioned to capture this opportunity.
Bovine although performance improved Overall bovine results improved, as the year progressed.
The operating loss in China porcine with revenue up 10% on 1% growth reduced by 0.6m.
Market prices in volumes, and operating profits up Summary remained low during most of the year, 7%.
In China, revenues and profits 2015 was a challenging year, with depressing demand for breeding improved as we continued to broaden adverse market conditions in stock, and volumes and breeding and develop our sales channels, while Russia and China.
However, increased strengthening our non-exclusive focus on strategic initiatives has productivity at the Besun JV and distributor relationship with SKX.
positioned the business to benefit in our owned farms, and control from an improvement in market of selling costs, more than offset Operating profit in India more than conditions when they arise.
Slaughter test results and the doubled, with continued growth operational metrics being achieved in average selling prices as the by our customers have demonstrated mix of genomic semen increased.
the value of PIC genetics in China.
Construction of the new Chitale JV We are working closely with top stud is on track to complete this producers, including delivering animals calendar year, which will enable under the first royalty agreement with us to expand our range of bulls.
In line with our strategy series of marketing campaigns has of reducing farming exposure, we better positioned ABS as the largest exited two owned farms during the international supplier and the only year.
Following these actions, we one with local production in India.
now have two owned farms in China and our share of the Besun JV.
CASE STUDY LINK TO STRATEGY GROWING LOCAL SUPPLY THROUGH PARTNERSHIP In the Philippines, demand for quality pork is rising.
However, producers find it difficult to increase output because of the high investment required, limited local supply of quality breeding stock and the long production cycle.
PIC Philippines therefore partners with investors and the Bank of the Philippine Islands, giving producers access to our genetics and technical services, alongside funding on favourable terms.
This is supporting the construction of two contract production facilities, whose owners are long-standing PIC supply chain partners.
The units will be stocked in FY16 with our genetically advanced breeding stock, to upgrade and expand the local supply chain and serve customers nationwide.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 32 Genus R&D Strategic Progress Our R&D programme uses multiple technologies, collaborative partnerships and computational techniques to generate the genetic improvement that delivers economic benefits for our customers.
Dr Jonathan Lightner Chief R&D and Scientific Officer Delivering Results Today, Shaping We target the majority of our produce daughters with a far lower Success for Tomorrow research investment in three incidence of multiple health problems, Our business is founded on value-creation areas: health and during the transition from giving birth discovering, developing and delivering welfare, obtaining offspring of the to entering the milking herd.
These genetic improvement, to create optimal gender gender skew, sires were developed by leveraging economic benefit for our customers.
and applying genome science our Real World Data RWD data sets In particular, we are harnessing the advances to genomic selection.
and will be introduced in the coming revolution in genome science, as the financial year, with a star ranking on a platform for predictive modelling that Animal Health and Welfare proprietary TransitionRight index.
During the year, we continued to This improves the speed with work with public sector researchers Gender Skew which we select products with trait to explore genetic improvements We continued to invest in developing combinations that help customers that enhance animal well-being.
proprietary gender skew technology, achieve their commercial goals.
We pursue multiple approaches to deliver sexed semen for beef to creating relevant disease and dairy customers.
This will allow The mission of our R&D teams is resistance.
These range from livestock producers to achieve to deliver sustained profit growth applying genomic information offspring of their desired sex.
across our businesses, by: in natural selection breeding, Dairy producers, for example, continuously improving the quality through to cutting-edge gene may wish to gain female calves.
of our products, using the best tools editing, to produce highly targeted available: changes to the animals genes.
We believe that the biomechanical discovering new value that can be technology we are developing will delivered by genetics: and We also advanced the application deliver this benefit with better results exploring the limits of genome of genome science in improving than other approaches available in the science, to enhance our current the health of dairy cattle.
We have now conducted businesses and create new ones.
genomics and naturally occurring extensive field testing, which has variation to identify dairy sires that resulted in over 1,000 pregnancies.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 33 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION In parallel, we have made significant are also exploring another potential around the traits that will deliver progress with developing the step change by working with the economic benefits for customers.
infrastructure required to bring Roslin Institute in Edinburgh, UK, to This differs from public rankings, the technology into production.
assess genotype by sequencing as which typically put greater emphasis We have tested the technology, an alternative to single-nucleotide on physical attributes.
These indices to ensure it can operate at the polymorphisms.
This would change will help our customers identify required intensity over sustained the amount of information we use in the animals that are best suited to periods.
We have also remodelled the genome from tens of thousands support their commercial goals.
of data points today to billions of data points, potentially transforming our This activity has moved us ability to accurately predict product from proof of concept in early performance and to fully leverage the 2014 to manufacturing scale up natural genetic variation in our animals.
Within beef and dairy, we are Genomic Selection also applying genomics to aid the We lead the industry in applying development of proprietary genetics molecular markers, imputation and that will shape a more differentiated single step genomic prediction to offer.
Progress is evident in the genetic improvement in livestock.
development of our beef nucleus Within our porcine product herd and offspring from our elite development, for instance, we have female programme for dairy, accelerated genetic improvement through which we are bringing the significantly since the advent of male and female sides of product relationship-based genomic selection development under our control.
While we continue to harness parallel, we are developing proprietary and improve existing techniques, we indices for both beef and dairy, built Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 34 Genus R&D Operating Review Performance GSS technology and validated the herds it covers to 1,438, representing Investment in R&D for the year production characteristics of our GSS over 23.8 million animals, and now increased by 1% in constant currency.
Capital expenditure include operations in five countries.
This reflected investments in our to support the GSS development and research and IP capabilities, our production validation was increased In the dairy genetic nucleus of elite computational capabilities in in the year to 7.6m 2014: 1.8m.
In females, the quality and quantity bovine and investments in beef health and welfare research projects, of Holstein animals delivered is product development.
In porcine our university collaborations produced exceeding our expectations.
We product development, increased several gene-edited animals, with the continue to create and acquire investments in product validation intention of testing specific approaches high-quality female animals for and genomic testing were more to improve animal health.
We also this programme, including our first than offset by the early exit from stepped up our internal capabilities Jersey additions in 2015.
Our first the Gntiporc Quebec nucleus and in IP development and research genomic sires from the proprietary favourable commodity prices.
strategy, with key talent additions.
Holstein programme will be placed into stud in the next few months.
Our Research expenditure continued, as in Bovine product development beef product development nucleus previous years, to focus on genomic expenditure increased by 4%, with is achieving aggressive goals in evaluation, gender skew and animal key investments in genetic services to terms of the quantity of pregnancies health and welfare.
In genomic create custom indices using our RWD produced and has delivered the evaluation, we continued to explore the data system, and in beef resources first bulls to stud in the UK, in frontiers of genomic information and and progeny testing, to deliver higher support of our ABP collaboration.
its use in animal genetic improvement.
genetic control and differentiation We are actively exploring genotype in beef.
Our RWD system allows us Porcine product development by sequencing approaches that to develop unique genetic insights, expenditure declined by 9% due to could be applied across our animal which deliver customer value.
The the operational synergies from the systems.
In gender skew, we system continued to grow in 2015, integration of Gntiporc where completed additional field trials of the with a 24% increase in the number of the exit from the Quebec genetic CASE STUDY LINK TO STRATEGY VALIDATING OUR PRODUCTS PERFORMANCE Genus PIC has long used scientific trials run in commercial systems.
These help us to understand our products performance and benchmark them against competitors, to aid business growth and identify improvements.
In the past, we have conducted these projects in the technically mature North American market.
However, in recent years we have significantly expanded our validation activities.
In 2015, we completed trials against local leaders in Spain and China, two key growth markets.
These trials showed our products had significant advantages for traits such as efficiency, growth and robustness.
This demonstrates the value our genetics add for customers and will enable targeted product refinements.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 35 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Constant Actual currency currency 2015 2014 Movement Movement m m % % Research 4.6 3.6 28 28 Porcine product development 11.6 12.5 7 9 Bovine product development 12.4 11.6 7 4 28.6 27.7 3 1 nucleus was completed ahead We focused our research of schedule, a final Canadian expenditure in the areas of government support payment and favourable feed costs and slaughter genomic evaluation, gender prices in the genetic nucleus farms.
Investment was increased in growing the breadth and depth of our Dr Jonathan Lightner genomic testing of animals.
We also Chief R&D and Scientific Officer continued expansion of our global product validation programme which delivered our first trials in Russia, China and Thailand in 2015.
CASE STUDY LINK TO STRATEGY OPTIMISING CUSTOMERS BREEDING Selection indices help dairy farmers choose bull mates with the right genetic traits for their females.
However, the common indices do not always reflect our customers breeding objectives.
To address this, our geneticists have derived custom economic indices for our dairy key accounts.
These indices include production, reproduction, health and fitness traits, with weightings tailored to customers specific needs and incorporating the cost of feed, labour and milk pricing.
Customers receive a monetary ranking for their females and potential bull mates, allowing better selection and management strategies.
This leads to higher profitability for customers and strengthens their relationship with us.
