SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GKN Code Strong commitment to In 2015 we rolled out the new GKN Code, reminding people of the standards of doing the right thing behaviour we expect in GKN.
The Code applies to all employees and is available in the 26 languages spoken at GKN.
The roll-out programme started in February 2015 with briefings at divisional leadership conferences, followed by a cascade to all employees through manager-led, face-to-face briefings.
Nigel Stein Chief Executive Our people At GKN, doing the right thing by our people means promoting a safe working environment, respecting the rights of others, developing our employees, encouraging a diverse workforce and building an environment where people feel comfortable speaking up if they see behaviour which is wrong.
This approach helps GKN develop an outstanding team recruiting the very best talent and creating a workforce of engaged colleagues around the world.
Our business Message from the Chief Executive We believe in building a high performance business and are committed to delivering GKNs approach to sustainability can be summed up in one safe, high quality products and services.
We also believe in creating a culture of phrase: doing the right thing by our people, as a continuous improvement across GKN, business, and in our world.
This means acting in a safe, applying the Lean Enterprise model to ethical manner in everything we do.
By conducting everything that we do.
While we want to win in business, we must do so fairly, business the right way, every employee can contribute to and the GKN Code requires honest and the long-term success of the Group and help build a proper conduct from all GKN employees.
We also expect the same from our sustainable future for GKN.
suppliers and other business partners.
As I travel around GKNs facilities, no matter which country they are in, I am always heartened by the strong commitment of our people to doing the right thing.
This Our world year we saw progress on safety, with improved results and We aim to reduce the impact that both better near-miss reporting.
We also successfully our operations and our customers have on the environment.
Our products are recommunicated our Code of Conduct to all employees in designed to perform better than their all the languages spoken at GKN.
predecessors, be that lighter, more efficient or resulting in less waste.
Around the world, our sites and employees work Our sustainability performance relies on the commitment hard to support the communities in of our people and the quality of our leadership.
As a company, GKN contributes by building partnerships both are strong, and will help us go further in 2016. with schools and academic institutions, and inspiring future engineers.
Our relationships are conducted with open and honest communication.
GKN plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our core value can be summed up Six promises from GKN to our employees and six in one simple phrase: doing the from employees to GKN help our employees live right thing this value every day By our people We believe in: providing a safe working environment respecting the rights of others developing our people speaking up when we see behaviour which is wrong.
As a business We believe in: creating a high performance business 6 honest and proper conduct.
PROMISES In our world We believe in: helping to protect the environment supporting local communities open and honest communication.
Our people: focus on graduates and apprentices To ensure we attract the high quality graduates we need at GKN, in 2015 we ran both Group-wide and divisional graduate programmes.
The Group-wide International Graduate Programme IGP attracts graduates from China, the US, Sweden, Germany and the UK.
Each participant undertakes a series of work placements, providing experience across a range of divisions, functions and cultures, developing potential future leaders for GKN.
In total during the year, across the IGP and divisional programmes, GKN recruited 188 graduates, including 41 women.
GKN also has a strong apprenticeship programme, which combines practical skills with classroom learning.
At the end of the year, there were almost 900 apprentices across the Group.
New apprentice meets our Chief Executive during a tour safety wear was not required because the site had been made safe for this executive visit See more at www.
com GKN plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
