GKN DRIVELINE REVIEW Sales growth ahead of the market As a global business serving the worlds leading vehicle manufacturers, GKN Driveline develops, builds and supplies an extensive range of automotive driveline products and systems, for use in everything from the most sophisticated premium vehicles that demand complex driving dynamics, to the smallest ultra-low-cost cars.
What we do Products Constant velocity jointed systems including CV joints and sideshafts.
All-wheel drive AWD systems including propshafts, couplings, power transfer units, rear drive modules and a range of differentials and torque management technologies.
eDrive systems including electric axles, transmissions and motors.
Key strategic activities To support the achievement of the Groups five strategic objectives, GKN Driveline is focusing on the following areas: Providing innovative driveline systems and solutions including eDrive and electric hybrid, supporting developing market trends for more fuel-efficient vehicles Increasing business in high-growth regions Serving the needs of strategic customers through a market-leading global footprint.
The highest level of technology and STATE-OFTHE-ART products we deliver to customers today.
Where GKN know-how in advanced technologies and EMERGING continuous investment is changing the status quo.
Where we are creating technology that will help shape FUTURE tomorrows world.
GKN plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STATEOFTHEART EMERGING Innovations make vehicles Meeting the future needs lighter and more efficient of all-wheel drive GKN has been pioneering the development of constant velocity Growing demand for all-wheel drive AWD is a global trend.
jointed CV jointed systems for more than 60 years.
The latest Many consumers worldwide want smaller and more innovative CV joint, VL3, oers improvements in every area of fuel-ecient cars that can do everything traditional AWD importance for automakers, including strength, endurance, vehicles can.
GKN Driveline has become the first tier one eciency and weight, helping to produce a dynamic driving supplier to deliver a complete disconnect AWD system for a performance and optimising power delivery from the engine to vehicle manufacturer it is the basis for the FIAT 500X and the wheels.
The technology has recently been named as an the Jeep Renegade, and is now being launched globally.
Automotive News 2016 PACE Award nalist.
com GKNs new lightweight VL3 CV joint FIAT 500X eAxle on the Volvo XC90 T8 Twin Engine FUTURE Worlds first disconnecting eAxle By 2025, GKN forecasts that 40-50% of vehicles will have some level of electrication, with a greater proportion of hybrids power delivered from the electric motor.
At the IAA Frankfurt Motor Show, GKN Driveline showcased a new eAxle system for the all-new Volvo XC90.
It is the worlds first disconnecting eAxle on a premium SUV.
com GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts GKN DRIVELINE REVIEW connued aerpspace sales by cusp18 Sales by customer driveline sales by cust p24 metalsales by cust p28 land systems by cust p32 Phil Swash C Chief hief Ex Exec ecuti utiv five e GKN Dr GKN Dri iv veline eline aerpspace sales by cusp18 driveline sales by cust p24 metalsales by cust p28 land systems by cust p32 Fiat Chrysler: % Toyota Group: % sales by market p18 sales by product p24 sales by product p28 sales by market p32 VW Group: % BMW Group: % GM Group: % Tata Group: % Ford: % Mitsubishi: % aerpspace sales by cusp18 Renault Nissan: % Other: % driveline sales by cust p24 metalsales by cust p28 land systems by cust p32 sales by market p18 Sales by product group sales by product p24 sales by product p28 sales by market p32 sales by product p18 sales by region p24 sales by region p28 sales by region p32 Highlights sales by market p18 sales by product p24 sales by product p28 sales by market p32 Organic sales growth of 5%, signicantly ahead of global auto production helped by our broad geographic CV jointed systems:, m footprint and increased content per vehicle.
AWD systems:, m sales by product p18 sales by region p24 sales by region p28 sales by region p32 Trans-axle solutions: m Trading margin improved to 8.2% 2014: 8.1%.
eDrive systems: m Around 880 million of annualised new and Other: m replacement business won.
sales by product p18 Sales by region of origin sales by region p24 sales by region p28 sales by region p32 Performance Change % Headline Organic Sales m, , Trading profit m Trading margin %.. Return on average invested capital %.. Europe:, m North America:, m China: m Japan: m South America: m India: m Other: m GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 26,300 23 46 employees countries manufacturing locations Divisional performance against Group strategy Strategic objective Progress Number one in driveline and AWD markets.
Leading in our 880 million annualised new business won in sideshafts and all-wheel drive chosen markets products.
Construction of state-of-the-art research and development facility in Shanghai, Leveraging plus localisation of key AWD programmes in China.
a strong Ramping up of our new AWD plant in Thailand and expanded facilities in Turkey, global presence China and the US, plus development of new facilities in Poland and Mexico.
AWD platform partner with Volvo on the all-new XC90, including both the Sustaining Differentiating conventional and plug-in hybrid variants.
above market ourselves Unveiled new eTwinster, which brings true torque vectoring capabilities to electric growth and hybrid vehicles for the first time.
through Developed the new benchmark in constant velocity joint technology, the VL3, which technology debuted on the BMW 7 Series.
Driving Developed the GKN Driveline Excellence System to ensure consistency in key processes and standards.
operational excellence Organic sales increased by 173 million the market in China recognising its greater manufacture a complete AWD system 5% compared with global light vehicle exposure to global brands, which performed in China.
GKN Driveline supplies the production which was up 1%.
The adverse less strongly than domestic producers, and complete AWD to SAIC Motors new MG effect of currency translation was negative pricing.
GS compact SUV, as well as the front 69 million 2%.
Constant velocity jointed wheel-drive system CVJ Systems accounted for 60% of sales The Americas operations were impacted winning an Automotive News PACE and non-CVJ sales were 40%.
by the Brazil market although capacity award for its two-speed eAxle there was utilised to support growth in technology, showcased on the The organic improvement in trading profit other plants.
European plants were class-redefining BMW i8 plug-in was 8 million reflecting higher volumes in running at very high capacity with a strong hybrid supercar Europe.
Profit conversion was limited by conversion on the additional sales.
In expanding production facilities in lower profitability in Japan and Brazil.
The China, after the volatility in the third Mexico, Turkey, Poland, Thailand and positive impact of currency translation on quarter, the business had a better end Chongqing, China and opening a trading profit was 2 million.
state-of-the-art engineering facility at MIRA Technology Park, UK to test and GKN Drivelines market outperformance was During the year, around 880 million of develop the driveline technologies of mainly in Europe reflecting recent market annualised sales in new and replacement the future share gains.
A stronger position in premium business was secured and a number of GKN Driveline Brazil being awarded vehicles, demand for which continued to be important milestones achieved, including: Toyotas prestigious South America positive, and GKN Drivelines broadening Supplier Quality Excellence Award for product mix, particularly with AWD systems being selected by Volvo Cars to be their the second year in a row.
such as for the Fiat 500X, Jeep Renegade, development partner on the front-wheel and Volvo XC90.
GKN Driveline performed drive, AWD and hybrid drivelines of the broadly in line with the market in North all-new Volvo XC90 America reflecting its lower content on becoming the first global tier one truck-based platforms and slightly below supplier to design, develop and See pages 6 and 7 for more information on our strategic framework GKN plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
