MIKE TURNER CBE 67 NIGEL STEIN 60 ANGUS COCKBURN 52 Chief Executive Independent non-executive Director Chairman N N E A R N Appointed to the Board in September Appointed to the Board in August 2001.
Appointed to the Board in January 2013.
2009 and became Chairman in May 2012.
Experience Joined GKN in 1994 and Experience Currently Chief Financial Experience Has extensive experience of held a range of commercial, general Officer of Serco Group plc.
He joined Serco the aerospace industry having worked management and finance roles, including in October 2014 from Aggreko plc where for BAE Systems plc for over 40 years, Group Finance Director and Chief he held the role of Chief Financial Officer including as its Chief Executive from Executive Automotive, before becoming for 14 years and was latterly Interim Chief 2002 to 2008.
Former President of Chief Executive in January 2012.
Prior to this he was Managing the Aerospace & Defence Industries to GKN, he gained experience in the Director of Pringle Scotland, a division Association of Europe.
Fellow of commercial vehicle and manufacturing of Dawson International plc.
Previously the Royal Aeronautical Society.
sector and held senior financial positions held a number of roles at PepsiCo Inc and with Laird Group plc and Hestair Duple was latterly Regional Finance Director for External appointments Chairman Ltd.
Member of the Institute of Chartered Central Europe.
Former non-executive of Babcock International Group PLC Accountants of Scotland and former director of Howden Joinery Group plc and and non-executive director of Lazard non-executive director of Wolseley plc.
former chairman of the Group of Scottish Ltd.
Member of the UK Governments Finance Directors.
He is also an Honorary Apprenticeship Ambassadors Network.
External appointments Non-executive Professor at the University of Edinburgh.
director of Inchcape plc and chairman of the UKs Automotive Council.
KEVIN CUMMINGS 53 TUFAN ERGINBILGIC 56 Chief Executive GKN Aerospace E Independent non-executive Director A R N Appointed to the Board in January 2016.
Appointed to the Board in May 2011.
Experience Joined GKN in 2008 as CEO Experience Currently Chief Executive, GKN Aerostructures North America.
Downstream for BP plc with specific Appointed Chief Executive GKN Aerospace responsibility for the Fuels, Lubricants in January 2014 and has been a member and Petrochemicals businesses.
He joined of the GKN Executive Committee since BP in 1997 and has held a number of October 2014.
He has held various senior marketing and operational roles, leadership roles in programme including Chief of Staff to the Group Chief management, strategic planning, Executive, Chief Operating Officer of engineering and business development: the Fuels business and Chief Executive prior to joining GKN he was Executive of the Castrol Lubricants business.
His Vice President & General Manager Launch early career was spent at Mobil Oil.
External appointments Director of the Turkish-British Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
GKN plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 6.
PHIL SWASH 52 SHONAID JEMMETT-PAGE 55 RICHARD PARRY-JONES CBE 64 Independent non-executive Director A R N Senior Independent Director A R N Chief Executive GKN Driveline E Appointed to the Board in June 2010.
Appointed to the Board in March 2008 and Appointed to the Board in January 2016. as Senior Independent Director in May 2012.
Experience Former Chief Operating Officer Experience Joined GKN in 2007 as CEO of CDC Group plc, the UK Governments Experience Has extensive experience of GKN Aerospace Europe.
Appointed Chief development finance institution.
Joined the automotive industry having previously Executive GKN Driveline in September CDC from Unilever, where for eight worked for the Ford Motor Company for 2015.
Member of the GKN Executive years she was Senior Vice-President 38 years, latterly as Group Vice-President Committee since October 2014.
Prior Finance and Information, Home and Global Product Development and Group to his current role, Phil was Chief Personal Care, originally in Asia and Chief Technical Officer.
Fellow of the Royal Executive GKN Land Systems.
Has held later for the group as a whole.
Her early Academy of Engineering, the Institution a number of operational roles at BAE career was spent at KPMG, latterly as a of Mechanical Engineers and the Royal Systems and Airbus where, prior to partner.
Former non-executive director Society of Statistical Science.
Former nonjoining GKN, he was responsible for the of Havelock Europa, Close Brothers executive chairman of Network Rail Ltd. wing production of all Airbus aircraft.
Group plc and APR Energy plc.
Former chairman of the Welsh Assembly External appointments Vice-President Government Ministerial Advisory Group External appointments Independent of CLEPA the European Association and the UKs Automotive Council.
non-executive director of Amlin plc, of Automotive Suppliers, Fellow of Greencoat UK Wind plc and Caledonia External appointments Non-executive the Institution of Engineering and Investments plc.
Non-executive chairman of Kelda Eurobond Co Ltd Technology, and Honorary Fellow of chairman of Origo Partners plc.
and Yorkshire Water Services Ltd. Liverpool John Moores University.
ADAM WALKER 48 JOS SCLATER 43 Group Finance Director and Chief Executive General Counsel & Company Secretary E GKN Land Systems E Appointed General Counsel in January Appointed to the Board in January 2014.
Assumed the joint role of Assumed the role of Chief Executive General Counsel & Company Secretary GKN Land Systems in September 2015. and was appointed to the GKN Executive Committee in June 2014.
Experience Former Finance Director of Informa plc from 2008 to 2013 and Experience Joined GKN from AkzoNobel operationally responsible for the Events where he was Director of Legal Affairs Division from 2012 until leaving the South Asia and Pacific and Lead M&A group.
Prior to this he was Group Finance Counsel for Asia Pacific.
Prior to this, he Director at National Express Group plc spent eight years at Imperial Chemical A Member of Audit & Risk Committee from 2003 to 2008.
His early career was Industries plc where he held a number R Member of Remuneration Committee spent at Touche Ross, NatWest Markets of senior legal positions within its N Member of Nominations Committee and, latterly, Arthur Andersen where he headquarters, Asia Pacific and Europe.
E Member of Executive Committee held a number of senior finance positions.
External appointments Non-executive director of Kier Group plc.
GKN plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
