ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Annual general meeting Restrictions on the transfer of securities The annual general meeting AGM of the Company will be held While the Board has the power under the articles of association at 2.00 pm on Thursday 5 May 2016 at 195 Piccadilly, London to refuse to register a transfer of shares, there are no restrictions W1J9LN.
The notice of meeting, which includes the business to on the transfer of shares.
be transacted at the meeting, is included within the AGM circular.
The circular also contains an explanation of all the resolutions to Under the Companys articles, the Directors have power to be considered at the AGM.
suspend voting rights and the right to receive dividends in respect of shares in circumstances where the holder of those shares fails to comply with a notice issued under section 793 Dividend of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not aware of any The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.8 pence per agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions ordinary share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015, on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
payable to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 8 April 2016.
This, together with the interim dividend of 2.9 pence paid in September 2015, brings the total dividend for Substantial shareholders 1 the year to 8.7 pence.
As at 31 December 2015, the Company had been notified of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares under Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Issued share capital Authority: In July 2015 the Company conducted an equity placing of % of 65,573,771 ordinary shares of 10 pence each at a price of voting Shareholder Nature of interest rights 3.05 per share to raise a total of 200 million before expenses.
The proceeds from the equity placing were used to fund in part Standard Life Investments the consideration for the acquisition of Fokker.
Holdings Ltd Direct 4.44 Indirect 3.37 At 31 December 2015, the issued share capital of the Company Total 7.81 consisted of 1,726,103,630 ordinary shares of 10 pence each Ameriprise Financial Inc Direct 0.07 2014: 1,660,529,859 shares, of which 12,168,928 shares Indirect 5.15 0.7% were held in treasury 2014: 17,797,916 shares: 1.07%.
Contracts for difference 0.16 During the year, a total of 5,628,988 ordinary shares were transferred out of treasury in connection with the exercise of Total 5.38 options by participants under the Companys share option BlackRock, Inc.
Qualifying financial instruments 0.01 Contracts for difference 0.10 The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Total 5.00 In addition, GKN has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR programme for which the Bank of New York Mellon 1 See footnote on page 97. acts as Depositary.
The ADRs trade in the US over-the-counter market where each ADR represents one GKN ordinary share.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends when declared, to receive the Companys annual report, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
On a show of hands at a meeting of GKN, every member present holding ordinary shares has one vote.
On a poll taken at a meeting, every member present and entitled to vote has one vote in respect of each ordinary share held by him or her.
In the case of joint shareholders only the vote of the senior joint holder who votes and any proxy duly authorised by him or her may be counted.
Shares held in treasury carry no voting rights.
GKN operates an Employee Share Option Plan Trust the Trust to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards of ordinary shares made under the Groups share-based incentive arrangements.
The trustee of the Trust does not exercise any voting rights in respect of shares held by the Trust.
Once the shares are transferred from the Trust to share scheme participants, the participants are entitled to exercise the voting rights attaching to those shares.
A dividend waiver operates in respect of shares held by the Trust pursuant to the provisions of the Trust deed.
Full details of the rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares are contained in the articles of association.
GKN plc 95 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION continued Directors The Directors who served during the financial year were as follows: Position as at Service in the year ended Name 31 December 2015 31 December 2015 Mike Turner Chairman Served throughout the year Nigel Stein Chief Executive Served throughout the year Angus Cockburn Independent non-executive Director Served throughout the year Tufan Erginbilgic Independent non-executive Director Served throughout the year Shonaid Jemmett-Page Independent non-executive Director Served throughout the year Richard Parry-Jones Senior Independent Director Served throughout the year Andrew Reynolds Smith N A Resigned 25 September 2015 Adam Walker Group Finance Director and Served throughout the year Chief Executive GKN Land Systems Membership of the Board and biographical details of the Directors Directors indemnities in office at the date of this report are shown on pages 56 and 57.
Pursuant to the articles of association, the Company has executed Further details relating to Board and Committee composition are a deed poll of indemnity for the benefit of the Directors of the disclosed in the corporate governance statement.
Company and persons who were Directors of the Company in respect of costs of defending claims against them and third-party Following their appointment to the Board in January 2016 and in liabilities.
These provisions, deemed to be qualifying third-party accordance with the Companys articles of association, Kevin indemnity provisions pursuant to section 234 of the Companies Cummings and Phil Swash will retire and offer themselves for Act 2006, were in force during the year ended 31 December 2015 election at the 2016 AGM.
All other Directors in office will retire and remain in force.
The indemnity provision in the Companys and offer themselves for re-election at the 2016 AGM in articles of association also extends to provide a limited indemnity accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
in respect of liabilities incurred as a director, secretary or officer of an associated company of the Company.
The articles of association provide that a Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of shareholders or by the A copy of the deed poll of indemnity is available for inspection at existing Directors, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional the Companys registered office during normal business hours and Director.
Further information on GKNs internal procedures for the will be available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
appointment of Directors is given in the corporate governance statement.
The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover for legal action taken against its Directors and officers.
The executive Directors serve under contracts that are terminable with 12 months notice from the Company and six months notice Conflicts of interest from the executive Director.
The non-executive Directors serve Under the Companies Act 2006, Directors must avoid situations under letters of appointment and do not have service contracts where they have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that with the Company.
conflicts or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests.
As permitted by the Act, the Companys articles of association Copies of the service contracts of the executive Directors and the enable Directors to authorise actual and potential conflicts letters of appointment of the non-executive Directors are of interest.
available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the Formal procedures for the notification and authorisation of such Companys AGM.
These procedures enable non-conflicted Directors to impose limits or conditions when giving or reviewing The Directors remuneration report, which includes the Directors authorisation and require the Board to review the register of interests in GKN shares, is set out on pages 76 to 91.
Directors conflicts annually and on an ad hoc basis when necessary.
Any potential conflicts of interest are considered by Directors powers the Board prior to the appointments of new Directors.
The Board of Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant legislation, the Articles of association Companys articles of association and any directions given by the The Companys articles of association can only be amended by Company in general meeting.
The powers of the Directors include special resolution of the shareholders.
GKNs current articles are those in relation to the issue and buyback of shares.
available on our website at www.
At the 2015 AGM the Directors were authorised to exercise the powers of the Company to purchase up to 164,612,408 of its ordinary shares.
No shares were purchased under this authority in 2015.
The Directors were also authorised to allot shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 54,870,803.
These authorities will remain valid until the 2016 AGM or 1 July 2016, if earlier.
Resolutions to renew these authorities will be proposed at the 2016 AGM.
GKN plc 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Change of control Research and development As at 31 December 2015, the Companys subsidiary, GKN Holdings plc, Group subsidiaries undertake research and development work in had agreements with 14 banks for 15 bilateral banking facilities support of their principal manufacturing activities.
Further details totalling 800 million, and a 64 million loan facility with the of the Groups research and development activities can be found European Investment Bank.
Each of these agreements provides throughout the strategic report.
that, on a change of control of GKN plc, the respective bank can give notice to GKN Holdings plc to repay all outstanding amounts Financial instruments under the relevant facility.
Details of the Groups use of financial instruments can be found in Note 19 to the financial statements.
The Company has in issue 450 million fixed rate notes paying 5.375% semi-annual interest and maturing on 19 September 2022 Strategic report under a euro medium-term note programme established by GKN As permitted by section 414C of the Companies Act 2006, certain Holdings plc the Notes.
Pursuant to the terms attaching to the information required to be included in the Directors report has Notes, a holder of the Notes has the option to require GKN been included in the strategic report.
Specifically, this relates to Holdings plc to redeem or at GKN Holdings plcs option purchase information on the likely future developments of the business of the holders Notes at their principal amount if there is a change of the Group, the Companys business model and strategy, risk control of the Company and either i the Notes are unrated or do management and the disclosure of greenhouse gas emissions for not carry an investment grade credit rating from at least two which the Company is responsible.
ratings agencies: or ii if the Notes carry an investment grade credit rating from at least two ratings agencies, the Notes are Disclosures required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R downgraded to a non-investment grade rating or that rating is Information relating to the waiver of dividends can be found on withdrawn within 90 days of the change of control and such page 95.
There are no other disclosures to be made under the downgrade or withdrawal is cited by the ratings agencies as being above listing rule.
the result of the change of control.
Auditors and disclosure of information Companies in GKN Aerospace are party to long-term supply Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this contracts with customers which are original equipment Directors report confirms that, so far as he she is aware, there is manufacturers of aircraft and aero engines.
Certain of these no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are contracts contain provisions which would entitle the customer to unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought terminate the contract in the event of a change of control of the to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware Company, where such change of control conflicts with the of any relevant audit information and to establish that the interests of the customer.
Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Companies in GKN Driveline are party to supply contracts with The strategic report comprising the inside front cover and pages 1 customers which are original equipment manufacturers of motor to 55, and this Directors report comprising pages 56 to 98, which vehicles.
Certain of these contracts contain provisions which together form the management report as required under the would entitle the customer to terminate the contract in the event Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules 4.1.
8R, have been of a change of control of the Company.
approved by the Board and are signed on its behalf by All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Payments to suppliers Jos Sclater It is Group policy to abide by the payment terms agreed with General Counsel & Company Secretary suppliers, provided that the supplier has performed its 22 February 2016 obligations under the contract.
1 As at 1 March 2016, BlackRock, Inc. s holding in the Company amounted to 5.30% of which 5.01% was indirectly held, 0.01% held as qualifying financial Branches instruments, and 0.28% held as contracts for difference, and Ameriprise GKN, through various subsidiaries, has established branches in a Financial Inc. s interest had decreased to 4.996% of which 0.062% was held number of different countries in which the business operates.
directly, 4.776% was held indirectly and 0.158% was held as contracts for difference.
Donations As at this date, the Company had not been advised of any further changes or In accordance with the Groups policy, no political donations were additions to the interests notified under Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and made and no political expenditure was incurred during 2015.
Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority as set out on page 95.
The Groups US aerospace business has a political action committee PAC which is funded entirely by employees and their spouses.
No funds are provided to the PAC by GKN and any administrative services provided to the PAC by the US aerospace business are fully charged to and paid for by the PAC, and the Company does not therefore consider these to be political donations.
Employee contributions are entirely voluntary and no pressure is placed on employees to participate.
Under US law, an employee-funded PAC must bear the name of the employing company.
GKN plc 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
