Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Health for all Increasing access to healthcare Our approach GSK developed RTS, S, which we We aim to extend the benets of our will supply at a not-for-profit price, The WHO has recommended products to more people, no matter where in partnership with the PATH Malaria they live or their ability to pay.
We target Vaccine Initiative and with funding that our malaria candidate areas of unmet medical need from diseases from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.
vaccine, RTS, S, should of the developing world to antibiotics, In addition to vaccines and medicines, by stimulating open innovation and be introduced through a comprehensive approach to tackle collaborating.
We are tackling barriers malaria must include wider preventative a pilot programme to affordability and accessibility and measures.
Since 2001, we have supported working to strengthen healthcare systems.
the Africa Malaria Partnership to promote In this way we seek to play our part in the use of existing interventions, such tackling global health challenges.
as bed nets, indoor residual spraying, Innovation and anti-malarial treatments.
In January We are committed to innovation for 2016, we launched a new 22 million diseases that disproportionately affect the partnership with Comic Relief, a worlds poorest people, such as malaria, UK-based charity, to ght malaria and where societys need is greatest, such in five endemic countries.
as antibiotics, even though they may not As well as making new discoveries, offer the same potential commercial return.
we adapt existing products to tackle Our open innovation model is core to this different health challenges.
2015, we submitted a regulatory After 30 years of research, we have application to the European Medicines reached two significant milestones in our Agency for an antiseptic gel to prevent journey to develop a vaccine to protect umbilical cord infections in newborns Our most advanced asset a topoisomerase young children from malaria.
In July 2015, that we had reformulated from the inhibitor, gepotidacin GSK2140944 the European Medicines Agency adopted chlorhexidine solution in our Corsodyl has been developed in collaboration a positive scientific opinion for our malaria mouthwash.
with the US governments Biomedical candidate vaccine Mosquirix, or RTS, S, Increasing antibiotic resistance is Advanced Research Development in children aged six weeks to 17 months.
an emerging and urgent public health Authority BARDA.
This asset has a novel Additionally, the World Health Organisation crisis.
We have our own research unit mechanism of action and the potential to WHO has recommended that RTS, S focused on developing the next address multiple indications, and is now should be introduced through a pilot generation of antibiotics and an active moving towards phase III studies, following roll-out.
The WHO is now actively working pipeline of potential new medicines positive phase II results.
with nancing bodies, and the malaria in development.
vaccine clinical trials partnership including PATH and GSK to generate support for the pilots, and to nalise the design of the pilot implementation programme.
Helping more newborns survive Three million newborn babies die each year from infection, oen when the newly-cut umbilical cord acts as an entry point for bacteria.
This issue is exacerbated in developing countries, where many births take place at home.
We have been working to reformulate the antiseptic chlorhexidine solution used in our Corsodyl mouthwash into a gel to prevent umbilical cord infections, using insights and on-the-ground knowledge from Save the Children.
If the European Medicines Agency approves our 2015 regulatory application, we will oer the gel at a not-for-profit price and share our knowledge with others so that it can be manufactured locally.
GSK Annual Report 2015 41 Photo: Colin Crowley, Save the Children Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Health for all continued Since 2009, our open innovation model Our giving in 2015 has advanced research in such diseases Since 2010, we have capped as malaria and tuberculosis and in 2% the prices of our patented neglected tropical diseases NTDs, which 5% affect over one billion people.
We have 27% medicines and vaccines screened more than two million of our compounds to help combat these deadly in the least developed infectious diseases and, in 2015, published countries LDCs at 25% data on high-quality hits against NTDs, initiating new research projects within and 66% of developed world prices, as outside GSK.
long as our manufacturing We invite external researchers to utilise Cash 56.6m our facilities, resources and expertise costs are covered Product and in-kind 136.9m at our open lab in Tres Cantos, Spain.
The labs recent progress in NTD research Time PULSE 3.7m has included developing the first preclinical Management 11.1m candidate to treat visceral leishmaniasis and a promising pre-candidate drug to combat Chagas disease.
Increasing local access and supply is an important part of our commitment to Africa, Open innovation is also central to our Africa and in 2015 we continued to evaluate non-communicable diseases NCDs open options for manufacturing in Nigeria.
The lab will work in partnership with major funders, academic In 2015, we started work on a 100 million groups and governments to conduct pharmaceutical factory in India, and signed research into NCDs.
an innovative manufacturing partnership with Chinas Desano Pharmaceuticals to Extending affordability and availability allow us to provide dolutegravir, our HIV Six billion people live in emerging markets, treatment, at a competitive price to China 300 million of whom will use healthcare and other countries.
Our exible pricing strategy seeks to meet their Affordability can also hinder access in healthcare needs, by providing more developed countries.
We broaden access products at lower prices.
Since 2010, to our products in these markets by nding we have capped the prices of our patented exible ways to price our medicines, while medicines and vaccines in the least retaining returns for our investment in developed countries LDCs at 25% innovation.
of developed world prices, as long as For example, in the US all of our six most our manufacturing costs are covered.
recently launched new medicines were We also have a tiered pricing approach, priced at parity or at a discount to the where poorer countries pay less.
medicines we aim to supersede.
In 2015, we We offer our lowest vaccine prices to reached agreement with the UK Government organisations such as Gavi, the Vaccine to make Britain the first country with a Alliance, which supports countries with nationwide vaccination programme against a low gross national income.
The agreement offers fair value froze our prices for countries that graduate for the National Health Service, while from Gavi support so they can continue offering us a sustainable return.
to buy our vaccines at discounted prices In the US, we offer various types of patient for a further decade.
assistance to help ensure appropriate In middle-income countries, where access to our medicines.
GSK has many still live in poverty, our exible programmes for eligible patients who do pricing approach enables more people not have prescription drug coverage, those to access our products.
In the Philippines, with a Medicare Part D Prescription Drug GSK has introduced a card and coupon Plan and we now offer specialty product patient programme, offering discounts of assistance for eligible insured patients.
As a result of new coverage options In 2015, more than 58,000 patients available following the Affordable Care accessed products, including antibiotics Act, more patients are insured and fewer Augmentin and Zinnat, as well as our are requiring our Patient Assistance Seretide inhaler, through the programme.
However, as part of our commitment to access, we continue Building local capabilities improves access to provide services to help patients in developing countries by providing understand alternative coverage options.
patients and consumers with locally relevant products while enhancing domestic manufacturing capacity and capability.
42 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Strengthening healthcare systems In the worlds least developed countries LDCs, a lack of trained healthcare workers prevents people from accessing life-saving medicines and vaccines.
In the LDCs where we operate, we reinvest 20% of our LDC profits from the sale of pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products to train and educate community health workers.
Since 2009, we have reinvested 21million of our LDC profits in 35 countries, training 40,000 frontline health workers.
These doctors, midwives, nurses and volunteers have reached 11 million people.
In 2015, we expanded health worker training beyond LDCs to other countries in sub-Saharan Africa.
In support of the UN One Million Community Health Workers Campaign we are funding a pilot to train 1,800 health workers in Ghana.
Apart from training healthcare workers, we strengthen healthcare systems more broadly by, for example, improving health facilities, equipping training centres and encouraging governments to improve Partnership with Save the Children Complementing the partnership, we policies and increase investments.
Through a ground-breaking, five-year support a broad range of work to reduce partnership with Save the Children we are childhood mortality.
Many of our 20% Our targeted product and financial helping to save one million childrens lives reinvestment programmes focus on donations help provide healthcare in some of the worlds poorest countries.
reducing child and maternal mortality in for vulnerable communities.
In 2015, The partnership involves combining rural communities.
For instance, in Nepal, our global community investment our capabilities in R&D, supply chain, we work with CARE International and the totalled 208.3 million, compared procurement and vaccines with the government to improve maternal, neonatal with 201.5 million in 2014. charitys local expertise.
In the Democratic and reproductive health by improving Republic of Congo, for example, the the skills of frontline health workers, partnership has created a model of providing health equipment, and enabling essential services for neonatal, maternal communities to feedback on health centre and child health that can be replicated performance.
Our support has enabled in other developing countries.
more than 6,000 health workers in Nepal to be trained, reaching more than one In 2015 we estimate we have reached million people.
over 1.3million children: fully immunising 23,500, treating 125,000 for diarrhoea, malaria or pneumonia, and screening more than one million for malnutrition.
Our strategy in action In 2015, we published data on 600 high-quality hits 40,000 against NTDs, initiating new The European Medicines Frontline health workers research projects within Agency adopted a positive trained in least developed and outside GSK scientific opinion for our malaria countries since 2009 candidate vaccine, Mosquirix, in children aged six weeks to 17 months GSK Annual Report 2015 43 Photo: Martin Webb Save the Children
