Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Consumer Healthcare 32 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our Consumer Healthcare business has a portfolio of some of the worlds most trusted and well loved brands.
Our brands are underpinned by science-based innovation and include Panadol, Voltaren, Horlicks and Sensodyne and have been developed to meet the healthcare needs of consumers worldwide.
In numbers c. 21,000 a number of employees bn 0.3 core R&D spend in 2015 No.
1 specialist oral care company by retail sales 190 servings of Horlicks per second in India as a nutritional supplement a Including GMS and dedicated support functions staff.
GSK Annual Report 2015 33 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Consumer Healthcare Our Consumer Healthcare business Our brands are sold in more than 2015 performance is world leading and represents the 150 countries around the world, with Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture with around 40% of sales in emerging markets.
summary Novartis together with the GSK Consumer Wellness Healthcare listed businesses in India In Wellness, our biggest category, we and Nigeria, which are excluded from are now an overall global leader and the bn the Joint Venture.
number one company in 36 countries 6.0 The business is split almost equally by retail sales.
We have leading global Turnover between over the counter OTC medicines positions in respiratory, cold and u, nasal and fast moving consumer goods FMCG decongestants, allergy, smoking cessation brands dedicated to healthcare, across our and pain management, where we have % four categories of Wellness, Oral health, two of the top four brands one in 44 Nutrition and Skin health.
systemic Panadol and one in topical Reported sales growth CER pain relief Voltaren.
These categories are dened by specic % consumer healthcare requirements and have 6 complementary ranges of brands that allow Pro-forma sales growth CER us to evolve with our consumers needs.
bn 0.7 Core operating profit Our strategy in action 11.3% 14% Consumer Healthcare Innovation sales from operating margin in 2015 One of the world's leading product introductions OTC companies by retail within the last three sales and specialist years on a rolling basis oral care company 34 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Oral health Power and Core brands We are a top three company in toothpaste Our power brands selected from Our power brands selected and the number one in specialist oral our newly integrated portfolio have health, with leading positions in sensitivity, been identied as Voltaren, Panadol, from our newly integrated acid erosion, denture care and gum Sensodyne, Therau, Otrivin, portfolio have been identied health.
Sensodyne is number one as Parodontax and Poligrip: each of recommended by dentists worldwide which are category leaders with as Voltaren, Panadol, for sensitivity.
long track records and a higher Sensodyne, Therau, than average gross margin.
Skin health Otrivin, Parodontax and We are in the top three globally in The core brands, including Tums, medicated skin health, focusing on Flonase, Horlicks and Eno, have Poligrip: each of which are treating conditions that affect millions many similarities to our power brands of people worldwide, such as cold sores but are local or regional opportunities, category leaders with long and dry and sensitive skin.
Our Abreva rather than global.
track records and a higher and Zovirax brands hold leading positions We are prioritising our investment in some of the worlds largest markets.
than average gross margin in R&D, innovation, marketing and Nutrition commercial execution behind the Our nutrition business has a particular seven power and 12 core brands.
focus on the Indian subcontinent, where Horlicks is served as a nutritional supplement at a rate of 190 times per second, mainly to children.
Horlicks is now ranked the sixth most trusted brand in India across all brands and indications.
Focused brand strategy and innovation generating growth 60% Horlicks market share in India Sensodyne 1 3 double digit growth Horlicks delivered all time share of R&D organisation now in all three regions high and is now the most trusted based in emerging markets hot beverage brand in India GSK Annual Report 2015 35 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Consumer Healthcare continued Grow Deliver We have identied a dozen 2015 performance summary We have a strong innovation pipeline markets where we will Consumer Healthcare sales grew across all of our categories and we 44% 6% pro-forma to 6,028 million.
prioritise investment in will continue to prioritise our investment Of note was Sensodyne, which grew in R&D.
advertising and promotion, double-digits across all regions and is Core R&D investment in Consumer close to generating sales of 1 billion capital expenditure, and Healthcare in 2015 was 0.3 billion a year.
We also had a very successful 2014 159 million.
launch of Flonase Allergy Relief, following place top talent.
These our strategy to switch the product from Through the integration process, markets will contribute to prescription only to OTC.
we are investing further in our R&D two thirds of our growth capabilities, integrating our marketing, Reported growth benefited from sales scientific, regulatory, technical and medical of the newly acquired products, particularly teams in co-located hubs: in the UK, Voltaren, Otrivin and Therau, following the US, Switzerland, India, China and the formation of the joint venture with Singapore.
Going forward a third of Novartis.
Pro-forma growth of 6% was our R&D organisation will be based predominantly driven by growth in the in emerging markets.
Oral health and Wellness categories.
We are also building new sensory and In 2015, 14% of Consumer Healthcare packaging lab capabilities to ensure that sales were generated from innovation we capitalise on trends in developments launched within the last three years with such as avour or application techniques more than 30 new-to-market product which can present growth opportunities.
For example, we developed a formulation Our key innovation drivers in the year of Horlicks that consumers can mix in cold included Flonase in the US, and water, as hot water is not readily available Sensodyne Complete in Japan which for many people in the Indian subcontinent.
helped the Sensodyne brand to become A further example is Fenbid Chewable the leading toothpaste in the country which we launched in China in 2015 in 2015. as a pain relief product that does not need water.
Other key launches included: We also continue to invest in our Shopper Sensodyne Repair and Science Lab.
This is a state-of-the-art Protect Whitening facility that allows us to research our Sensodyne Complete innovative products in both simulated digital and real life environments with Fenbid Chewable 200mg our retail partners, to test packaging, Physiogel Calming Relief range claims and our shopper materials.
Therau Warming Syrup Read more in the Group financial review on pages 50 to 72.
36 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Simplify Progress on simplifying the business We are using the integration process to simplify the organisation, to build a leaner business with a renewed focus on delivering performance, increasing agility and developing a high performance culture.
With over 80% of personnel exits in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture completed and 54 sites now consolidated, we are making good progress.
These changes will help to deliver the annual cost savings expected from integration, and enables us to deliver our target operating margin of at least 20% by 2020 CER.
Incremental annual cost savings in 2015 helped to increase the pro-forma operating profit margin by 1.8% on a CER basis to 11.3%.
Careful planning enabled us to maintain a stable supply chain during the Novartis integration, so there were no disruptions in supply.
At the same time we achieved an 8.4% net reduction of pack variants within our product portfolio.
In 2015, we The 2015 US debut of Flonase Allergy Relief had 45 regulatory inspections, all with satisfactory outcomes.
was the year's top over-the-counter OTC launch Our average service levels rose to 93% The launch of Flonase Allergy Relief It was also the leading allergy brand in 2015, from 87% in 2014, due to supply underlined our eective dual capabilities recommended by both doctors and chain improvement programme initiatives, in both pharmaceuticals and fast allergists and the number one such as investments at our manufacturing moving consumer goods FMCG.
recommended by pharmacists sites, enhancements in systems and nasal allergy brand.
capacity, and reductions in single-sourced The nasal spray which was formerly raw materials.
available only on prescription contains This strong performance was aided the number one prescribed ingredient by Flonases expert digital marketing for providing temporary relief of hay campaign, which achieved striking fever and other upper respiratory allergies.
results across the leading social Careful planning enabled us media channels.
Reecting our heritage in respiratory to maintain a stable supply medicines, it is the first OTC spray to relieve both nasal and ocular symptoms chain during the Novartis and, whereas most allergy treatments integration, so there were target just one histamine, it inhibits 11 % six key substances.
no disruptions in supply Within a few months Our partnership with retailers enabled us of the US launch, to secure a strong presence in store with Flonase captured 23 miles of shelf space and almost one more than 11% of million point-of-sale devices.
An integrated the adult allergy consumer marketing campaign worked product market simultaneously to engage shoppers.
Within just a few months of launch Flonase captured more than 11% of the adult allergy product market and was the third leading brand in the category.
