MARKET OVERVIEW Factors influencing change in our markets The worlds population is expected to reach over Aerospace Key market drivers Recent trends Outlook nine billion by 2050, an increase of more than two billion Continued growth in air Development of new generation aircra and aero Growth in the commercial from 2015, with growth mainly in urban areas.
engines that are quieter and more fuel ecient.
aerospace market is expected Development of lightweight Cost pressures intensify as a new generation of aircra to continue in the medium term Population growth and urbanisation, GKN has specic expertise in electric and materials that improve completes its development cycle and enters production.
but this will be oset in the short along with increased aluence, are driving hybrid vehicle technology and electrically aircra eciency.
Commercial aircra sales backlog at the principal OEMs term by a further decline in the change across our markets increased driven machinery which help our Worldwide defence budgets.
is at an historically high level.
demand for flights and larger aircra: customers meet this challenge.
Environmental impact Production rates for many commercial single aisle World aircra production is more and dierent cars on the roads: reduction programmes.
aircra and the new generation of twin aisle aircra are expected to grow at 2% per annum Airbus and Boeing increasing pressure on agriculture to Manufacturers increasingly require 2 Increasing products demand rising in response to increased demand.
deliveries in 2015 feed the world: and the development lightweight designs and materials.
in emerging markets together Global competition among aircra manufacturers and Airbus and Boeing forecast a of infrastructure in cities.
All of these Composite aerostructures and engine with increasing need for supply chain continues to develop.
global demand of between 31,000 influence our product development and components are already relatively common technological capability requires Focus on robustness of supply chain from OEMs and and 38,000 large commercial, oer significant growth opportunities on new platforms, while in the automotive a global manufacturing and willingness to insource if necessary.
aircra over the next 20 years.
industry, components are continually Airbus and Boeing sourcing strategy.
Military market continues to shrink as F-35 still in initial being designed to reduce weight and size.
2 commercial backlog ramp-up phase and established programmes tail o.
There is also a continual drive to improve Development work is under way in both the fuel eciency of aircra, cars and sectors to increase the opportunities for 3 other vehicles, while at the same time lightweight materials.
GKN has significant Automotive increasing manufacturing eciency and know-how in lightweight materials and product safety.
Demand for fuel-ecient increasingly in advanced production Increased aluence in Global light vehicle production increased by 1.4% in External forecasts indicate solutions remains high due to concerns technologies that oer the opportunity to developing markets.
that global vehicle production over CO emissions and increasing optimise product design.
Demand for more fuel-ecient Chinas production growth eased as a result of in 2016 will increase 3.1% to 2 concerns over air quality.
In automotive vehicles and lower tailpipe market uncertainty.
and agricultural markets, advanced emissions.
Production in Europe increased by 4% due to recovery in The fastest growth is expected electric and hybrid alternatives are Increasing demend for Western Europe, which was partially oset by a collapse in India at 8.9%, with China replacing traditional mechanical power.
in Russia and the rest of Eastern Europe.
m Demand for personal mobility in North Americas output increased, boosted particularly America 4.1%.
Europe is expected emerging markets.
by the build of light trucks.
Light vehicle production in 2015 Customer and consumer focus on The fastest production growth in 2015 was in India due Brazil is expected to decline by quality and safety.
12.7% in 2016.. bn Move by OEMs towards vehicle Japans production declined in 2015 due to weak demand.
% platforms that support larger following sales tax changes.
1 Global population by 2050 Expected growth in global build volumes.
Brazil was aected by continuing economic problems vehicle production 2015-2020 resulting in low domestic demand.
Automotive market Car and light vehicle production rounded millions of units Growth % Land systems Europe.. Demand for more ecient Low commodity prices have impacted most Agricultural equipment markets North America.. agricultural equipment to land systems markets during 2015. are expected to weaken in Europe Brazil.. improve yields and meet an The global agricultural equipment market declined in 2016, with a further decline in Japan.. increased demand for food as in 2015 impacting Europe and, more signicantly, the Americas and a slowdown in China.. populations grow.
bn India.. Regulatory and economic The construction equipment market in China almost Construction markets are expected Others.. pressures to increase halved in 2015. to decline due to overcapacity and Global demand for agricultural 5 energy eciency and reduce Industrial markets saw growth in renewables, while high stock levels.
Total.. equipment in 2018 CO emissions.
crane and marine applications saw a decline.
Most industrial markets are 2 1 UN World Population Prospects, The 2015 Revision.
Infrastructure development and expected to remain flat or fall 2 Source: Teal.
slightly: wind energy markets are 3 Source: IHS Automotive.. bn 4 Growth is derived from unrounded production gures.
Need for signicantly increased expected to grow.
5 Freedonia Group, World Agricultural Equipment Market, 2014.
Growth in world urban safety, operational eciency 6 UN World Urbanisation Prospects, The 2014 Revision.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts Aerospace Key market drivers Recent trends Outlook Continued growth in air Development of new generation aircraft and aero Growth in the commercial passenger traffic.
engines that are quieter and more fuel efficient.
aerospace market is expected Development of lightweight Cost pressures intensify as a new generation of aircraft to continue in the medium term materials that improve completes its development cycle and enters production.
but this will be offset in the short aircraft efficiency.
Commercial aircraft sales backlog at the principal OEMs term by a further decline in the Worldwide defence budgets.
1,397 Environmental impact Production rates for many commercial single aisle World aircraft production is reduction programmes.
aircraft and the new generation of twin aisle aircraft are expected to grow at 2% per annum Airbus and Boeing 2 Increasing products demand rising in response to increased demand.
deliveries in 2015 in emerging markets together Global competition among aircraft manufacturers and Airbus and Boeing forecast a with increasing need for supply chain continues to develop.
global demand of between 31,000 technological capability requires Focus on robustness of supply chain from OEMs and and 38,000 large commercial 12,583 a global manufacturing and willingness to insource if necessary.
aircraft over the next 20 years.
Airbus and Boeing sourcing strategy.
Military market continues to shrink as F-35 still in initial 2 commercial backlog ramp-up phase and established programmes tail off.
3 Automotive Increased affluence in Global light vehicle production increased by 1.4% in External forecasts indicate developing markets.
that global vehicle production Demand for more fuel-efficient Chinas production growth eased as a result of in 2016 will increase 3.1% to vehicles and lower tailpipe market uncertainty.
Production in Europe increased by 4% due to recovery in The fastest growth is expected Increasing demend for Western Europe, which was partially offset by a collapse in India at 8.9%, with China electrification in vehicles.
increasing 5.4% and North 88.6m Demand for personal mobility in North Americas output increased, boosted particularly America 4.1%.
Move by OEMs towards vehicle Japans production declined in 2015 due to weak demand 15.9% platforms that support larger following sales tax changes.
Expected growth in global build volumes.
Brazil was affected by continuing economic problems vehicle production 2015-2020 resulting in low domestic demand.
Land systems Demand for more efficient Low commodity prices have impacted most Agricultural equipment markets agricultural equipment to land systems markets during 2015. are expected to weaken in Europe improve yields and meet an The global agricultural equipment market declined in 2016, with a further decline in increased demand for food as in 2015 impacting Europe and, more significantly, the Americas and a slowdown in populations grow.
$208bn Regulatory and economic The construction equipment market in China almost Construction markets are expected pressures to increase halved in 2015. to decline due to overcapacity and Global demand for agricultural 5 energy efficiency and reduce Industrial markets saw growth in renewables, while high stock levels.
Most industrial markets are 2 Infrastructure development and expected to remain flat or fall global demand for commodities.
slightly: wind energy markets are 2.5bn Need for significantly increased expected to grow.
Growth in world urban safety, operational efficiency 6 population by 2050 and reliability.
GKN plc 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
