DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Adam Walkers joining awards Part of the joining award granted to Adam Walker in 2014 to Professor compensate him for the long-term incentive arrangements he Richard Parry-Jones CBE forfeited on leaving his former employer was also dependent on Chairman of the the Groups performance to 31 December 2015.
This had the same Remuneration EPS growth target as the 2013 SEP core award and has therefore Committee lapsed with no pay-out.
Other key decisions during 2015 Salary increases In June 2015 we approved annual salary increases for the executive Directors ranging from 2.6% to 3%.
We carefully considered their performance, scope of responsibilities at that time, average salary increases awarded to employees in the UK 2.6% and globally 3.6%, and market reference points.
In October 2015, we approved a further increase to Adam Walkers salary of 10% to take account of the significant increase in his responsibilities following his appointment as Chief Executive GKN Land Systems in addition to his role as Group Finance Director.
Andrew Reynolds Smiths leaving arrangements Andrew Reynolds Smith resigned from his role as Chief Executive Dear Shareholder GKN Automotive and executive Director on 25 September 2015.
He did not receive any bonus payment in respect of 2015 and all The Committee had a busy year during 2015.
In addition to our of his outstanding SEP awards lapsed on leaving.
normal activities we reviewed our remuneration framework to ensure that it still supports the long-term success of the Group.
Review of our remuneration framework In this letter I have shared some of the main findings from that During 2016 we reviewed our incentive plans to ensure that the review, as well as describing our other activities during the year.
targets continue to be appropriate in light of shareholder expectations and remain an effective tool for attracting, retaining Performance outcome for 2015 and incentivising our top executives in highly competitive Annual incentive plan STVRS international markets.
These incentive plans are not just for the As described in the strategic report, GKN made pleasing progress executive Directors and Executive Committee members: we apply in 2015, performing well against its markets.
a very similar approach to all of our senior management population with almost 320 executives taking part in the SEP. STVRS payments to executive Directors amounted to 67% of salary.
Given that the Group delivered on expectations against a The Committee remains comfortable that the base salaries of backdrop of some challenging market conditions, this outcome GKNs executive Directors are appropriately positioned against the reflects the stretching targets we put in place at the start of 2015. market.
They are not excessive and do not in themselves create a significant risk in terms of our ability to recruit and retain top talent.
However, our review highlighted the following key factors, Long-term incentive plan SEP which together suggest that our current incentive plans leave an The performance period for the core element of the 2013 SEP uncomfortably high risk in our succession planning.
In order to vest, an annual compound growth rate of at least 6% in management earnings per For many years annual bonus pay-outs as a percentage of salary share EPS was required calculated using the cash tax rate.
A have been well below the market competitive range, including in combination of lower than expected growth in our end markets years when GKN has performed strongly.
The average bonus and a sharp increase in the cash tax rate led to the 2013 SEP core paid to our executive Directors over the last five years has been award and the associated sustainability award lapsing in full.
This approximately 60% of salary, around half the median average is disappointing because GKN performed well in progressing its pay-out of our UK comparators.
Pay-out levels reflect both our strategy of achieving above market growth, with management relatively low maximum opportunity of 110% of salary compared profit before tax increasing at a compound annual rate of 6.9% to the UK market and the very stretching performance targets over the 2013 SEP performance period.
The first year of the 2012 SEP sustainability award also ended on 31 December 2015.
As a result of the increasing cash tax rate applicable to GKN, EPS for 2015 was slightly below the highest annual level of EPS achieved during the 2012 SEP core performance period.
Therefore, the first year of the 2012 SEP sustainability award will also not pay out.
GKN plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
