AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT continued Significant issues We identified the issues below as significant in the context of the 2015 financial statements.
We consider these areas to be significant taking into account the level of materiality and the degree of judgement exercised by management.
We debated the issues in detail to ensure that the approaches taken were appropriate.
Acquisition accounting for Fokker Description Committee action The Company acquired Fokker in We considered the judgements taken by management to establish the fair value of the acquired October 2015.
The acquisition assets and liabilities.
In particular, we focused on: accounting was particularly complex the valuation of intangible assets.
An independent valuation was conducted by external advisers as Fokker operates through four which involved valuing more than 30 contracts and Fokkers technology assets and brands.
Certain judgements Assumptions included foreign exchange rates, discount rates and the achievement of a certain were required to be made on the level of synergies valuation of intangible assets and property, plant, equipment, and certain investments were also valued by independent contractual matters.
external advisers See note 30 to the the inclusion of certain provisions and liabilities, principally in relation to an unresolved financial statements regulatory matter, ongoing contractual obligations and the requirement to repay government refundable advances.
We discussed with PwC the audit work performed by them to assess whether the assets and liabilities were included at fair value.
Having considered PwCs view and the documentation provided by management, we were satisfied that the assumptions used were reasonable and that the provisional assets and liabilities had been established appropriately.
Impairment testing Description Committee action An impairment review is carried We considered the significant judgements, assumptions and estimates made by management in out annually by management to preparing the impairment review to ensure that they were appropriate.
We reviewed assumptions identify business units in which the relating to: recoverable amount is less than the discount rates used to discount the expected future cash flows to their present value.
These rates the value of the assets carried in reflected the risk inherent in each unit taking into account factors such as geography and sector the Groups accounts.
Impairment the estimation of long-term growth rates for the regions in which the units were based results in a charge to the Group the forecast of operating cash flows, based on the most recent budget and strategic reviews and income statement.
taking into account data such as sales profile and prices, market performance, volume, raw Key judgements and assumptions material costs and capital expenditure levels.
need to be made when valuing the We also considered sensitivities that would affect the assumptions noted above.
assets of the business units and the amount of potential future cash We obtained the external auditors view in relation to the appropriateness of the approach and the flows arising from them.
Taking this into account, together with the explanations given by See note 11 to the management, we were satisfied that the approach taken was thorough and the judgements taken financial statements were appropriate.
The review resulted in the impairment of four units and a charge to the income statement of 71 million.
Clarity and completeness of reporting Description Committee action GKN Driveline and GKN Aerospace We considered the clarity and completeness of the accounts as a whole taking into account matters operate in highly competitive markets such as: on a global scale.
They compete the presentation and disclosure implications resulting from the acquisition of Fokker for long-term contracts on large the accounting treatment of certain contracts signed by GKN Aerospace during the year platforms of a relatively small additions to provisions for potential liabilities arising from warranty exposure number of key customers.
Contracts, the reversal of specific contract provisions commercial transactions and a commercial transaction with a key customer which resulted in a cash advance.
commercial claims can be complex and can require judgement as to We received updates from management explaining the basis of accounting for complex contracts.
accounting treatment and the While amounts in 2015 were not material, accounting concepts were debated and approved.
To estimation of potential liabilities.
determine the appropriateness of the level of provisioning on the balance sheet and the reversal of provisions, we considered managements view on a number of matters including the nature of claims received, potential recall or rectification costs, the likelihood of a cash outflow and the circumstances around the reversal of provisions.
We discussed the proposed disclosure with PwC and concluded that it was appropriately transparent and complete.
GKN plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
