Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our behaviour Putting the needs of patients and consumers first Our approach Sales and marketing practices Transparency in clinical trial data We expect all employees to act in line We have signicantly changed the way we We have pioneered ways to share with our values, of transparency, respect sell and market our medicines and vaccines information and data about our clinical for people, integrity and to put patients to further ensure patients interests come trials.
By providing greater access to trial and consumers first.
first and to better serve our customers.
data, we allow others to conduct further We believe these changes will provide research and maximise the contribution These values inform how we approach long term commercial advantage.
made by the participants in our studies.
patient and consumer safety throughout product development and use: how we In January 2015, we completed the roll Since 2004, we have had an online sell and market our medicines: how we out of changes to the way sales teams are clinical study register where we make train our employees and address compensated.
Our pharmaceutical medical available information on our trials, including misconduct, and the expectations we representatives no longer have individual summaries of results.
We were the first have of third parties.
sales targets, but instead, are compensated pharmaceutical company to make clinical based on their technical skills, scientific study reports the basis of regulatory Patient and consumer safety knowledge, quality of service they deliver to submissions, which include detailed Patient safety is our priority in the HCPs, and broader business performance.
information on trials publicly available.
development, testing, manufacture and In the US, the approach has generated use of our products.
All medicines have We were also the first company to sign up strong customer feedback in a July 2015 potential risks as well as benets.
We have to AllTrials, which campaigns for every trial survey of 3,599 US healthcare professionals, extensive controls to detect, evaluate and to be registered and the results reported.
GSK ranked first in both trust and customer communicate benets and risks and any value for the second time in a row.
We have set up a system for researchers potential safety concerns about our to request access to the detailed, products.
We remain committed to ongoing anonymised, patient-level data that dialogue with the scientific community We take the safety of those who take sit behind clinical trial results and peer-to-peer medical education, but part in our clinical trials extremely seriously.
we are modernising the way we engage Our trials are conducted in line with the This lists over 1,700 of our global clinical with HCPs.
As of January 2016, we no International Conference on Harmonisations trials conducted since the formation of longer pay external HCPs to speak to Good Clinical Practice guidelines.
An GSK and includes clinical trials from other prescribers about our medicines.
We independent ethics committee reviews 12 other companies.
The Wellcome Trust continue to pay HCPs for non-promotional trial protocols before studies start and has taken over management of the panel advisory services and clinical research.
can prevent them from going ahead.
which considers applications for access These payments are governed by rigorous to the data, which was initially made up of Our global risk register helps research controls and are based on fair market value.
independent experts appointed by GSK.
teams keep track of emerging risks to We have also changed how we support This is an important step towards our vision quality and safety standards.
Risks medical education, by no longer choosing of an independent data-sharing system of are often identied through the regular which healthcare professionals are studies from across industry and academia.
self-audits of our own trials or those sponsored to attend scientific conferences.
By the end of 2015, 118 research conducted by third parties on our behalf.
Instead, we will provide funding to proposals had been submitted to access We performed 381 audits of trials in 2015. independent professional bodies who data from GSK trials.
We have already Core to our focus on safety are the strict will allocate funding to individuals.
given 62 research teams access to quality and safety standards upheld at all detailed trial data.
We are using multiple channels, including our manufacturing sites and throughout digital and real-time applications, to provide Our Code of Conduct the product life cycle from the sourcing information in the way, and at the time, HCPs Our Code of Conduct and an online of raw materials to the manufacturing and want it.
In 2015, we used effective digital resource centre guide our people in transportation of nished products.
communications to support our interactions applying our values in everyday activities.
We strive to minimise the risk of with HCPs when we launched two new HIV In 2015, 99.9% of employees completed counterfeit medicines.
In 2015, we medicines, Tivicay and Triumeq.
mandatory annual training on our Code.
extended our end-to-end supply chain The online course is available in 23 Healthcare professionals and scientists serialisation programme, Fingerprint, languages and includes training on our within GSK, including our Global Medical across 86 packaging lines in more than values, ethical leadership, anti-bribery Experts, play an important role in informing 18 manufacturing sites.
The programme and corruption, and reporting issues their peers about our medicines.
They applies unique serial ngerprints or concerns.
In 2015 it was extended are responsible for providing the right on products and logs them into a to more than 30,600 complementary information to support the safe and government-managed database, workers.
Employees who do not complete effective use of our medicines.
which they can be veried against the course may face disciplinary action.
at any point in the supply chain.
44 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Anti-Bribery and Corruption Of the total disciplined, 297 received Employees disciplined in 2015: We have zero tolerance for bribery or verbal warnings, 2,890 employees received breakdown of types of policy violations corruption.
However, we recognise that a documented warning 3,131 in 2014 1% we are exposed to bribery and corruption and 387 373 in 2014 were dismissed 1% risk given our global footprint, particularly or agreed to leave the company voluntarily.
7% 2% in markets where government structures The highest number of dismissals were 4% and the rule of law are less developed related to travel and expense policy 4% 5% and healthcare systems less mature.
violations which accounted for 130 48% dismissals, followed by 31 dismissals 7% Our anti-bribery and corruption programme related to Code of Conduct violations includes risk assessments, standards and 22 for attendance payroll violations.
10% and practical guidance designed to 11% prevent non-compliance.
During 2015, Working with third parties all employees and complimentary workers We expect all suppliers and third parties Attendance payroll Local work completed basic level training, while to comply with our standards on ethics, regulation violations Good manufacturing 54,000 employees in high-risk roles labour rights, health and safety, and the Unauthorised practices good completed additional advanced training.
In 2015, we introduced a absenteeism distribution practices We are now rolling out a framework to comprehensive programme to strengthen EHS safety Travel and expenses engage and train third parties, based on our management of such risks in the falsification of Marketing and their risk prole.
documents promotional activities Our approach is designed to prevent Following a review, 1,300 suppliers Training completion Code of conduct breaches, but if things do go wrong, we act have been identied as high risk and Other promptly and decisively.
Our centralised are being assessed by external risk review committee oversees investigations assessment experts.
They will be required into any allegations of bribery and corruption, to complete an extensive questionnaire We do not engage in articial tax and ensures they are prioritised consistently and demonstrate policies and management arrangements those without business across the company.
systems for responsible business issues.
At the same Additional due diligence may then follow.
time we have a responsibility to our Reporting and investigating shareholders to be nancially efficient misconduct In 2015, we assessed around 200 and deliver a sustainable tax rate.
We centrally track misconduct allegations, distributors on four key risks: anti-bribery concerns and security incidents received and corruption, labour rights, promotional Further details on our approach to tax through our Speak Up channels, monitoring, activities and information protection.
and our tax disclosures can be found and other routes.
In 2015 we received over We also assessed more than 1,300 in the Group financial review on page 53 5,780 such reports or allegations.
The suppliers that support our manufacturing, in this report and in our responsible majority of these, 3,257 3,203 in 2014, in line with our quality management system, business supplement.
were through our Speak Up channels and audited 85 on their environmental, Approach to human rights which offer people within and outside GSK health and safety management systems.
GSK is a signatory to the UN Global the opportunity to ask questions and voice Our approach to tax Compact, which sets out key principles concerns anonymously or condentially We understand our responsibility to pay for business on human rights.
We are through an independent third party by an appropriate amount of tax.
We have committed to upholding the Universal phone or on-line.
robust internal policies, processes, training Declaration of Human Rights and the All concerns raised are reviewed and over and compliance programmes to ensure core labour standards set out by the 2,670 formal investigations were initiated we have alignment across our business International Labour Organization.
in response to these allegations.
The five and meet our tax obligations.
Our human rights steering group provides most frequent categories of allegation were We pay a significant amount of tax in the direction and oversight to help ensure we employee performance relations, product UK, where most of our global corporate meet our commitments on human rights promotion, interactions with HCPs, fraud functions and significant manufacturing as set out in our Human Rights Statement, and Anti-Bribery and Corruption.
and R&D facilities are located, and in other available on our website.
Disciplinary action countries around the world where we have In 2012 we identied seven priority Disciplinary action is taken when a substantial business and employment areas for human rights for GSK: access employees fail to act in line with our presence.
to health care, air quality impact relating policies.
In 2015, 3,574 employees were Over the last 15 years we have paid to propellants, clinical trial standards, disciplined for policy violations 3,947 27.3 billion in corporation tax globally.
employment practices, patient safety, in 2014.
The types of policy violations In the UK, we have paid 2.7 billion since product counterfeiting and use of thirdsee chart in 2015 remained broadly the 2001, nearly 10% of the global total.
Attendance and payroll 2015, UK net sales were 4.2% of global remains the biggest type of violation at net sales.
48% of the total 43% in 2014, followed by good manufacturing practices at 11% 10% in 2014.
Travel and expenses violations increased to 10% 3% in 2014, due to increased frequency of monitoring.
