SUSTAINABILITY REPORT continued Our business Creating a high performance business 2015 performance 2016 priorities Lean Enterprise course structure revised Continue to develop our global 97% to ensure rigour and enable faster Quality Steering Group, co-ordinating transition for employees through the cross-divisional projects to improve of target employees completed course levels.
online compliance training Focus on continuous improvement Maintain quality of delivery of our through our quality management systems.
Lean Enterprise training within the Supply Chain Excellence Programme new modular format.
established, with more than 150 GKN leaders taking part during its first year.
250 leaders trained in Lean principles Honest and proper conduct 2015 performance 2016 priorities Continued to promote online training Roll out refresher training courses on modules for anti-bribery and corruption, anti-bribery and competition law.
competition law, and IT security.
Launch the GKN governance handbook Introduction of online export control to remind employees of the Groups compliance training.
governance requirements, policies Supplier Code of Conduct, introduced in and procedures.
December 2014, was embedded within our procurement processes.
Focus on Lean leadership delivers results at GKN Aerospace Filton GKN Aerospace Filton is a world leader in the manufacture of aircraft wing structures, and was recently awarded Accredited Supplier Status by Airbus.
The leadership team at GKN Filton continues to work hard to improve the business culture by embracing Lean principles, notably the concept of go, see, ask, which means getting out on the shop floor and connecting with employees.
This year, the team rolled out a Manufacturing Roadmap communications programme to all 1,500 employees, to help them understand the business strategy and their role in delivering it.
Key to this is a daily walkabout by every leader, which makes them more approachable and accessible to employees, and enables them to interact on a personal level with their teams.
The programme is already delivering results, with a significant improvement in engagement across the site.
Paul Adams, Head of Manufacturing, GKN Aerospace Filton and Western Approach third from left, explains the Manufacturing Roadmap to employees GKN plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Creating a high Honest and proper conduct Suppliers Our suppliers are integral to the performance business Human rights sustainability of our business.
We are A respect for human rights is implicit Continuous improvement committed to treating all our suppliers in our values and the policies which We are committed to a culture of zero and partners with fairness and integrity.
We support the defects and continuous improvement Our supply chain management policy Universal Declaration of Human CI and GKNs Lean Enterprise model sets out the principles and procedures Rights and do not tolerate the use provides a framework for CI across the each GKN company should follow when of child labour or forced labour.
Employees from office, factory dealing with suppliers and potential floor and executive levels are trained suppliers.
In return, our Supplier Code of to identify value for customers and Compliance training Conduct sets out what we expect from our shareholders: to eliminate waste: to Our online compliance training modules suppliers in relation to health, safety and remove barriers: and to develop skills continue to be an important element of environmental standards, internationally in coaching and problem solving.
accepted standards of workers rights, We target training to employees whose use of child and forced labour, ethical This year we changed our CI leadership roles require it.
Of those targeted, 98% standards, anti-bribery and corruption, course structures to a modular completed anti-bribery and corruption and compliance with relevant laws and format to allow participants to get and competition law training being regulations.
Our contractual terms and the specific training they need and to 13,600 and 3,900 respectively since conditions support the implementation enable them to progress faster, while their launch.
Separately, around 96% of this code.
Our aim is to build and maintaining consistency and quality.
19,140 completed online IT security maintain strong supplier relationships.
During the year, more than 250 leaders training, and 97% 4,150 completed our received training from GKNs own Lean new online training for export control.
We also continued to train All new starters meeting the criteria are many other employees across the required to complete these online courses, Group on our core Lean principles.
which are supplemented by face-to-face training for higher risk individuals.
We continued to drive operational excellence through expansion of initiatives such as our Operational Excellence Teamworking programme which brings together cross-divisional Lean Enterprise teams to find solutions and drive improvements.
Quality We are committed to supplying safe and high quality products and services, judging our performance from the point of view of our customers.
Quality management systems are in place across all divisions, with relevant ISO standards held across the Group.
The Voice of the Customer initiative, launched in 2014, which tracks online customer scoring of our performance, is now firmly established in the monthly divisional operational review process, and we judge ourselves using our customers quality data on our performance.
2015 saw an improvement in these metrics.
GKN plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
