OUR BUSINESS MODEL Supporting our strategy Our business model highlights how we combine our advanced engineering value chain in global markets with our strong core competencies and clear values to deliver strong financial performance.
Our key strengths Global markets Aerospace: a leading global tier one supplier to the industry.
Automotive: a global business serving the worlds leading vehicle manufacturers.
Land systems: a leading supplier of power Our value chain management products and services.
Read more on pages 4 and 5 Designing new products and solutions: through investment in technology, together with Strong core competencies an understanding of market trends and customer needs.
Industry know-how: identifying Winning new business: future technology requirements to offering value through strong deliver market-leading solutions.
engineering capability, Delivering strong Engineering capability: investing global footprint and in technology and developing and innovative solutions.
financial returns maintaining a diverse range of Sourcing materials Our financial goals are based on a engineering talent.
and products: balanced approach between sales Strong customer relationships: delivering a reliable source of key raw growth, margin and return on innovation and exceptional service to materials and components invested capital ROIC.
build and maintain strong relationships.
from a well developed, cost Read more on effective supply chain.
Read more in our divisional page 9 Applying lean manufacturing: case studies efficient and cost effective processes that add Doing the right thing value throughout the manufacturing chain.
By our people: providing a safe Delivering high quality working environment: respecting products: that meet rights: developing our people: customers needs.
speaking up if things arent right.
As a business: building a high performance business supported by honest and proper conduct.
In our world: protecting the environment: supporting communities: open communication.
Read more on pages 48 to 55 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts
