S S L T C A U Y R D E O G R N P I R L M Strategic report Our business model Integration of sustainability Maintain robust and flexible balance sheet Strategic imperatives: throughout the business Inputs: Assets and natural resources Our people and partners We wholly own or have a significant ownership in our assets, Over many years, we have cultivated and established long-term inwhich we make long-term investments.
We prioritise being relationships with a broad range of suppliers and customers a competitive, low-cost producer.
across diverse industries and geographies.
Our resources and reserves are high quality and long life, Our highly skilled and professional workforce of around enhancing the scale and quality of our marketing business.
160,000employees and contractors is located on six continents.
We interact with many diverse stakeholders around the world.
We are a disciplined producer and align supply to demand.
We are committed to building transparent and constructive relationships with our partners to deliver sustainable, long-term benefits to all of our stakeholders.
EXPLORE, ACQUIRE & DEVELOP EXTRACT & PRODUCE Explore, acquire & develop Extract & produce Our exploration activities take place We mine and beneficiate minerals across closetoour existing assets, supporting abroad range of commodities, mining thedevelopment of brownfield sites.
techniques and countries, for processing We believe that this approach lowers and or refining at our own facilities or ourrisk profile and lets us use existing forsale to third parties.
infrastructure, realise synergies and Extraction and production of commodities controlcosts.
Each industrial investment involves a long-term commitment as opportunity isevaluated on a standalone wellasexposure to risks relating to basis and on its potential to strengthen our commodity prices, project development, marketing activities or existing industrial changes in sovereign legislation and assets.
Our approach allows us to build on community acceptance.
our economies of scale, our familiarity with An integral part of developing and a political and cultural landscape and our maintaining our assets is earning our understanding of commodity dynamics.
sociallicence to operate from the host governments and the communities around our operations.
See our sustainability section Sustainable business Outputs: on page 18 Safe and healthy workplace | Long-term value for communities | Socio-economic contributions | Skilled workforce Principal risks and uncertainties: Total recordable injury frequency rate TRIFR | Water withdrawn | Greenhouse gas emissions KPIs: Community investment spend 10 Glencore Annual Report 2015 A R & E U T S L N L U C A E I T R E G A M S T C U S E D I T O I D R O P M Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information See page 14 for more information Focus on cost control and operating efficiencies on our strategy Financial discipline Unique market knowledge We deploy capital in a disciplined manner, which creates value Our scale and global reach give us valuable insight into for all of our stakeholders.
We have a long trackrecord of value marketflows and access to real-time information.
Our long experience has allowed us to build extensive market Our hedging strategies protect us against price risks and knowledge and insight, as well as full logistics capabilities.
ensure that our marketing profitability is primarily determined As a commodity producer and marketer, we are uniquely by volume driven activities and value-added services rather positioned to generate value at every stage of the than absolute price.
MARKETING PROCESS & REFINE BLENDING & LOGISTICS & OPTIMISING DELIVERY THIRD PARTY Process & refine Blending & optimising Our expertise and technology advantages Through our presence at every stage inprocessing and refining activities enable ofthecommodity chain, we are able usto optimise our end products for a wider toprovide a wide range of product customer base.
specifications resulting in a superior service Logistics & delivery for our customers.
Our smelting and refining facilities Our logistics assets allow us to handle providevolumes that are utilised by Our ability to blend and optimise products, largevolumes of commodities, to fulfil ourmarketing teams.
through using both our own and third ourmarketing obligations and to take party volumes, means we are better placed advantage of demand and supply Our ownership of processing and refining to meet the exact requirements of imbalances.
We have global storage and assets increases our flexibility and optionality our customers.
logistics assets inkey strategic locations, and provides security of supply as well including metal warehouses accredited asenabling us to gain valuable market Working with third party suppliers bythe LME and numerous oil and grain knowledge.
provides afuller oversight of supply.
The broad This allows us to gain valuable market and We purchase and process additional range of value-added services we offer local knowledge and to better understand products asrequired from smaller fulfils the needs of customers that do not the balance between supply and demand.
operators that donotenjoy the same have the equivalent internal capability and economies of scale.
make us a preferred counterparty as well as strengthening our long-term relationships.
See our financial review Financial performance on page 36 Returns to shareholders | Value for our stakeholders See page 28 for more information on risks and uncertainties Adjusted EBIT EBITDA | Funds from operations FFO | Net funding | Net debt FFO to Net debt | Net income Glencore Annual Report 2015 11 Y M A O D C Y R R U E O V E N I Strategic report Our marketing business We are an established marketer of commodities and have, over 40 years, built a strong market reputation as a reliable supplier of quality product on a timely basis.
Our presence on the ground gives us extensive and unique market knowledge and insight, as well as trusted relationships with our partners and customers.
In addition, wehavedeveloped the full logistics capabilities required to generate value-added margins and we are well positioned to seek arbitrage opportunities throughout the physical commodity supply chain.
Our marketing activities involve the Virtually all our marketed volumes physical movement of commodities.
are hedged or pre-sold to minimise We deliver commodities both those price exposure.
Earnings from our we extract as part of our industrial marketing activities are largely based Unique market business, as well as from third party on margins generated throughout the suppliers to where they are most value chain.
knowledge: global office in demand.
Marketing earnings are network and logistics Our use of hedging instruments generated from a fee-like income that results in marketing profitability storage infrastructure is earned from the handling of physical being overwhelmingly determined assets as well as arbitrage and blending by volume activity and associated and optimisation opportunities.
value-added supply chain margins Our market insight, extensive andother marketing conditions rather logistics network and storage facilities than by the absolute flat price itself.
Fee-like income from differentiate us from other pure Many of the physical commodity commodity producers.
In addition handling of physical markets in which we operate are to focusing on minimising costs and commodities and fragmented or periodically volatile.
maximising operational efficiencies This can result in arbitrage, price arbitrage opportunities at our producing assets, we are discrepancies between the prices also able to focus on maximising that the same commodities can be the fee-like returns from the entire bought or sold in different geographic marketing process.
Other factors By working side-by-side, our that lead to arbitrage include freight Established third party integrated marketing and industrial and product quality.
Through taking businesses give us a presence across advantage of arbitrage opportunities supply and global the entire supply chain, delivering a we can generate additional value by customer base unique knowledge of market dynamics sourcing, transporting, blending, and helping us to fully understand the storing or otherwise processing the needs of our customers.
Our marketing business is countercyclical from a cashflow perspective Price exposure as its funding requirements are minimised: marketed highly linked to commodity prices, requiring less working capital during volumes hedged periods of falling prices and helping or pre-sold to mitigate the generally negative effects of alower price environment on ourindustrial assets.
12 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information The arbitrage strategies we implement to generate additional price margins may vary from commodity to commodity.
The main opportunities are: Geographic Product Time arbitrage arbitrage arbitrage Disparity Disparity Disparity Pricing differences for the Pricing differences between Pricing differences on sameproduct in different blends, grades or types acommodity between delivery geographic regions, taking ofcommodity, taking into immediately, orata future date, into account transportation account processing or taking into account storage and ortransaction costs.
financing costs until future date.
Execution Execution Execution Leverage global relationships Ensure optionality with Book carry trades benefiting and production, processing commodity supply contracts, and from competitive sources andlogistical capabilities to look to lock-in profitable price of storage, insurance source product in one location differentials through blending, andfinancing.
During our 40 years of marketing In addition, our network of global Our extensive internal compliance commodities, we have established offices allows us to maintain and policies and procedures and use of acomprehensive risk management develop our relationships with our third party screening ensure weare system, supported by robust customers and suppliers, as well as compliant with sanctions, applicable procedures, to monitor all our observe on-the-ground movements laws and regulations.
Our marketing business, supported The credit risks associated with our Our marketing teams manage by robust risk management and marketing activities, including those Glencores market exposure via working capital financing capabilities, present in agreements with suppliers thereduction of price risks arising creates value through utilising and customers, are mitigated through from timing differences between the extensive market insight, business the extensive application of measures purchase and sale of commodities optionality, broad customer base, including credit insurance, lettersof toacceptably low levels.
extensive third party supply base, credit, security arrangements strong market position and and or bank and corporate guarantees.
penetration in most commodities andeconomies of scale.
