Customer concentration Risk trend Description Mitigation There is significant customer concentration in the automotive and Regular review of the Groups relations with and exposure to aerospace industries so a large portion of the Groups revenues key customers.
comes from a relatively small number of customers.
Around 50% Extensive and regular dialogue with key customers and strong of the Groups revenue is derived from its top ten customers.
Quality, service and delivery performance are regularly reviewed based on customer KPIs.
Potential impact Credit exposure is actively reviewed and managed.
The insolvency of, damage to relations with, or significant worsening of commercial terms with, a major customer could seriously affect the Groups future results, and could result in loss Changes in 2015 of market share and future business opportunities, asset There have been no significant changes in the OEM customer write-offs and restructuring actions.
landscape with the proportion of business from the Groups top ten customers remaining stable during 2015.
No individual customer accounts for more than 10% of Group revenue.
We have continued to win new business in each of our key markets but have seen significant margin pressure in some markets.
We have not experienced any significant impact to sales volumes as a result of the recent problems experienced by Volkswagen, one of our largest customers, regarding vehicle emission tests.
We will keep this under Read more about key customer trends on pages 4 and 5, and about credit risk review throughout 2016. in note 19 to the financial statements Operating in global markets Risk trend Description Mitigation We operate globally and, as such, results could be impacted by The Group has a diversified portfolio of businesses across our global or regional changes in the macroeconomic or political markets providing some protection against individual market or environment, changing consumer demand and preferences, and country risks.
Lead market indicators are regularly reviewed so that we can respond quickly to changing trading conditions.
Our businesses could be affected by changing consumer preference Our mitigation strategy includes: and associated volatility in automotive demand: challenging credit planning, budgeting and forecasting processes conditions resulting in lack of access to finance by customers and flexible management of variable and fixed cost base, end consumers: delay or cancellation of orders for civil aircraft and investment spending and working capital changes in the amount or timing of US military spending: volatility in further diversification into other sectors which present new agricultural, construction, mining and industrial markets: exchange opportunities rate fluctuations: and changing oil prices.
focused restructuring activities, where necessary, to respond to markets which have suppressed levels of economic activity regular review of our financial risk management processes, Potential impact including foreign currency hedging.
Major or prolonged economic or financial market deterioration, Alignment of our debt to the principal currencies in which including movements in exchange rates of key currencies or our revenues and cash flows are generated through cross political uncertainty in one of our key markets, may significantly currency swaps.
impact the Groups operational performance and financial A strong balance sheet.
Sustained market weakness could lead to impairment of assets or site closures.
It may also materially impact our customers, Changes in 2015 suppliers and other parties with whom we do business.
Market conditions are discussed in the Chief Executives review on pages 8 to 10 and the global markets section on pages 4 and 5.
We have taken action to reduce costs in GKN Driveline Brazil as a result of weak autmotive demand in Brazil, and in GKN Land Systems as a result of weak agricultural and chassis systems demand.
We have extended our global aerospace footprint and customer base through the acquisition of Fokker with 21 new locations in nine countries.
We have also further strengthened our automotive presence in key markets, including expanding facilities in China, Mexico and Poland.
We are closely monitoring the implications of the UKs potential exit from the EU.
It is too early for us to assess exactly what an exit might mean Read more about the Fokker acquisition on pages 20 and 21, and about the for GKN, but a vote to leave the EU would probably lead to a period of Groups financial risk management processes regarding foreign currency economic and political uncertainty which could pose a risk to the Group.
exposures in note 19 to the financial statements GKN plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
