Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Directors report For the year ended 31 December 2015 Introduction Health, safety, environment & communities HSEC This Annual Report is presented by the Directors on the An overview of health, safety and environmental affairs of Glencore plc the Company and its subsidiaries performance and community participation is provided in the Group or Glencore, together with the financial the Sustainable Development section of the Strategic report.
statements and auditors report, for the year ended Exploration and research and development 31 December 2015.
The Directors report includes details ofthe business, the development of the Group and likely The Group business units carry out exploration and future developments as set out in the Strategic Report, research and development activities that are necessary which together forms the management report for the tosupport and expand their operations.
purposes of the UK Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR 4.1.
The notice Employee policies and involvement concerning forward-looking statements is set out at the end Glencore operates an equal opportunities policy that aims of the Annual Report.
References to the Company may also totreat individuals fairly and not to discriminate on the include references to the Group or part of the Group.
basis of sex, race, ethnic origin, disability or on any other basis.
Applications for employment and promotion are Corporate structure fullyconsidered on their merits, and employees are given Glencore plc is a public company limited by shares, appropriate training and equal opportunities for career incorporated in Jersey and domiciled in Baar, Switzerland.
Its shares are listed on the London, Johannesburg and Where disability occurs during employment, the Group HongKong Stock Exchanges.
seeks to accommodate that disability where reasonably possible, including with appropriate training.
Financial results and distributions The Groups financial results are set out in the financial The Group places considerable value on the involvement of statements section of this Annual Report.
its employees which is reflected in the principles of its Code of Conduct and its related guidance, which requires regular, An interim distribution of $0.06 per share has already been open, fair and respectful communication, zero tolerance for paid for the 2015 financial year.
As announced on human rights violations, fair remuneration and, above all, 7 September 2015, no final distribution will be proposed asafe working environment.
Employee communication is mainly provided by the Review of business, future developments and post Groups intranet and corporate website.
A range of balance sheet events information is made available to employees including all policies applicable to them as well as information on the A review of the business and the future developments Groups financial performance and the main drivers of its oftheGroup is presented in the Strategic Report.
Employee consultation depends upon the type A description of acquisitions, disposals, and material and location of operation or office.
changes to Group companies undertaken during the year, including post balance sheet events, is included in the Directors conflicts of interest Financial review and in note 24 to the financial statements.
Under Jersey law and the Companys Articles of Association which mirror section 175 of the UK Companies Act 2006, Financial instruments aDirector must avoid a situation in which the Director has, Descriptions of the use of financial instruments and or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or financial risk management objectives and policies, including possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company.
hedging activities and exposure to price risk, credit risk, The duty is not infringed if the matter has been authorised liquidity risk and cash flow risk are included in notes 25 by the Directors.
Under the Articles, the Board has the and26 to the financial statements.
power to authorise potential or actual conflict situations.
The Board maintains effective procedures to enable the Corporate governance Directors to notify the Company of any actual or potential A report on corporate governance and compliance with conflict situations and for those situations to be reviewed theUK Corporate Governance Code is set out in the and, if appropriate, to be authorised by the Board.
Corporate governance report and forms part of this report Directorsconflict situations are reviewed annually.
A register of authorisations is maintained.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 95 Governance Directors report For the year ended 31 December 2015 On 16 September 2015 1,307,794,600 new ordinary shares in Directors liabilities and indemnities the Company were issued to existing and new institutional The Company has granted third party indemnities to each shareholders including certain Directors and employees of of its Directors against any liability that attaches to them in Glencore by way of a placing at a price of GBP 1.25 per share, defending proceedings brought against them, to the extent raising gross proceeds of $2.5 billion.
These shares permitted by Jersey Law.
In addition, Directors and officers represented 9.99% of the Companys issued ordinary share of the Company and its subsidiaries are covered bydirectors capital prior to the issue.
Major interests in shares Directors and officers The names of the Companys Directors and officers who As at 6 March 2016 Glencore had been notified of the were in office atthe end of 2015, together with their following interests representing 3% or more of the issued biographical details and other information, are shown on ordinary share capital of the Company: pages 72 to 74.
Percentage of Total Voting Name of holder Number of shares Rights Directors interests Qatar Holding 1,331,513,534 9.25 Details of interests in the ordinary shares of the Company of Ivan Glasenberg 1,211,957,850 8.42 those Directors who held office during 2015 are given below: Harris Associates 1, 1 5 7, 33 7, 1 6 9 8.04 Percentage of Number of Total Voting BlackRock Inc 838,224,924 5.82 Name Glencore Shares Rights Daniel Mat 464,136,143 3.22 Executive Directors Aristotelis Mistakidis 456,175,134 3.17 Ivan Glasenberg 1,211,957,850 8.42 Non-Executive Directors Share capital 1 Peter Coates 1,585,150 0.01 The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, Anthony Hayward 244,907 0.00 being the only share class of the Company, are set out in the Leonhard Fischer Companys Articles of Association the Articles, which William Macaulay 1,700,000 0.01 can be found at www.
Subject to Jersey law, any share may be issued with or have attached to it such Peter Grauer 129,792 0.00 preferred, deferred or other special rights and restrictions as John Mack 750,000 0.00 the Company may by special resolution decide or, if no such Patrice Merrin 43,997 0.00 resolution is in effect, or so far as the resolution does not make specific provision, as the Board may decide.
1 Peter Coates also has 484,156 options over shares arising from his prior employment with Xstrata which are not included in the above table.
No such resolution is currently in effect.
Subject to the No Director has any other interest in the share capital of the recommendation of the Board, holders of ordinary shares Company whether pursuant to any share plan or otherwise.
On liquidation, holders of ordinary shares may share in the assets of the Company.
Holders of No changes in Directors interests ofthose in office at the ordinary shares are also entitled to receive the Companys date of this report have occurred between 31 December 2015 Annual Report and Accounts or a summarised version and, and 6 March 2016. subject to certain thresholds being met, may requisition the Mr Glasenberg has executed a Lock-Up Deed, pursuant to Board to convene a general meeting GM or the proposal which he agreed, subject to certain customary exceptions, of resolutions at AGMs.
None of the ordinary shares carry that during the period from 24 May 2011 to 24 May 2016 any special rights with regard to control of theCompany.
hewill not dispose of a certain percentage of the ordinary Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak shares held by him at 24 May 2011.
The percentage of at GMs of the Company and to appoint one or more proxies hisordinary shares held at 24 May 2011 that is subject to or, if the holder of shares is a corporation, a corporate restrictions on disposal decreases on each anniversary representative.
On a show of hands, each holder of ordinary dateby 20% of the original holding.
shares who being an individual is present in person or being a corporation is present by a duly appointed Share capital and shareholder rights corporate representative, not being himself a member, shall As at 6 March 2016, the issued ordinary share capital of have one vote and on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares theCompany was $145,862,001 represented by 14,586,200,066 present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every ordinary shares of $0.01 each, ofwhich191,459,158 shares are share of which he is the holder.
Electronic and paper proxy held in treasury and 174,404,359 shares are held by group appointments and voting instructions must be received not employee benefit trusts.
later than 48 hours before a GM.
A holder of ordinary shares 96 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information can lose the entitlement to vote at GMs where that holder The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles and has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed provide that the Board may exercise all the powers of the toprovide the Company with information concerning Company including to borrow money.
The Company may interests held in those shares.
Except as 1 set out above by ordinary resolution authorise the Board to issue shares, and 2 permitted under applicable statutes, there are no and increase, consolidate, sub-divide and cancel shares in limitations on voting rights of holders of a given percentage, accordance with its Articles and Jersey law.
number of votes or deadlines for exercising voting rights.
Purchase of own shares The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a In early 2015 the Company completed its $1 billion share certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that repurchase programme announced to the market on therefusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the 20 August 2014.
For 2015, the total number of ordinary Company from taking place on an open and proper basis or shares repurchased under this programme was 58,050,000 at where the Company has a lien over that share.
The Directors a cost of $240 million.
Further details are set out in note 15 to may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share the financial statements.
unless the instrument of transfer is: i lodged, duly stamped if necessary, at the registered office of the Company or any This programme had been implemented in accordance other place as the Board may decide accompanied by the withthe UK Listing Rules and the Directors authority certificate for the share s to be transferred and or such under a shareholders resolution passed on 20 May 2014 to other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require as purchase in the market up to 10% of the Companys issued proof of title: or ii in respect of only one class of shares.
The Directors will seek to renew this authority at the Companys AGM to be held on 19 May 2016.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of Going concern an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity governing the operation of CREST.
position and borrowing facilities are set out in the Strategic The Directors may decide to suspend the registration of Report.
Furthermore, notes 25 and 26 to the financial transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of statements includes the Groups objectives and policies shareholders.
The Directors cannot suspend the registration formanaging its capital, its financial risk management of transfers of any uncertificated shares without obtaining objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging consent from CREST.
activities and its exposure to credit and liquidity risk.
Significant financing activities that took place during the There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary year are detailed in the Financial review section.
shares in the Company except: 1 certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations The results of the Group, principally pertaining to its forexample insider trading laws : 2 pursuant to the industrial asset base, is exposed to fluctuations in both Companys share dealing code whereby the Directors and commodity prices and currency exchange rates whereas the certain employees of the Company require approval to deal performance of marketing activities is primarily physical in the Companys shares: and 3 where a shareholder with volume driven with commodity price risk substantially at least a 0.25% interest in the Companys issued share hedged.
capital has been served with a disclosure notice and has The Directors have a reasonable expectation, having made failed to provide the Company with information concerning appropriate enquiries that the Group has adequate resources interests in those shares.
There are no agreements between to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable holders of ordinary shares that are known to the Company future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors have made this assessment after consideration The rules for appointment and replacement of the Directors of the Groups budgeted cash flows and related assumptions are set out in the Articles.
Directors can be appointed by the including appropriate stress testing of the identified Company by ordinary resolution at a GM or by the Board uncertainties being primarily commodity prices and upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
currency exchange rates, assessment of asset disposal The Company can remove a Director from office, including initiatives and undrawn credit facilities, monitoring of debt by passing an ordinary resolution or by notice being given maturities, and after review ofthe Guidance on Risk by all the other Directors.
The Company may amend its Management, Internal Control andRelated Financial and Articles by special resolution approved at a GM.
Business Reporting 2014 as published by the UK Financial Reporting Council.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 97 Governance Directors report For the year ended 31 December 2015 Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Longer-term viability statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors In accordance with paragraph C2.2 of the Code, the have elected to prepare the financial statements inaccordance Directors have assessed the prospects of the Groups with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued viability over a longer period than the 12 months required by the International Accounting Standards Board and bytheGoing Concern assessment above.
The Board has International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for assessed the viability of the Group over a four-year period.
use in the European Union together IFRS.
The financial This period is consistent with the Groups established statements are required by law to be properly prepared annual business planning and forecasting processes and inaccordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991. cycle which issubject to review and approval each year by International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial the Board.
The four-year plan considers Glencores EBITDA, statements present fairly for each financial year the Capital Expenditure, Funds From Operations FFO and Companys financial position, financial performance and Net Debt, and the key financial ratios of Net Debt to EBITDA cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of and FFO to Net Debt over the forecasted years and theeffects of transactions, other events and conditions in incorporates stress tests to simulate the potential impacts of accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria exposure to the Groups principal risks and uncertainties as forassets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the set out on pages 28to 35.
These scenarios included: International Accounting Standards Boards Framework a prolonged downturn in the price and demand of forthe preparation and presentation offinancial statements.
commodities most impacting Glencores operations: In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be foreign exchange movements to which the Group is achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
exposed as a result of its global operations: and However, the Directors are also required to: consideration of the potential impact of adverse properly select and apply accounting policies: movements in macro-economic assumptions and their present information, including accounting policies, effect on certain key financial KPIs and ratios which could inamanner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable increase the Groups access to or cost of funding.
andunderstandable information: The scenarios were assessed taking into account current risk provide additional disclosures when compliance with the appetite and any mitigating actions Glencore could take, specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable asrequired, in response to the potential realisation of any users to understand the impact of particular transactions, ofthe stressed scenarios.
other events and conditions on the entitys financial Based on the results of the related analysis, the Directors position and financial performance: and have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be ableto make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue continue in operation and meet its liabilities as theyfall due as a going concern.
over the four-year period of this assessment.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Auditors records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval the financial position of the Company and enable them of this Annual Report confirms that: toensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They are also responsible a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit forsafeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for information of which the Companys auditors are taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of unaware: and fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible b the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and taken as a director in order to make himself aware of financial information included on the Companys website.
any relevant audit information and to establish that Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and theCompanys auditors are aware of that information.
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue inoffice as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them willbe proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the AnnualReport and financial statements in accordance John Burton withapplicable law and regulations.
Company Secretary 7 March 2016 98 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Information required by Listing Rule LR 9.8.
4C In compliance with UK Listing Rule 9.8.
4C the Company discloses the following information: Listing Rule Information required Relevant disclosure 9.8.
4 1 Interest capitalised by the Group See note 7 to the financial statements 9.8.
4 2 Unaudited financial information as required LR 9.2.
18 See Chief Executive Officers review 9.8.
4 4 Long-term incentive plans involving a sole director LR 9.4.
4 5 Director waivers of emoluments See Directors remuneration report 9.8.
4 6 Director waivers of future emoluments See Directors remuneration report 9.8.
4 7 Non pro-rata allotments of equity for cash The Company See note 15 to the financial statements for details of a placing of shares 9.8.
4 8 Non pro-rata allotments of equity for cash major subsidiaries Not applicable 9.8.
4 9 Listed company is a subsidiary of another company Not applicable 9.8.
4 10 Contracts of significance involving a Director None 9.8.
4 11 Contracts of significance involving a controlling shareholder Not applicable 9.8.
4 12 Waivers of dividends See note 15 to the financial statements 9.8.
4 13 Waivers of future dividends See note 15 to the financial statements 9.8.
4 14 Agreement with a controlling shareholder LR 92.2.
AR 2 a Not applicable Confirmation of Directors responsibilities We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: The consolidated financial statements of the Group fortheyear ended 31 December 2015 were approved the consolidated financial statements, prepared in on7 March 2016 by the Board of Directors.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations as adopted by the European Signed on behalf of the Board: Union, International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and the Companies Jersey Law 1991, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: Anthony Hayward Ivan Glasenberg the management report, which is incorporated in the Chairman Chief Executive Officer Strategic Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the 7 March 2016 Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face: and the Annual Report and consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair and balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the performance, strategy andbusiness model of the Company.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 99 Financial statements Financial statements 100 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Financial statements 102 Independent Auditors Report 110 Consolidated statement of loss income 111 Consolidated statement of comprehensive loss income 112 Consolidated statement of financial position 113 Consolidated statement of cash flows 115 Consolidated statement of changes of equity 116 Notes to the financial statements Glencore Annual Report 2015 101
