Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our strategic priorities Our strategy is designed to generate improved sales and earnings growth, sustainable returns to shareholders and benets to patients and consumers.
Our strategic Our strategic priorities progress in 2015 Novartis transaction completed, signicantly strengthening our Vaccines Grow and Consumer Healthcare businesses.
Strong performance of new A balanced business Pharmaceutical and Vaccine products Create a balanced business and with 2 billion sales in 2015. product portfolio, capable of delivering Successful OTC launch of Flonase sustainable sales and earnings growth, Allergy Relief in the US.
centred on three businesses of Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines, and Consumer Healthcare.
Launch in US of Nucala for eosinophilic asthma, and approval in Europe.
Deliver Positive phase III data for Shingrix, our candidate shingles vaccine.
More products of value Research and develop high quality, Filed first gene therapy for rare disease innovative products that offer valuable ADA-SCID in Europe.
improvements in treatment for patients, consumers and healthcare providers.
Integration and restructuring cost savings on track.
Simplify 53 Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Healthcare markets live on GSKs global ERP Our operating model system since the first 'go live' in August 2011.
Transform how we operate to reduce complexity, increase efficiency and free Consumer Healthcare supply achieved average up resources to reinvest elsewhere in service levels of 93% OTIF on time in full.
the business, or return to shareholders 100% on time supply for all key new wherever we see the most attractive pharmaceutical product introduction returns.
launches in 2015 across all markets.
Legacy GSK brands Malaria candidate vaccine, RTS, S Responsible received a positive opinion from business European regulators.
Continued to transform commercial Being a responsible business is central model to drive growth and build trust, to our strategy, and how we deliver reshaping our relationships with success is just as important as what healthcare professionals and we achieve.
implementing a new sales force We ensure our values are embedded in compensation approach.
our culture and decision making to help us better meet the expectations of society.
12 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Key challenges Our performance Our future in 2015 in 2015 priorities Continued pricing pressure in the Deliver 2016 earnings guidance for US and Europe.
core EPS percentage growth to reach bn 23.9 double digits CER.
Changes in US market dynamics impacting speed of uptake of new Group turnover Drive sales of new products to meet product launches.
target of 6 billion in annual turnover.
Group core EPS of mid-to-high single 75.7 digit CAGR growth on a CER basis Read more about our global over the five year period 2016-2020.
Core earnings per share marketplace on pages 8 to 10.
At its Investor event on 6 May 2015, GSK A reconciliation of total results to core outlined a series of expectations for its results is set out on page 62. performance over the five year period 2016-2020.
Ensure continued focus on R&D File for approval key products including delivery during ongoing restructuring Shingrix, Benlysta subcutaneous, programme including site rationalisation.
40 sirukumab and closed triple EU in 2016.
Integration of Novartis' vaccines new potential medicines and vaccines in our pipeline proled at R&D event pipeline.
Deliver up to 10 phase III starts and up to 20 phase II starts in 2016 7.
SUMMIT study did not show statistically significant mortality benefit from Relvar Complete integration of BMS pipeline Breo Ellipta in COPD patients.
% 13 estimated internal rate of return on R&D investment Complexity of integrating 12,000 Deliver incremental annual savings employees into Consumer Healthcare of 0.8 billion in 2016, 0.6 billion bn and Vaccines businesses.
in 2017 bringing the total to 3 billion 1.0 annual savings by end 2017.
Rolling out new systems eg ERP at in incremental annual cost savings scale across many markets.
Continue to streamline product portfolio, delivered in 2015 reduce complexity in formulations and Transfer of marketed Oncology packaging formats, and embed common products to Novartis.
% 27 Read more about our approach to risk Integrate reporting systems following on pages 16 and 17, and our global reduction in number of pharmaceuticals Novartis transaction.
marketplace on pages 8 to 10. pack variants against 2012 baseline 1.6 billion savings achieved as at 31 December 2015.
Reducing value chain carbon emissions Support the delivery of our malaria while demand for products with a high vaccine at a not-for-profit price through % carbon footprint, such as Ventolin, 82 key partnerships.
Dow Jones Sustainability Index score Continue to enhance governance, Strengthening our values-based culture compliance and quality through and further encouraging the reporting proactive risk management and st of any concerns.
1 Change programme to transform our Continue to improve leadership We have led the Access to Medicine commercial model.
Index since 2008 effectiveness and quality of talent.
