R e s p o n d e s y l a n a d n a y f i t n e d I A s s Our ERM programme GKNs enterprise risk management ERM programme facilitates a common, Group-wide approach to the identification, analysis, and assessment of risks and the way in which they are managed, controlled and monitored.
Identify and analyse: A broad spectrum of risks is considered through the ERM process.
The Executive Committee and the Board review the output from ERM at both divisional and Group levels.
Manage and mitigate: Management controls designed to monitor and mitigate the risks are documented.
Risk owners are assigned for each risk.
Assess: The ERM process provides a consistent set of definitions and a common approach to risk evaluation and assesses both risk likelihood and impact.
ERM Respond: The risk response is based on the assessment of potential risk exposure and an acceptable level of tolerance.
The response reflects whether we accept the risk on the basis of its assessed level of exposure and mitigating controls currently in place, or reduce the risk through additional mitigation to bring it in line with required levels of tolerance.
Monitor: The output from the ERM process is regularly reviewed together with the ongoing monitoring of progress against planned improvement actions.
Principal risks and uncertainties The nature of both our business and our strategy means that we Over time our risk profile evolves and the Boards view of the face a number of inherent risks and uncertainties.
The Board has principal risks facing the Group is updated accordingly.
This year, carefully considered the type and extent of the principal risks to acquisition integration risk has been added as a principal risk in the Group achieving its objectives and delivering a satisfactory light of the ongoing integration of Fokker Technologies Group B. V. return for shareholders.
These are summarised below, Each principal risk is described on the following pages together categorised according to the strategic objective to which they with the corresponding mitigating actions that are in place and an relate most closely.
All of our principal risks may also impact our overview of the risk trends during 2015. objective to sustain above market growth.
Risk trend Risks related to our strategic objectives Other risks Leading in our Leveraging a strong Differentiating Driving operational excellence chosen markets global presence ourselves through technology Highly competitive Technology and Acquisition integration p markets innovation People capability Increasing Supply chain Customer Operating in global Product quality Business tu concentration markets Contract risk continuity Stable Joint ventures Programme management Pension funding Laws, regulations Health and safety and corporate Information systems resilience reputation q Reducing GKN plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 e s s r o t i n o M M a n a g e a n d m i t i g a t e
