RISK MANAGEMENT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES con nued Health and safety Risk trend Description Mitigation Safety is our number one priority.
We manage safety carefully Consistent Group-wide application of health and safety through extensive Group-wide processes, yet we recognise we can programmes.
Therefore we continue to include this as a Regular reporting and monitoring of health and safety principal risk and an area which will always be a priority for GKN.
Health and safety audits to ensure adherence to Group policies and procedures.
Potential impact A focus on process and behavioural safety through a number of A serious accident in the workplace could have a major impact on Group-wide risk assessment and training programmes.
employees as well as their families, colleagues and communities.
Maintenance of insurance for costs associated with injurySuch an incident could also result in legal claims, reputational related actions or claims against the Group.
Changes in The Groups AFR and ASR again improved during the year and we continued to focus on near-miss reporting as a key leading indicator of our health and safety performance.
Hazard awareness and risk assessment programmes continued with a particular focus on identifying and addressing potential catastrophic hazards.
Read more about health and safety on pages 50 and 51 Information systems resilience Risk trend Description Mitigation The Group could be impacted negatively by information Formal risk-based governance framework including dedicated IT technology security threats including unauthorised access to security policies and related compliance processes, ongoing intellectual property or other controlled information.
Interruptions risk reviews, IT security awareness training and robust systems to the Groups information systems could also adversely aect its and processes to manage access, information assets, threats day-to-day operations.
External support and benchmarking of best practice The inherent security threat is considered highest in GKN information systems security and resilience.
Aerospace where data is held in relation to civil aerospace Ongoing development of appropriate incident detection and technology and controlled military contracts.
Disaster recovery contingency plans which are regularly tested including data centres where the risk is deemed to Potential impact be the greatest.
A major disruption to information systems could have a significant Executive Committee oversight of IT security and assurance adverse impact on the Groups operations or its ability to trade.
loss of condential information, intellectual property or controlled data could result in fines and damage to the Groups reputation, and could adversely aect its ability to win future contracts.
Changes in The security of our information systems has continued to improve to address potential threats impacting both our business and our industries more generally.
We increased the number of penetration tests completed on our systems and continued to improve security standards across the Group.
In December, a senior former British security and intelligence ocer briefed the Chief Executives Council on the increasingly global perspective of the cyber security threat.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts
