We also reviewed the following areas due to their materiality and the application of judgement.
However, we considered them to be stable in nature and therefore we did not classify them as significant issues in the context of the 2015 financial statements.
Tax matters Description Committee action GKN is subject to tax audits We reviewed management updates and the external auditors assessments on certain tax matters globally which are often long and including: complex processes.
Provisions the recognition of deferred tax assets acquired with Fokker, taking into consideration the timing made for uncertain tax positions and level of future taxable profits involve judgement in their the release of tax provisions on resolution of uncertain tax positions valuation, the interpretation the recognition of interim receipts resulting from ongoing tax litigation.
of tax laws and the likelihood of challenge to tax positions.
Having considered updates from management and the external auditors view, particularly in respect of the recognition of interim receipts, the Committee was satisfied with the judgements taken by Deferred tax assets are required to management.
be recognised on the Companys balance sheet where it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable income in the future to absorb past tax losses.
Judgement is required in assessing the future financial performance of the Groups entities when recognising deferred tax assets.
See note 6 to the financial statements Development costs on large programmes Description Committee action Development costs for large Impairment reviews of GKN Aerospaces programme development costs against associated future aerospace and automotive cash flows are circulated to the Committee every six months.
On each occasion we reviewed the programmes can be significant valuation and the assumptions made, including programme risk factors, and the most recent external and assessing the likelihood forecasts of aircraft programme demand.
Actions and factors which can influence levels of of future recoverability of costs impairment were noted and the view of the external auditors was sought in relation to the involves various judgements appropriateness of the approach and outcome.
Particular focus was placed on the A350 programme and assumptions.
These relate due to the value of its development costs.
We also reviewed the development costs in GKN Driveline.
to factors such as anticipated Taking into account the documentation presented and the assessment of the external auditors, volumes, forecast cash flows we were satisfied with the approach and judgements taken.
See note 11 to the financial statements Post-employment obligations Description Committee action Determining the current value of the Key matters reviewed this year included the appropriateness of valuation assumptions such as Groups future pension obligations discount rates, mortality and inflation.
The Committee also reviewed the impact of certain pension requires a number of assumptions.
fide-risking activities on the financial statements.
In the UK, a bulk annuity buy-in was completed.
These assumptions relate principally The additional bulk annuity covered 47 million of pensioner liabilities valued on an IAS 19 accounting to life expectancy, discount rates basis as at 31 December 2015. applied to future cash flows, rates of Valuation assumptions, prepared by external actuaries and adopted by management, were considered inflation and future salary increases.
in light of prevailing economic indicators and the view of the external auditors.
The approach adopted See note 24 to the by management was accepted as appropriate.
financial statements GKN plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
