Technology and innovation Risk trend Description Mitigation Developing innovative technologies for our customers is critical to Regular assessment of market and technology trends maintaining our differentiation and competitive advantage.
lose market share or be subject to additional market pressure if we Close relationships and technical partnerships with customers.
fail to develop innovative technologies that our customers want.
Divisional technology plans aligned to emerging and future trends and business strategy.
Technical leadership and promotion of engineering best Potential impact practice by our Engineering Fellowship.
The failure to launch new products, new product applications or Regular review of current and future technology plans by the derivatives of existing products to meet customer requirements Group Technology Strategy Board.
could have a significant impact on future profitable growth.
Consideration of technology plans as part of the Boards annual strategy review.
Focused investment in research and development.
Changes in 2015 We have continued to invest in technology and develop internal capabilities as we aim to meet customers expectations for improving efficiency of aircraft, cars and other vehicles with solutions that are lighter and more fuel-efficient.
We have continued to diversify into targeted areas of new technology including electrical wiring systems through the acquisition of Fokker, Read more on how the Group c0ntinues to differentiate itself through additive manufacturing and vehicle electrification.
technology in the Chief Executives and divisional reviews on pages 8 to 33 Acquisition integration Risk trend Description Mitigation The successful realisation of the anticipated benefits of The Group has robust processes to manage detailed integration acquisitions is dependent upon the successful integration of these plans with regular reviews by divisional management, the businesses together with their post-acquisition performance.
Executive Committee and the Board.
Post-investment reviews of all acquisitions.
Potential impact A failure to integrate major acquisitions effectively could impact Changes in 2015 the business operations, result in unplanned integration or Following the acquisition of Fokker in October 2015, acquisition restructuring costs, or prevent the achievement of the anticipated integration has been added as a principal risk.
The Board has carefully reviewed the associated risks and considers them to be mitigated appropriately.
The Group has considerable experience managing integration processes, and integration plans for Fokker are being regularly reviewed by divisional management, the Executive Committee and the Board.
Read more on the acquisition of Fokker on pages 20 and 21 GKN plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
