Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our Board Sir Philip Hampton 62 Skills and experience Non-Executive Chairman Prior to joining GSK, Sir Philip chaired major FTSE 100 companies including The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and J Sainsbury plc.
Nationality He has also served as Group Finance Director at Lloyds TSB Group, British BT Group plc, BG Group plc, British Gas and British Steel plc.
Appointment date Sir Philip was previously appointed an Executive Director of Lazards 1 January 2015.
Deputy and a Non-Executive Director at RMC Group Plc and Belgacom SA.
Chairman from 1 April 2015 Until 2009, he was Chairman of UK Financial Investments Limited, and Non-Executive Chairman which manages the UK Governments shareholdings in banks.
from 7 May 2015 External appointments Committee membership Sir Philip is currently the Senior Independent Director of Anglo Nominations Committee American Plc, Chairman of its Remuneration Committee and Chairman, Finance member of its Audit Committee.
Sir Philip is also Chair of the Women on Boards review: an independent review on increasing representation of women in the executive level of FTSE 350 companies.
Sir Andrew Witty 51 Skills and experience Chief Executive officer Sir Andrew joined GSK in 1985.
He has worked in the UK, South Africa, the US and Singapore in various senior roles.
In 2003, Nationality he was appointed President of Europe and joined GSKs Corporate British Executive Team.
Andrew has served in numerous advisory roles to Appointment date Governments around the world including South Africa, Singapore, 31 January 2008 and as Guangzhou China and the UK, where he was a member of the Chief Executive officer Prime Ministers Business Advisory Group from 2010-2015.
He on 21 May 2008 was awarded a Knighthood for services to the economy and to the UK pharmaceutical industry in the 2012 New Year Honours List.
Committee membership Finance External appointments Sir Andrew is appointed to the UK Business Ambassador Group, the China-Britain Business Council Advisory Council and the School of Economics & Management Advisory Board SEM, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China.
Sir Andrew is Chancellor of the University of Nottingham.
Simon Dingemans 52 Skills and experience Chief Financial officer Prior to joining GSK, Simon had over 25 years of experience in investment banking at SG Warburg and Goldman Sachs.
During this Nationality time, he advised a broad range of large corporates across a number of British industry sectors, including pharmaceuticals and consumer healthcare.
Appointment date Simon advised GSK for over a decade before his appointment and 4 January 2011 and as Chief was closely involved in a number of GSKs key strategic projects.
Financial officer on 1 April 2011 External appointments Committee membership Simon is Chairman of the 100 Group of Finance Directors.
Finance Dr Moncef Slaoui 56 Skills and experience Chairman, Global Vaccines Moncef joined GSK Vaccines in 1988 where he engineered the development of a robust vaccines pipeline.
He then led Worldwide Nationality Business Development for pharmaceutical products before his Moroccan, Belgian & American appointment to lead R&D in 2006.
He was given overall responsibility for GSKs Oncology Business in 2010: for GSK Vaccines in 2011: Appointment date 17 May 2006 and for all Global Franchises in 2012.
Moncef has advised the US Presidents Council of Advisors on Science and Technology and he Committee membership was a member of the Board of the Agency for Science, Technology Finance & Research A STAR until January 2011.
He has a PhD in Molecular Biology and Immunology from Universit Libre fide Bruxelles and has published more than 100 scientific papers and presentations.
Prior to joining GSK, Moncef was Professor of Immunology at the University of Mons, Belgium.
External appointments Moncef is a member of the Biotechnology Industry Organization Board in the US and a member of the Advisory Committee to the Director of National Institutes of Health.
He is also an adviser to the Qatar Foundation, and a member of the Qatar Biomedical Research Institute scientific Advisory Committee.
Moncef serves as a Non-Executive Director for the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative IAVI.
74 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Sir Deryck Maughan 68 Skills and experience Senior Independent Sir Deryck has a wealth of international corporate and investment Non-Executive Director banking experience, having previously served as Chairman and Chief Executive officer of Citigroup International and of Salomon Nationality Brothers Inc.
He served as Vice Chairman of the New York Stock British Exchange from 1996 to 2000.
Sir Deryck was a former Senior Adviser Appointment date to, and Partner of, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co and previously served 1 June 2004 and as Senior as a Non-Executive Director of Thomson Reuters.
Independent Non-Executive External appointments Director on 1 May 2013 Sir Deryck is a Non-Executive Director of BlackRock, Inc. and a Committee membership Trustee of the British Museum.
Audit & Risk, Nominations, Remuneration and Finance Professor Sir Roy Anderson 68 Skills and experience Independent Non-Executive Professor Sir Roy is a world-renowned medical scientist with advanced Director & scientific Expert knowledge of infectious disease epidemiology, and is currently Professor of Infectious Disease in the Faculty of Medicine, Imperial Nationality College, London.
He is a fellow of the Royal Society, the Academy of British Medical Sciences and the Royal Statistical Society.
He is an Honorary Appointment date Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries and a Foreign Associate Member 1 October 2007 of the National Academy of Medicine at the US National Academy of Sciences and the French Academy of Sciences.
Professor Sir Roy Committee membership brings scientific expertise to the Boards deliberations.
Nominations and Finance External appointments Professor Sir Roy is a member of the International Advisory Board of Holdingham Group and Chairman of the Science Advisory Board of the Natural History Museum, London.
He is also a member of the Vaccine International Advisory Board VACCIAB of AJ Pharma Holding Sdn.
Manvinder Singh Vindi Skills and experience Prior to joining GSK, Vindi spent 33 years at Unilever plc, where his Banga 61 Independent Non-Executive last role amongst several senior positions was President of the Global Foods, Home and Personal Care businesses, and he was a member of Director the Unilever Executive Board.
Vindi sat on the Prime Minister of Indias Nationality Council of Trade & Industry from 2004 to 2014, and was on the Board Indian of Governors of the Indian Institute of Management IIM, Ahmedabad.
Appointment date Vindi is also the recipient of the Padma Bhushan, one of Indias highest 1 September 2015 civilian honours.
Committee membership External appointments Audit & Risk, Nominations, Vindi is a partner at private equity investment rm Clayton Dubilier & Remuneration and Finance Rice.
He is also Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Mauser Group, Senior Independent Director of Marks & Spencer Group plc, and a member of its Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Thompson Reuters Corp and a member of its HR Committee.
Vindi is on the Governing Board of the Indian School of Business ISB, Hyderabad.
Dr Stephanie Burns 61 Skills and experience Independent Non-Executive Stephanie is a recognised global business leader, having served as Director Chairman, President and CEO of Dow Corning Corporation until her retirement at the end of 2011.
She has a strong scientific background, Nationality with a PhD in organic chemistry with an organosilicon speciality, and American is an advocate for science education.
Stephanie previously sat on the Appointment date US Presidents Export Council and was an officer of the Society of 12 February 2007 Chemical Industry, American Section, as well as the past Honorary President of the UK-based parent society.
Stephanie was also an Committee membership officer and Chairman of the American Chemistry Council.
Corporate Responsibility, Remuneration and Finance External appointments Stephanie is a Non-Executive Director of Corning Inc. and of Kellogg Company, and was appointed to the Board of HP Inc. in November 2015.
GSK Annual Report 2015 75 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our Board continued Stacey Cartwright 52 Skills and experience Independent Non-Executive Stacey is a Chartered Accountant and has significant experience of Director global consumer businesses and of corporate finance.
She served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial officer of Burberry Group plc Nationality until July 2013.
Prior to joining Burberry Group plc in 2004, Stacey held British the role of Chief Financial officer at Egg plc between 1999 and 2003, Appointment date and from 1988 to 1999 she worked in various finance-related positions 1 April 2011 at Granada Group plc.
Committee membership The Board has determined that Stacey has recent and relevant financial experience, and agreed that she has the appropriate qualications and Audit & Risk and Finance background to be an audit committee financial expert.
External appointments Stacey is Chief Executive officer of Harvey Nichols Group of Companies.
Lynn Elsenhans 59 Skills and experience Independent Non-Executive Lynn has a wealth of experience of running a global business and Director significant knowledge of the global markets in which GSK operates.
She served as Chair, President and Chief Executive officer of Sunoco Nationality Inc. from 2009 to 2012.
Prior to joining Sunoco in 2008 as President and American Chief Executive officer, Lynn worked for Royal Dutch Shell which she Appointment date joined in 1980 and where she held a number of senior roles, including 1 July 2012 Executive Vice President, Global Manufacturing from 2005 to 2008.
Committee membership External appointments Corporate Responsibility Lynn is a Non-Executive Director of Baker Hughes Inc. and Committee Chairman, Flowserve Corporation, a Director of the Texas Medical Center, Audit & Risk, Nominations and a Non-Executive Director of The First Tee of Greater Houston.
and Finance She is also a Trustee of the United Way of Greater Houston.
Dr Jesse Goodman 64 Skills and experience Independent Non-Executive Dr Goodman previously served in senior leadership positions at the US Director & scientific Expert Food and Drug Administration FDA, including most recently as FDAs Chief Scientist and previously as Deputy Commissioner for Science Nationality and Public Health and as Director of the Center for Biologics Evaluation American and Research CBER.
Appointment date Dr Goodman played a leadership role in developing FDAs Regulatory 1 January 2016 Science and Medical Countermeasures Initiatives and has worked Committee membership collaboratively with industry, academia, government and global public health and regulatory partners to prepare for and respond to major Finance public health threats, including emerging infectious diseases, disasters and terrorism.
He led FDAs response to West Nile Virus and to the 2009 H1N1 inuenza pandemic and served on the Senior Leadership Team for the 2010 White House Medical Countermeasure Review.
Dr Goodman brings scientific and public health expertise to the Boards deliberations.
External appointments Dr Goodman, currently Professor of Medicine at Georgetown University, directs the Georgetown University Center on Medical Product Access, Safety and Stewardship COMPASS and is an active clinician who serves as Attending Physician in Infectious Diseases.
He also serves as President and Member of the Board of the United States Pharmacopeia USP.
Judy Lewent 67 Skills and experience Independent Non-Executive Judy has extensive knowledge of the global pharmaceutical industry and Director of corporate finance, having joined Merck & Co. in 1980 and then served as Chief Financial officer from 1990 to 2007 when she retired.
Judy Nationality was previously a Non-Executive Director of Purdue Pharma Inc, Napp American Pharmaceutical Holdings Limited and certain Mundipharma International Limited companies until 31 December 2014.
Judy previously served as Appointment date 1 April 2011 a Non-Executive Director of Dell Inc. and Quaker Oats Company.
Committee membership The Board has determined that Judy has recent and relevant financial experience, and agreed that she has the appropriate qualications and Audit & Risk Committee Chairman, Nominations, background to be an audit committee financial expert.
Remuneration and Finance External appointments Judy is a Non-Executive Director of Thermo Fisher scientific Inc. and Motorola Solutions Inc. She is also a Trustee of the Rockefeller Family Trust and Chairperson of the Audit Committee of Rockefeller Financial Services, a life member of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Corporation and a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
76 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Dr Daniel Podolsky 62 Skills and experience Independent Non-Executive Daniel is a world-renowned researcher who has advanced knowledge Director & scientific Expert of underlying mechanisms of disease and new therapies for gastrointestinal disorders.
He was formerly Mallinckrodt Professor Nationality of Medicine and Chief of Gastroenterology at Massachusetts General American Hospital and Harvard Medical School, and previously served as the Appointment date Chief Academic officer of Partners Healthcare System.
Daniels 1 July 2006 current responsibilities in leading a large academic medical centre give him relevant insight into healthcare delivery.
Daniel brings scientific Committee membership expertise to the Board and the Audit & Risk Committees deliberations.
Audit & Risk, Corporate Responsibility and Finance External appointments Daniel is President of the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center and holds the Philip OBryan Montgomery, Jr. M. D. Distinguished Presidential Chair in Academic Administration, and the Doris and Bryan Wildenthal Distinguished Chair in Medical Science.
He is a member of the National Academy of Medicine at the US National Academy of Sciences, member of the Board of the Southwestern Medical Foundation and a Director of Antibe Therapeutics, Inc.
He is also a member of the National Academies of Sciences Board on Army Science and Technology.
Urs Rohner 56 Skills and experience Independent Non-Executive Urs has a broad range of business and legal experience having served Director as Chairman on a number of Boards, most recently for Credit Suisse, a world leading financial services company.
Prior to joining Credit Nationality Suisse in 2004, Urs served as Chairman of the Executive Board and Swiss CEO of ProSieben and ProSiebenSat.
This followed a Appointment date number of years in private practice at major law rms in Switzerland 1 January 2015 and the US, having been admitted to the bars of the canton of Zurich in 1986 and the state of New York in 1990.
Committee membership Remuneration Committee External appointments Chairman and Finance Urs is currently appointed Chairman of the Board of Credit Suisse Group AG and of the Chairmans and Governance Committee.
He is also appointed Chairman and member of the Board of Trustees of Credit Suisse Research Institute and Credit Suisse Foundation.
Urs was appointed Vice-Chairman of the Governing Board of the Swiss Bankers Association in 2015.
Hans Wijers 65 Skills and experience Independent Non-Executive Hans has a broad range of business, economic and political Director experience, having served as Chief Executive officer and Chairman at Akzo Nobel NV from 2002 to 2012.
Hans had a long and Nationality distinguished career in academia, public service and strategy Dutch consulting.
He served as Senior Partner of the Boston Consulting Appointment date Group from 1998 to 2002.
1 April 2013 External appointments Committee membership Hans is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Heineken NV and also Corporate Responsibility, Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Director of Royal Dutch Shell.
Remuneration and Finance He is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of AFC Ajax and member of the Supervisory Board of HAL Holding N. V. GSK Annual Report 2015 77
