Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Vaccines 26 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our Vaccines business is one of the largest in the world.
We develop and make vaccines that protect against a wide range of diseases.
In numbers c. 15,000 a number of employees bn 0.5 core R&D spend in 2015 39 licensed vaccines protecting against 21 diseases c. 1.9 million vaccines delivered every day 15 candidate vaccines in our pipeline a Including GMS, R&D and dedicated support functions staff.
GSK Annual Report 2015 27 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Vaccines Our Vaccines portfolio is the broadest of Grow 2015 performance any vaccines company.
We make available 39 paediatric, adolescent, adult and travel 2015 performance summary summary vaccines that protect against 21 different Reported Vaccines sales grew 19% to diseases, including: hepatitis, inuenza, 3,657 million with the US up 24%, Europe pneumococcal disease, rotavirus and up 23% and International up 12%, as the bn cervical cancer.
business benefited from sales of the newly 3.7 acquired products.
On a pro-forma basis With the addition of the Novartis portfolio Turnover sales grew 3% with good contributions we gained two vaccines for the prevention from Rotarix, Fluarix FluLaval and Boostrix.
of meningitis, Menveo, which is approved In addition, we saw rapid sales growth of in the US for babies above two months % our new meningitis vaccine portfolio, and is marketed in 62 countries worldwide, 19 Menveo and Bexsero, with sales up 43% and Bexsero, a new meningitis B vaccine Reported sales growth CER pro-forma to 275 million.
Notable was the currently available in 38 countries.
decision made by the UK's National Health % 3 Our new vaccine R&D pipeline brings Service to include Bexsero in its national Pro-forma sales growth CER together expertise in virology, bacterial immunisation programme.
Overall, growth infection and different technological was partly offset by declines in pro-forma platforms.
We have 15 candidate vaccines sales of hepatitis A vaccines and Infanrix in development against diseases including Pediarix.
Sales were also impacted during bn shingles, meningitis, RSV, Group B strep the year by higher trade inventories 1.0 and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease inherited with the newly acquired vaccines Core operating profit COPD exacerbations.
The expansion of our portfolio has Read more in the Group financial boosted our offering around the world, review on pages 50 to 72. notably in the US, where Novartis had a strong presence and track record of regulatory approvals.
GSKs significant presence in emerging and developing In 2015, we continued countries is also providing new opportunities for the introduction and to make progress in our growth of newly acquired vaccines.
promising pipeline that For many years, we have used a tiered pricing approach for our vaccines, based will support future growth on gross national income, which enables in our Vaccines business countries to maintain and expand their commitment to immunisation as their economies grow.
We are one of the largest contributors to Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, a public-private partnership to improve access to vaccines in developing countries.
For more about our efforts to improve access to our medicines and vaccines, see our Responsible business section on page 38.
Our strategy in action Our unique, world leading 26.4% expertise in adjuvant technology Vaccines operating could make a difference in margin in 2015 275m helping protect against diseases like malaria, cervical cancer 43% Bexsero and Menveo or pandemic u combined global sales in 2015 Based on 2015 pro-forma CER for newly acquired meningitis portfolio 28 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Deliver Vaccines pipeline progress in 2015 Our Vaccine R&D work focuses on discovering and developing new prophylactic and therapeutic vaccines to help protect and treat people against serious diseases.
We currently have 15 candidate vaccines in early, mid and late-stage development against a range of diseases.
In 2015, we reported further positive pivotal phase III trial data in adults over 70 for our most advanced candidate, Shingrix, for the prevention of shingles.
We intend to le global regulatory applications for Shingrix in the second half of 2016.
We also received a positive scientific opinion from the European regulators for our malaria vaccine, Mosquirix, for children aged six weeks to 17 months.
Mosquirix is the first vaccine for malaria to reach this milestone.
Additionally, this was the first regulatory review of our AS01 adjuvant We have two novel candidate vaccines technology, which is also used in Shingrix.
in phase II clinical development against For more about our malaria vaccine, We reported further positive respiratory syncytial virus RSV a common see our Responsible business section cause of bronchiolitis and pneumonia on page 38. pivotal phase III trial data in infants that can lead to hospitalisation We continue to progress our paediatric in adults over 70 for our and an enhanced risk of severe asthma: vaccine for measles, mumps and rubella one a paediatric RSV vaccine that uses most advanced candidate, through an additional phase III trial which a genetically engineered recombinant is required to achieve registration of the Shingrix, for the prevention chimpanzee adenovirus the same carrier vaccine in the US.
used in our Ebola vaccine candidate and of shingles.
We intend the second a glycoprotein RSV vaccine Vaccines innovation given to pregnant women that may provide In November 2015, we proled a number to le global regulatory infants with protective maternally-derived of promising earlier stage assets in our applications for Shingrix RSV-neutralising antibodies.
Our pentavalent candidate vaccine for the prevention of in the second half of 2016 meningococcal meningitis, Men ABCWY, which combines two existing GSK meningococcal meningitis vaccines, is in advanced phase II development, with phase III studies planned for start in 2017.
1st We have 15 candidate 90-97% efcacy of vaccines in development Mosquirix is the first malaria our most advanced late against diseases including vaccine to receive a positive stage candidate vaccine, shingles, meningitis, RSV, regulatory review Shingrix, against shingles Group B strep and COPD in two phase III studies exacerbations GSK Annual Report 2015 29 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Vaccines continued We are exploring a maternal immunisation approach with our candidate vaccine in phase II development to prevent group B streptococcus GBS, a leading cause of pneumonia, meningitis and sepsis that affects about one in 2,500 births in the US.
In addition, we have a candidate vaccine in a phase II clinical proof of concept study for the prevention of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD.
We continue to work with our partners to accelerate development of our Ebola candidate vaccine to help prevent future disease outbreaks.
Our candidate vaccine is being tested in phase II clinical trials in five countries in West Africa.
We are discussing potential regulatory pathways to le the candidate vaccine for approval with the FDA and other agencies.
Investment and governance We are highly selective in how we invest and focus our resources in vaccines discovery and development.
We prioritise our investment to meet the needs of patients and address some of the biggest remaining global health challenges.
Our core vaccine R&D investment in 2015 was 525 million, up 18.5% from 2014.
Impressive trial results prepare ground We have more than 2,000 scientists working for new shingles vaccine across our vaccine R&D organisation.
Oversight for the key decisions we make Our new candidate vaccine Shingrix Shingrix demonstrated its great potential during the vaccines development process demonstrated long-lasting and eective in trials involving 37,000 people from rests with the Vaccine Research and protection against the pain and all over the world.
October 2015 pivotal Development Board VRDB which reviews discomfort of shingles in pivotal phase III study results showed it was the R&D project strategy and advises on phase III studies.
90% eective against shingles and 89% scientific and technical matters, and the eective against PHN in people over 70.
Shingles suerers develop a painful itchy Vaccine Investment Board VIB, which rash, which oen turns into blisters, on The findings echoed earlier pivotal makes the final decision on whether to one side of their body.
Up to 30% also phase III study results showing 97% invest in a project, commercial opportunity develop postherpetic neuralgia PHN, an ecacy against shingles and 91% for and portfolio t. intense and distressing pain that can last PHN among the over-50s.
The findings We continue to expand our early stage up to three months aer a shingles rash also showed that, not only was the pipeline and strengthen our expertise appears.
Other possible complications candidate vaccine eective for all ages, with targeted investments.
For example, include scarring, eyesight problems, but that its eectiveness remained our acquisition of GlycoVaxyn in February secondary infection and nerve palsies.
constant for four years aer it was 2015 with its innovative biological administered.
This is a significant Nine out of 10 people, that is all those conjugation platform technology supports improvement on the existing vaccine, who have had chicken pox, are at risk from our efforts to develop new vaccines which is less eective for the very shingles.
However the disease particularly for a range of bacterial diseases.
elderly and reduces in ecacy over time.
aects adults over 50, with more than 50% of those over 85 likely to have the Following our successful trial results, disease in their lifetime.
Individuals with later in 2016 we intend to begin ling compromised immune systems, such as applications for Shingrix for the cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy prevention of shingles with regulators or people with HIV, are also especially in North America, Japan and Europe.
With Shingrix trials also ongoing for people with compromised immune systems, we hope to be able to le a regulatory application for this group of patients in 2018.
30 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Vaccines research development cycle Registration Identify Proof of Produce Pre-clinical Phase I Phase II Phase III File post marketing antigens concept antigens testing surveillance Research including immunology Pre-clinical development Clinical development including post marketing surveillance Transfer process to manufacturing 1-10 years 2-3 years 2-4 years 1 year Investing in our supply chain Simplify GSK has 17 vaccines manufacturing sites strategically positioned around the Progress on simplifying the business world.
This broad and diversied footprint During 2015, we made substantial progress gives us greater manufacturing capacity, in integrating the new Novartis business efficiency and exibility.
In 2015, we which acted as a catalyst to further simplify continued to make significant investments our Vaccines operating model, strengthen in our manufacturing network in key areas our manufacturing network, and reduce including starting construction of a new supply costs.
These changes will help to hepatitis A facility at Wavre, Belgium and deliver the annual cost savings we set out a major capital investment plan for our in 2015 by 2017, and will help us deliver Rosia, Italy site where our meningitis our target operating margin of at least vaccines are made.
Incremental annual cost savings in 2015, helped to increase the Committed to quality pro-forma operating profit margin by Our vaccines are manufactured to the We have 17 vaccines 0.8% on a CER basis to 26.4%.
highest quality standards, according manufacturing sites to current Good Manufacturing Practice As part of the complex integration cGMP regulations.
Up to 70% of the programme we completed all regulatoryaround the world and time it takes to produce a vaccine is required divestments under the transaction dedicated to quality control.
In 2015, distribute over 1.9 million including the divestment of our meningitis we had 49 regulatory inspections, all vaccines, Nimenrix and Mencevax.
vaccines every day to with satisfactory outcomes.
In November We have also begun a restructuring 2015, our Ste.
Foy facilitys warning letter programme to remove any duplication people across more than from the US Food and Drug Administration of infrastructure and roles.
150 countries FDA concluded after the FDA found that all remediation activities had been completed satisfactorily.
