Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Responsible business Our approach Creating value for society Our responsible business priorities 2015 highlights Our success benets wider society.
GSKs responsible business priorities sit By developing innovative healthcare within the context of the macro-economic products we directly benefit patients and and social trends that affect all companies consumers.
Our exible pricing strategy, and wider society.
These trends present m which allows prices to reect countries both opportunities and challenges for 22 ability to pay, and global footprint enables global healthcare companies like GSK Partnership with Comic Relief greater access to our medicines and see page 8. to ght malaria products.
By delivering profitable and We report our progress across four areas: sustainable business performance, Health for all, Our behaviour, Our people, we generate value and returns for our and Our planet.
We identied our priorities shareholders and can reinvest in the 10 in these areas by understanding the issues business.
Over and above this, wider that are most important to our business Extended our price freeze society benets as healthy people are and to our stakeholders.
commitment to 10 years for essential to building strong, sustainable countries graduating from communities.
Our longer-term commitments across Gavi support the four areas reect global health needs We make significant direct and indirect and align with GSKs strategic priorities economic contributions to the countries and our values.
In many areas they also and communities where we operate support the Global Goals for Sustainable 118 through tax, our employment of 101,255 Development.
We detail our progress Research proposals submitted people and charitable support.
Further against these commitments in our to access data from GSK trials detail about our approach to tax is on page responsible business supplement, 53, and we also publish full details about available at www.
our position on tax at www.
In 2015, our assessment showed that two commitments are complete, Read more about 15 commitments are progressing well, responsible business at www.
com five are on track, and one has more work to do, as shown in the table below.
Progress against our responsible business commitments Summary commitment Progress Summary commitment Progress Health for all Our behaviour Innovation for unmet medical needs Ethical conduct Better access to medicines and vaccines Promoting values in sales and marketing Building products to better meet needs Transparency of clinical research Reducing child mortality Rigorous patient and consumer safety Strengthening healthcare infrastructure Minimising animal testing Eliminating and controlling NTDs Promoting human rights Fighting malaria Ensuring ethical interactions Eradicating polio Working with third parties Access to antiretroviral treatment for HIV Our people Our planet Creating inspiring and healthy workplaces Carbon Promoting inclusion and diversity Water Waste Community volunteering to create change Work needed On track Progressing well Completed 40 GSK Annual Report 2015
