Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Group financial review Our significant progress in 2015 leaves us better positioned to deliver against our Financial Architecture, driving EPS growth ahead of sales and improving our cash ow generation.
In 2015, we made significant progress In line with this prioritisation, the Board has 2015 highlights against our strategy including closing the declared an ordinary dividend of 80 pence Novartis transaction and accelerating the per share for 2015 and has also said that delivery of our restructuring and integration it expects to pay an ordinary dividend of programmes.
This allowed us to release 80 pence per share for 2016 and 2017 as 1 billion of incremental savings across we transition the Groups businesses.
bn the Group, ahead of our original targets by To deliver on this expectation and ensure 23.9 some 200 million.
Importantly, we also sufficient financial exibility to continue 2015 Group turnover created additional exibility to invest behind to invest behind the synergy benets and up 6% CER, up 1% CER pro-forma both the R&D pipeline and new product other growth opportunities as well as launches, helping to build momentum in respond to the potential exercise of put each of our three businesses.
options by our partners in ViiV Healthcare p The Group is now better positioned to and the Consumer Healthcare Joint 174.3 drive sustainable growth and, given the Venture, we have retained all but 1 billion Total earnings per share significant restructuring and reshaping of of the net proceeds received from Novartis up 100% CER our cost base, is better placed to deliver and a number of other non-strategic asset against our Financial architecture and drive disposals.
1 billion is being returned growth in earnings per share ahead of to shareholders in the form of a special p sales, while improving cash generation to dividend of 20 pence per share to be paid 75.7 support the dividend over the longer term.
Core earnings per share down 15% CER The current level of dividend exceeds the Retention of disposal proceeds and our cash ows generated by the business.
continued focus on cash ow management Our strategy is designed to rebuild that and the protection of our credit prole has Restructuring cash costs bn capacity through the transition of the meant that during the year we were able Groups business away from its previous to fund the restructuring and integration reliance on Seretide Advair to more broadly programmes, declare an ordinary dividend 1.5 based and growing cash ows, driven of 80 pence per share and reduce net by new products in Pharmaceuticals, the debt by 3.7 billion, securing the exibility 1.3 expansion of our Vaccines and Consumer we need to complete the transition of 1.0 1.1 Healthcare businesses, operating cost our business and deliver on our strategic savings arising from our integration and objectives.
0.5 0.6 restructuring programme and a reduction a 0.5 0.5 Viability statement in the level of restructuring spending as the A new requirement this year is to assess the programme comes to an end.
future prospects of the Group over a period 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 During this period of transition, we have longer than the 12 months required by the b Forecast said that we intend to prioritise available going concern provisions of the Corporate cash, whether from operational cash ows Governance Code.
The outcome of this Footnotes or disposals, for the return of ordinary review is set out under Viability statement a Includes 0.3 billion cash costs on legacy dividends to shareholders and to accelerate on page 52. restructuring programmes now completed.
investment behind our restructuring and b Total charges for the combined restructuring integration programmes to support more and integration programme are expected to be rapid delivery of the synergy benets and approximately 5 billion, of which cash costs other new growth opportunities we have are expected to be approximately 3.65 billion.
The programme is expected to be largely complete by the end of 2017.
