Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Pharmaceuticals Our Pharmaceuticals portfolio is 2015 performance made up of innovative and established We have strengthened our medicines and we hold leading global summary positions in respiratory disease and HIV.
respiratory portfolio and are This is underpinned by our innovative researching next-generation Pharmaceuticals R&D organisation which bn drives the discovery and development treatments with potential 14.2 in several core areas of research: HIV to alter the fundamental Turnover and infectious diseases, oncology, immuno-inammation, respiratory course of disease and rare diseases.
% Respiratory -7 We have the most extensive portfolio We are focused on successfully Reported sales growth CER of respiratory products in the industry.
transitioning to this new portfolio and Seretide Advair remains the worlds best % accelerating growth of these products -1 selling branded respiratory product and and our expectation is that by 2020, Pro-forma sales growth CER we continue to lead scientific innovation nine products are expected to account in this area, working to ensure patients for approximately 90% of sales in receive the most effective therapy possible respiratory, compared to four in 2015. through the most convenient devices.
bn We are targeting research at a portfolio 4.3 Over the past three years we have of potential next-generation treatments Core operating profit signicantly broadened and strengthened for respiratory disease, beyond the current our respiratory portfolio with the launch approach with inhaled medicines.
In 2015, of Relvar Breo Ellipta, Anoro Ellipta, we launched Nucala mepolizumab, GSK's Incruse Ellipta and Arnuity Ellipta.
first injectable biologic for severe asthma.
Multiple other potential medicines targeting All these medicines are administered the underlying causes of respiratory disease using our easy to use, patented dry are also in development.
Our strategy in action By 2020, nine products are expected to account for approximately 90% of sales in Respiratory compared to four in 2015 1.3bn 16.5% Tivicay and Triumeq New Pharmaceutical products sales in 2015 now make up 16.5% of overall Pharmaceutical sales turnover 20 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information HIV We also have a strong presence in HIV.
Advancing treatments to benefit people Our global HIV business which is managed through ViiV Healthcare, a company living with HIV majority, 78.3% owned by GSK, with Tivicay has been prescribed to more Access to our HIV treatments is a Pzer and Shionogi as the other than 105,000 people living with HIV major focus and is reected in the shareholders, is one of the leading since it was launched in August 2013, regulatory strategy we are taking HIV companies in the world.
and Triumeq to more than 75,000 for our dolutegravir-based regimen.
The strong recent performance of since August 2014.
We are seeking regulatory approval our HIV business is principally led of these products in as many countries Their strong sales momentum, totalling by Tivicay dolutegravir, an innovative as possible as well as facilitating the 1.3bn in 2015, positively supported integrase strand transfer inhibitor, approval process of generic versions our Pharmaceuticals business.
In the and by the single-pill treatment Triumeq of dolutegravir in countries where the US and many other countries, their a combination of dolutegravir, abacavir need is most pressing.
performance has now overtaken and lamivudine.
2015 saw the first ling of a generic We have a significant HIV R&D pipeline Building on this success, Japan is the dolutegravir by Aurobindo, supported and are exploring new therapies for patients first country where ViiV Healthcare by ViiV Healthcares partnership with that could potentially enable long-term has now established a leadership the Clinton Health Access Initiative.
HIV control through infrequent dosing.
position as the countrys largest In 2015, ViiV Healthcare also signed an HIV company.
innovative manufacturing partnership In early 2016, ViiV Healthcare acquired with Desano Pharmaceuticals to enable Bristol-Myers Squibbs late stage HIV As we continue to evolve the way we the competitive supply of dolutegravir R&D assets and portfolio of preclinical engage with healthcare professionals, in China and a number of developing and discovery stage HIV research assets.
our Tivicay and Triumeq launches countries.
By the end of 2015, Tivicay The acquisitions are expected to strengthen have also demonstrated how digital was available in 61 countries and the Group's leadership in HIV, and provide communication can enhance our Triumeq in 30. us with further new opportunities for growth.
Specialty and Established Products Our rapid digital launch campaign In addition to respiratory and HIV, saw open 64% and click through we sell several other innovative rates 34%, which were signicantly 105,000 pharmaceutical products, including above the industry average.
This Benlysta, for the treatment of lupus digital focus, which has been positively Tivicay has been prescribed to more disease, and Tanzeum Eperzan, for commented on by customers, remains than 105,000 people living with HIV Type 2 diabetes.
since it was launched in August 2013 Our Established Products portfolio includes mature medicines in the areas of anti-infectives, allergy, central nervous system, dermatology, respiratory and urology.
These products are an important part of our Emerging Markets business where we sell 40% more by volume than our second largest competitor.
We sell 40% more volume of pharmaceutical 40 new potential products in emerging medicines and vaccines in our GSK has the potential markets than our second pipeline proled at R&D event to le up to 20 assets largest competitor with regulators by 2020 80% of which we believe are potentially first-in-class GSK R&D event on 3 November 2015 GSK Annual Report 2015 21 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Pharmaceuticals continued Grow Deliver New Pharmaceutical 2015 performance summary Pharmaceuticals pipeline progress product sales in 2015 In 2015, new products made an increasing In 2015, we continued to progress our contribution particularly in respiratory and Pharmaceutical R&D pipeline, which we more than oset the HIV.
Restructuring of the Pharmaceuticals believe offers significant opportunity to drive decline in Seretide Advair cost base also continued.
the long-term performance of the Group.
of 548 million Reported Pharmaceutical sales were Our late stage pipeline delivered a new 14,166 million, down 7% CER, primarily and first-in-class medicine, with the reecting the disposal of marketed approval in the US and Europe of oncology products.
Adjusting for the Nucala, our anti-IL-5 monoclonal antibody disposal, pro-forma turnover declined 1%, for the treatment of severe asthma with reecting a 7% decline in respiratory sales eosinophilic inammation.
The indication and a 15% decline in sales of Established for Breo Ellipta was also expanded in the Products.
This was largely offset by the US with approval for the treatment of adults growth in new Pharmaceutical products with asthma.
which had sales of 1,713 million, an In rare diseases, we led for European increase of 1,284 million.
Strong approval of Strimvelis, a gene therapy to performance from HIV products, Triumeq treat patients with adenosine deaminase and Tivicay, together with an acceleration severe combined immunodeciency in sales of new respiratory products helped syndrome ADA-SCID if approved it deliver this performance.
will be the first corrective gene therapy New Pharmaceutical product sales more to be approved anywhere in the world.
than offset the decline in Seretide Advair In immuno-inammation positive results of 548 million.
Global Seretide Advair were achieved in phase III studies sales were 3.7 billion, down approximately investigating subcutaneous Benlysta 30% from their peak in 2013. lupus and sirukumab rheumatoid In 2015, we made significant changes to arthritis, with regulatory lings expected further modernise our commercial model.
We stopped paying healthcare We received data in 2015 from SUMMIT, professionals HCPs to speak about the Study to Understand Mortality and our products and instead have recruited MorbidITy in COPD.
While SUMMIT did a number of in-house medical experts.
not achieve statistical signicance on the In addition, we have increased our digital primary endpoint, data generated from the communications with HCPs through study will inform the overall prole of the webinars and click to chat facilities medicine and are expected to be submitted enabling HCPs to talk in real time to to authorities for label updates.
Reactions from our customers has been very positive and we believe these changes offer GSK a source of a competitive advantage.
Read more in the Group financial review on pages 50 to 72.
22 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information In 2015, we began phase III studies investigating our closed triple ICS LAMA LABA combination treatment COPD, dolutegravir in combination with Janssen's rilpivirine HIV infection, sirukumab giant cell arteritis and retosiban pre-term labour.
We stopped development of losmapimod as an anti-inammatory agent for patients with acute coronary syndrome, when an interim analysis of data from an ongoing phase III trial failed to show an efcacy signal.
As per the stepwise trial design, this interim review enabled us to limit further investment in the study.
Deep portfolio of innovation In 2015, we proled a portfolio of innovative medicines, focused across five core areas of pharmaceuticals research HIV and infectious diseases, respiratory, oncology, immuno-inammation and rare diseases and vaccines R&D see separate section.
In total around 40 new potential medicines and vaccines were proled, supporting the Groups outlook for growth in the period 2016-2020 and the significant opportunity our Group has to create value beyond 2020.
We believe approximately 80% of the Two decades of innovative science delivers the first medicines reviewed have the potential to be first-in-class with novel mechanisms biologic treatment for severe eosinophilic asthma patients of action.
As a result, many may offer This years US and EU regulatory Less than 10% of asthma patients benets beyond current standards of approvals for our severe asthma have severe asthma and a proportion care and, in some cases, could radically treatment Nucala mepolizumab of these have severe eosinophilic asthma.
transform how patients are treated.
were key milestones in a long journey Many struggle to control their asthma In developing this portfolio of innovative of discovery.
despite medication, experiencing medicines we have focused on targeting frequent asthma attacks and regular Nucala, GSKs first injectable respiratory immune mechanisms that could alter the hospitalisation.
They are some biologic therapy, was identied as a fundamental course of diseases, modify of the hardest to treat patients and potential respiratory treatment in 1995. disease progression and present us with the condition oen results in a At that time, we were considering it as opportunities to achieve remission and disproportionately high burden on a treatment for mild to moderate asthma.
We are developing the patients and healthcare systems.
simplied treatment regimens and a However, initial results in this patient potential new generation of long-acting group were disappointing.
With nine studies involving over medicines to provide long-term control and 1,300 people, our research has allowed Our R&D team did not give up on improve treatment outcomes for patients.
us to better understand the specic role mepolizumab.
We believed it had great Next generation technology platforms are eosinophils play in severe asthma and has potential if we could use emerging also being used by our scientists, to led to the approval of the first-in-class science to identify which patients could increase our understanding of fundamental approved targeted treatment for severe benefit most.
disease mechanisms so we can develop eosinophilic asthma patients.
new approaches to disease management Aided by a growing understanding about and control.
the causes of asthma, in particular the role of the eosinophil a type of white blood cell that can cause inammation in the lungs we focused our research 1st to look specifically at severe eosinophilic first-in-class biologic asthma patients.
therapy that targets the IL-5 antibody GSK Annual Report 2015 23 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Pharmaceuticals continued Notable advances within our Pharmaceutical R&D portfolio include Our scientists are using potential leading-edge molecules in the next generation technology eld of epigenetics and immuno-oncology for the treatment of cancer, the next platforms to increase generation of respiratory medicines beyond inhaled treatments and a portfolio of new our understanding of antibodies for inammatory diseases fundamental disease including rheumatoid arthritis, autoimmune diseases and osteoarthritis.
We are mechanisms so we can investigating potential new options for develop new approaches long-term control and prevention of HIV, opportunities designed to cure or induce to disease management long-term remission in both Hepatitis B In total, we have the potential to le up and C and, in Rare Diseases, potential and control to 20 assets with the regulators by 2020, breakthrough cell and gene therapies.
and between 2021 and 2025 up to 2016 2017 milestones 20 additional innovative assets now In 2016 2017 we expect a number of in clinical development.
significant development milestones in our Pharmaceuticals R&D approach Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines pipelines We are highly selective with our R&D, with up to ten regulatory lings including investing only in areas where we see the Shingrix shingles vaccine, sirukumab best opportunities, having considered rheumatoid arthritis, subcutaneous patient need, the market opportunity and Benlysta lupus and our closed triple scientific understanding.
We are also ICS LAMA LABA combination treatment committed to improving our R&D in COPD EU.
productivity, so we can develop more We also expect up to ten phase III starts, innovative new medicines and vaccines including cabotegravir HIV, daprodustat with greater efficiency.
anaemia and our pentavalent candidate In 2009, we committed to publishing our vaccine for the prevention of meningococcal estimated R&D internal rate of return IRR, meningitis, Men ABCWY, and up to 20 based on the investment made in our late phase II starts in immuno-inammation, stage pipeline and our expectations oncology, respiratory and infectious regarding long-term sales performance.
Applying the same methodology, the estimated IRR in 2015 has remained at 13%.
Timeline and development stages for pharmaceutical research Drug Regulatory Approval and Post-marketing Preclinical Clinical trials discovery review launch surveillance Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 8,000 - 10,000 compounds 250 compounds 8 compounds 3-6 years 6-7 years 0.5-2 years Investigational New Drug application submitted Investigational New Drug application submitted 24 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Collaboration with external partners is a critical component of our R&D strategy, enabling us to access and increase our understanding of new areas of science and share the risk of development Our early research efforts are centred around discovery performance units DPUs.
These nimble, personalised units, with their own budgets and so greater accountability for their projects, are far removed from the traditional hierarchical R&D business model.
They help us to maintain exibility in our research investment, while focusing on the most promising scientific opportunities to drive and accelerate drug discovery output.
Cost savings generated from Today we have around 30 DPUs, of which Simplify Pharmaceuticals restructuring will support two thirds are from the original units delivery of 3 billion annual savings for established in 2009.
Progress on simplifying the business the Group by the end of 2017.
In 2015, we signicantly reshaped our The responsibility for guiding an Pharmaceuticals business, and continued Together with the improved performance investigational medicine through the later to reduce supply chain complexity, while of new products, this restructuring will development stages to ling with regulators retaining our commitment to quality.
We improve the exibility of our cost base and rests with our medicines development have rescaled the commercial operations, allow us to offset the headwinds to our teams, which are small units of six to global support functions, R&D and operating margin from the continued 10 people.
manufacturing that support this business.
decline in Seretide Advair and other older We have also partnered with more than products, while also supporting enhanced Our supply chain improvement programme 1,500 organisations around the world, investments behind our new products aims to deliver industry-leading levels of including academic institutions, the growth of which is key to deliver on performance.
Since 2012, this programme public-private partnerships and other our expected medium-term outlook to has delivered significant savings through pharmaceutical and biotechnology 2020 for the Pharmaceuticals business.
procurement excellence how and what companies.
Such collaboration with we buy, logistics distribution, portfolio We are committed to meeting the highest external partners is a critical component optimisation reducing the number of standards through stringent quality control of our R&D strategy, enabling us to access pharmaceutical pack variants by 27% and quality assurance processes.
Our and increase our understanding of new against the 2012 baseline, and medicines and vaccines are manufactured areas of science and share the risk of streamlining our external supply according to Good Manufacturing Practice development.
As a result of this network by 35%.
cGMP regulations, and our internal collaborative culture within GSK R&D, quality management system.
In 2015, we estimate around 60% of the new We have strengthened our logistics we had 86 regulatory inspections, molecular entities NMEs currently in operations by establishing five regional and the vast majority concluded with clinical development were discovered supply and demand hubs, enabling more satisfactory outcomes.
We are working internally and 40% from collaborations efficient use of our warehouses and with regulators to bring those inspections and external partners.
transport reducing cost to serve by with remaining concerns to an acceptable 136 million.
The great time and cost involved in conclusion.
In August 2015, following drug discovery and development make The ongoing roll-out of our Enterprise a US Food and Drug Administration FDA it essential that we are highly selective Resource Planning ERP system across re-inspection, the 2014 warning letter in investing and focusing our resources.
our commercial markets and manufacturing relating to our Cork manufacturing site The R&D executive team oversees strategic sites is a critical part of our transformation.
issues and overall budget management Coupled with new planning capabilities, across R&D, while robust governance this increases end-to-end visibility and boards manage investment, technical, control, helping ensure supply and demand scientific and commercial decisions are robust and aligned.
These changes through the life cycle of R&D and once will help improve service to our patients a new medicine has launched.
