Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our global marketplace The global healthcare marketplace is experiencing significant change as an uneven economic recovery, far-reaching global trends and an evolving commercial environment, particularly on pricing, transform the sector.
The global healthcare market In developed economies, ageing The global economy remained fragile populations and improvements in Macro-economic in 2015, with overall growth falling from medical technology are further adding a and social trends 3.4% in 2014 to 3.1%, reecting slower to the pressure on healthcare budgets.
growth in certain emerging economies Changing societal attitudes are also and in oil-exporting countries.
Despite this unsettled economic People are taking an increasingly Population growth, background, the global pharmaceuticals active role in managing their own ageing populations market continued to grow.
Global sales health which is creating more demand and lifestyle changes were 428 billion for the period January for healthcare products.
to September 2015, up from 393 billion Finally, the heightened geopolitical during the same nine months in 2014. uncertainty in several key regions is Long-term economic growth North America remained the largest likely to impact certain healthcare markets in emerging markets pharmaceuticals market, with a 49% during 2016 and beyond.
share of global sales up from 45% in 2014.
Europe represented 21%, down from 24%, GSK's group of three world leading Rapid scientific and Asia Pacic was relatively static at 23%, businesses in Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines technological advances emerging markets fell to 22% from 23%, and Consumer Healthcare, and our global with Japan down to 8% from 9%.
presence, means we are well positioned to respond to these opportunities see In 2015, the global vaccines market grew by our strategic response opposite.
Political instability 4% to around $27.5 billion.
It is expected to and fragmentation continue growing at around 4% per year and Pricing and market access b represent around $35 billion by 2020.
The pressure on, and public debate about, the industrys approach to pricing, continued The consumer healthcare markets in which to increase during 2015 in all key markets, Increased expectations GSK operates are estimated to be worth but particularly in the US.
Alongside this, of transparency and more than $100 billion, and are projected many healthcare systems are focusing on high standards for to grow by 3-4% annually over the next c how to assess the value of medicines, with all businesses five years.
formal health technology assessments We have evaluated the implications for HTAs continuing to grow in importance.
our business of a possible exit of the In both Japan and the US, new assessment Climate change and United Kingdom from the European processes are being piloted, while more resource depletion Union.
In our view, there are advantages established systems in Europe continue in the UK remaining part of the EU, where to present challenges that can delay launch the Group would continue to have easy or restrict patient populations.
However, Global competition access to a significant economic bloc, be successful market access negotiations for talent able to operate within an established and for innovative, value-adding products harmonised regulatory approval system and continued in most countries during 2015, continue to benefit from EU advocacy on demonstrating a continued willingness to international trade discussions.
However, pay for treatments that meet genuine unmet while the UK leaving the EU would create patient needs.
2015 saw more aggressive formulary uncertainty and add complexity to a wide price negotiations and exclusions of Both the highly-charged public debate on range of our business activities, with some competing products.
pricing and the increased influence of value short-term disruption likely, we have plans assessments are likely to continue in 2016 Public commentary on this issue was not in place to mitigate these effects, and we and beyond which will continue to create able to capture the complexities of pricing do not currently believe that there would uncertainty for the industry.
Increased structures and condential discounts be a material adverse impact on the creating a lack of transparency.
Many collaboration between different stakeholders Groups results or financial position.
stakeholders, including policy makers, will be key to deliver mutually acceptable Global societal trends presidential election candidates, payers, pricing and access solutions.
impacting healthcare providers and patients called for pricing US In emerging markets long-term economic reform, and we expect pricing to be a The healthcare landscape in the US continues growth, increasing expectations for healthcare focus of policy debates in the US in to see substantial change, with a strong focus provision, and changing diets and lifestyles 2016 and beyond.
on continuing to expand healthcare coverage are increasing demand for healthcare and controlling costs in areas of high growth.
Footnotes products across all life stages, especially At the same time, the US government is a International Monetary Fund, World Economic to treat chronic conditions including Outlook: Adjusting to Lower Commodity Prices, implementing policies that shift payment respiratory and cardiovascular disease.
October 2015. away from the traditional fee-for-service This demand is expected to grow signicantly b EvaluatePharma, World Preview 2015, Outlook arrangements and towards approaches that faster in these markets over the coming to 2020, June 2015. are intended to increase competition by years than in more mature economies.
c Internal forecasts based on Nicholas Hall and incentivising efficiency and quality.
This will create funding challenges.
8 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Opportunities and challenges for the healthcare sector Rising living standards and ageing populations leading to growing demand for healthcare, particularly in emerging markets Changing lifestyles leading to changing disease burdens scientific advances The global create opportunity for healthcare innovation marketplace Payer concern with cost and value, leading to pressure on pricing and demand for differentiated products Expectation of high standards of behaviour for healthcare companies Our strategic response Three world-leading businesses Global and sustainable pricing Leading responsible We have created a group of three worldWe aim to improve returns from our R&D business approach leading businesses in Pharmaceuticals, innovation by striking a balance between Being a responsible business is Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare, with price and volume generation.
fundamental to GSK and to our strategic a presence in more than 150 markets.
For us, how we do business is We are actively working with payers, This provides access to global demand as important as the financial results we policymakers, physicians and others for healthcare and aims to deliver growth deliver.
We have led the industry on on solutions to address concerns about and improving returns to shareholders.
access to medicines, data transparency the cost of healthcare.
Realising and and evolving our commercial model to Read more on pages 18 to 37. maximising value for patients, for ensure patients' interests come first.
providers, and for innovators has to Creating innovative products be at the centre of this discussion.
R&D innovation underpins all our Read more on page 8. businesses focused in six core therapy areas where our scientific understanding can help deliver significant medical advances to patients.
GSK Annual Report 2015 9 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our global marketplace continued Regulatory environment These provisions will be introduced Prescription medicines and vaccines are over a period of time depending on the A growing population highly regulated to ensure patients and country if the agreement is ratied by the users have access to safe and effective US Congress.
In the US, the Food and The EU has also concluded bilateral Drug Administration FDA approves new 7bn people agreements with other markets of this region medicines and in 2015 approved 45 novel in 2015, such as with Vietnam, which should medicines 41 in 2014.
This is the highest improve the regulatory environment, and number of approvals across the enhance patient access to key medicines pharmaceutical industry since 1996. and vaccines.
A number of other trade The healthcare landscape continues to 1bn 60 year olds agreements are under negotiation, such undergo substantial change, with a much by 2020 20% as the Trans-Pacic Trade and Investment stronger focus on improving quality and Partnership and the EU-Japan FTA.
The FDA is responding to these challenges by working with In some markets the availability of intellectual 6bn people outside industry to advance alternative approaches property rights, particularly patents and data US and Europe to help reduce the time and cost in protection, may be more limited and more developing new medicines particularly difficult to enforce than in developed world generics, which include amongst others markets.
For example, India, Brazil and the use of biomarkers and real world data.
Argentina have implemented, or are 650m new babies considering, practices that restrict the In Europe, the European Medicines by 2020 availability of patents.
In addition, some Agency EMA regulates new medicines countries are considering more widespread and in 2015 issued 43 positive opinions use of compulsory licensing.
for medicines containing new active substances 36 in 2014.
During 2015, Vaccines and other biological products do Europe the EMA continued its efforts to help not currently face such a degree of generic Given the significant public funding of accelerate patient access to valuable competition, largely because for these healthcare in most European countries, new medicines.
This included progressing products, the research required is more pressure on government budgets continued its Adaptive Pathways Pilot and proposals difficult, the product is more complex, and to create challenges for the industry.
to launch a new scheme to boost innovation, the quality is more dependent on technical The market grew in 2015, primarily due called PRIME PRIority MEdicines.
manufacturing processes, compared to to the use of new high-priced medicines for small molecule medicines.
In Japan, in 2015, 38 new medicines hepatitis C, putting ever greater constraints received approval along with the first While intellectual property protections on healthcare budgets.
Inequality of access two regenerative cell based medicine are available for consumer healthcare to medicines, both between European products, one of which was developed products, their importance and countries and within patient populations, by JCR Pharmaceuticals, a partner of effectiveness are different.
Consumer as well as affordability, remain significant GSK.
Six products obtained the first healthcare products are also covered issues.
Despite much debate on the issue designations under the sakigake fast-track by national regulation regarding testing, of medicines affordability, and in particular review system, introduced in 2015 approval, manufacturing, labelling, affordability for member states with lower to promote early development and marketing and advertising.
These products GDP, practical challenges remain to any regulatory application in Japan ahead have strong reliance on brand loyalty and significant reform of medicines pricing of the rest of the world.
trade mark protection to create and protect and access.
value over time, especially in emerging Intellectual property and patent Japan markets.
protection developments There was a strong focus on pricing in To ensure a reasonable return on Competition Japan, with the government implementing investment, research-based healthcare GSK operates in a highly competitive and a new approach to mitigate the scal burden companies rely on the protection of their dynamic marketplace.
2015 saw rapid associated with medicines that have annual intellectual property through patents, consolidation within the sector in response sales of more than 100 billion yen, and which regulatory data exclusivity, and other rights.
to the significant market pressure on the exceeded signicantly the sales forecast industry.
Mergers and acquisitions in the agreed with the government at launch.
Patent expiry or the early loss of a patent pharma, medical and biotech sector hit can lead to the availability of a generic Emerging markets a new record in 2015, with transactions version of a product, which is often Governments across the emerging market reaching $575 billion globally $380 billion cheaper as the generic manufacturer does d regions continue to seek ways to improve in 2014 and with 530 deals in the sector not typically incur significant R&D costs.
e access to healthcare while at the same in the US alone.
The consumer healthcare In developed markets, generics can rapidly time manage healthcare expenditure.
market also remains highly competitive with capture a large share of the market.
Market several high prole deals in 2015.
Countries dependent on oil may look erosion may be less in emerging markets.
to limit spending on health as a result During 2015, agreement was reached of the significant decrease in oil prices.
on the Trans-Pacic Partnership, giving Countries as diverse as Ghana, China Footnotes inter alia five years of data exclusivity d MergerMarket.
Global and regional M&A: and India are looking to expand the for most non-biologic pharmaceutical 2015 page 3 population covered by government-funded products and, for biologics, an additional e MergerMarket.
Global and regional M&A: health schemes.
This increases the three years of equivalent protection.
2015 page 9 opportunities for high volume tenders but also impacts pricing.
