GKN POWDER METALLURGY REVIEW Driving up margins Variable vane oil pump GKN Powder Metallurgy comprises GKN Sinter Metals and Hoeganaes.
GKN Sinter Metals is the worlds leading manufacturer of precision automotive components as well as components for industrial and consumer applications.
Hoeganaes is one of the worlds largest manufacturers of metal powder, the essential raw material for powder metallurgy.
What we do Products Sintered components for engines and transmissions, as well as pumps, bodies and chassis, and compressors.
So magnetic components for use in electric motors.
Sintered components for numerous industrial applications.
Key strategic activities To support the achievement of the Groups five Partially densi ed strategic objectives, GKN Powder Metallurgy is GKN helical gear focusing on the following areas: Developing Design for Powder Metallurgy applications to meet the rapidly developing requirements for high eciency engines, advanced transmission applications, weight reduction and evolving emissions standards Expanding the business in high-growth markets, supporting customers globally Enhancing performance of metal powders.
EMERGING Light weight and performance without compromise As vehicle manufacturers explore opportunities to reduce vehicle weight with new materials, especially in eDrive applications, GKN Powder Metallurgy has developed a process for variable surface densication which allows accurate The highest level of technology and STATEOF THEART products we deliver to customers today.
strengthening of dened areas of the gear.
The extended use of powder metallurgy technology will enable vehicle Where GKN know-how in advanced technologies and EMERGING continuous investment is changing the status quo.
manufacturers to adopt lighter vehicle architectures that still deliver a rened driving experience.
Where we are creating technology that will help shape FUTURE tomorrows world.
com GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts STATEOFTHEART GKN differential gear in production for Ford GKN Powder Metallurgy is delivering forged powder metallurgy bevel gears with a higher strength to weight ratio than commercially available wrought forged gears.
These lighter, stronger gears oer significant benets, enabling smaller gears to be used in downsized systems while at the same time promising better durability.
Thats why the Ford F-series is using GKN forged powder metallurgy gears in its open dierentials and transmissions.
Looking ahead, this technology will be ideal for all hybrid and full electric vehicles with improved life cycle durability.
Forged GKN dierential gears for Ford F150, assembly set Dierential gear set and housing FUTURE Hydrogen storage: a green solution for renewable energy The constant drive to cut emissions has seen exploratory work in GKN metal-hydride disc various energy sources.
New fuel cell technology that converts hydrogen into electricity is one such source.
GKN Powder Metallurgy is using its powder process expertise to develop safe and stable storage for hydrogen.
Using a metal-hydride unit made with powder metallurgy techniques provides the basis of a hydrogen reservoir that stores and then releases the gas when it is needed for charging a fuel cell.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts GKN POWDER METALLURGY REVIEW connued aerpspace sales by cusp18 driveline sales by cust p24 metalsales by cust p28 land systems by cust p32 aerpspace sales by cusp18 Sales by customer driveline sales by cust p24 metalsales by cust p28 land systems by cust p32 Peter Oberparleiter C Chief hief Ex Exec ecuti utiv five e GKN P GKN Po ow wder Met der Meta al llu lur rg gy y sales by market p18 sales by product p24 sales by product p28 sales by market p32 Ford: % ZF Group: % sales by market p18 sales by product p24 sales by product p28 sales by market p32 GM: % Borg Warner: % Hilite: % VW Group: % Fiat Chrysler: % Bosch: % Schaeler: % Other: % Linamar: % Sales by GKN Sinter Metals sales by product p18 and Hoeganaes sales by region p24 sales by region p28 sales by region p32 sales by product p18 sales by region p24 sales by region p28 sales by region p32 Highlights Organic sales growth ahead of the market, before the pass through of lower raw material surcharges.
aerpspace sales by cusp18 Trading margin increased to 12.0% 2014: 11.0%, driveline sales by cust p24 metalsales by cust p28 land systems by cust p32 GKN Sinter Metals sales by region benefiting partly from the lower surcharges.
Americas: m 185 million annualised new and replacement Europe: m Rest of world: m business won.
Chinese powder production venture agreed subject to Hoeganaes: m approvals, expansion of Chinese sintered parts production facilities and upgrade of North American Sales by product type sales by market p18 sales by product p24 sales by product p28 sales by market p32 capacity in progress.
Performance Change % Headline Organic Sales m Trading profit m Trading margin %.. Sintered components Return on average invested capital %..
Automotive: m sales by product p18 sales by region p24 sales by region p28 sales by region p32 Industrial: m Hoeganaes Metal powder: m GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 6,600 9 32 employees countries manufacturing locations Divisional performance against Group strategy Strategic objective Progress Global leader in sintered components.
Leading in our Worlds number two manufacturer of metal powder.
chosen markets 185 million of new business won.
Leveraging Relocated to new production facilities in China.
Powder venture in China agreed, pending regulatory approval.
a strong global presence Sustaining Increased success for Design for Powder Metallurgy through unique combination Differentiating of materials and process.
above market ourselves Continued to develop technically enhanced powders and titanium powder for growth through additive manufacturing.
technology Leveraged technology partnership to accelerate use of hydrogen storage.
Continued to roll out advanced compaction presses in the US to improve Driving manufacturing efficiency and capability.
operational Development of My Quality programme and further implementation of digital excellence data gathering.
Organic sales were 2 million higher, after During the year, GKN Powder Metallurgy the 23 million pass through to customers achieved a number of important of lower steel prices and other surcharges.
milestones, which included: There was an adverse 5 million 1% impact from currency translation and there winning around 185 million of was a 7 million decline as a result of the annualised sales in new and disposal of GKN Sinter Argentina.
replacement business its position in China being further Underlying growth before raw material enhanced by forming a new venture to pass through was 3%, ahead of global produce metal powders, subject to light vehicle production which was up 1%.
approvals Underlying sales growth was achieved in development of new technically North America, China and Europe but sales enhanced powders continuing with a in Brazil fell sharply due to weaker new research titanium atomiser being automotive and industrial markets.
commissioned at the Powder Innovation Centre, in the US and the attainment of The organic increase in profit was AS9100 Certification for the AncorTi 6 million and there was a 2 million range of gas atomised titanium powders gain from currency translation.
The divisional trading margin was 12.0% 2014: 11.0%, reflecting the move towards higher value design for powder metallurgy parts and a small margin benefit from lower raw material prices passed through to customers.
See pages 6 and 7 for more information on our strategic framework GKN plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
