S S L S T T A C C Y U R S U D E E D O G I T O N R I D R I P O P M R L M Y A Strategic report Who we are We are one of the worlds largest diversified and vertically integrated producers, processors and marketers of commodities.
We market and distribute physical commodities sourced from our own production andfrom third party producers to a highly diversified customer base that includes consumers from the industrial, automotive, steel, powergeneration, oil and food processing industries.
MARKETING EXPLORE, ACQUIRE EXTRACT PROCESS BLENDING & LOGISTICS & & DEVELOP & PRODUCE & REFINE OPTIMISING DELIVERY THIRD PARTY We have over 40 years of experience In addition tofocusing on minimising Our business inmarketing commodities.
This has costs and maximising operational We are a major, global, diversified allowed us to develop and build efficiencies at our industrial assets, natural resource company, expertise in the commodities which ourmarketing business focuses on producingand marketing more than wemarket and to cultivate long-term maximising returns from the entire 90commodities.
We are uniquely relationships with a broad supplier and supply chain.
We create value from our diversified in respect of commodity, customer base across diverse industries extensive global third party supply geography and activity.
We benefit, and in multiple geographic regions.
base, ourlogistics, risk management together with our consumers and Our marketing business tends to be and working capital financing suppliers, from our scale and diversity less correlated to commodity prices capabilities, our extensive market at every stage of the commodity than our industrial business, which insight, business optionality, extensive chain from extraction through to generally makes our earnings less customer base, strong market position delivery.
As both a commodity volatile than pure commodity producers.
and penetration in the commodities producer and marketer, weexploit the that we operate and our economies fullrange ofvalue-added margin Our portfolio of industrial assets of scale.
andarbitrage opportunities that are comprises around 150 mining and presentthroughout the commodity metallurgical facilities, oil production Our strong entrepreneurial culture supply chain and are well-placed to facilities and agricultural facilities.
hasbeen central to our success.
These mainly high-quality, low-cost This culture is underpinned by assets generate cash even during management and employee ownership periods in which a particular of around one-third of the Companys commodity, industry, customer or shares.
This degree of alignment with geographic region may be experiencing external shareholders interests is some weakness.
Our industrial asset unique amongst major base enhances the quality andscale resource companies.
ofour marketing activities, creating increased choice for our customers.
06 Glencore Annual Report 2015 M A R & O E D U C Y S T R R L L N U U E A O C V I T E R E E G N I A M Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Global footprint: Highly diversified: 90 90 offices in over commodities 50 150 countries sites Strong Active at every Unique entrepreneurial stage of the market insight: culture: employees commodity chain over 40 years empowered to to maximise value of experience make decisions Glencore Annual Report 2015 07
