Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Group financial review continued This clear set of priorities ensures consistency in how capital is allocated across and between the different businesses within GSK Viability statement with relative returns from each business benchmarked to relevant In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Code, external comparatives using a Cash Flow Return on Investment GSK has assessed the prospects of the Group over a longer period CFROI based framework of metrics.
Specic capital investments than the 12 months required by the Going Concern provision.
The are also benchmarked in a similar way.
Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that GSK will continue to operate and meets its liabilities, as they fall due, over Turnover growth the next three years.
The Directors assessment has been made with The Groups turnover performance in 2015 reected further reference to our current position and prospects, our strategy, the progress in delivery against our strategic objective of building a Boards risk appetite and our principal risks and how these are more balanced set of growth drivers across our business.
We managed, as detailed on pages 16 and 17 in the Strategic report.
continued to launch new products in our Pharmaceuticals business and we expanded our Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare The Board reviews our internal controls and risk management businesses through the Novartis transaction.
These new sources policies and approves our governance structure and code of conduct.
It also appraises and approves major nancing, investment of growth more than offset the decline of Seretide Advair and and licensing decisions, and evaluates and monitors the performance some of our other older products and we delivered overall turnover and prospects of GSK as a whole.
The focus is largely on improving growth of 6% CER in the year, up 1% pro-forma.
our long-term financial performance through simplifying the operating Sales of New Pharmaceutical and Vaccines products of 2 billion model, growing a diversied global business, and delivering more in the year were a key driver but Consumer Healthcare also made products of value.
a significant contribution, up 6% pro-forma, with new products, The three year review considers our existing strategy and the including the recent Flonase OTC switch, driving growth.
associated principal risks that underpin our current three year plan, Operating leverage which the Directors review at least annually.
The Directors believe that Our ability to deliver improved profitability is heavily impacted by the a three year assessment is most appropriate as it aligns with our normal and well established three year business planning processes.
This overall trend in our sales, but it can also be affected by changes in three year period balances the long term nature of investments in the the mix of business, regional and product contributions to growth Pharmaceutical industry with a realistic assessment of the variability of in operating profit.
2015 saw a significant change in the mix of the the key drivers of near term business performance as well as external Group following the Novartis transaction, which helped create factors and regulation impacting the business.
It also reects our view industry-leading Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare businesses on access to capital markets and funding requirements as projected alongside the divestment of our marketed Oncology products.
At the time of divestment, the Oncology business had a much The plan has been stress tested in a series of robust operational and higher operating margin than the acquired Vaccines and Consumer principal risk downside scenarios as part of the Boards review on risk.
Healthcare businesses, particularly given the heavy investment The downside scenarios also consider GSKs cash ows, dividend and cost structure inherited from Novartis.
While the integration cover, funding strategy, insurance provision and recovery as well as plans are addressing that cost structure directly and we have set other key financial ratios over the period.
These metrics have been targets for significant margin improvement in both of the acquired subject to sensitivity analyses which involve exing a number of the businesses, our core operating margin in the short-term has been main assumptions underlying the forecasts both individually and in affected materially by the transaction, with a total impact of around combination.
Where appropriate, these analyses have been stress three percentage points of sales.
tested to ensure robustness of viability over the period and have evaluated the potential impact of material negative changes in the The reported core operating margin declined a total of 4.1 macro-economic and healthcare environment, increased pricing percentage points to 23.9% with substantially all of the additional pressure in both the US and Europe, the accelerated impact of a 1.1 percentage point decline reecting the impact of the benefit generic alternative to Seretide Advair, and our principal risks actually in 2014 to the operating margin of a structural credit in SG&A of occurring as well as the earliest potential exercise of put options by 219 million which was not repeated in 2015.
Excluding this effect, our partners.
The three year review also makes certain assumptions the pro-forma core operating margin was broadly at.
about the normal level of capital recycling likely to occur and considers whether additional nancing facilities will be required and the This reected the delivery of around 1 billion of incremental cost respective level of funding exibility and headroom.
savings from our integration and restructuring programmes.
The savings contributed to offset price pressures in older parts of Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors confirm they have a the portfolio and also added to the cost exibility we have been reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in building in recent years.
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period of their assessment.
This provided greater opportunities to reallocate resources across the Group, including reinvestment to support new launches and our R&D pipeline, but also improvements to our manufacturing Financial architecture capabilities and capacity.
Our financial architecture is designed to support the consistent Our integration and restructuring programme is ahead of schedule.
execution of our strategy and to enhance the returns we deliver By the end of 2015, the programme had delivered approximately to shareholders.
1.6 billion of annual savings and it remains on track to deliver It is focused on delivering more sustainable sales growth across 3 billion of annual savings in total by the end of 2017. the company, improving operating leverage, or profitability, and Financial efficiency enhancing our financial efficiency.
This is in order to drive growth in We continue to focus on improving our financial efficiency and overall EPS ahead of our sales performance and then convert more of those funding costs while protecting our credit prole and, in particular, our earnings into cash that can be used to invest in the business or short-term target credit ratings.
return to shareholders, wherever we see the most attractive returns.
