Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Corporate governance continued Membership Refreshment of specialist roles on the Board The membership of the Committee, together with appointment During 2015, as part of an orderly refreshment of the Board, a dates and attendance at meetings, is set out below: particular area of focus for the Committee was the searches for a successor to Sir Deryck Maughan as SID and Dr Daniel Podolsky Attendance at as our US-based SME, both of whom are due to retire and stand Committee full meetings down from the Board after our 2016 AGM.
Members member since during 2015 The Committee felt that in determining the key essentials for the Sir Philip Hampton SID, it was very desirable to have a UK-based director, or failing Chairman from 27 January 2015 27 January 2015 6 6 that, someone who travelled and spent the majority of their time in Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 October 2012 6 6 the UK.
It was also thought important that the individual should Vindi Banga 1 January 2016 0 0 have a strong understanding of the UK corporate governance environment.
Lynn Elsenhans 27 January 2015 5 5 Judy Lewent 8 May 2014 6 6 Korn Ferry, who only provides recruitment services to the company, was engaged to conduct the search for the SID and they provided Sir Deryck Maughan 9 July 2009 5 6 a long and then a short list of potential candidates.
After Sir Christopher Gent 9 December 2004 3 3 interviewing suitable SID candidates, feedback was sought from Tom fide Swaan 1 October 2012 3 3 and support was received from certain investors before the Committee recommended to the Board Vindi Banga as a potential Sir Christopher Gent was Committee Chairman from 1 January 2005 independent Non-Executive Director and SID designate.
He was to 27 January 2015 and retired from the Board on 7 May 2015. appointed to the Board on 1 September 2015.
The Board Tom fide Swaan retired from the Board on 7 May 2015. considered that he had a strong operational bias, bringing with him many years of commercial experience and a track record of The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee and attends delivering outstanding performance in a highly competitive global all meetings.
Other attendees at Committee meetings may include: consumer-focused industry, which will be invaluable to the Regular Attends company.
He currently serves as a non-executive director on the Attendee attendee as required Boards of two other FTSE 100 companies.
Vindi will succeed Chief Executive officer Sir Deryck Maughan as SID when he steps down from the Board Head of Human Resources at the close of the AGM on 5 May 2016.
Appropriate external advisers When the Committee was drawing up the role specication for the new SME role it considered that Dr Podolskys successor should ideally have a strong business perspective, be US-based, Work of the Committee during 2015 understand the US healthcare environment, be a medic who was Main responsibilities close to the patient either through running operations at scale in a The main responsibilities of the Committee are set out on page 82. hospital or an institution, have an understanding of vaccines, preferably, or if not Respiratory considering the standing of GSKs CEO and management succession Vaccines portfolio since the Novartis transaction was completed.
The Committee and the CEO, with assistance from the Head of Internal soundings were taken from within Vaccines and R&D to Human Resources, have been working on managing succession identify potential external candidates.
Egon Zehnder undertook a full arrangements for the Executive Directors and each executive external market search for suitable candidates.
management role to secure the best leadership for the company.
Egon Zehnder, who only provides recruitment services to the The specication for each role is considered in detail against the company, was engaged to conduct the search for the US-based current and future needs of the changing environment in which the SME role.
Dossiers of potential Non-Executive appointees were company operates.
In compiling any succession plan, internal and considered by the Committee and candidates were shortlisted for external talent are considered and reviewed against the interview on merit and against objective criteria, after assessing specication which has been drawn together.
their relevant qualications and time commitments.
In terms of the Executive team, as part of ensuring more focused After interviewing suitable SME candidates, the Committee management of the companys Consumer Healthcare, Vaccines, recommended to the Board Dr Jesse Goodman as a potential and Pharmaceuticals businesses as a result the transformational Non-Executive Director and SME.
He was appointed to the Board Novartis transaction: on 1 January 2016.
Dr Jesse Goodman is a leader in public health Emma Walmsley who was previously President, Consumer who brings a wealth of expertise spanning science, medicine, Healthcare was appointed CEO of the Consumer Healthcare Joint vaccines, regulation and public health, and has a proven record in Venture business and became a member of its Board when the addressing pressing public health needs from both the academic Novartis transaction successfully completed on 2 March 2015: and federal sectors, which will be invaluable to GSK and the Board.
following the announcement by Deirdre Connelly, President North America Pharmaceuticals, in February 2015 of her intention to retire from GSK, her role was not replaced on the CET: and, in addition Bill Louv, Senior Vice President, Core Business Services retired as planned from GSK in 2015.
His successor reports to the CFO, but is not a member of the CET.
96 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Board Committee Chairmen and membership changes The refreshment of the Board has also led to the following orderly changes to our Board Committee membership.
Director Committee membership Appointment date Retirement date Sir Philip Hampton Nominations Committee Chairman 27 January 2015 N A Urs Rohner Remuneration Committee member 1 January 2015 N A Remuneration Committee Chairman 8 May 2015 Lynn Elsenhans Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman 8 May 2015 N A member since 1 October 2012 Vindi Banga Audit & Risk, Remuneration and 1 January 2016 N A Nominations Committee member Professor Sir Roy Corporate Responsibility Committee member 1 May 2016 N A Anderson Dr Jesse Goodman Corporate Responsibility Committee member 1 May 2016 N A Sir Christopher Gent Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman, N A 7 May 2015 Remuneration and Nominations Committee member Tom fide Swaan Remuneration Committee Chairman, N A 7 May 2015 Audit & Risk and Nominations Committee member Jing Ulrich Audit & Risk Committee member N A 7 May 2015 We are committed to the diversity of our boardroom and we are Board and committee changes similarly committed to equal opportunities for all our employees at The ongoing refreshment of the Board has resulted in orderly all levels of the organisation.
The diversity and inclusiveness of our and planned changes in the composition of the Board and its workforce are promoted throughout GSK.
Committees during the year on the recommendation of the Committee.
These changes, including the planned retirements of A key requirement of an effective board is that it comprises a range Dr Stephanie Burns, Sir Deryck Maughan, Dr Daniel Podolsky and and balance of skills, experience, knowledge, gender and Hans Wijers from the Board at the close of the AGM in May 2016, independence, with individuals that are prepared to challenge are set out below.
each other and work as a team.
This needs to be backed by a diversity of personal attributes, including character, intellect, sound Board appointments and retirements judgement, honesty and courage.
The refreshment of the Board has led to the following orderly changes of Board members.
The Committee is responsible for developing measurable objectives to support the implementation of the Boards diversity Director Appointment date Retirement date policy, including gender, and monitoring progress towards the achievement of these objectives.
In terms of the balance of Board Sir Philip Hampton 1 January 2015 N A gender diversity, we exceeded the target of at least 25% by 2013 Urs Rohner 1 January 2015 N A that we had set ourselves in May 2011 and our current female Vindi Banga 1 September 2015 N A Board level representation stands at 27%.
We have noted Lord Davies new target to increase female board representation to at Dr Jesse Goodman 1 January 2016 N A least 33% by 2020 as set out in his Women on Boards: Five Year Sir Christopher Gent N A 7 May 2015 Summary report published in October 2015.
Tom fide Swaan N A 7 May 2015 We also have a good representation of women in management Jing Ulrich N A 7 May 2015 positions which is illustrated on page 47 as part of the gender Dr Stephanie Burns N A 5 May 2016 diversity of GSKs global workforce.
We will continue to support Sir Deryck Maughan N A 5 May 2016 efforts to further increase the pipeline of women into senior positions within GSK.
We also support the engagement of Dr Daniel Podolsky N A 5 May 2016 executive search rms such as MWM, Egon Zehnder and Korn Hans Wijers N A 5 May 2016 Ferry, who have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms on gender diversity and best practice.
Board composition and diversity We are mindful of the need to balance the composition of the Board Committee evaluation and its Committees and to refresh them progressively over time so The Committees annual evaluation was internally facilitated by that we can draw upon the experience of longer serving Directors, the Company Secretary on behalf of the Committee Chairman, and while tapping into the new external perspectives and insights which supplemented by a questionnaire circulated to Committee more recent appointees bring to the Boards deliberations.
It was concluded that the Committee continued to operate effectively.
Non-Executive Directors are drawn from a wide range of industries and backgrounds, including pharmaceutical and healthcare, In terms of enhancements to the Committees work it was agreed medical research and academia, and retail, insurance and financial that more focus should be directed to forward planning for services, and have appropriate experience of complex organisations executive succession.
Replenishment of the Board in anticipation with global reach.
Some have considerable experience of the of Directors rotating off the Board would also be a key priority.
pharmaceutical industry and the more recent appointees bring a new approach to the Group, and to Board discussions.
