wwwwwwww GKN AEROSPACE REVIEW A period of transition GKN Aerospace is a leading global tier one supplier of airframe and engine structures, landing gear, electrical interconnection systems, transparencies, and aftermarket services.
It supplies products and services to a wide range of commercial and military aircraft and engine prime contractors, and other tier one suppliers.
What we do Products Airframe structures, including wing empennage and flight control surface assemblies, fuselage structures and landing gear.
Engine structures, including fixed and rotating propulsion products, fan cases, exhaust systems, nacelles and FUTURE other components.
Electrical wiring interconnection systems for GKN Aerospace nominated for aerostructures and engine products.
Niche products such as ice protection, fuel systems, Clean Sky best project award transparencies including specially coated cockpit and GKN Aerospaces innovative response to a customer cabin windows, and flotation devices.
design challenge is believed to be the first air intake design ensures smooth air flow into the engine to Key strategic activities integrate both ice protection and noise reduction To support the achievement of the Groups five technology.
Airbus wanted to explore an air intake strategic objectives, GKN Aerospace is focusing on design for future single aisle aircraft.
The GKN-led the following areas: solution, which uses a composite structure to increase environmental performance and fuel efficiency, was Supporting our customers by delivering on our strong short-listed for a European Clean Sky Initiative award.
positions on existing programmes See more at www.
com Growth on existing platforms and on selective new high-growth and long-running platforms through the application of technology and cost-effective solutions Developing new technologies for future commercial and military aircraft, to enhance capabilities, improve fuel efficiency, reduce emissions and minimise the environmental impact of aviation Strengthening our current market leadership positions and expanding into adjacent markets with similar product technologies and manufacturing capabilities Expanding our global footprint to serve more customers around the world.
The highest level of technology and STATE-OFTHE-ART products we deliver to customers today.
Where GKN know-how in advanced technologies and GKN Aerospaces quieter, rugged lightning and ice protected air EMERGING continuous investment is changing the status quo.
intake developed through the SIPAL programme Where we are creating technology that will help shape FUTURE tomorrows world.
GKN plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
