We also reviewed the following areas due to their materiality and the application of judgement.
However, we considered them to be stable in nature and therefore we did not classify them as significant issues in the context of the 2015 financial statements.
Tax matters Description Committee action GKN is subject to tax audits We reviewed management updates and the external auditors assessments on certain tax matters globally which are often long and including: complex processes.
Provisions the recognition of deferred tax assets acquired with Fokker, taking into consideration the timing made for uncertain tax positions and level of future taxable profits involve judgement in their the release of tax provisions on resolution of uncertain tax positions valuation, the interpretation the recognition of interim receipts resulting from ongoing tax litigation.
of tax laws and the likelihood of challenge to tax positions.
Having considered updates from management and the external auditors view, particularly in respect of the recognition of interim receipts, the Committee was satisfied with the judgements taken by Deferred tax assets are required to management.
be recognised on the Companys balance sheet where it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable income in the future to absorb past tax losses.
Judgement is required in assessing the future financial performance of the Groups entities when recognising deferred tax assets.
See note 6 to the financial statements Development costs on large programmes Description Committee action Development costs for large Impairment reviews of GKN Aerospaces programme development costs against associated future aerospace and automotive cash flows are circulated to the Committee every six months.
On each occasion we reviewed the programmes can be significant valuation and the assumptions made, including programme risk factors, and the most recent external and assessing the likelihood forecasts of aircraft programme demand.
Actions and factors which can influence levels of of future recoverability of costs impairment were noted and the view of the external auditors was sought in relation to the involves various judgements appropriateness of the approach and outcome.
Particular focus was placed on the A350 programme and assumptions.
These relate due to the value of its development costs.
We also reviewed the development costs in GKN Driveline.
to factors such as anticipated Taking into account the documentation presented and the assessment of the external auditors, volumes, forecast cash flows we were satisfied with the approach and judgements taken.
See note 11 to the financial statements Post-employment obligations Description Committee action Determining the current value of the Key matters reviewed this year included the appropriateness of valuation assumptions such as Groups future pension obligations discount rates, mortality and inflation.
The Committee also reviewed the impact of certain pension requires a number of assumptions.
fide-risking activities on the financial statements.
In the UK, a bulk annuity buy-in was completed.
These assumptions relate principally The additional bulk annuity covered 47 million of pensioner liabilities valued on an IAS 19 accounting to life expectancy, discount rates basis as at 31 December 2015. applied to future cash flows, rates of Valuation assumptions, prepared by external actuaries and adopted by management, were considered inflation and future salary increases.
in light of prevailing economic indicators and the view of the external auditors.
The approach adopted See note 24 to the by management was accepted as appropriate.
financial statements GKN plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT continued External audit Non-audit services In order to safeguard independence further, we monitor compliance with the policy for the provision of non-audit services.
In 2015, we: The external auditors are generally excluded from consultancy work and are not engaged by GKN for other non-audit work unless conducted our annual review of the independence and objectivity of PwC there are compelling reasons to do so, for example where PwC can draw upon significant historic knowledge gained through the approved PwCs audit plan and terms of engagement for the audit of the 2015 financial statements audit process.
noted the non-audit fees payable to PwC, having regard to the policy on the provision of non-audit services Any proposal to use the external auditors for non-audit work with a value between 50,000 and 250,000 must be submitted to the conducted a tender exercise in relation to the appointment of external auditors, recommending the appointment of Group Finance Director for approval prior to their appointment.
All proposals above this amount must be submitted to me for Deloitte LLP to the Board with effect from 2016 approved for recommendation to the Board a transitional approval.
In addition, the Group Finance Director will seek my prior authorisation for certain aspects of non-audit services policy on non-audit services in light of the proposed change of auditors.
relating to acquisitions, disposals and investigative accounting services, regardless of the fee value.
The use of contingent fees is strictly prohibited under the policy.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditors.
We Details of the fees paid to PwC in 2015 can be found in note 4 a also approve the terms of engagement and fees of the external to the financial statements.
Non-audit fees incurred during 2015 auditors, ensuring that they have appropriate audit plans in place amounted to 1.1 million which related principally to tax and that an appropriate relationship is maintained between the compliance services 0.5 million.
Tax advisory services Group and the external auditors.
amounted to 0.3 million and audit-related assurance services and other services totalled 0.3 million.
Non-audit fees as a 2015 audit plan percentage of audit fees totalled 22%.
All such activities PwCs audit plan set out the scope and objectives of the audit remained within the policy approved by the Board.
together with an overview of the planned approach, an assessment of the Groups risks and controls, and proposed areas Effectiveness and reappointment of PwC for 2015 of audit focus.
In my role as Chairman, I attended PwCs audit Our review of the performance of PwC and the effectiveness of the planning meeting.
Additionally, PwC worked with Corporate Audit external audit process included consideration of responses from and management to identify areas which indicated an increased questionnaires conducted with members of the Committee, risk of control breakdown.
These areas were then targeted executive Directors and senior management.
All participants were proactively to ensure they received the appropriate amount of asked to rate PwCs effectiveness in a number of areas including attention during the audit.
independence and objectivity, audit planning and execution, conduct and communication, audit findings and feedback, and Independence expertise and resourcing.
The results confirmed that both PwC As a Committee we are responsible for the development, and their audit process were considered to be effective and that a implementation and monitoring of the Companys policies on good working relationship was supplemented by a sufficient external audit which are designed to maintain the objectivity and amount of robustness in challenging management judgements.
independence of the external auditors.
These policies regulate the appointment by the Group of former employees and set out PwC has been the Companys external auditors since their the approach to be taken when using the external auditors for formation in 1998, although several predecessor organisations of non-audit work.
PwC held office prior to that date.
In determining whether to recommend the auditors for reappointment in 2015, we took into Our annual review of the independence of PwC included: consideration the tenure of the audit partner, the results of the effectiveness review detailed above, the FRC Audit Quality receiving confirmation from PwC that they remained Inspection Report in respect of PwC, and the firms internal quality independent and objective within the context of applicable control procedures.
Taking these elements into account, we professional standards concluded that it was appropriate to recommend to the Board considering the tenure of the audit engagement partner, who is PwCs reappointment as the Companys auditors for 2015. required to rotate every five years in line with ethical standards ensuring that management confirmed compliance with the Audit tender for 2016 Groups policies on the employment of former employees of In last years report we noted our intention to put the external PwC and the use of PwC for non-audit work audit contract out to competitive tender due to new regulations on considering Corporate Audits annual review of PwCs auditor rotation.
This process was initiated in early 2015.
In light objectivity, independence and effectiveness and of the of PwCs length of tenure and restrictions under the regulations audit process.
which would limit its potential tenure to five years, it was agreed that PwC would not participate in the process.
Our approach was As a result of this review, we concluded that PwC remained supported by our largest shareholder.
The Audit & Risk Committee oversaw the audit tender process with support from the Group Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller.
The tender participants were provided with information on the Group and attended a number of meetings with senior GKN plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 divisional and functional management to gain insight into GKNs We received regular updates on progress in respect of the operations, risks and requirements.
In order to assess continued development and improvement of the Groups risk performance against selected criteria, each firm was asked to management systems and independent assurance programmes.
carry out reviews of GKNs financial reporting and integrity In particular, we reviewed each divisions risk management procedures.
Their findings were presented to the relevant systems in relation to product quality, programme management divisional and Group management teams and I attended a number and contract management and the key performance indicators of these presentations.
All Committee members met informally used to monitor each risk.
with the proposed lead audit partners during the tender.
Internal audit The concluding stage of the process was the submission of a detailed written proposal and presentation to the Committee by During the year we: each firm.
The Committee then considered the merits of each and the feedback provided by all GKN employees involved in the approved the 2016 Corporate Audit programme, process.
The Committee took into consideration the culture and including the proposed audit approach, coverage and levels of service, communication, commitment, and capability allocation of resources demonstrated by each firm during the process.
It also took into reviewed the effectiveness of Corporate Audit.
account the ability to provide global audit coverage to the Groups subsidiaries and the use of audit-enhancing technology.
Audit quality inspection reports issued by the FRC and PCAOB in the US In relation to consideration of the Corporate Audit programme for the forthcoming year, we reviewed the proposed audit approach, were considered and it was confirmed that there would be no independence issues.
coverage and allocation of resources.
We also received progress updates against the 2015 audit programme throughout the year.
While we acknowledged that each firm had the ability to provide We reviewed the terms of reference and effectiveness of Corporate a high quality audit, based on the selection criteria we decided to recommend to the Board that Deloitte LLP be appointed the Audit, taking into account the views of Directors and senior management on matters such as independence, proficiency, statutory auditors of the Group following the conclusion of the 2015 audit.
The proposal to appoint Deloitte LLP as external resourcing, and audit strategy, planning and methodology.
The review confirmed that the Corporate Audit function was auditors will be put to shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
We would like to thank PwC for their contribution to GKN and the firms independent and objective and remained an effective element of the Groups corporate governance framework.
There are no contractual obligations restricting our choice of Employee disclosure external auditors.
To support the Groups Employee Disclosure Procedures Policy available on our website, GKN operates a Group-wide employee The Company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the disclosure hotline.
Run by an external and independent third Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year party, the hotline enables employees to make anonymously if under review.
preferred confidential disclosures about suspected impropriety and wrongdoing.
Any matters reported are investigated and Internal control and risk management escalated to the Audit & Risk Committee as appropriate, and statistics on the volume and general nature of all disclosures made are reported to the Committee on an annual basis.
In fulfilling our remit we: reviewed the results of audits undertaken by Corporate Audit Other matters received reports on control issues of significance to During the year we reviewed progress against the Groups IT and the Group cyber security plan and received updates from divisional finance reviewed the status of the Groups internal financial control directors on matters relevant to their divisions.
monitoring system reported to the Board on our evaluation of the operation of Performance evaluation the Groups systems of internal control and risk Our annual evaluation process was carried out by questionnaire.
management, informed by reports from Corporate Audit The questionnaire focused on areas such as Committee and PwC composition, quality and content of meetings, role and remit, and carried out in-depth reviews of each divisions risk areas of focus for 2016.
Feedback from the questionnaire, which management system in relation to product quality, was circulated to Committee attendees as well as members, programme management and contract management.
showed that the Committee was considered to be effective in fulfilling its role throughout 2015.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing On behalf of the Committee the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems.
We reviewed Corporate Audits quarterly reports which detail any internal control issues and identify any themes arising in relation to audit recommendations.
We considered the Shonaid Jemmett-Page adequacy of managements response to matters raised and the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee implementation of recommendations made.
22 February 2016 GKN plc 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
