wwwwwwww GKN AEROSPACE REVIEW A period of transition GKN Aerospace is a leading global tier one supplier of airframe and engine structures, landing gear, electrical interconnection systems, transparencies, and aftermarket services.
It supplies products and services to a wide range of commercial and military aircraft and engine prime contractors, and other tier one suppliers.
What we do Products Airframe structures, including wing empennage and flight control surface assemblies, fuselage structures and landing gear.
Engine structures, including fixed and rotating propulsion products, fan cases, exhaust systems, nacelles and FUTURE other components.
Electrical wiring interconnection systems for GKN Aerospace nominated for aerostructures and engine products.
Niche products such as ice protection, fuel systems, Clean Sky best project award transparencies including specially coated cockpit and GKN Aerospaces innovative response to a customer cabin windows, and flotation devices.
design challenge is believed to be the first air intake design ensures smooth air flow into the engine to Key strategic activities integrate both ice protection and noise reduction To support the achievement of the Groups five technology.
Airbus wanted to explore an air intake strategic objectives, GKN Aerospace is focusing on design for future single aisle aircraft.
The GKN-led the following areas: solution, which uses a composite structure to increase environmental performance and fuel efficiency, was Supporting our customers by delivering on our strong short-listed for a European Clean Sky Initiative award.
positions on existing programmes See more at www.
com Growth on existing platforms and on selective new high-growth and long-running platforms through the application of technology and cost-effective solutions Developing new technologies for future commercial and military aircraft, to enhance capabilities, improve fuel efficiency, reduce emissions and minimise the environmental impact of aviation Strengthening our current market leadership positions and expanding into adjacent markets with similar product technologies and manufacturing capabilities Expanding our global footprint to serve more customers around the world.
The highest level of technology and STATE-OFTHE-ART products we deliver to customers today.
Where GKN know-how in advanced technologies and GKN Aerospaces quieter, rugged lightning and ice protected air EMERGING continuous investment is changing the status quo.
intake developed through the SIPAL programme Where we are creating technology that will help shape FUTURE tomorrows world.
GKN plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 wwwwwwww EMERGING AM takes off GKN Aerospace has taken the lead in additive manufacturing AM technology and the first AM parts certied for flight have now been delivered.
AM technologies allow components to be built up in layers by depositing material, rather than subtracting it.
Oering low waste and almost total design freedom, AM breaks the constraints of traditional manufacturing, allowing more complex parts to be created using a single process.
Eventually, AM is expected to lower the weight and cost of some products by as much as 60%.
GKN-designed additively manufactured Kruger rib See more at www.
com Boeings first 737 MAX takes o from Renton Field in Renton, Washington.
Boeing photo by Matthew Thompson STATEOF THEART Leading technology delivers a big win with Boeing In June 2015, GKN Aerospace was awarded a contract to supply new engine inlet lip skin technology for the Boeing 737 MAX and 777X, as well as components and subassemblies for the 787 Dreamliner.
The one-piece 737 MAX inlet lip skins are lighter weight and incorporate a laminar flow surface to reduce drag and improve aerodynamic performance, resulting in reduced fuel consumption.
com GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts GKN AEROSPACE REVIEW connued 1 Sales by customer aerpspace sales by cusp18 Kevin Cummings driveline sales by cust p24 metalsales by cust p28 land systems by cust p32 C Chief hief Ex Exec ecuti utiv five e GKN Aer GKN Aero os sp pac ace e aerpspace sales by cusp18 Airbus: % Honeywell: % driveline sales by cust p24 metalsales by cust p28 land systems by cust p32 sales by market p18 United Spirit: % sales by product p24 sales by product p28 sales by market p32 Technologies: % Rolls-Royce: % GE: % Lockheed: % aerpspace sales by cusp18 driveline sales by cust p24 metalsales by cust p28 land systems by cust p32 Boeing: % Other: % Snecma: % 1 Excludes Fokker Sales by market sales by market p18 sales by product p24 sales by product p28 sales by market p32 sales by product p18 sales by region p24 sales by region p28 sales by region p32 sales by market p18 The overall aerospace market remained positive in 2015 driven sales by product p24 sales by product p28 sales by market p32 by a growing commercial aircra market partly oset by a declining military market.
The divisions commercial sales were 75%, with military representing 25%.
In commercial, both Commercial: % Airbus and Boeing continued to benefit from higher deliveries Military: % sales by product p18 and a record order backlog, and both have announced plans to sales by region p24 sales by region p28 sales by region p32 increase production levels for single aisle aircra in the future.
Sales by product sales by product p18 sales by region p24 sales by region p28 sales by region p32 The short-term outlook for wide-body Overall, GKN Aerospaces organic sales aircra is mixed, with A330 and Boeing were 49 million higher 2%.
There was 777 rate reductions projected in advance a 111 million 5% benefit from currency of their next generation successors, while translation and sales from acquisitions the A350 continues to ramp-up to full rate amounted to 114 million 5%.
Military sales are projected to decline in the short term with this sector stabilising over the mid-term as the F-35 Aerostructures: % continues to ramp up its production rate.
Engine components and sub-systems: % Performance Special products: % Services: % Change % Fokker GKN base related Total Headline Organic Sales m, , , Trading profit m Trading margin %... Return on average invested capital %.. GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 16,700 14 62 countries manufacturing locations employees Divisional performance against Group strategy Our acquisition of Fokker supports GKN Aerospaces performance against all our strategic objectives.
For more details, see the Fokker case study on pages 20 and 21.
Strategic objective Progress Global number two in aerostructures and in the independent aero engine Leading in our structures market, and number three in electrical wiring systems.
chosen markets $3.5 billion new work packages won.
Invested in composite and metallic manufacturing in Mexico.
Leveraging Construction completed of a new manufacturing site in Seattle, US, to support the a strong Boeing 737 MAX assembly line.
Construction began of a new, state-of-the-art and fully automated facility in global presence Orangeburg, US, to deliver engine inlet lip skins for the Boeing 737 MAX.
Sustaining Fabricated robotically welded case technology selected for the Pratt & Whitney above market Differentiating PurePower PW1900 Geared Turbofan engine.
growth ourselves Continued to develop strong positions in additive manufacturing and future wing through design.
Acquired Sheets Manufacturing Inc. in the US, which provided unique spin forming technology capability for the development and production of engine inlet lip skins.
Improved customer scorecard results across the globe through Voice of the Driving Customer initiative.
operational Received a number of quality awards from customers, including Best performing excellence supplier from Airbus.
Trading profit was 273 million 2014: year moving into profit, as planned.
inlet lip skins with legacy programme 277 million.
There was a favourable Early production of the work that was positions on the Boeing 747-8 and KC-46 currency translation impact of 16 million, won following the Sheets acquisition tanker.
This acquisition will support the organic reduction in trading profit was was encouraging.
Profits were negatively GKN Aerospace on the contract awarded 1 million and the reduction in profit from impacted by the reduction in mature for engine inlet lip skins for the Boeing acquisitions was 19 million, including commercial and military programmes.
737Max and Boeing 777X, and work to 18 million in relation to Fokker.
As assemble the Section 47 floor grid for highlighted at the half year, GKN Aerospace The integration of Fokker, acquired on the Boeing 787 made further progress on an onerous 28 October 2015, is proceeding well.
agreeing a new $650 million risk and contract, which resulted in a full year benefit It added sales of 113 million.
The losses revenue sharing partnership RRSP of 22 million, and warranty claims were of 18 million included 13 million of deal with Pratt & Whitney covering the supply resolved favourably resulting in a credit and integration costs and 5 million of of components for the PurePower of 8 million: partly offset by 5 million of restructuring costs, planned prior to the PW1400-JM Geared Turbofan engine restructuring charges.
These are for the Irkut MC-21 mid-range, single separate to the 50 million 35 million of aisle aircraft Organic commercial aerospace sales were restructuring costs which were announced the Filton facility being awarded 6% higher, benefiting from stronger orders at the time of the acquisition and are Accredited Member status by Airbus, for the A350, business jets, Boeing 737 expected to be charged in 2016, although the highest level of recognition by the and Boeing 787 partly offset by a reduction excluded from management profits.
Airbus supply chain and quality in A330 production.
Military organic sales improvement programme SQIP were 9% lower, primarily due to the ending During the year, new work packages won entering into a strategic partnership of the C-17 programme and lower sales for exceeded $3.5 billion over their contract with Arcam AB to develop and F A-18 Super Hornet and UH-60 Black lives and a number of important milestones industrialise one of the most promising Hawk helicopter.
were achieved, including: new additive manufacturing AM processes to meet the needs of the Overall, organic profits in GKN Aerospace the acquisition of Sheets Manufacturing expanding future aerospace market.
Progress was made Inc. on 8 June 2015, a technology leader Production orders were received for AM on the A350, with units delivered late in the in the manufacture of aircraft engine parts flying on production aircraft.
See pages 6 and 7 for more information on our strategic framework GKN plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
