GKN LAND SYSTEMS REVIEW Tackling tough markets GKN Land Systems is a leading supplier of power management products and services.
It designs, manufactures and supplies products and services for the agricultural, construction and utility vehicle markets and key industrial segments, oering integrated powertrain solutions and complete in-service support.
What we do Products Electromechanical power management devices such as electromagnetic brakes, flexible couplings, clutches, driveshas and gear technology.
Custom-designed wheels for applications in arduous terrains.
Advanced structures and chassis systems for a variety of vehicle types.
Aermarket parts and remanufacturing for passenger cars, commercial trucks, agricultural and construction vehicles, and industry applications.
Key strategic activities To support the achievement of the Groups five strategic objectives, GKN Land Systems is focusing SH32 emergency brakes le : on the following areas: hydraulic power pump stations right Leading in high technology power management solutions to the worlds OEMs Deploying new technologies to increase sales of our electromechanical products and systems Positioning our strong brands outside our traditional home markets into new and emerging growth markets Providing better customer solutions based on a detailed understanding of their needs and future strategies.
STATEOF THEART Winning new business through global co-operation The highest level of technology and Co-operation between our GKN Land Systems Stromag STATEOF THEART products we deliver to customers today.
facilities in Taicang, China and La Guerche, France enabled Where GKN know-how in advanced technologies and us to win a 2.3 million contract in Taicang to supply our SIME EMERGING continuous investment is changing the status quo.
hydraulic brake system for a three-level boat liing system to Where we are creating technology that will help shape the Wujiang Goupitan Hydropower Station.
com GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts Industrial cardan sha EMERGING Through-life support with automatic condition monitoring technology Detecting early faults in driveshas used in industrial plants such as steel and paper mills is crucial in reducing unplanned downtime and minimising costs.
GKN Land Systems has developed advanced vibration analysis algorithms and monitoring technology to continuously assess performance levels in industrial application driveshas, supporting customers by eliminating breakdowns, and cutting service times and spare part costs.
GKN Progrip rim STATEOFTHEART Designing new products to address changing demands Growing demand for eciency in agriculture is driving innovation in larger and higher horsepower farming machinery.
This innovation is challenging the tyre and wheel rim interaction so GKN Land Systems, in partnership with customers and tyre manufacturers, has developed the GKN Pro-grip rim, which prevents tyres from slipping from the rim, thereby increasing machine performance, durability and eciency.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts GKN LAND SYSTEMS REVIEW connued Sales by customer aerpspace sales by cusp18 driveline sales by cust p24 metalsales by cust p28 land systems by cust p32 Adam Walker C Chief hief Ex Exec ecuti utiv five e GKN Land GKN Land S Sy ys st tem ems s aerpspace sales by cusp18 driveline sales by cust p24 metalsales by cust p28 land systems by cust p32 John Deere: % JCB: % sales by market p18 sales by product p24 sales by product p28 sales by market p32 Case New Toyota Group: % Holland: % VW Group: % Tata Group: % Agritalia Claas: % Carraro: % aerpspace sales by cusp18 Caterpillar: % Other: % driveline sales by cust p24 metalsales by cust p28 land systems by cust p32 Agco: % sales by market p18 Sales by market sales by product p24 sales by product p28 sales by market p32 sales by product p18 sales by region p24 sales by region p28 sales by region p32 Highlights sales by market p18 Organic sales down 6% due to challenging agricultural sales by product p24 sales by product p28 sales by market p32 and construction equipment markets.
Good cost control results in trading margin of 3.5% Agriculture: m 2014: 5.7%, including 11 million restructuring charge.
sales by product p18 Industrial: m sales by region p24 sales by region p28 sales by region p32 110 million annualised new and replacement Automotive: m Construction and mining: m business won.
Performance sales by product p18 Sales by region of origin sales by region p24 sales by region p28 sales by region p32 Change % Headline Organic Sales m Trading profit m Trading margin %.. Return on average invested capital %.. Europe: m Americas: m Rest of world: m GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 5,000 10 23 employees countries manufacturing locations Divisional performance against Group strategy Strategic objective Progress Maintained strong positions in wheels, shafts, clutches and industrial products.
Leading in our Secured awards from longstanding customers Caterpillar, John Deere and Liugong.
chosen markets New customers secured Kubota wheels : GE Wind controls and sensors.
Leveraging Invested and expanded product portfolio in Taicang, China.
a strong global presence Sustaining Differentiating Winning incremental business with new technique of active controlled clutches.
above market Leveraging outstanding product know-how in synergy driveshafts.
ourselves growth Introducing new process technology to produce hot induction forming wheels.
through technology Driving Restructuring actions taken to improve efficiency and mitigate the effects of depressed market conditions.
operational excellence Sales in GKN Land Systems were lower capabilities and expand the product GKNs Other Businesses reported than the prior year primarily due to a portfolio in Taicang, China.
In addition, combined sales in the year of 42 million significant decline in agricultural new technology such as integrated 2014: 94 million.
The change reflects equipment markets.
Demand for continuous slip clutches, hot induction a 1 million organic decrease in sales, construction equipment was also weaker forming wheels and synergy driveshafts is the 51 million impact from the disposal while industrial sales were slightly down.
winning new business and new services, of Emitec on 31 July 2014 and 2 million such as one for condition monitoring adverse currency translation impact more The organic decrease in sales was industrial shafts, and focus on niche, than offsetting the 2 million benefit from 44 million 6% and the adverse impact of low capital opportunities with specific acquisitions.
Trading profit was 1 million currency translation was 39 million 5%.
During the year around 2014: 5 million profit reflecting the 110 million of annualised sales in new disposal of Emitec and the start-up costs The organic decrease in trading profit was and replacement business was won, of GKN Hybrid Power.
18 million, which includes 11 million of helping to ensure GKN Land Systems is restructuring charges.
5 million of the outperforming the market.
Corporate costs, which comprise the costs restructuring charges relates to two chassis of stewardship of the Group and operating contracts which end during 2016, reducing charges and credits associated with the Other Businesses and sales by 25 million in 2016.
The negative Groups legacy businesses, were 18 million corporate costs impact of currency translation was 2014: 20 million, primarily due to a GKNs Other Businesses comprise Cylinder 2 million 5%.
7 million past service credit following Liners which is a 59% owned venture completion of a Pension Increase mainly in China, manufacturing engine Trading margin was 5.1% 2014: 5.7%, Exchange exercise in the UK partly offset liners for the truck market in the US, excluding restructuring charges.
by a 5 million charge relating to an Europe and China, EVO eDrive Systems environmental matter in a legacy business.
a developer of axial flux motors and GKN 2015 was a year dominated by tough Hybrid Power a flywheel energy storage market conditions which impacted trading and hybrid system manufacturer, and necessitated restructuring actions to acquired on 1 April 2014.
During the year, right size the business for the future.
Good GKN Hybrid Power delivered its innovative progress was made to further develop fuel-saving solution for 45 buses.
See pages 6 and 7 for more information on our strategic framework GKN plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
