Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information OUR STRATEGY AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Group has a clear strategy to which the Board is committed.
Our key performance indicators KPIs, linked to our strategic priorities, are regularly reviewed.
Performance against these KPIs is discussed by the Board in every meeting.
OUR VISION OUR STRATEGY Our vision is to be a leading provider of high quality, innovative, Our Group strategy is to increase the profitability of our existing customer-focused passenger transport services, delivering the business while growing the Group to deliver sustainable shareholder local needs of passengers and communities.
This strategy is underpinned by our strategic priorities and is supported by our divisional bus and rail strategies.
Read our bus and rail strategies on pages 41 and 45 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES SOCIETY CUSTOMERS OUR PEOPLE FINANCE To run our companies in a safe, To provide high quality, To be a leading employer in To run our business with strong socially and environmentally locally focused passenger the transport sector.
financial discipline to deliver responsible manner.
Our people are our most We believe a sustainable public Meeting the needs of our valuable and important asset.
Our aim is to deliver transport network is essential to customers is vital to the success Without them, our buses and shareholder value through the future of any society and as of the Group.
Providing reliable, trains cannot create value.
It is a combination of earnings a leading provider of passenger value for money passenger our teams across the Group growth, and strong cash transport services, sustainability transport encourages more that keep the business moving generation and balance sheet is integral to the way we run passengers to use our services and are the face of Go-Ahead.
Ensuring the safety and leaves us well placed to Investing in and developing by value adding growth of our passengers and our tender for contracts with our our people enable them to opportunities.
We have a people is an absolute priority transport authority customers.
fulfil their own potential and steadfast commitment to for us.
We are also committed Our devolved structure assist them in carrying out operating with strong financial to making a contribution to ensures strong localised their jobs to the best of their discipline and a conservative the communities in which we expertise, focuses on the ability, thereby improving the view towards risk.
The strength operate and to wider society.
needs of the local customer customer experience.
Effective of our balance sheet allows Reducing the environmental and has the ability to respond leadership development us to pursue opportunities, impact of our operations while quickly to changing conditions and succession planning are adding value to the Group, providing a greener alternative in local markets.
Good essential to sustainable and making attractive returns to the private car contributes customer service is at the success for the Group and to shareholders.
to the Governments heart of everything we do a diverse workforce further environmental targets.
The and we are committed to enhances this.
economic contribution from delivering high levels of Go-Ahead helps support customer satisfaction.
economic recovery and longer term prosperity.
MEASURING OUR PERFORMANCE The KPIs presented in this report are the measures we use in the business to assess the Groups performance against our strategic objectives.
These measures are regularly reviewed to ensure we are focusing on the right areas of performance.
Last year, we set new targets for 2020 across our four strategic priorities.
Our target setting process is both a top down and bottom up approach, considering guidance from industry bodies while allowing for the unique features of our businesses and markets.
The 2020 targets use 2014 performance as a baseline for measurement.
The directors remuneration policy is designed to reflect the Groups performance, with elements of remuneration linked to each of our strategic priorities.
com 17 SOCIETY SERVING LOCAL COMMUNITIES WE MAKE A POSITIVE CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMMUNITIES WE SERVE AND ALSO TO WIDER SOCIETY Being part of the local community underpins Go-Aheads devolved of what they can do to support people with dementia to carry on with management approach and enables our bus and rail companies to be more everyday life, continue to travel on buses, and keep doing things they enjoy.
responsive to the different needs that different passengers have.
Whether Several of our operating companies serve coastal towns in the south east customers are using wheelchairs or mobility scooters, have difficulty of England.
These are often popular places for people to retire to, and walking, are pregnant or travelling with young children, or have more have higher than average levels of elderly people with dementia.
In 2014 complex learning difficulties or mental health issues all our bus and Go South Coast received an award for its work in this area on the Isle rail companies strive to make their services as accessible to everyone of Wight.
The island has been identified as the local authority with the as they can.
highest percentage of dementia sufferers and it is expecting to increase by 27% from approximately 2,600 to 3,300 people between 2011 and DEMENTIA FRIENDLY TOWNS AND CITIES 2020.
The company has worked with local specialist organisations to With an estimated 850,000 people living with dementia in the UK, the provide easy-to-read aide-memoirs for people with dementia and their Government set a challenge for 20 cities to become dementia friendly carers, helping to make using buses easy and practical.
Many more towns and cities are aiming to achieve this Other UK towns are also looking to follow the lead of Go-Ahead bus status and our operating companies have an integral role in supporting companies such as Brighton & Hove and Metrobus who have declared their their local authority partners towards this aim.
This strengthens the bus depots and travel shops to be safe havens for those with dementia collaborative working relationship we have with local authorities and or learning difficulties.
Southern Railways Brighton and Horsham stations councils something that is vital for the success of our companies.
in the same south-east region have also signed-up to the initiative.
Being accredited dementia friendly requires towns to have easy-tonavigate physical environments and appropriate transport facilities.
All our bus companies have dementia awareness as part of their regular driver training and refresher courses, using guidance from Alzheimers Societys Read more Society case studies online, visit: www.
The training ensures staff have an understanding The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 18 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information BETTER 96% THAN SECTOR AVERAGE FOUR-STAR RATING IN BUSINESS CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT SCORE IN THE COMMUNITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY INDEX www.
com 19 OUR STRATEGY AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CONTINUED SOCIETY To run our companies in a safe, socially and environmentally responsible manner SPADS PER MILLION MILES RIDDOR ACCIDENTS BUS ACCIDENTS PER MILLION MILES What does it mean?
Across the rail industry, What does it mean?
We monitor the number of PER 100 EMPLOYEES train operating companies are legally required bus accidents which result in a notification to a What does it mean?
Riddor Reporting of Injuries, to report Signals Passed at Danger SPADs.
claims handler for every million miles we operate, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations Although every SPAD is treated as a serious including cases where we are not at fault.
is a statutory requirement for all companies and incident, most SPADs occur at low speed, where relates to a work place incident that results in Why is it important?
It helps us to measure braking distance has been misjudged and the train absence from work for over seven days or a against our commitment to provide a safe and is stopped by automatic warning systems, and legally reportable incident to the Health and positive travel experience for our bus passengers therefore the likelihood of an accident is very low.
and minimise risk to the general public.
It helps us to measure performance in this area can also reduce cost Why is it important?
It helps us to measure against against our commitment to provide a safe rail through lower insurance claim costs.
our commitment to providing a safe working passenger service.
Risks Our objective to run our companies in a safe Risks Poor performance in this metric could impact manner would be impacted by poor performance Risks Failing to provide a safe working environment on operational performance, result in a poor safety against this KPI.
Risks associated with this include for our people goes against our objective to be the record and impact reputation.
reputational risk and higher insurance claim costs.
employer of choice in the sector.
Poor performance could lead to issues around employee relations, 2015 performance The number of SPADs per 2015 performance The number of bus accidents per including satisfaction and productivity, and could also million miles decreased by 12.5% to 0.77. million miles increased by 1.1%.
Overall, we increase employers liability insurance claim costs.
Overall, we have achieved an improvement have achieved an improvement of 33.1% against our of 43.5% against our 2007 08 baseline.
This is a significant improvement 2015 performance The number of Riddor accidents a significant improvement despite falling short despite falling short of our 2015 target of 60%.
per 100 employees reduced by 7.9% to 0.70. of our 2015 target of 60%.
Overall, we have achieved an improvement of Bus accidents have significantly reduced since 2011 64.6% against our 2007 08 baseline, exceeding This result should be viewed in the context of as a result of action we have taken despite an our 2015 target of 60%.
many years of improvement in this metric across increase in accidents where we are not at fault.
Performance is tracked against a very We invest heavily in training, monitor driving We take our responsibility for the safety of our good baseline performance.
behaviour and encourage our drivers to improve people very seriously and ensure our employees their standards of driving through a range of have the necessary equipment and training to do We have very tight controls around safety and high initiatives across the division.
We have better their jobs properly and safely.
During the year, we standards of driver training which minimise the end to end processes in place from accident continued to invest in staff training and upgrades to likelihood of SPADs occurring.
We work closely prevention to claims management.
We investigate our facilities to ensure a safe working environment with Network Rail to try and minimise the risk every accident and encourage accurate and timely for our people.
of SPADs on the network and investigate every reporting of incidents.
SPAD which occurs on our services.
We encourage We investigate every accident and encourage accurate and timely reporting of incidents.
2020 target To maintain low levels of bus accurate and timely reporting of incidents.
accidents per million miles, delivering Due to the nature of these occurrences and high 2020 target To maintain low levels of Riddor continuous improvement.
sensitivity to data changes, relative performance accidents per 100 employees, delivering can fluctuate from one year to the next.
2020 target To maintain low levels of SPADs per million miles, delivering continuous improvement.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 20 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information REDUCTION IN CARBON EMISSIONS GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 1 PER PASSENGER JOURNEY We report on greenhouse gas GHG emissions in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate What does it mean?
We monitor the carbon Accounting and Reporting Standard and the UK Governments Environmental Reporting Guidance emissions from our operations for every passenger methodologies together with the emissions conversion factors from DEFRA DECC GHG conversion 2 we carry.
CO conversion factors are used to 2 factors for Company Reporting 2015.
In line with this guidance, we have reported the emissions measure overall CO emissions which are then 2 sources that are required.
These sources fall within businesses included in our consolidated financial measured per passenger journey.
It helps us to measure Emissions are expressed in terms of equivalent carbon dioxide CO e. Our relative performance 2 against our commitment to improve energy metric is kilogrammes of CO e emissions per passenger journey.
2 efficiency while contributing to government Overall CO emissions have increased in the year, largely due to the introduction of the GTR rail franchise.
2 and local authority carbon reduction targets and providing a greener way for our passengers Emissions from air conditioning equipment in our premises and vehicles are not included in this analysis due to the to travel.
Good performance in this area also difficulty in obtaining this data.
These emissions account for less than 0.5% of our total GHG emissions and are therefore not considered material.
reduces cost through fuel efficiency.
2014 15 2013 14 Risks Our objective to run our companies in an CO2e CO2e environmentally responsible manner would be tonnes tonnes impacted by poor performance against this KPI.
Scope 1 000 000 Poor performance could result in reputational Passenger journeys m 1,241.20 1,152.6 risk for the Group and higher costs.
Gas buses kwhs m 6.9 7.3 2015 performance Carbon emissions per 11.3 9.2 Gas premises kwhs m 54.5 42.3 passenger journey have reduced 9.3% since Bus diesel 10% bio-diesel blend ltrs m 127.6 329.8 128.1 333.4 2007 08.
The year on year performance in this Rail diesel ltrs m 18.4 53.5 17.7 51.8 metric declined, largely due to the introduction of the GTR rail franchise, which has higher than Group Scope 2 1 average CO emissions per passenger journey.
2 Traction electricity kwhs m 1,288.4 595.5 1,002.1 495.3 On a like for like basis, removing the impact Site electricity kwhs m 100.3 46.3 85.1 42.1 of bus acquisitions and new rail franchises, the Scope 3 improvement is 15.9% against the same baseline Electricity transmission and distribution year as a result of initiatives introduced by the losses within the grid 53.0 47.0 Group.
This underlying performance is below our original target reduction of 20%.
Sub total 1,089.5 978.8 2018 target To reduce like for like carbon emissions per passenger journey by 10%.
This is against a Kgs CO per passenger journey 0.88 0.85 2 challenging baseline as we have already made Outside scopes significant improvements in this area.
2 Biogenic content of bio-diesel 11.0 8.0 Total 1,100.5 986.8 1 Traction electricity consumption data relates to the period from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015.
This provides the most accurate figure for consumption.
2 The biogenic content of bio-diesel is considered outside scope as there is no conversion factor for our baseline year.
Emissions from this source are reported for 2014 15 but are excluded from the calculation of our relative performance metric as comparative data is not available.
We define our organisational reporting boundary by applying the financial control approach with a materiality threshold set at 5%.
CARBON EMISSIONS PER PASSENGER JOURNEY % 15 15.0 14.0 12.3 12.2 REMUNERATION Directors remuneration is linked to 10 9.3 performance against this strategic priority, particularly relating to health and safety.
Read more in the directors remuneration report 5 on pages 70 to 85 0 11 12 13 14 15 1 Reduction since 2007 2008 baseline.
2 Conversion factors, updated annually and provided by the Government, are used to convert energy consumption into the equivalent carbon emissions.
com 21 90% 700,000 CARDS CUSTOMER SATISFACTION IN UKS LARGEST SMARTCARD INDEPENDENT BUS PASSENGER SURVEY SCHEME OUTSIDE LONDON The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 22 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information CUSTOMERS CUSTOMER FOCUSED PROVIDING SERVICES THAT CUSTOMERS WANT, NEED AND VALUE IS FUNDAMENTAL TO OUR BUSINESS AS WE SEEK TO ATTRACT NEW CUSTOMERS AND RETAIN EXISTING ONES The new products and services we offer, and the changes we make, to grow in popularity with more than 2m m-tickets purchased on are a reflection of what customers tell us that they want through their smartphones in the past year.
conversations with staff, local suggestion schemes, social media and via Working in partnership with other transport providers we have launched more formal feedback such as surveys and research.
joint-operator smartcard and m-ticket schemes with local authorities in This year we received a 90% customer satisfaction rating in the Oxford, Brighton and Newcastle.
The introduction of the key smartcard independent 2014 national bus passenger survey the highest of the UKs on its services won Southern the Technological Innovation category at the five largest operators.
This result is encouraging but we know continual Rail Business Awards.
The key smartcard is truly multi-modal and as well as improvement is required and have increased the amount of research Southern trains can be used on local Brighton & Hove buses and Londons undertaken to assist in understanding our customers and improve their underground and bus network.
Every year more than 20,000 of our customers INTEGRATED TRAVEL: TRAIN, BUS, PLANE respond to surveys.
Our Group companies engage passenger panels for day-to-day feedback and also to take part in one-off focus groups.
As a Go-Ahead bus and rail companies serving Gatwick have collaborated with direct result of comments a number of improvements have been made the airport to assist its employees, as well as airline passengers, to travel to enhance the onboard experience such as the introduction of WiFi on there from the South Coast in the early hours of the morning before train many of our regional bus routes, handy usb phone charger sockets, and services begin.
Metrobus and rail company Southern offer a joint ticket even increased padding in seat cushions.
It is these small things, they tell allowing travel out by bus and return by train.
Early bird bus services were us, that make a big difference to peoples daily journeys.
introduced in May 2015, ahead of the busy summer period.
The service has been promoted by Metrobus as well as Southern and Southeastern DIGITAL INFORMATION AND TICKETS train companies and Gatwick has provided Metrobus with retail space in the main terminal to promote and sell bus and rail tickets.
The joint We continue to work to enhance the real-time information for customers project benefits both organisations, assisting the airports allocation of shift with new releases and upgrades to our bus and rail apps.
The latest rota times, reducing staff numbers required, and also providing Go-Ahead versions provide dynamic banner messages and in-app messages, improved additional revenue from the new routes.
personalisation, filters and live updates.
We are leading the field in our sector in this area with increased payment options features such as Statutory independent watchdog Transport Focus national bus passenger survey 2014.
Pingit and also at the request of parents buying passes for teenage children delegated payment options.
Our smartcard scheme remains the largest in the UK outside Londons Read more customer case studies online, visit: www.
com Oyster scheme and our mobile ticketing m-tickets products continue www.
com 23 OUR STRATEGY AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CONTINUED CUSTOMERS To provide high quality, locally focused passenger transport services LIKE FOR LIKE PASSENGER CUSTOMER SATISFACTION REGIONAL BUS PUNCTUALITY What does it mean?
Customer satisfaction is What does it mean?
The punctuality of our VOLUME GROWTH measured by the independent passenger watchdog, regional bus operations is measured as a What does it mean?
We measure the number Transport Focus.
Surveys are conducted twice a percentage of buses which arrive at their stop of passenger journeys taken on our regional bus year for our rail franchises and annually for our between one minute before and five minutes and rail services compared with the previous year.
Therefore, the higher This is measured on a like for like basis.
Our primary customer in London bus is TfL.
We As we are contracted on the basis of mileage measure satisfaction by performance against TfL Why is it important?
Service punctuality is in our London bus division, we do not measure performance targets, such as excess waiting time.
important to our passengers and is key to passenger numbers.
helping us grow passenger numbers.
Providing high quality service Why is it important?
We track this metric closely is a strategic priority for the Group and monitoring Risks Punctuality is a key driver of customer as performance against our rail franchise bid customer satisfaction is a key measure of our satisfaction.
If our customers are not satisfied assumptions and progress towards our bus performance.
Identifying potential issues allows with the service they receive they may switch operating profit targets are significantly impacted us to take action to improve our services.
to other operators or other modes of transport by passenger volumes.
such as driving, cycling or walking.
Risks If our customers are not satisfied with Risks Decreasing volumes could be an indication the service they receive they may switch to 2015 performance 86.9% of our regional bus of performance issues within our operations other operators or other modes of transport services ran on time.
This decline on last years or changes in economic or market conditions, such as driving, cycling or walking.
performance is due to congestion and roadworks all of which could impact on the Groups in some of our operating areas preventing us from overall performance.
2015 performance In bus, we achieved the highest running punctual services and a number of our overall passenger satisfaction score in the UK bus 2015 performance In regional bus, like for like operating companies moving to a new real-time industry, at 90%.
One of our companies scored 98%, volumes fell 1.4% due to challenging economic monitoring system, providing more accurate data.
the highest recorded score in the UK bus market.
conditions in the north east and roadworks in 2020 target Achieve regional bus punctuality of Oxford and Brighton deterring bus travel.
This Rail scores declined slightly in the year to over 95% in line with industry targets.
decline follows many years of consistent growth of 76%, impacted by the significant infrastructure over 1%, against a backdrop of declining volumes improvements taking place as part of the in the wider UK bus industry, outside London.
growth has been supported by our geographical We continue to work closely with Network Rail focus in more economically resilient areas and our to improve performance on the networks on which approach to marketing our high quality services.
In rail, we continued to deliver consistent growth The average score for train operators in London throughout the challenging economic period from and the south east is 78% and the industry average 2008 and this has continued in the year, with like for bus passenger satisfaction in England is 88%.
2020 target To maintain our sector leading bus We have made improvements over a period of passenger satisfaction scores and improve on levels time including sales channels, off-peak services of customer satisfaction in the rail division, bringing and marketing.
them in line with the industry average for the London and south east network.
2020 target To maintain growth at broadly similar levels to those consistently delivered in recent years.
PASSENGER VOLUME GROWTH % CUSTOMER SATISFACTION % REGIONAL BUS PUNCTUALITY % Regional bus Rail Regional bus Rail 100 5 100 4.8 92 91 91.2 90 90 90.2 90.0 90.0 90 86.9 4 3.9 83 82 80 80 78 77 76 3 2.8 2.3 2.3 60 60 2.1 2 2.0 1.9 1.1 1 40 40 0 20 20 -1 1.4 0 0 -2 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 24 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information LONDON BUS PUNCTUALITY RAIL PUNCTUALITY What does it mean?
The punctuality of London bus What does it mean?
The punctuality of our rail operations is measured by excess waiting time.
This operations is measured on the basis of the DfTs is the time passengers have to wait for a bus above Public Performance Measure PPM on a moving the average scheduled waiting time.
The lower the annual average basis.
PPM is the percentage of excess waiting time, the better the performance.
trains that arrive at their final destination within five minutes of their scheduled arrival time.
Service punctuality is important to the passengers we carry on behalf Why is it important?
Service punctuality is of TfL.
We earn extra revenue through Quality important to our passengers.
Our PPM Incentive Contract QIC bonus payments performance forms part of our franchise if we exceed TfL punctuality targets, on a agreements with the DfT.
Contract extensions Risks Punctuality is a key driver of customer are based on performance.
Poor performance could result in Risks Poor performance could result in lower QIC customers stopping using our services.
Breach bonus payments and contracts not being extended.
of franchise agreement terms could lead to financial penalties or ultimately result in the 2015 performance Average excess waiting time loss of a franchise.
was 1.21 minutes below, a decline in performance of 15.2%.
The industry average is 1.09 minutes.
2015 performance Overall PPM for our rail companies was 86.7%.
This is a decline of 0.2ppt Performance has been significantly impacted by against the prior year.
Performance against this roadworks and congestion associated with public metric has been impacted for the last two years rail improvements and the cycle super highway, by infrastructure issues and improvements.
We affecting our ability to run services in line with continue to work closely with Network Rail to targets.
This has impacted the amount of revenue improve performance on the networks on which generated through Quality Incentive Contract we operate.
Around 60% of delay minutes are bonuses in the year.
as a result of incidents outside our control.
2020 target Achieve low average excess waiting Southeastern saw a particular improvement in time of below one minute, in line with TfLs targets.
the year up to 89.4%, reflecting network changes associated with the Thameslink Programme, while Southerns performance was adversely impacted by this, seeing performance dip to 82.7%.
London REMUNERATION Midland improved slightly on its performance Directors remuneration is linked to last year at 87.6%, as continued focus has been performance against this strategic priority, placed on improving operational performance particularly relating to customer satisfaction.
GTR achieved a similar level of performance at 87.3%.
Read more in the directors remuneration report on pages 70 to 85 Our franchises form part of the London and South East network for which the average PPM is 88.9%.
The overall national rail industry average is 89.7%.
2020 target Increase levels of punctuality in all our franchises to 92.5% or above, in accordance with the ORRs London and South East operators 2019 target.
com 25 3,700 2,900 2014 2015 800 14.6m INCREASE IN FEMALE EMPLOYEES INVESTED IN TRAINING AND ACROSS THE GROUP DEVELOPMENT THIS YEAR Includes 470 GTR employees.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 26 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information OUR PEOPLE VALUING OUR PEOPLE IT IS IMPORTANT FOR US TO BE AN ORGANISATION THAT VALUES AND RESPECTS ITS EMPLOYEES AND WE WORK HARD TO MAKE SURE THERE IS A POSITIVE, INCLUSIVE CULTURE ACROSS ALL OUR BUSINESSES We know that engaged, motivated employees are likely to go above and To increase diversity, we have active recruitment campaigns to encourage beyond for colleagues and customers and have fewer absent work days, more female applicants and make our businesses more attractive to both all of which have clear benefits for the organisation.
It makes good business sense to recruit and retain the best people of all backgrounds.
Encouraging diversity HEALTH AND WELLBEING and inclusion works to create a culture of equity and opportunity where We have strong evidence showing that our employee wellbeing initiatives, differences are celebrated and hardworking people, from any background, promoting and supporting healthy lifestyles for staff, increase engagement can rise through the organisation.
This in turn has a positive influencing and reduce absence.
Across the UK absenteeism costs businesses around effect with external applicants recognising Go-Ahead as an attractive 30bn a year so our internal better together forums have focused on employer to work for.
sharing wellbeing best practice initiatives across the Group.
As a result COACHING LEADERS Southeastern has been recognised by Business in the Community for integrating wellbeing into the companys culture resulting in reduced Retaining experienced, valuable people is good business practice and we levels of absence and improved engagement.
have strong succession plans at local and Group level with well-established schemes to identify those with potential to be the managers and leaders INCREASING DIVERSITY of the future.
We operate in increasingly diverse communities and recognise and Go-Ahead is committed to a coaching and mentoring approach for appreciate the diversity of our customers, employees, suppliers and other the professional and personal development of our leaders, managers stakeholders.
We believe that a diverse workforce is likely to assist us and supervisors.
This is an important component of ensuring that our in being more adaptable to social, technological and political changes as workforce remains flexible to adapt to changing environments and markets.
they occur, as it is an important component to combat groupthink and The pace of technological, social and political change makes it likely that a helps stimulate innovation.
Employing people who are a reflection of the managers traditional reliance on technical or functional expertise will no community they are based within is also important, and demonstrating longer be enough.
Challenges are now being faced that leaders may not our work in this area can assist when bidding for new contracts.
have experienced before and a coaching approach to problem solving Over past decades, our largest employee groups such as bus and train and personal development enables leaders to continue to support teams drivers and engineers, have traditionally attracted male candidates and, effectively and in turn ensure the long term sustainability of our business.
once recruited, we retain high proportions of these staff.
expected, we have a disproportionately higher percentage of men working 2011 Engineering UK: An investigation into why the UK has the lowest proportion of for the Group than women, which we are taking steps to address.
Over female engineers in the EU.
the past year weve increased the number of women overall by 800, a small step but moving in the right direction.
This of course is not an issue that affects Go-Ahead in isolation, with a national shortage of engineers and Read more our people case studies online, visit: www.
com fewer girls taking up engineering at higher education level.
com 27 OUR STRATEGY AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CONTINUED OUR PEOPLE To be a leading employer in the transport sector EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT INDEX ABSENTEEISM EMPLOYEE TURNOVER What does it mean?
We measure how engaged What does it mean?
We measure employee What does it mean?
Employee turnover is our people are through annual independent staff absence by the percentage of scheduled hours measured by the percentage of employees who surveys, conducted across our businesses.
not worked due to unplanned absence from work.
leave the business in a defined time period.
Go-Ahead strives to be an Why is it important?
High levels of absenteeism Why is it important?
High levels of employee employer of choice in the transport sector and could be reflective of low levels of staff satisfaction turnover could be reflective of low levels of staff values the insight gained from employee feedback.
By monitoring levels of absence satisfaction and engagement.
By monitoring levels In addition to making Go-Ahead an attractive place we are able to identify areas of the business with of turnover we are able to identify areas of the to work, high levels of employee engagement will potential employee relations or staff shortage business with potential employee relations issues.
contribute to the success of the Group.
This also helps us with our resource This also helps to identify issues such as staff planning and allocation.
shortage and assists us in resource planning Risks Low levels of employee engagement could and allocation.
result in reduced productivity and higher levels of Risks Staff shortages could impact on our ability absence or staff turnover, all of which would impact to deliver our services at the frequency, level of Risks Staff shortages could impact our ability to on resource planning across the business.
punctuality and to the standard we aim to achieve.
deliver our services at the frequency, level of punctuality and to the standard we aim to achieve.
2015 performance In the year, our bus division 2015 performance In the year, the overall rate of recorded levels of employee engagement of 46%, Group absence was 3.9%, with 3.8% in our bus 2015 performance The overall rate of employee up 6ppts on last years performance.
turnover was 10.5% for the Group, with 14.6% in our bus division and 6.2% in rail.
We have people plans in place across all of our Our local management teams aim to foster good businesses and over the last few years have made relations with employees and seek to identify any We aim to develop and incentivise our people significant improvements in areas such as personal issues that may arise resulting in periods of absence.
to encourage low levels of employee turnover.
2020 target Maintain low levels of absenteeism, Levels of turnover are regularly monitored.
We seek to engage effectively with teams and below the national average.
Our local management teams are best placed individuals at a local level, while maintaining a to respond to changing levels of turnover.
We value the experience and It is important to consider the economic climate opinions of our people.
in relation to this KPI as the wider job market 2020 target All of our bus and rail companies set can impact turnover levels.
their own challenging targets to increase levels 2020 target Maintain consistently low levels of of employee engagement.
Overall, our aim is to improve our levels of engagement each year, remaining above the average for large businesses.
Data for previous years is therefore not available.
2 Due to timing of surveys taking place, this figure includes 2014 15 survey data for Southeastern and 2013 14 data for Southern and London Midland.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 28 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our aim is to be the employer of choice in the sector.
The safety and wellbeing of our people is our priority and we pride ourselves on the health and safety standards we maintain across the Group.
Our organisational values and culture encourage an environment through which individuals can thrive and develop.
We seek to provide opportunities for personal and professional development OUR LOCAL APPROACH and to recognise and reward excellence.
We are committed to protecting Go-Ahead has always operated through a devolved management structure, the rights of our people and believe in equal opportunities at all levels of with local teams entrusted and empowered to run their businesses effectively.
During the year, we developed our people plans across the Our operating company management teams are best placed to respond to organisation from the Boardroom to front line operational employees.
the needs of local customers and communities.
This approach allows flexibility and fast action which we believe gives us competitive advantage in the DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES markets we serve.
This local focus is complemented by skills, expertise and Go-Ahead recognises the value of diversity in all areas and at all levels of the support at Group level in areas such as marketing, IT and procurement and business.
During the year, a Group diversity forum was established comprising we work together, sharing experience and expertise around the Group.
individuals from across the business.
An area of particular focus for the forum in the year was gender diversity.
We continue to ensure that there is no bias EMPLOYEE RELATIONS towards either gender and that all appointments and internal promotions are We seek to engage effectively with teams and individuals at a local level, while made on the basis of merit.
We value the experience and opinions of our The Group believes in equal opportunities regardless of gender, age, religion people and conduct annual employee engagement surveys across the Group.
or belief, sexual orientation, race and, where practicable, disability.
We give Response rates to these surveys increased compared to the prior year as full and fair consideration to job applications from people with disabilities, people are increasingly seeing their feedback being put into practice.
Almost considering their particular aptitudes and abilities.
In respect of existing all of our workforce is represented by trade unions and we strive to foster employees who may become disabled, the Groups policy is to provide good relationships with union representatives, acknowledging the impact of continuing employment and appropriate training, career development poor employee relations on our success.
and promotion of disabled people employed by the Group.
REMUNERATION HUMAN RIGHTS Directors remuneration is linked to performance against this strategic priority, We are committed to protecting the rights of our people, customers, including employee engagement.
This commitment is reflected in our Read more in the directors remuneration report on pages 70 to 85 Group policies and procedures.
View all our Group policies at: www.
com SENIOR MANAGEMENT OVERALL GROUP BOARD GENDER DIVERSITY GENDER DIVERSITY GENDER DIVERSITY Male 83% Female 17% Male 82% Female 18% Male 86% Female 14% www.
com 29 FINANCE TRANSPARENT AND OPEN RUNNING OUR BUSINESS WITH STRONG FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE TO DELIVER SUSTAINABLE SHAREHOLDER VALUE COVERS A WIDE RANGE OF ACTIVITIES We have been recognised for our transparency and openness and on quality, environmental performance and sustainability of goods and services.
the launch of the voluntary Fair Tax Scheme in 2014 became the first So, understanding the importance of paying suppliers promptly, particularly company in the FTSE 350 to be awarded the Fair Tax Mark.
Our Board small suppliers, this year we have been accredited under the Prompt continues to work toward being assessed as low risk by HMRC and Payment Code PPC.
The code sets standards for payment practices and ensures that the Group adheres to the revised tax policy adopted in best practice and is administered by the Chartered Institute of Credit 2014 of not undertaking tax planning or making use of tax havens.
Compliance with the principles of the code is monitored and it covers prompt payment, as well as wider payment procedures.
ETHICAL PROCUREMENT As well as the moral and fairness imperative to pay suppliers promptly, Our ethical procurement approach is embedded in our supply chain there is a real benefit to both the supplier and also to Go-Ahead as procurement and management processes.
As a buyer of goods and services the customer.
Strong, trusting and collaborative relationships with we have a responsibility for the supply chains from which these goods and suppliers lead to more favourable contracts and services which increases services come into our organisation.
We will take into account ethical as our competitiveness.
well as commercial and technical factors, when considering which suppliers As an organisation that understands the importance of a reliable cashflow, to partner with.
we believe it is right to make sure our suppliers are paid on time.
Late We encourage our suppliers to adhere to similar high standards of payments could damage suppliers businesses, which in turn could have a corporate responsibility as our own businesses and to have in place detrimental impact on ours.
We consider this is not just good practice and appropriate safeguards against bribery, corruption and facilitation payments.
ethical behaviour but is a demonstration of our responsible approach to In particular, we expect our suppliers to be committed to high standards business.
It is this sustainable approach and the transparent reporting of of health and safety and demonstrate a respect for the environment.
our activities in this area that helps Go-Ahead demonstrate that it is an ethical fund for investment and can be a point of differentiation from PROMPT PAYMENT CODE other organisations in our sector.
We seek to partner with suppliers to develop long-term business relationships that benefit both organisations with the aim of improving the Read more Finance case studies online, visit: www.
com The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 30 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 1st IR award FIRST IN FTSE 350 TO ACHIEVE FOR MOST EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION FAIR TAX MARK OF INVESTMENT PROPOSITION www.
com 31 OUR STRATEGY AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CONTINUED FINANCE To run our business with strong financial discipline to deliver sustainable shareholder value LIKE FOR LIKE REVENUE GROWTH OPERATING PROFIT ADJUSTED NET DEBT EBITDA What does it mean?
For our rail operations, we What does it mean?
We measure operating profit What does it mean?
This ratio is used to indicate measure revenue generated through the provision before amortisation, goodwill impairment and the Groups ability to pay down its debt from of passenger transport services.
In our bus division, exceptional items to provide more comparable earnings.
Adjusted net debt, which is total net debt non-passenger revenue is less material, so we year-on-year information.
plus restricted cash in our rail division, is measured measure total revenue instead.
against earnings before interest, tax, depreciation Why is it important?
This helps us measure and amortisation EBITDA.
Growing revenue through the underlying performance of our operating a combination of growth in passenger numbers companies.
Profit growth enables us to reinvest Why is it important?
We have a bank covenant and modest fare increases drives operating in the business and deliver shareholder value.
limit of 3.5x and are required to remain below this profit growth.
This ratio also helps us measure against our Risks Inadequate levels of profitability can reduce commitment to preserve a strong capital structure Risks Inadequate levels of revenue growth can our ability to invest in the business and make and maintain our investment grade credit ratings.
impact on profitability, reducing our ability to invest returns to shareholders.
in the business and make returns to shareholders.
Risks Exceeding the bank covenant limit of 2015 performance Total Group operating profit 3.5x cover.
2015 performance In regional bus, like for like was 114.7m, up 11.1%.
Bus operating profit of revenue growth was 2.6%.
Growth has slowed 89.0m was marginally behind our expectations, 2015 performance In line with managements since prior years as passenger volumes have been despite an increase of 6.6% year on year, as expectations, adjusted net debt to EBITDA impacted by economic conditions and roadworks passenger revenue growth in our regional was 1.32x, slightly below our target range.
in some of our operating areas.
bus operations slowed, and Quality Incentive Adjusted net debt reduced by 15.3m to Contract revenue declined in our London London bus like for like revenue increased by 1.8%.
244.7m in the year, while EBITDA was up business.
As a result, we now believe we will Performance was slightly lower than expected by 21.3m to 185.2m.
achieve 100m of bus operating profit during due to a significant reduction in Quality Incentive 2020 target To maintain adjusted net debt EBITDA the course of 2016 17, one year later than Contract bonus revenue resulting from roadworks within our target range of 1.5x and 2.5x throughout originally expected.
and congestion in the capital.
Our rail division performance was ahead of our Like for like growth in rail revenue of 7.3% is the initial expectations with operating profit for the result of growth in passenger numbers and rail year of 25.7m, up 30.5%, helped by contract fares set by the Government.
Rail fare increases management benefits in the second half of the year, are passed back to the Government through the albeit at historically low margins of 1.1%.
premium or subsidy payment of each franchise.
Bus target: To achieve 100 of bus operating profit Read more about our bus and rail performance from in 2016 17, a year later than originally expected.
pages 40 to 47 Rail target: Deliver value from existing franchises 2020 target To maintain growth at broadly and achieve margins nearer industry average of 3%.
similar levels to those consistently delivered over recent years.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 32 5.1 2.3 8.6 4.7 5.8 9.6 4.3 5.0 6.9 4.3 7.5 6.1 2.6 1.8 7.3 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information CASHFLOW EBITDA DIVIDEND COVER What does it mean?
This ratio is used to What does it mean?
We measure the level by which monitor the conversion of operating profit our dividend payments can be covered by earnings into operating cash.
adjusted earnings per share divided by dividend per share.
Good performance against this KPI demonstrates strong working capital Why is it important?
We are committed to management and financial discipline.
Strong cash delivering shareholder value through our dividend generation provides liquidity.
We measure our dividend cover to help us assess how much of our profits we can pay to Risks Not generating sufficient earnings to reinvest shareholders as a dividend whilst allowing sufficient in the business.
retained earnings to invest in the business.
2015 performance Cashflow generated from Risks Insufficient or unsustainable dividend cover operations was 2.33 times EBITDA, with the year could result in the dividend being reduced.
on year increase largely due to the introduction of the GTR franchise in September 2014.
2015 performance Dividend cover was in line with our policy at 2.02 times earnings on a In particular, 107m of working capital benefit in pre-IAS 19 basis.
2014 15 was due to the timing of GTR franchise payments, which is expected to reverse in 2015 16.
Further to a 4.3% increase in the interim dividend, the Board has proposed a final dividend of 63.4p We manage payments and receipts closely to per share, increasing the full year dividend to 90.0p, convert operating profit into operating cash.
The nature of our rail business can lead to large Had the dividend been maintained at 84.5p, cover working capital movements at certain times of would have been 2.15 times earnings.
year, which can result in some fluctuations from year to year due to timing of payments and receipts.
2020 target Maintain adequate dividend cover throughout the economic cycle, in line with our Our London bus contracts run for five years with policy of two times cover, excluding the impact of a possible two year extension.
requirements in this division are impacted by the timing of contract renewals.
2020 target To match or exceed cashflow generated from operations to EBITDA.
REMUNERATION Directors remuneration is linked to performance against this strategic priority, particularly relating to operating profit and cashflow.
