OUR MARKETS Our current bus and rail businesses operate in the UK, predominantly in London and the south east.
In the three decades that Go-Ahead has operated in these markets, we have delivered strong growth organically and through acquisitions.
Public transport brings benefits to individuals, communities and the nation We strive to enable people to use their time travelling productively by as a whole.
Economically, it connects workers to jobs and enables trade.
creating comfortable environments and providing innovations such as Socially, it provides access to employment, education, and health care, and on board WiFi and mobile phone charging points.
For many, especially older people, people with Research by the Independent Transport Commission shows that the disabilities and children, public transport is often the only viable option.
end to end journeys that people take are increasingly being split across In the UK, the population continues to increase and car ownership is rising, different modes.
This supports our view that integrated transport solutions creating greater traffic congestion, with 55% of car journeys made being are a vital part of todays transport network.
Go-Ahead already works 1 under five miles.
Public transport helps to reduce levels of traffic on the with other transport companies and local authorities to promote road, improve carbon emissions and reduce travel times.
integrated travel, with multi-operator smartcards in Tyne and Wear, Oxford and Brighton.
It is important for us to listen to our customers and understand how their travel behaviours are changing and what is important to them.
As an experienced transport operator we are mindful of new and Understanding our customers enables us to innovate and evolve to increased competition that could impact our business.
As the market continue meeting their changing demands.
is constantly changing, we too are always developing our approach to ensure we maintain competitive advantage in the areas and markets Like most customer facing businesses, we use market and wider in which we operate.
economic data to help us understand trends but do not solely rely on this.
We believe the best way to understand our customers behaviour OUR CORE MARKETS is to ask our customers themselves for their views, as well as analysing Our current bus and rail businesses operate in the UK, predominantly travelling and purchasing behaviour through our various ticketing channels.
in London and the south east.
In the three decades that Go-Ahead has Go-Aheads companies undertake passenger research to ensure customers operated in these markets, we have delivered strong growth organically needs are understood and are met.
Read more about our approach to understanding our customers from page 22 The London bus and UK rail markets are regulated by Transport for London TfL and the Office of Rail Regulation respectively.
Both markets The way people use technology has changed in recent years.
In the last operate under an established and successful model, and while the rail three years alone the number of adults in the UK using smartphones industry faced disruption following the Governments suspension of the has risen from 39% to 66%.
Now, 90% of 16 to 19 year olds own a franchise bidding process after the failed West Coast franchise competition smartphone and usage by 55-64 year olds has reached an all-time high 2 in 2012, the revised franchising timetable is underway and the market is of 50%.
We strive to take advantage of technological advancements and stabilising.
There is also currently some uncertainty regarding the future of improve the services we provide.
For a number of years weve led the English regional bus markets in anticipation of the Governments proposed industry in our use of smart ticketing, with the largest transport smartcard Bus Bill, potentially linked to a Devolution Bill.
Over the last two years we have developed mobile apps with features such as real-time information to give customers access to up-to-the minute information on their own devices.
66% The proportion of adults in the UK using smartphones has risen from 39% to 66% 1 Government policy local transport.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 14 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The Government has demonstrated its commitment to a strong transport POPULATION network through its pledge to invest 15bn by 2021 as part of its Road Population growth is a key driver for growth in public transport.
Since the bus Investment Strategy, and 38bn on the rail network by 2019.
Despite some industry was privatised in 1987, the UKs population has risen by 13% and it 3 planned infrastructure projects being put on hold, large scale programmes such is forecast to grow a further 13% to 73.2million over the next 20 years.
The as the Thameslink Programme and Crossrail demonstrate the commitment highest rates of growth have been seen in London, where there is a direct to building a stronger rail network for the future.
TfL plans to make significant correlation between population growth and rising passenger numbers on investments in its bus network over the coming years, to support the growing buses in the capital.
TfL estimates Londons population to be growing by population in the capital.
a tube full of people every three days.
As well as investment, Government and local authority policies are also critical More people are now living in urban areas, where traffic congestion for in ensuring an efficient public transport system, such as bus lanes in city centres.
In 2013, a DfT survey found 45% of respondents Our main competition in our markets comes from private and commercial thought traffic congestion was a problem, up from 39% the year before.
car-based transport alongside other bus and rail operators.
Go-Ahead is able to compete in its markets due to its expertise, experience and reputation as OUR STRENGTHS AS AN OPERATOR: a high quality operator of value for money services.
Understanding and meeting the needs of the travelling public in our local markets, delivering good quality services and value for money FACTORS AFFECTING OUR MARKETS Developing strong local brands THE ECONOMY Delivering safe and efficient vehicle operations During the economic downturn in 2008 09, GDP fell by around 6% and did 3 not return to its pre-downturn levels until 2013.
Unlike many sectors that Providing excellent customer service, for both our passengers and experience volatility with economic changes, the bus and rail markets remained our transport authority customers relatively stable through this period.
Go-Ahead in particular, showed resilience Adopting a partnership approach in developing and operating at this time with consistent growth in passenger volumes between 2008 and services which create long term value for all parties involved 2013, demonstrating the strength of our business model and strategy.
Economic Operating on large and complex transport networks prospects look strong for the UK, with forecast GDP growth of 2.7% and 2.6% 4 Marketing our services to passengers in 2015 and 2016 respectively.
Employing experienced management who are committed to 3 Office for National Statistics.
supporting and developing our people while delivering high quality 4 British Chamber of Commerce.
services and sustainable shareholder value REGIONAL BUS MARKET SHARE LONDON BUS MARKET SHARE RAIL MARKET SHARE 7% 24% 27% 23% 7% 24% 12% 27% 11% Stagecoach Go-Ahead Go-Ahead RATP Govia FirstGroup Abellio FirstGroup 20% National Express 6% Comfort DelGro 19% 8% Stagecoach 27% Arriva 9% Tower Transit Arriva 15% Other 29% Arriva 17% 5% Abellio 14% Others 12% 15% 1% Stagecoach Others Go-Ahead estimates.
com 15 OUR MARKETS CONTINUED EXPLORING NEW MARKETS CHARACTERISTICS OF THE MARKETS WE ARE Go-Ahead has successfully operated in the UK bus and rail market for EXPLORING: several decades, over which time it has built a broad and in depth skill Cultural similarities to the UK set covering complex and busy public transport networks.
Strong economic credentials The Group is exploring opportunities in other markets, outside the High demand for public transport UK.
Our longstanding approach to development has been to seek Stable political outlook opportunities that deliver value to our shareholders.
We do not make strategic investments which increase market share without generating Growing population clear returns.
We look for markets that fit with our strategy and risk appetite and to which we can bring knowledge, experience and expertise.
Currently, we are actively pursuing contract opportunities in the German rail market and the Singaporean bus market and have gained valuable knowledge and bidding experience over the past year.
MARKET CHALLENGES REGIONAL BUS: LONDON BUS: RAIL: Infrastructure improvements in some of our TfL has acknowledged that passenger volume The large scale infrastructure project, the operating areas that will deliver long term targets have not been met due to rising levels of Thameslink Programme, continues to impact benefits are resulting in significant roadworks traffic congestion.
The number of roadworks on on our ability to operate some of our services and disruption in the shorter term TfLs road network rose 43% in the period to to our usual target levels.
We are reliant on April 2015, compared to the same time last year.
other parties, such as Network Rail, delivering The local economy in the north east has not TfL expects reliability of the bus network to their contractual obligations recovered at the same rate as other areas in return to best ever levels by 2016 17 which we operate.
Unemployment there stands 3 at 8.1% compared to a UK average of 5.6%.
Passenger volumes have fallen in this area as a result of weaker economic conditions The Governments plans regarding the Bus Bill and possible links to devolution are currently unknown and this creates uncertainty in this market, which may reduce investment by operators 3 Office for National Statistics.
UK population to grow 13% over the next 20 years The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16
