6 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Abbeville case study Abbeville Apartments has been designed specifically for renting.
With customer needs leading the design, the 100 apartments all come with double-sized bedrooms, lots ofstorage and appealing communal features such as a residents lounge, fitness studio, communal garden and aloading bay for moving inand out.
As one of the UKs leading professional Amenities such as parks, shops and landlords, established in 1912, we restaurants are also within easy walking have applied our long-term investment distance and Grainger has taken care approach to this building.
We offer to provide residents with space to flexible tenancies for a period of up interact right on their doorstep, with to three years and transparent fees.
a landscaped private courtyard and a To ensure great customer service, communal residents lounge with free we have a dedicated property WIFI and coffee.
management team based on-site, and an online tenant portal where successful launch occupants can communicate directly Lettings at Abbeville Apartments with their building manager, request were very strong.
In less than eight a repair and find and store all the weeks since the scheme launched information they need for living in the building was fully let.
of demand for the homes was Sustainability was a key consideration exceptionally high with over 1,000 in design and construction.
The heating registered interested parties, leading and hot water supply is provided to rental levels being ahead of plan.
by acombined heat and power Furthermore, 40% of the customers unit complemented by photovoltaic have opted for a three-year tenancy panels on the roof.
This is not only great installed aHeating Interface Unit for the customers concerned as a smart meter into every apartment it provides greater security and to encourage greater awareness of certainty but it is also a positive trend energy consumption.
for Grainger as it reduces costs and The design also promotes healthy the potential for voids.
It has a large, conveniently generates gross rent of c. 1.5m.
located bike storage area and a 24-hour fitness studio.
our custoMers 16% Work in the IT profession 31 57% 84% 16% Work in financial services AverAGe previousLy previousLy Lived AGe rented in London 13% Are teachers or health care professionals sustAinABiLity FeAtures Sedum green Photovoltaic Smart meters Combined heat roof cells and power unit Strategic report Governance Financials 7
