Corporate governance DIRECTORS REPORT AND DISCLOSURES The directors present their annual report together with the audited Share capital financial statements of the company and the group for the 52 weeks Details of the authorised and issued share capital of the company, ended 3 May 2015. which comprises a single class of shares, ordinary shares of 12p, are set out in note 25 to the accounts.
The rights attaching to the shares are set out in the articles of association.
There are no special Profits and dividends control rights in relation to the companys shares and the company The groups profit before taxation and exceptional items for the is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that period amounted to 168.5m 2014 53 weeks: 173.1m.
An interim may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on dividend of 7.95p per share 2014: 7.60p was paid on 23January 2015. votingrights.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 21.80p per ordinary share 2014: 20.80p, making a total dividend forthe year of 29.75p per share A total of 668k ordinary shares, with an aggregate nominal value of 2014: 28.40p.
Subject to the approval ofshareholders at theAGM, 83.5k were allotted, for cash, during the period in connection with thefinal dividend will be paid on 14September 2015 to shareholders the companys sharesave and executive option schemes.
In addition on the register at the close ofbusiness on 14 August 2015. a further 111k shares were acquired by the company to satisfy awards under the companys deferred share option scheme.
Directors The company makes regular use of the employee benefit trust Details of the current directors are given on page 37.
Rob Rowley EBT to satisfy the exercise of share options and will make market and Kirk Davis were appointed to the board on 18 July 2014 and purchases of the companys shares from time to time to ensure that 3November 2014 respectively.
During the year Matthew Fearn it has sufficient shares to enable it to do so.
During July 2014, the stepped down from the board with effect from 29 September 2014 due EBT purchased a total of 500k shares at a total price of 4.206m.
to his illness, and John Brady retired from the board on 27 July 2014, The average share price was 841.1p per share.
having served as a non-executive director fornine years.
The board has recommended that all of the directors offer Purchase of own shares themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
In accordance with the companys articles of association, authority was sought at the last AGM to purchase up to 10% of the companys Details of the directors service agreements, remuneration, and shares in issue as at 21 July 2014.
The authority, which has not been interests in share options and awards are set out in the directors exercised, was approved and remains exercisable until the next remuneration report.
There have been no changes in their interests annual general meeting or 8 February 2017, whichever is earlier.
between 3 May 2015 and the date of this report.
The directors have again sought approval for the authority topurchase the companys own shares.
Directors interests in shares The beneficial interests of each of the directors and their immediate Allotment of shares families in the ordinary share capital of the company are shown below: In connection with the proposed acquisition of Spirit Pub Company plc, 4 May 2014 3 May 2015 on 13 January 2015, at a general meeting of the company and pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006, the shareholders approved Rooney Anand 381,782 467,265 the authority of the directors to allot shares up to an aggregate Tim Bridge 1,389,998 1,438,531 nominal value of 11.25m.
This authority, which is in addition to Mike Coupe 2,000 2,000 theauthority to allot shares granted at the last AGM, shall expire on31 December 2015.
Kirk Davis Ian Durant 22,320 22,320 Voting rights Rob Rowley In a general meeting of the company, on a show of hands, every Lynne Weedall 2,000 2,000 member who is present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote.
On a poll every member who is present in At 3 May 2015, Tim Bridge had a non-beneficial interest in 87,900 person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which they 2014: 87,900 shares, in addition to the holding shown above.
The AGM notice gives full details of deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of resolutions to be considered There have been no changes in the interests of the directors atthe meeting.
No voting rights will be exercised in respect of any own shares held by the company.
Interests in contracts No director had a material interest in any contract, other than an Transfer of shares employment contract, that was significant in relation to the groups business at any time during the period.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the company other than those which may from time to time be applicable under existing laws and regulations for example under the Market Substantial shareholdings AbuseDirective.
The company has been notified of the following interests in 3% ormore of the issued share capital of the company: In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, directors of the company and persons discharging 3 May 2015 30 June 2015 managerial responsibility are required to obtain prior approval Standard Life Investments Limited 13.94% 8.06% from the company to deal in the companys securities, and are Capital Research Global Investors 11.34% 9.17% prohibited from dealing during closed periods.
UBS Investment Bank 5.95% 3% 1 Royal London Asset Management 3.02% 3.02% 1.
Formal notification of a change to shareholding not received before 30 June 2015.
We have assumed that the shareholding remains unchanged.
58 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Change of control Communications with shareholders All of the companys share incentive plans contain provisions Shareholders who are interested in signing up to e-communications relating to a change of control and full details of these plans are should refer to the shareholders information page for further provided in the directors remuneration report.
Outstanding information on how to register via www.
options and awards would normally vest and become exercisable ona change of control, subject to the satisfaction of performance Charitable donations conditions, if applicable, at that time.
The group continues to support community initiatives and charitable causes, in particular Macmillan Cancer Support, fulldetails of which The groups banking facility agreements contain provisions entitling are given in the corporate social responsibility section of this annual the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the report.
The group makes nopolitical donations.
event of a change of control.
Certain of the companys trading contracts also contain similar provisions.
Employment and recruitment policies There are two employees who, on a change of control of the company It is the companys policy to ensure that employees are recruited, resulting in the termination of their employment, would be entitled selected, developed, remunerated and promoted on the basis of to compensation for loss of office.
However, in the context of the their skills and suitability for the work performed.
The company company as a whole, these agreements are fide minimis.
iscommitted to treating all colleagues fairly and equally and will endeavour to provide workplace adaptations and training for colleagues or candidates who have a disability and colleagues Articles of association whobecome disabled during their employment.
The companys articles of association may only be amended byspecial resolution at general meetings of shareholders.
The company values colleague engagement across the business and produces a monthly publication that is circulated to all employees Appointment and replacement of directors containing company news and articles, which is circulated to all The number of directors on the board shall be no less than five colleagues.
In addition, the company provides regular briefings and normore than twelve.
Directors may be appointed by the company presentations to staff on the companys performance and strategy by ordinary resolution or by the board of directors.
A director aswell as annual and interim results.
The company operates an appointed by the board of directors holds office until the next HMRC approved share save scheme open to all employees which following AGM, and is then eligible for election by the shareholders.
helps to align employees with the performance of the company.
Thecurrent scheme is due to expire later in the year and a resolution The articles provide that at each AGM all those directors who were toapprove a new scheme will be proposed at the AGM.
elected, or last re-elected, at the AGM held in the third calendar year before the current year shall retire from office and may stand We are a people business so it is vitally important that we recruit for re-election.
In practice directors submit themselves for annual and train the right people to deliver value, service and quality to re-election in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate ourcustomers.
The company works in partnership with local Governance Code.
communities to promote and provide opportunities for all.
The company may by ordinary resolution, of which special notice Human rights has been given, remove any director from office.
Even though the company does not have a formal human rights policy, it is committed to conducting business with integrity Any director automatically ceases to be a director if i they give the andfairness.
company a written notice of resignation, ii they give the company a written offer to resign and the directors decide to accept this offer, iii all of the other directors remove them from office by notice in Corporate responsibility writing served upon them, iv they are or have been suffering from Disclosure of the groups greenhouse gas emissions is contained mental ill health and have a court order for their detention orthe within the corporate responsibility statement on page 35. appointment of a guardian made in respect of them, v abankruptcy order is made against them or they make any arrangement or Directors and officers indemnity insurance composition with their creditors generally, vi they are prohibited from being a director by law or vii they are absent from board The group has taken out insurance to indemnify, against third party meetings for six months without leave and the other directors proceedings, the directors of the company against third party resolve that their office should be vacated.
proceedings whilst serving on the board of the company and of any subsidiary.
This cover indemnifies all employees of the group who serve on the boards of all subsidiaries.
These indemnity policies Directors ordinary remuneration subsisted throughout the year and remain in place at the date The ordinary remuneration of the directors refers to the remuneration ofthisreport.
of the non-executive directors who are paid by way of directors fees and does not relate to the salaries of the executive directors.
Approval Financial instruments will be sought at the upcoming AGM to increase the level of the ordinary remuneration of the directors to 600,000 per annum in The groups policy on the use of financial instruments is set out aggregate.
It is not proposed that the non-executive directors fees innote 23. willbe increased materially from the levels which are stated in the annual report.
Post balance sheet events Details of events occurring after the year end are set out in note 31.
Powers of the directors The business of the company is managed by the directors who may exercise all the powers of the company, subject to its articles of association, any relevant legislation and any directions given by thecompany by passing a special resolution at a general meeting.
Inparticular, the directors may exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, issue shares, appoint and remove directors, and recommend and declare dividends.
Annual report 2015 GREENE KING PLC 59 Corporate governance DIRECTORS REPORT AND DISCLOSURES CONTINUED Directors statement as to disclosure of information Auditor tothe auditor Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue The directors who were members of the board at the time of inoffice and a resolution to re-appoint the firm as the companys approving the directors report are listed on page 37.
Having made auditor will be proposed at the AGM.
enquiries of fellow directors and of the companys auditor, each ofthese directors confirms that: Annual general meeting The AGM will be held at 12 noon on Tuesday 8 September 2015 at to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, there is no the Millennium Grandstand, Rowley Mile Racecourse Conference information relevant to the preparation of their report of which Centre, Newmarket, Suffolk.
The notice of the AGM is set out the companys auditor is unaware: and intheseparate circular to shareholders.
each director has taken all the steps a director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information The directors consider that all of the resolutions set out in the notice and to establish that the companys auditor is awareof that information.
of AGM are in the best interests of the company and its shareholders as a whole.
The directors will be voting in favour of them and unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each of them.
Going concern The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to By order of the board affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in the chief executives review.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial review.
In addition, note 23 to the financial statements Lindsay Keswick includes the groups objectives, policies and processes for managing Company secretary its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its 30 June 2015 financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure tocredit and liquidity risk.
The directors are of the opinion that the groups forecast and projections, which take account of reasonably possible changes intrading performance, and its stress testing to take account of expected payments in respect of uncertain tax positions show that the group should be able to operate within its current borrowing facilities and comply with its financing covenants.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis inpreparing the annual report and financial statements.
60 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2015
