Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information BOARD OF DIRECTORS TIM BRIDGE, DL 66 ROONEY ANAND 51 KIRK DAVIS 43 MIKE COUPE 54 Chairman Chief executive Chief financial officer Non-executive director N N A R Commenced role 2005 Commenced role 2005 Commenced role 2014 Commenced role 2011 Appointed totheboard in 1977 Appointed totheboard in 2001 Tim Bridge joined Greene King Rooney Anand joined the group Kirk Davis joined Greene King Mike Coupe is the chief in 1970 and was appointed to as managing director of the from JD Wetherspoon plc executive of J Sainsbury plc the board in 1977.
He held a brewing division and was where he had been finance andalso brings knowledge and variety of positions within the promoted to chief executive director since 2011.
He has experience from working for group, becoming managing in2005.
He was previously extensive retail experience other large, multi-site retail director in 1990 and chief president and managing director having held senior finance roles organisations, including Asda executive in 1994.
In 2005 of the UK bakery division at Sara at Tesco and Marks & Spencer and Tesco, before that.
hestepped down as chief Lee, the international consumer and is a member of the executive to take over the goods business, and, prior to that, Chartered Institute of roleofchairman.
SENIOR MANAGEMENT The senior management team comprises Rooney Anand, chief executive, Kirk Davis, chief financial officer, the managing directors of each of the groups business unitsand the heads of key functional areas, including retail, trading and marketing, HRand property.
They meet once every four weeks under the chairmanship ofthe IAN DURANT 56 ROB ROWLEY 65 LYNNE WEEDALL 48 chief executive.
Non-executive director Senior independent Non-executive director non-executive director N A R N A R N R KEY TO COMMITTEES Commenced role 2007 Commenced role 2014 Commenced role 2012 N Nomination committee A Audit committee Ian Durant is a former finance Rob Rowley joined the board in Lynne Weedall is currently director at Liberty International July 2014 and has extensive board group HR director for Dixons R Remuneration committee plc and has extensive financial experience gained as a former Carphone Warehouse Group plc experience.
He is also chairman finance director of the Reuters and brings to the board a ofCapital & Counties Properties Group plc.
He is currently a wealthof experience of HR PLC and Greggs plc and a non-executive director and andorganisational development non-executive director of Home chairman of the audit committees gained from a variety of roles Retail Group plc.
Ian stood at Taylor Wimpey plc, inthe retail sector.
down as senior independent Moneysupermarket.
com Group director at the end of the PLC and Morgan Advanced financial year.
Rob was appointed senior independent director at the start of the financial year 201516.
Annual report 2015 GREENE KING PLC 37
