Strategic report OUR MARKETS MARKET OVERVIEW 1 UK MARKET: LFL GROWTH & BEER DUTY PER 1% ABV HL CONTRIBUTION FROM NEW SPACE ROLLING MAT 4.0% 20 3.5% 3.0% 15 2.5% 2.0% 10 1.5% 1.0% 5 0.5% 0.0% 0 UK market LFL growth UK market growth in new space 1. https: www.
The introduction of a lower drink driving limit in Scotland has Introduction changed consumer behaviour in that localised market.
The new The key markets in which we operate are the UK drinking out, lower limit of 50mg of alcohol was brought in without any eating out and staying out markets.
We aim to grow our share of consultation and has had a significantly negative impact on pub these markets by utilising our industry-leading brands, our high sales across Scotland, with rural pubs in small communities quality asset base and our talented teams to offer customers mostaffected.
unrivalled value, service and quality.
We maintain our support for an alcohol minimum unit price MUP.
Over the last 12 months, while sector LFL sales growth has been We believe MUP, alongside other measures such as improved more subdued than in previous years within Greene King Retail, alcohol education, can be a highly effective measure in reducing ourlargest and fastest growing business, we have successfully irresponsible retailing and consuming of alcohol, therefore helping outperformed the total market and grown total sales by 5.9%.
LFL to reduce the costs to society of rising alcohol-related illness beer volumes in Pub Partners, our tenanted, leased and franchised andcrime.
division, have also outperformed the UK on-trade beer market, while in our Brewing & Brands business own-brewed volumes of our core Economic ale brands have continued to outperform the total UK ale market.
The macro-economic backdrop continued to improve during the year, with further GDP growth and consumers finally seeing a Environmental analysis return to real income growth driven by both improving employment Political and slowing inflation.
Consumer confidence trends have been The recent election result has provided more certainty as to the equally positive.
direction of policy towards the pub industry which is to be welcomed.
In the last 12 months, under a coalition Government and with There has been a lag in these positive indicators feeding through adevolved Scottish parliament, the pub industry had more than tosustainable increases in consumer spend in the UK eating and itsfair share of political involvement.
drinking out market, with spend on bigger ticket items the clear beneficiary of the economic recovery to date.
Due to regional While we were pleased to see a third beer duty cut in three years at variances in employment levels and exposure to slowing inflation, the pre-election budget, we continue to believe that the statutory code notall consumers have enjoyed a similar return to real income for pub companies, brought in within the Small Business, Enterprise growth asdemonstrated by the continued outperformance and Employment Act, is unnecessary and has the potential for material, oftheLondonmarket.
unintended consequences for the wider pub industry.
Although we believe we will be able to mitigate the potential financial impact of Nevertheless, customers continue to treat themselves and we have themarket rent only MRO option, essentially an option forlicensees traded well over key events during the year.
We continue to evolve to go free of their beer tie, the introduction of this option will create and tailor our customer-focused strategy to ensure that we capture significant additional red tape for the ultimate benefit ofjust a small any incremental spend in our markets and that our portfolio of number of licensees across the UK.
brands and concepts is well positioned as the effects of real income growth is increasingly felt by our consumers.
16 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2015 May-13 Jun-13 Jul-13 Aug-13 Sep-13 Oct-13 Nov-13 Dec-13 Jan-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Apr-15 Jan-94 Oct-96 Jan-98 Apr-00 Jun-02 Mar-04 Mar-05 Mar-07 Dec-08 Mar-10 Dec-11 Mar-13 Mar-15 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CONSUMER CONFIDENCE IN PERSONAL GREENE KING SHARE OF THE MANAGED FINANCIAL SITUATION AND BRANDED PUB MARKET 20102015 15 12.5% 10 12.0% 5 0 11.5% -5 11.0% -10 -15 10.5% -20 10.0% -25 -30 9.5% GK market share GK market share Last 12 months Next 12 months by turnover by number ofsites Greene King figures are based on the relevant company years.
Market numbers are based on Allegra Project Restaurant 2014 and Allegra Project Pub 2015.
The UK provincial staying out market enjoyed a strong year in 2014 Social benefiting from the economic recovery and a buoyant travel market.
Alcohol consumption in the UK continues to decline with changes RevPAR revenue per available room grew at 7% in the provinces, in lifestyle including a greater focus on health a contributory factor.
outperforming the London staying out market, and driven by increases However, 2014 was a positive year for beer sales, with total sales 3 1 in both occupancy and the average daily rate.
The 2015 outlook for rising 0.8% in 2014 following nine years of decline and skewed to the UK staying out market is positive.
Ongoing improvements in both the off-trade, where total beer sales grew by 3.2% compared to the 1 the UK and international economies are anticipated to feed through on-trade where total beer sales declined by 1.3%.
Beer sales have to further growth in both business and leisure related travel in 2015, undoubtedly been helped by three years of beer duty cuts and further with contributions from inbound visitors and domestic staycations.
supported by the increasing popularity of craft beer, as demonstrated by the 6.4% increase in the premium market in the year encompassing 1 increases in both the on and the off-trade channels.
Greene King performance We continue to grow our market share in our core markets of eating The UK eating out market continues to grow with increases in both out, drinking out and staying out.
Over the course of our five-year the proportion of adults eating out of home and the frequency with strategy plan we are pleased to have increased our market share ofthe which they do so.
In Q4 2014 84% of adults said that they visited pubs UK branded and managed pub market from 10.1% to 11.3% byturnover, 2 for food.
Hectic lifestyles and the desire to treat themselves or while maintaining our market share by number of sites at 12%.
others are key drivers of this trend and consumers are increasingly Inthe staying-out market we have increased our share by turnover interested in informal dining great value food and drink across by ten basis points to 0.2%, led by our Old English Inns portfolio.
In total we have added 172 sites to our Retail business over the last The UK pub market continues to develop in order to meet these five years aided by acquisitions such as Cloverleaf, Real Pubs and customer-led trends.
For example, many pubs have improved their Capital Pubs.
These acquisitions have performed well and together coffee offer and are targeting breakfast sales as well as the more have achieved returns broadly in line with initial plans in addition traditional out-of-home dining occasions.
In many cases, the distinction toincreasing our exposure to the buoyant London market.
between a pub and a restaurant or casual dining outlet isdiminishing and, more generally, the various sub-sectors in the UKeating-out 1.
BBPA MAT December 2014. market are less distinct.
Managed and branded pubs are the key 2.
Allegra Project Pub 2015. drivers of the evolution of the pub sector and between 2012 and 2015 are forecast to grow turnover at an average annual rate of 3.9% 3.
PwC UK hotels forecast 2014, PwC UK hotels forecast 2015.
2 compared with the forecast total pub market growth of1.1%.
