Strategic report Governance Financials 75 In accordance with UK Financial Conduct Prepare the financial statements on Authoritys Listing Rules, the information the going concern basis unless it is other to be included in the Annual Report inappropriate to presume that the Group and Accounts, where applicable, and the parent company will continue disclosures under LR9.8.
4is set out in Note 17 on in business.
page 115 in relation to the dividend The Directors are responsible for keeping waiver arrangements.
adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Directors interests in significant companys transactions and disclose contracts with reasonable accuracy at any time the No Directors were materially interested in financial position of the parent company any contract of significance.
and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act Statement of Directors responsibilities 2006.
They have general responsibility for The Directors are responsible for preparing taking such steps as are reasonably open the Annual report and the Group and to them to safeguard the assets of the parent company financial statements Group and to prevent and detect fraud and in accordance with applicable law other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, Company law requires the Directors the Directors are also responsible for to prepare Group and parent company preparing a Strategic report, Directors financial statements for each financial report, Directors Remuneration report year.
Under that law they are required to and Corporate Governance Statement prepare the Group financial statements that complies with that law and in accordance with IFRSs as adopted those regulations.
by the EU and applicable law and have The Directors are responsible for the elected to prepare the parent company maintenance and integrity of the corporate financial statements in accordance with UK and financial information included on Accounting Standards.
Legislation in Under company law the Directors must the UK governing the preparation and not approve the financial statements unless dissemination of financial statements may they are satisfied that they give a true and differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or Responsibility statement of the loss for that period.
In preparing each of Directors in respect of the annual the Group and parent company financial financial report statements, the Directors are required to: We confirm that to the best of Select suitable accounting policies and our knowledge: then apply them consistently: The financial statements, prepared Make judgements and estimates that are in accordance with the applicable set reasonable and prudent: of accounting standards, give a true For the Group financial statements, and fair view of the assets, liabilities, state whether they have been prepared financial position and profit or loss of the in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by Company and the undertakings included the EU: in the consolidation taken as a whole: and For the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable The Strategic report and Directors UK Accounting Standards have been report includes a fair review of the followed, subject to any material development and performance of the departures disclosed and explained in the business and the position of the issuer parent company financial statements: and and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together 76 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance GoveRnAnce continued with a description of the principal risks Financial risk management employee involvement and uncertainties that they face.
Details are included in Note 29 to the The Group places considerable value on financial statements.
the involvement of its employees and has We consider the Annual Report and continued its practice of keeping them Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced Sustainability informed on matters affecting them as and understandable and provides the Our approach to sustainability is based on employees, for example, eligibility to join information necessary for Shareholders our assessment of the potential risk and Company share schemes, and on the to assess the Groups position and opportunity to our business.
In the year various factors affecting the performance performance, business model and strategy.
ended 30 September 2015, the Group of the Group.
Communication is made The Directors have taken all the steps achieved 65% and partially achieved 6% using the intranet, The Source, and that they ought to have taken as a Director of the applicable sustainability targets that through regular meetings with, and in order to make themselves aware of any it committed to meeting by that date.
relevant audit information and to establish Further information is provided in pages 30 that the Companys auditors are aware of to 36.
Independent auditors and disclosure that information.
ofinformation to auditors The maintenance and integrity of the International operations As far as each Director is aware, there is Grainger plc website is the responsibility Our German portfolio continues to be no relevant audit information of which of the Directors: the work carried out by centrally managed and controlled from the Companys auditors are unaware.
the auditors does not involve consideration ouroverseas offices.
Each Director has taken steps that they of these matters and, accordingly, the ought to have taken as Directors in order Health and safety auditors accept no responsibility for any to make themselves aware of any relevant Grainger has a well-developed Health and changes that may have occurred to the audit information and to establish that Safety Management System for the internal financial statements since they were initially the Companys auditors are aware of and external control of health and safety presented on the website.
risks, which is managed by the Director of Legislation in the UK governing the health and safety.
This includes the use of preparation and dissemination of financial Political donations online risk management systems for the statements may differ from legislation in In accordance with the Companys policy, identification, mitigation and reporting of other jurisdictions.
no political donations were made in 2015 real time health and safety management 2014: nil.
Directors indemnities and insurance information.
The Group Health and Safety We have in place contractual entitlements Committee consists of members from Takeover directive for the Directors of the Company and of across the organisation.
The Committee On a change of control, the core banking its subsidiaries to claim indemnification continues to monitor the delivery of legal facilities described in Note 28 to the by the Company in respect of certain compliance in health and safety through accounts will become repayable should liabilities which might be incurred by them audit and implementation of improvements alternative terms for continuing the facilities in the course of their duties as Directors.
to enable the Group to become best not be agreed with the lenders within These arrangements, which constitute in class.
There are no other material qualifying third-party indemnity provision matters relating to a change of control of employment of disabled persons and qualifying pension scheme indemnity the Company following a takeover bid.
The Company gives full and fair provision, have been established in The Directors have confirmed approval of consideration to applications for compliance with the relevant provisions the Directors report.
employment made by disabled persons, of the Companies Act 2006.
They include having regard to their particular aptitudes provision for the Company to fund the By order of the Board.
In the event of an employee costs incurred by Directors in defending becoming disabled every effort is made to certain claims against them in relation to ensure that their employment within the Adam McGhin their duties as Directors of the Company Company Secretary Company continues and that appropriate or its subsidiaries.
The Company also training is arranged where necessary.
It is maintains an appropriate level of Directors the policy of the Company that the training, and officers liability insurance.
career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
