S S T E A U K G E A H E O L L L D O E C R S Strategic report OUR BUSINESS MODEL BUILDING THE BEST PUBS AND BEER BUSINESS IN BRITAIN The Greene King business model balances strong cash generation with investment aimed at further positioning us towards long-term growth markets and thereby delivering sustainable growth and dividends for our shareholders.
Robust corporate governance and corporate social responsibility, centred on our people and our customers, support ourbusinessmodel.
Further underpinning our business model is a financial strategyto maximise thestrength, flexibility and efficiency ofour balance sheet, with the aim ofsupporting growth throughinvestment in our existing estate and selectively acquiring new sites, while maintaining our progressive dividendpolicy.
As at 3 May 2015 we owned or operated 1,909 pubs, restaurantsand hotels andwe brew the countrys leadingcaskale brands.
PUB PARTNERS RETAIL BREWING & BRANDS CASH GENER ATOR GROWTH DRIVER CASH GENER ATOR 14 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2015 S H S A R E R M E H O T O S L D U E C R S Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information KEY BUSINESS DRIVERS RETAIL Our retail business is split into two divisions our more OPER ATIONAL PRIORITIES food-focused Destination Pubs and Restaurants division Consistently providing outstanding value, exceptional 466 sites and our more community-focused Local Pubs serviceand unbeatable quality to our customers division 594 sites.
Constantly innovating to ensure that we offer our The success of our Retail business is driven by our  and compelling experiences customers desire to eat and drink outside of their homes Selectively and strategically expanding our estate andis specifically determined by the number of customers we attract and the amount that they spend with us.
Ongoing training of our teams, who are crucial toourRetailsuccess Our principal revenue streams are food and drink available for consumption on our premises.
We gain further revenue from our accommodation offer at some sites, and a number ofour sites have gaming machines.
PUB PARTNERS Our Pub Partners business offers entrepreneurs the OPER ATIONAL PRIORITIES opportunity to operate our pubs in England and Scotland.
Continuing to recruit and retain quality licensees We offer a flexible range of agreements, for tenanted pubs, The offer of a flexible and attractive range of agreements leased pubs and franchised pubs.
toexisting and future licensees Ongoing training of our people to offer industry-leading Revenue in our Pub Partners business is principally achieved support to our licensees through the supply of beer and other drinks to our licensees and the rent that they pay us to have access to the pub and Selective and strategic pub disposals to ensure we our support.
We also derive a small portion of revenue maintainan attractive and cash-generative estate fromgaming machines.
BREWING & BRANDS Our Brewing & Brands division operates two breweries, OPER ATIONAL PRIORITIES onein Bury St Edmunds and the other in Dunbar.
Evolving our business model to pursue channels of growth within the sector such as the take-home and export markets We generate revenue in our Brewing & Brands business from the sale and distribution of ales produced by us in our own Maximising our market share and cash generation in markets breweries, and from the sale and distribution of drinks both such as the on-trade by ensuring we have an exciting and alcoholic and non-alcoholic produced by third parties.
appealing portfolio of own-brewed brands Rigorously training and investing in our people to deliver As well as to our internal customers in the other divisions, consistently high levels of service and quality we also sell our ales to other pub companies and to individual free trade customers.
A further important revenue stream is the sale of our own-brewed ales to supermarkets and other retail outlets and, increasingly, in the export market.
Annual report 2015 GREENE KING PLC 15
