STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY RETAIL STRATEGY GETTING INTO GEAR FACCAE REPUDAE PERIBUS ET SUMMARY OF OUR ISQUE ESSINCI LLABORR OVITE FIVE RETAIL STRATEGIC DERUM QUIAEREM VELECTATU PRIORITIES AS WE FUGIATIS EUM QUIBUS QUAM.
ENTER THE THIRD YEAR OF OUR PLAN.
On top of the 3-Gears programme we operate management development training programmes, Aspire and Accelerate, which helped us to fill around 60% Our of store management vacancies internally.
OUTLOOK 5-point retail By the end of FY16 we aim to have 80% of priorities support store colleagues through Gear 2 as well as two Gear 3 colleagues per store.
We will also turn sustainable our attention to annual as well as three-month colleague turnover.
long-term growth Offering a significantly enhanced retail experience for our customers and colleagues is imperative.
In the last two years we have reduced the number Halfords mission is to help of store colleagues by around 1,500, but at and inspire customers with the same time increased the average weekly contractual hours worked per colleague from 17 their life on the move by: to 25.
We also overhauled the recruitment process Supporting Drivers of Every and launched the 3-Gears training programme.
All of these are designed to increase colleague Car: Inspiring Cyclists of loyalty, engagement and product knowledge Every Age and: Equipping and expertise, which in turn leads to improved We are ensuring that Halfords has customer service.
This has been evidenced by an Families for their Leisure the products and services that uplift in the net promoter score from 55% in the Time.
our customers want and that they final quarter of FY13 to 77% in FY15.
In addition, turnover of colleagues within three months of choose us as their number one joining has reduced from over 20% in FY13 to destination to get them.
Our Retail engagement In order to do this, our products and services in score has increased from 64% prior to the Auto, Cycling and Leisure are constantly growing launch of Getting Into Gear to 81% in April 2015, and evolving.
Within Auto we have launched Car and Halfords climbed to 18th in the 2015 list of Parts Direct, giving customers access to 130,000 Sunday Times Best Companies To Work For.
car parts that were previously out of reach through Our 3-Gears training programme continued to Halfords.
In Cycling we have launched a new bike be rolled out: by the end of FY15 nearly all store brand, 13, as well as continuously refreshing and colleagues had attained Gear 1 accreditation, updating our ranges, including a new junior range 46% had qualified for Gear 2, along with over within Boardman and relaunching our Carrera Getting Into Gear 14 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 3 April 2015 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 STRATEGIC OUR FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION STRATEGY brand.
The acquisition of Boardman Bikes in June OUTLOOK 2014 gives us the opportunity to leverage the We anticipate refreshing a cumulative total of brand, as evidenced by the recent launch of a around 150 stores by the end of FY16.
the performance of our Cycle Republic stores to date has given us the confidence to open around Another key part of H Factor, is our growing 11 more by April 2016. involvement in the wider community, which is explained in more detail later in this review.
OUTLOOK Looking ahead, we will be introducing new ranges in childrens bikes, VooDoo and Boardman, as well as plugging some range gaps, including the introduction of female bikes in both the 13 and VooDoo brands.
Our involvement with the womens cycling Breeze partnership will increase and we will teach bike maintenance to even more children in stores and in schools.
In Auto we are launching new products, including a number of With changing customer shopping exclusive branded items, as well as implementing habits, online sales are becoming an extended range marketplace, which will further an ever increasing proportion of increase the quantity and range of products our total sales, particularly for available to our customers.
Since relaunching our website, including a mobileOur ability to offer great service enabled version in FY14, we have focused on continually upgrading and developing our online and products in-store and online is proposition.
During the year this included the built upon a solid infrastructure.
launch of Click & Collect in Ireland, live chat and At the outset of Getting Into Gear we explained online number-plate ordering.
In November 2014 how we needed to invest in our IT infrastructure.
we launched an eBay shop, opening up a new The first step was to fix the basics, including an channel for customers to shop with Halfords, and upgrade to our SAP system and a consolidation in March 2015 we refreshed the main website of data centres.
This has provided a secure design, improving the customer journey and and stable foundation on which to make further creating seasonal zones.
improvements and launch new initiatives, such as Over 90% of our online sales are picked up in an eBay shop.
Tablets were rolled out to all stores store, driving footfall into our shops and enabling during the year.
us to showcase our service offers and expertise.
No child went without their bike over Christmas Our social media presence has been and our website was stable and high customer strengthened, including an in-house digital service levels maintained throughout the Cyber Our journey to improve the overall studio that enables us to keep our YouTube site Weekend peak.
FY15 was, however, a challenging Halfords customer experience also well stocked with product reviews and how year for our Warehouse & Distribution function, requires changes to our physical to guides.
One of our campaigns, the Bike but we have learned a lot and have a mediumfootprint.
Whisperer, was award-winning during the year.
term plan going live in summer 2015 designed to maintain high customer service levels whilst OUTLOOK We have been learning as we progress through our mitigating future cost increases.
refresh programme and we now have a menu of In the year ahead we will commence development of a transactional Cycle Republic website as well options available to apply to stores, ranging from a OUTLOOK simple space swap to a full refresh.
By the end of the as launching the extended range marketplace.
We The year ahead will see improvements to store till will also be making Halfords stores available as year we had refreshed a total of 72 stores, with positive hardware as well as a roll-out of electronic vehicle response from customers and colleagues.
41 stores locations for customers to pick up parcels ordered registration lookups.
Within logistics, well embed from other selected retailers, giving us access to a received a space swap, which involves optimising our medium-term transport solution and review space allocation without changing the look and feel of new customer base.
the store, and 405 stores were implanted with the new cycle repair operating model, involving dedicated work stations, new tools and highly-trained mechanics.
Another part of Stores Fit to Shop is Cycle Republic, a new cycling-only store format targeted at the areas in which Halfords is under-represented: city centre locations, especially London, and the more premium and enthusiast sectors of the cycling market.
By March 2015 we had opened four of these shops.
