Sector Review Process Safety Products which protect assets and people at work.
Specialised interlocks which safely control critical processes.
Instruments which detect flammable and hazardous gases.
Explosion protection and corrosion monitoring products.
Philippe Felten Performance Sector Chief Executive, Process Safety Group Record sales and profits were achieved in our Process Safety KPIs target sector despite volatile market conditions resulting from the slide 1 Revenue growth 25.0% inglobal oil prices.
We increased our global footprint with additional 1 regional offices and sector-specific hubs to support collaboration Organic revenue growth constant currency 9.1% 5% 1 and cooperation.
Product development spend increased on the Profit growth 28.4% prior year to a new record level as we expanded our product 1 Organic profit growth constant currency 14.0% 5% portfolio to meet our twin aims ofmarket and geographic 2 Return on Sales 28.3% 18% diversification.
The acquisition of RCS expanded our range of 3 R&D % of Revenue 3.4% 4% products and it has continued to performwell.
Trading in the business met pre-acquisition targets.
Contribution to Group m 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Revenue % of Group Profit % of Group Revenue 159 127 126 122 103 Profit 45 35 32 29 24 22% 27% 1 4 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared to the equivalent prior year figures.
2 4 Return on Sales is defined as adjusted sector profit before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
3 S ector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
4 Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition items see Note 1 to the Accounts.
Global oil production continues to exceed demand, but demand is Market trends and growth drivers forecast to continue to grow during 2015.
The major oil producers Long-term growth in our Process Safety markets is supported by areindicating varying levels of capital expenditure reduction in new three key drivers: oilexploration activity.
The impact on mid and downstream activity population growth resulting in rising energy demand isless severe and there are significant regional variations regarding increasing and more stringent global health, safety and the extent of proposed cut backs.
With the majority of our sales in environmental regulations and legislation themid and downstream sectors, the underpin of increasing safety increasing development, complexity and geographic spread awareness and our strong regional presence in the USA, Middle East ofenergy resources and their safety requirements and Asia, we expect to maintain growth.
The global process safety market is forecast to continue to grow.
We are committed to developing products and technology Akey driver is aftermarket demand for replacement and upgrading platformswhich improve the safety and reliability of industrial ofolder safety systems to meet updated safety standards.
Investment in new oil and gas extraction techniques commitment to developing new products designed to meet new andthe delivery of conventional, unconventional and renewable standards assists our customers in maintaining compliance while energy resources has continued to support our sales growth.
minimising downtime and degradation of assets.
Throughout the world governments continue to impose stricter regulations to protect people and the environment from avoidable Due to the significant oil price fluctuation in the past year, many of process system failures.
We support regulatory development in themajor players in the international oil market are facing exceptional ourmarkets by having our staff on advisory bodies responsible short-term uncertainty.
However, new energy industry projects have forrecommending legislative change.
long lead times: despite the current global economic conditions, the worlds population continues to grow and demand for energy will continue to rise.
32 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Geographic trends Performance Underlying global growth in demand for energy, food, chemicals, Process Safety grew sales by 25% to 159m 2014: 127m and 1 water and metals continues to increase despite some regional profit by 28% to 45m 2014: 35m.
As a consequence of strong variations due to macro-economic issues.
The USA and Asia remain product margins and good operational management, return on buoyant.
The European market has returned to growth and the salesincreased to 28.3% 2014: 27.5%.
New product introductions emerging market of South America has been a key contributor to our contributed to both margin expansion and revenue growth through success in the last year.
Economic factors have reduced demand in diversification into new application niches.
India and Australia and we anticipate that a return to growth in these We achieved strong revenue growth in the USA, which was mostly areas will be a slow process.
organic, and in Asia Pacific, Middle East and South America mainly While new offshore fields have been identified in North and due to the contribution from the RCS acquisition.
The UKincreased SouthAmerica, and Africa, the current oil price cycle is delaying only marginally as a result of reduced North Sea investment.
Two sector companies relocated to new factories during 2014 15 and Governments worldwide are increasing programmes to eliminate an additional two undertook significant facility expansion, all without bribery and corruption from process safety contracting.
We adhere disruption to supply performance.
These investments ensured that tostrict Group and government guidelines to avoid projects we we maintained the quality and service expected by our customers.
believe are subject to these unwanted practices.
Outlook Strategy The long-term growth prospects in the Process Safety sector remain In the Process Safety sector, our strategy for growth focuses on: positive aswecontinue geographic and product expansion.
Our progress inthe food, pharmaceutical and chemical process markets geographic market diversification via shared regional hubs will continue to allows us to counter a short-term slowdown in the oil investment in new products to both diversify our markets and meet andgas market.
In the medium term these markets will continue to local market needs be a major contributor to our ongoing success.
Specialist markets acquisitions in adjacent markets inrailway infrastructure and logistics are expanding in line with our previous plans.
Our investment in new product development has increased again toanew record resulting in sales of products designed in the last We continue to search for acquisitions, particularly in non-intrusive three years maintaining a level of over 30% of total sales.
New corrosion monitoring, hazardous area maintenance and machinery technology and shorter product lifecycles, coupled with industrysafe access control.
leading quality and customer service, ensures that we maintain competitive advantage and improve customer value propositions.
This results in sales growth ahead of market growth.
The global footprint of our Process Safety companies continues to expand: we now have 22 manufacturing sites across five continents.
Regional sales and service centres have risen from 22 to 35 and we opened a new sector hub in Houston, USA during 2014 adding to ourexisting sector hubs in Brazil, UAE and Poland.
We continue todecentralise marketing resources into these facilities toensure that we rapidly identify local market opportunities and customer needs.
Developing internal collaboration and alliances within the sector supports growth and we continue technology partnerships with external companies where they will help us meetour strategic productgoals.
The acquisition of RCS, in the adjacent market of pipeline corrosion monitoring, expands our portfolio of critical safety products sold into the energy and utility markets to protect life and operational assets.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33
