S R T S U I T N R H O A T A O G T R M W A R N E O D F A P E R R C E I I O X P H O R C P O T E S U R R A D I F T I E O B N STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY AUTOCENTRES STRATEGY We want to build a loyal and satisfied customer BUILDING OUR AUTOCENTRES base, and this can BRAND IS AN ONGOING be achieved through our scale, convenient PROCESS AS WE LEVERAGE locations and technical OUR CAPABILITIES AND expertise.
SCALE TO STRENGTHEN OUR RELATIONSHIPS.
We recognise that with any brand, Give a service that trust is key to attracting and customers come retaining customers.
Our strategy back for to achieve this is four-pronged, While our convenient locations and consistent and at the centre are our people.
pricing can attract new customers, great service People who is what will keep them coming back.
We are love working creating a culture of customer service among Be first choice on cars our colleagues, where their skills, knowledge and for motorists attitude combine to form great relationships with Making our Autocentres the first choice for our customers.
motorists across the UK is both the first step and the ultimate aim of our strategy.
To attract and retain the most passionate and skilled colleagues to our autocentres, we We want to build a loyal and satisfied customer are focused on improving recruitment and base, and this can be achieved through our scale, engagement.
We offer competitive benefits, convenient locations and technical expertise.
ongoing technical training and are making Offering consistent service and pricing, such as improvements to working conditions.
To nurture our single price MOT, will help to position Halfords our colleagues abilities, we are prioritising training Autocentres as reliable and dependable across and development in line with the nation.
We aim to provide an easy online booking system, including mobile devices.
Getting Into Gear 16 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 3 April 2015 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 D N S A C E R U I B T S G I T I L S V O I D B E M R A E A O P R F A S S L C E A C H R P O V U E M I H O C E T R E B E G A T G H C D A A K N R T E A F V O E R L STRATEGIC OUR FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION STRATEGY that of the Halfords Retail business.
Alongside this, our apprenticeship programme is delivering colleagues with the values of quality service already instilled.
Around 200 apprentices are on board so far, with more being recruited towards STRATEGIC DELIVERY the goal of having one in every centre.
In order to continue learning, we regularly review CROYDON feedback from our customers.
All our colleague incentives are underpinned by customer service CONCEPT measures, giving them an extra level of motivation to deliver exceptional service.
We believe great service, delivered by engaged and motivated CENTRE colleagues, who value customer feedback, In October 2014 Halfords opened a guarantees a loyal and satisfied customer base.
The theme of building trust is central to the Run a Grand Prix proposition, with large viewing windows operation that we onto the workshop area, as well as TV are proud of screens showing technicians undertaking The customer and colleague response work on customers vehicles and orange Excellent technical service isnt all our customers customer service pods, where colleagues has been excellent and the key elements expect.
We want centres we can be proud of, of the concept will be applied to new can talk to customers in an open and offering customers the consistent experience they relaxed setting.
The overall environment has centre openings going forward.
There will expect from the Halfords brand.
That means clean also be a light touch rollout of the lowerbeen made attractive to customers, with a and tidy receptions, friendly colleagues willing bright, colourful reception area equipped cost, high-impact aspects to the existing to help and a great environment to wait for their portfolio of centres over the course of the with comfortable seating, refreshments and vehicle.
We want our colleagues to do the best free wifi.
job they can and well continue to invest in the latest equipment to help them take pride in what they do.
So that we can keep delivering on our goal of building trust, we have struck a balance between expansion and improvement.
We have slowed the number of new centres opening in order to improve the quality of existing locations.
This year SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS nine new centres were opened, including a new concept centre in Croydon - see more information in the box above right.
AUTOCENTRES Leverage the Halfords APPRENTICES brand and Group The Autocentres apprentice program has capabilities been running for over 20 years, with more The strength of the Halfords brand and the wider and more apprentices being taken on Group capabilities will help to ensure the success each year.
There are currently around 200 of our Autocentres.
While Retail and Autocentres apprentices in the business and 100 new are separate parts of our Group, their capabilities places have been made available for the are clearly linked, and cross-selling our services is year ahead, which will be a record intake.
a key part of our strategy going forwards.
There is a graduation ceremony every The aim is to have at least one apprentice in year: the most recent of which saw 36 Offers in common across both Autocentres and every centre by 2018. apprentices graduate.
We are extremely Retail will be based on our knowledge of each The program is spread over three years proud that the 2014 Apprentice of the customer base, and will encourage customers and consists of blocks of 2-week residential Year has progressed to the World Skills of each to become customers of both.
By the end of the programme the Final and is in a team competing to incentives, along with the ability to push our Retail apprentices receive a total of 22 weeks of represent the UK at the finals in Brazil products in our Autocentres, can improve the learning and qualify to NVQ level 3. later this year.
performance of the Group as a whole.
In the last year we introduced Halfords branded batteries and lubricants to all Autocentres.
