Sector Review Infrastructure Safety Products which detect hazards to protect assets and people in public spaces and commercial buildings.
Fire and smoke detectors, fire detection systems, security sensors and audible visual warning devices.
Sensors used on automatic doors and elevators in buildings and transportation.
Nigel Trodd Performance Sector Chief Executive, Infrastructure Safety Group The Infrastructure Safety sector delivered strong revenue and KPIs target profitgrowth in 2014 15.
We achieved good results in both recently 1 Revenue growth 6.3% acquired and established businesses.
Advanced Electronics was 1 Organic revenue growth constant currency 5.1% 5% acquired in May 2014 to broaden our fire product portfolio and 1 Profit growth 12.5% further strengthen Halmas position in the global fire systems market.
1 Organic profit growth constant currency 12.3% 5% 2 Return on Sales 21.4% 18% 3 R&D % of Revenue 5.2% 4% Contribution to Group 5 Revenue % of Group Profit % of Group m 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Revenue 234 220 205 204 197 32% 30% Profit 50 44 42 39 39 1 4 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared to the equivalent prior year figures.
2 4 Return on Sales is defined as adjusted sector profit before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
3 S ector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
4 Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition items and the effects of closure to future benefit accrual of the Defined Benefit pension plan net of associated costs see Note 1 to the Accounts.
5 Profit restated for the effects of adopting IAS 19 revised in 2013 14 see Accounting Policies note.
The global elevator market is forecast to continue to grow with the Market trends and growth drivers principal growth in Asia, where, as well as ongoing infrastructure Increasing health and safety regulation remains the primary driver in development, we see increasing elevator density due to use in low our Infrastructure Safety sector.
Rising infrastructure investment is and mid-rise buildings.
This trend is partly due to population ageing also driven by: and demand for higher living standards.
With a 2013 global installed population ageing, rising safety awareness, continuing global trend elevator base of 12m units, tight regulation of elevator maintenance of urbanisation and population growth further stimulates demand for our elevator safety products.
rising demand in emerging markets where existing infrastructure The world market for pedestrian automatic door controls is driven requires modernisation and rapid economic growth requires high byregulation: safety standards continue to evolve in all regions.
infrastructure investment Introduced in 2013, the first pan-European safety regulations that growing need for connectivity with rising demand for wireless protect users of power-operated pedestrian doors from hazards have technologies alongside automation in smart buildings reached mature implementation in Western Europe.
Implementation Governments throughout the world continue to implement is still underway in the rest of Europe.
increasingly stringent health and safety regulations.
In mature markets, safety standards are constantly updated and compliance Demand for safety sensors in the industrial door market is growing, becomes increasingly demanding for our customers.
New European for both door activation and safeguarding the area around a door fire regulations, for example, require fire detection devices to be totally toprevent crushing injuries.
New European standards are due in compatible with all other components of a fire alarm system.
In the Americas we have seen increasing use of high ensures maximum protection from fire risk in modern buildings performance industrial security doors for parking and automotive whileminimising disruption from false alarms.
Developing markets markets as well as for mining and heavy industrial applications.
increasingly adopt and enforce globally-recognised safety standards The trend of convergence of building automation and information which protect assets and eliminate hazards to people in domestic, technology in smart buildings drives growth of our wireless public and industrial environments.
communications intrusion detection security products.
Product certifications remain important for intrusion detection systems in Increasing urbanisation, especially in Asia, drives demand for Europe, particularly those with police-response remote monitoring.
Strengthened health and safetylegislation in Europe requires elevators to be upgraded Geographic trends withemergency communication devices.
The global fire protection systems market is forecast to grow with Asialeading the way driven by urbanisation and increasing safety requirements.
In the USA residential fire protection is increasingly 1 See Note 1 to the Accounts.
34 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements based on wireless detectors as home automation and security Performance systems including smoke detection grow inpopularity.
Revenue growth of 6% was in line with expectations while sector 1 profit growth was 6% higher than revenue growth as reported and The global elevator market is growing strongly and is forecast to 7% ahead at constant currency.
We continue to exceed Group targets continue to rise by about 7% per year at least until 2017.
China onReturn on Capital Employed and cash generation.
remains the principal growth market for elevator products.
Of the 2013 elevator global market estimate of 54bn, China accounted Return on Sales increased to 21.4%, due primarily to successful new for26% of the sales value, and 67% of the new elevator installations.
product launches and an effective balance between investment and Asia as a whole accounts for 78% of new installations.
India is cost control to maintain strong margins.
forecast tobecome the next big elevator and escalator growth Revenue in all major markets increased during the year, with 23% marketand increasing urbanisation could see new installations rise growth inthe UK and 44% in Africa and the Middle East.
In the USA, to100,000 units per year by 2018.
Elevator installations in Europe excluding the Monitor disposal, we achieved 5% growth and this andthe Americas remained flat, though mild growth in construction should continue as home security OEMs source increasingly from starts areexpected in the next couple of years.
Our focus in these Apollo America.
Our strategy of increasing investment in locally territories remains in elevator upgrades and maintenance.
basedsales and technical resources continues to pay dividends.
Our automatic door control products continued to penetrate more The Advanced Electronics business, acquired in 2014, has geographic markets in Eastern and Northern Europe, South America, strengthened our position to offer small fire systems in selected Canada, Australia, Japan, India and the Middle East.
markets and has broadened our understanding of fire control Despite a growing focus on safety in China, implementation of panelsglobally.
We will continue to leverage the synergies we safetyregulations for automatic pedestrian doors is slow.
In the haveexperienced with the Advanced teams on board.
transportation door controls niche, we saw rising safety awareness We sold Monitor Elevator Products, a New York-based manufacturer not regulation, especially in the subway train Platform Screen Doors of elevator control panels to another industry player, Innovation market.
Japan is considering adopting the latest European automatic Industries, in May 2014.
Monitor did not have theinternational growth door safety regulations as national industry standards by 2017.
This potential we believed was necessary tomaintaingrowth and high could open a considerable new door safety control market.
returns in the medium term.
We achieved strong sales growth of intrusion detection products We continued the integration and reorganisation of our four elevator outside our traditional UK and Western European markets, with companies into a single business unit.
New in-elevator emergency goodprogress in South Africa, the Middle East and China.
We telephone products and in-car displays extended penetration of these significantly improved UK market share in 2014 15. niche markets.
Trading in the elevator door sensor market has been challenging, with increasing competition from Asian light curtain Strategy manufacturers.
Despite this, we maintained high elevator business New market penetration is a primary growth strategy in the Return on Sales by focusing on higher margin telephone and Infrastructure Safety sector, particularly in high infrastructure displayproducts.
investment territories such as Russia and Eastern Europe, ASEAN nations and Brazil.
In the past year we strengthened our global leadership of the pedestrian and industrial high speed door sensors markets and In our fire products sub-sector, we continue a strategy of growth increased market share in public transportation and security.
through international expansion, new products, new detection technologies and acquisitions.
In 2014 15 we strengthened our fire Outlook sales presence in both India and China and we will open an ASEAN Continued growth is anticipated due to rising demand driven by the sales office in Singapore in 2015.
We have changed strategy in China demographic trends of population ageing and urbanisation, increasing to focus on premium fire products.
regulatory pressure, technology advances and localised manufacture.
Over 70% of our elevator product sales are door safety light We expect to see revenue growth remaining ahead of market curtaindetectors but increasing competition is putting pressure on growthrates in most of our niches.
This will be driven by geographic margins.
We will continue to develop premium products for upgrade and market expansion, the launch of new products into established and refurbishment alongside economy ranges for the new installation channels and by acquisition.
Developing economies are an exciting market.
The global market for in-car elevator telephones is estimated market for all Infrastructure Safety businesses as buildings and to be the same size as the light curtain market: the in-car display homesbecome increasingly more complex and sophisticated.
market is at least twice the size.
To deliver long-term growth, we will invest in development of our telephone and display business.
Elevator The acquisition pipeline for the sector is very promising and we aim emergency telephone and display markets are fragmented and toadd complementary businesses during the coming years.
present an opportunity for consolidation, potentially via acquisition.
Our strategy for automatic door sensor growth focuses on expanding outside our established pedestrian and industrial door sectors into new applications such as detecting and counting flows of people andvehicles.
In Western Europe, we anticipate increasing adoption of smart security and building automation systems.
During 2014 15 we increased investment in European sales resources for intrusion detection alarm systems on the back of new product approvals.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35
