Investment Proposition Halma delivers sustained shareholder value.
Weconsistently achieve record profits, high returns, and strong cash flows with low levels ofbalance sheet gearing.
We have a 36-year track record of growing dividendpayments by 5% or more everyyear.
Our strategy is to have a diverse group of businesses building strong competitive advantage in specialised safety, health and environmental technology markets with resilient growth drivers.
These growth drivers include increasing Health and Safety regulation, demand for healthcare anddemand for life-critical resources.
They ensure that the need for our products is sustained, in both developed and developing regions, through periods of significant macro-economic change.
Organic growth generates the resources we use to fund acquisitions and keep increasing dividends.
We generate organic growth by increasing levels of investment inpeople development, new product development and in establishing platforms for our businesses  markets.
Our portfolio consists of small to medium-sized manufacturing businesses operating in 23 countries and we have major operations in Europe, the USA and Asia.
Our principal customer sectors are commercial and public buildings, utilities, healthcare medical, science environment, process industries and energy resources.
This market diversity contributes to our ability to sustain growth through economic cyclicality.
We manage the mix of businesses in our Group to ensure we can sustain strong growth and returns over the long term.
We acquire businesses to accelerate penetration of more attractive market niches, we merge businesses when market characteristics change and we exit markets whichoffer less attractive long-term growth and returns through carefully planneddisposals.
Halmas resilient market qualities, sustained investment in organic growth and active portfolio management position us strongly to maintain high levels ofperformance and create shareholder value in thefuture.
Total Shareholder Return three years 200% 175% 150% 125% 100% 75% 50% Mar-2012 Mar-2013 Mar-2014 Mar-2015 Halma FTSE 250 FTSE 350 Electronic & Electronic Equipment 2 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
