Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Statutory Information Activities imposed by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws : or Halma plc is a holding company.
A list of its principal subsidiary where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the Companys companies and their activities is set out on pages 160 to 163. certificated shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests Ordinary dividends inthose shares.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements The Directors recommend a final dividend of 7.31p per share and, between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions ifapproved, this dividend will be paid on 19 August 2015 to ordinary on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 17 July 2015.
Treasury shares Together with the interim dividend of 4.65p per share already paid, Shares held in treasury do not have voting rights and are not eligible this will make a total of 11.96p 2014: 11.17p per share for the for dividends.
Employee share plans Share capital and capital structure Details of employee share plans are set out in note 23 to the accounts.
Details of the share capital, together with details of the movements inthe share capital during the year, are shown in note 22 to the The Companys existing Performance Share Plan the 2005 PSP accounts.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which willreach the end of its 10-year life in 2015.
This resolution therefore carry no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one seeks approval to introduce a new Executive Share Plan to replace voteat general meetings of the Company.
The new Plan will share many of the features of the There are no other classes of share capital.
There are no specific 2005 PSP but has been updated to reflect current legislation, best restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, with practice and corporate governance requirements including recovery both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and withholding provisions.
In addition, the new Plan will include and prevailing legislation.
No person has any special rights of control flexibility to grant performance-related share awards, other share over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
awards and deferred bonus awards.
The new Plan will be used primarily to grant performance-related Rights and obligations of ordinary shares awards and deferred bonus awards to executive Directors and Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at selected senior employees.
The Remuneration Committee believes general meetings of the Company and to appoint one or more that the ability to continue to grant long term share-based incentives proxies or, if the holder of shares is a corporation, one or more as part of a balanced remuneration package will create a strong corporate representatives.
On a show of hands, each holder of alignment of long term interest between senior management ordinary shares who being an individual is present in person or andshareholders.
being a corporation is present by a duly appointed corporate representative, not being himself a member, shall have one vote, No awards have been made under the 2005 PSP in 2015.
It is as shall proxies unless they are appointed by more than one holder, intended that initial performance awards will be made to executive in which case they may vote both for and against the resolution in Directors and selected senior management shortly following accordance with the holders instructions.
On a poll every holder of shareholder approval of the Plan.
The first grants of the deferred ordinary shares present in person or by proxy shall have one vote bonus awards will be made in 2016, following determination of for every share of which he is the holder.
Electronic and paper proxy bonuses for the 2015 16 financial year.
appointments and voting instructions must be received not later than 48 hours before the meeting.
A holder of ordinary shares can lose Dilution limits the entitlement to vote at general meetings where that holder has The existing PSP has awarded shares, before lapses, over a ten-year been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide period totalling 4.0% of the Companys issued share capital: this is the Company with information concerning interests held in those within the 10.0% overall limit and the 7.5% limit for discretionary share shares.
Except as set out above and as permitted under applicable awards agreed in 2005.
The Company has utilised treasury shares to statutes, there are no limitations on voting rights of holders of a given satisfy all such awards.
percentage, number of votes or deadlines for exercising voting rights.
The new 2015 Executive Share Plan provides that overall dilution through the issuance of new shares for employee share schemes Restrictions on transfer of shares including treasury shares should not exceed an amount equivalent The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated to 10% of the Companys issued share capital over a ten-year period share that is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent and for discretionary share awards to senior management 5% over a dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on an open ten-year period.
As at the date of this report, the Company remains and proper basis or where the Company has a lien over that share.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is: i lodged, duly stamped Appointment and replacement of directors if necessary, at the registered office of the Company or any other With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, place as the Board may decide accompanied by the certificate for the the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK share s to be transferred and or such other evidence as the Directors Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act and related may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make legislation.
Directors can be appointed by the Company by ordinary the transfer: ii in respect of only one class of shares: iii in favour of resolution ata general meeting or by the Board.
If a Director is aperson who is not a minor, infant, bankrupt or a person of unsound appointed by theBoard, such Director will hold office until the next mind: or iv in favour of not more than four persons jointly.
annual general meeting and shall then be eligible for election at Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using that meeting.
Therefore, inaccordance with the UK Corporate CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of an Governance Code each of the Directors, being eligible, will offer uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing themselves for election or re-election at this years Annual General the operation of CREST.
The Company canremove a Director from office, including by passing a special resolution or by notice being given by all the There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the other Directors.
The Articles themselves may be amended by Company except certain restrictions which may from time to time be specialresolution of the shareholders.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 91 Other Statutory Information continued Power of Directors pre-emptive offer or issue.
The authority will expire at the same time The powers of Directors are described in the Matters Reserved asthe resolution conferring authority on the Directors to allot shares.
for the Board, copies of which are available on request from the TheDirectors consider this authority necessary in order to give them Company Secretary, and the Corporate Governance Report on flexibility to deal with opportunities as they arise, subject to the pages 59 to 65. restrictions contained in the resolution.
There are no present plans toissue shares, except under share plans previously approved in Essential contracts and change of control general meeting.
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate Directors upon a change of control of the Company, principally bank loan The names of the Directors of the Company who served throughout agreements and employee share plans.
the year, with brief biographies, are set out on pages 56 and 57.
The only significant agreement, in terms of its likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole, containing such provisions is that Directors indemnities governing the 360m syndicated revolving credit facility which, if The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with each of the within 10 days of a change of control notice to the Loan agent, can current Directors, which remain in force at the date of this report.
result in 30 days notice being given to the Company by any Lender, These are qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the purposes for all amounts outstanding to that Lender, to be immediately due of the Companies Act 2006. andpayable, at which time the commitment of that Lender will Purchase of the Companys own shares becancelled.
If all of the Lenders give this notice the whole facility The Company was authorised at the 2014 annual general meeting to wouldbe cancelled.
purchase up to 37,700,000 of its own 10p ordinary shares in the The Group has contractual arrangements with a wide range of market.
This authority expires at the end of the 2015 Annual General suppliers.
The Group is not unduly dependent upon contractual Meeting.
In accordance with the Directors stated intention to seek arrangements with any particular customer.
Whilst the loss or annual renewal, a special resolution will be proposed at the Annual disruption to certain of these arrangements could temporarily General Meeting to renew this authority, until the end of next years affect the Groups business, none is considered to be essential.
annual general meeting, in respect of up to 37,700,000 ordinary shares, which is approximately 10% of the Companys issued share The Companys share plans contain provisions as a result of which capital excluding treasury shares as at 8 June 2015 the latest options and awards may vest and become exercisable on a change practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of Meeting.
of control of the Company in accordance with the rules of the plans.
TheDirectors consider it desirable that the possibility of making The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company such purchases, under appropriate circumstances, is available.
and its directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss Their present intention is that the shares purchased under the of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
authority will be held in treasury for future cancellation, sale for cash Allotment authority or transfer for the purposes of, or pursuant to, an employee share Under the Companies Act 2006 the Directors may only allot shares if plan, although in the light of circumstances at the time it may be authorised by shareholders to do so.
At the Annual General Meeting decided to cancel them immediately on repurchase.
The effect of an ordinary resolution will be proposed which, if passed, will authorise any cancellation would be to reduce the number of shares in issue.
the Directors to allot and issue new shares up to an aggregate nominal For most purposes, while held in treasury, shares are treated as if value of 12,500,000 up to 125,000,000 new ordinary shares of 10p they have been cancelled for example, they carry no voting rights each, being just less than one third of the issued share capital of the and do not rank for dividends.
Company excluding treasury shares as at 8 June 2015 the latest Following approval of the Performance Share Plan PSP at the 2005 practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of Meeting.
annual general meeting, the Directors made, and intend to continue In accordance with the Directors stated intention to seek annual to make, routine purchases of Halma shares in the market for holding renewal, the authority will expire at the conclusion of the annual in treasury until required for vesting under the PSP.
In the year to general meeting of the Company in 2016.
Passing this resolution 28March 2015, 1,076,865 shares, with a nominal value of 107,686.50, will give the Directors flexibility to act in the best interests of which is 0.36% of the Companys issued share capital as at 8 June shareholders, when opportunities arise, by issuing new shares.
2015 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of Meeting, were purchased in the market for treasury.
Under the As at 8 June 2015 the latest practicable date prior to the publication proposed 2015 Executive Share Plan, shares vesting may be satisfied ofthe Notice of Meeting, the Company had 379,645,332 ordinary with market purchased shares held in trust or in treasury or with new shares of 10p each in issue of which 1,371,785 were held as treasury issue shares.
Otherwise, the Directors have no present intention of shares, which is equal to approximately 0.36% of the issued share using this authority.
In reaching a decision to purchase shares, the capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at that date.
Directors will take into account the Companys cash resources, capital requirements and the effect of any purchase on the The Companies Act 2006 also requires that, if the Company issues Companys earnings per share.
It is anticipated that renewal of the new shares for cash or sells any treasury shares, it must first offer authority will be requested at subsequent annual general meetings.
them to existing shareholders in proportion to their current holdings.
Atthe Annual General Meeting a special resolution will be proposed As at 8 June 2015, which is the latest practicable date prior to the which, if passed, will authorise the Directors to issue a limited number publication of the Notice of Meeting, no further options were outstanding.
of shares for cash and or sell treasury shares without offering them to shareholders first.
The authority is for an aggregate nominal amount Annual General Meeting ofup to 10% of the aggregate nominal value of the issued share The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on 23 July 2015. capital of the Company as at 8 June 2015 the latest practicable date The Notice of Meeting, together with an explanation of the proposed prior tothe publication of the Notice of Meeting.
The resolution will resolutions, is enclosed with this Annual Report and Accounts and is also modify statutory pre-emption rights to deal with legal, regulatory also available on the Companys website at www.
or practical problems that may arise on a rights issue or other 92 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Substantial shareholdings On 8 June 2015, the Company had been notified, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following voting rights as a shareholder of the Company.
28 March 2015 8 June 2015 Percentage of Percentage of voting rights voting rights No.
of ordinary and issued No.
of ordinary and issued Nature of shares share capital shares share capital holdings Massachusetts Financial Services Company 37,841,275 10.00 37,841,275 10.00 Indirect Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd 18,776,510 4.96 18,776,510 4.96 Indirect Norges Bank 11,338,891 3.00 11,338,891 3.94 Direct BlackRock Inc 14,646,007 3.87 14,646,007 3.87 Indirect Mawer Investment Management 15,149,012 4.00 15,149,012 4.00 Direct Capital Group 15,431,693 4.08 17,340,346 4.58 Indirect For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4C R, the following items are not Special Business applicable: 1 interest capitalised: 2 publication of unaudited financial The Board will propose four special resolutions under Special information: 5 waiver of emoluments by a Director: 6 waiver of Business at the Annual General Meeting.
One of these is to permit future emoluments by a Director: 7 non pre-emptive issues of equity theCompany to retain the ability to call general meetings other than for cash: 8 item 7 in relation to major subsidiary undertakings: 9 annual general meetings at 14 days notice rather than 21 days parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary: 11 provisions notice, in accordance with the EU Shareholder Rights Directive of services by a controlling shareholder: 13 shareholder waivers of implemented in August 2009.
Another special resolution is to amend future dividends: and 14 agreements with controlling shareholders.
the Companys Articles of Association to fix Directors fees at an aggregate maximum of 750,000.
Applicable items can be located as follows: 4 details of long-term incentive schemes note 23 to the Financial Statements: 10 Auditor contracts of significance and 12 shareholder waiver of dividends Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Other Statutory Information, page 91.
Annual Report and Accounts confirms that: Adoption of Financial Reporting Standard FRS 101 so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and Reduced Disclosure Framework the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken Following the publication of FRS 100 Application of Financial as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant Reporting Requirements by the Financial Reporting Council, Halma audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is plc is required to change its accounting framework for its Company aware of that information.
financial statements published on pages 151 to 157 in this Annual Report and Accounts, which is currently UK GAAP, for its financial This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance year commencing 29 March 2015.
The Board considers that it is in with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. the best interests of the group for Halma plc to adopt the FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, which is intended for use by Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as parentand subsidiary companies of groups reporting under IFRS Auditor and a resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP will be proposed ona consolidated basis.
No disclosures in the current UK GAAP atthe forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Company financial statements would be omitted on adoption of Scope of the reporting in this Annual Report FRS101.
A shareholder or shareholders holding in aggregate 5% or more of the total allotted shares in Halma plc may serve objections andAccounts tothe use of the disclosure exemptions on Halma plc, in writing, The Board has prepared a Strategic Report including the Chairmans toitsregistered office Misbourne Court, Rectory Way, Amersham, Statement and the Chief Executives Strategic Review which provides Buckinghamshire, UK, HP7 0DE not later than 31 August 2015. an overview of the development and performance of the Companys business in the year ended 28 March 2015 and its position at the end By order of the Board of that year, and which covers likely future developments in the business of the Company and the Group.
Carol Chesney Company Secretary For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8 R, 11 June 2015 the required content of the management report can be found in the Strategic report and these Regulatory disclosures, including the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by reference.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 93
