STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW MATERIAL ISSUES Halfords vision is to help and inspire our customers with their life on the move by offering unique in-store services and a compelling product range with expert services.
The table below identifies the key stakeholders we interact with to achieve this vision and outlines how and why we engage with them.
Why we engage Material issues What we are doing Customers Customers want value, personalisation, Value for money Service Revolution and trustworthy advice and service.
We Customer service The H Factor want to know how we are performing so Convenience Stores Fit to Shop we can deliver unparalleled products and st Range 21 Century Infrastructure services.
Click with the Digital Future Colleagues Our colleagues are fundamental to the Career opportunities 3-Gears training programme - see page 10 achievement of our customer experience Pay and conditions Listening: surveys and colleague groups ambitions.
Training and development Accelerate management development courses Innovation Recognition and reward Colleague engagement Suppliers Our brand relies heavily on the high Quality management Far East trading office developing mutually beneficial standards of our carefully selected Cost efficiency relationships suppliers in order for us to deliver marketEthical Trading policy Logistics efficiencies and environmental management leading products and services.
Speed to market Supplier conferences Security of supply Investors As a publicly listed company we need to Future-orientated information Integrated reporting page explained IBC provide fair, balanced and understandable Risk information Consistent KPIs provided through clear and regular updates - information to instil trust and confidence Operating and financial performance see pages 22 to 24 and allow informed investment decisions Dividend Responding to investor queries and meeting requests to be made.
Access to management Recognition in Social Responsibility investor indices e. g. FTSE4Good Communities We aim to contribute positively to the Impact of Group activities on the Re-Cycle partnership communities and environment in which we wider community Onley Prison workshops giving training and employment operate.
Developing future customers opportunities for ex-offenders Free kids holiday bike clubs - see page 5 Cub Scouts Cyclist Activity badge workshops - see page 5 Stores will donate payroll hours to engage with local charities Media As a business-to-consumer company, Reliable range, product and pricing Product videos and peer reviews we need strong omnichannel exposure information TV and radio advertising campaigns to connect with customers and our wider Transparency of reliable and timely Email and PR customer engagement stakeholder audience.
Group information Improving Twitter, Facebook and YouTube content Monitoring and responding to comments and concerns on social media channels Government Policies and regulatory changes may Transport policies and schemes Cycle to work policy campaigning provide both opportunities and risk to CO reduction strategies DAB Radio working groups 2 our operations.
Working closely with the Driver training and vehicle safety enhancements Government ensures that our products Engaging with VOSA, DVLA, TSI, ASA and HSE and services evolve.
Getting Into Gear 08 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 3 April 2015 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 STRATEGIC OUR FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION OVERVIEW SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS RETAIL APPRENTICESHIP SCHEME Halfords Autocentres has had an apprenticeship scheme for over 20 years and currently has more than 200 apprentices employed in the business.
Building on that success, Halfords Retail successfully piloted an apprenticeship scheme during the year and in February formally launched a programme to place 500 apprentices in stores over the first 12 months.
Halfords goes above and beyond the usual apprenticeship model by offering a pre-apprenticeship training scheme, which equips candidates with four qualifications for those completing the three weeks intensive training: Halfords Gear 1 level training, a Retail Level 1 certificate, an Employability & Personal Development Certificate, and Level 1 or 2 in Maths & English.
The scheme W e see huge potential is open to people who are not in education, employment or training and on for the programme to completion of this training, candidates are interviewed and, if successful, offered get people back into apprenticeships.
work and a new wave See more information on Autocentres apprenticeship scheme on page 17 CASE STUDY of talent into retail STRATEGIC DELIVERY CYCLE REPAIR During the final quarter of FY14 we trialled a new cycle repair operating model in just over 50 stores.
This proved successful, with the growth in repair sales outstripping the rest of the stores and also a significant increase in the average repair transaction value, reflecting the more complex work being undertaken.
By the end of FY15 the new model had been rolled out to 405 stores: 339 receiving a full rollout and 66 receiving a smaller-scale option.
The stores with full rollout received a dedicated repair work station, complete with a parts washer and all of the necessary tools and equipment to do anything from a basic puncture to a complex service or repair job.
In the majority of stores the work stations are in the back-of-shop space, improving efficiency and productivity by taking the work away from the shop floor.
These stores also receive a dedicated Gear 3 level technician, each of whom have We have now had intensive cycle repair training.
upgraded our cycle repair capability in over 400 stores STOCK CODE: HFD 09 halfords.
com 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 STRATEGIC DELIVERY 3-GEARS PROGRAMME Two years ago we launched 3-Gears, a qualification programme that trains and rewards colleagues for gaining expertise.
The three Gears represent the different stages of qualification: GEAR 1 Gear 1 applies to all colleagues and is completed over their first three-month period with Halfords.
We use structured e-learning modules that cover retail skills, product knowledge and customer service.
The outcome is that all store colleagues will be qualified to serve customers.
GEAR 2 Gear 2 involves a nine-month training programme which leads to an expert level of product knowledge, with a specialism in either Auto & Leisure or Cycling.
Tuition is both through e-learning and face-toface training programmes.
There are regular refresher courses for Gear 2 colleagues and a pay award for those who attain this level.
GEAR 3 Gear 3 colleagues are our Gurus.
They are product experts who are qualified to train others.
They keep their skills and knowledge current and market leading - through workshops, attending product and trade shows and by linking with and visiting suppliers.
Our Gurus also receive leadership development and a pay award.
By the end of FY15 46% of our colleagues had qualified for Gear 2 and we had over 300 Gear 3 level colleagues.
We anticipate around 80% of colleagues being Gear 2 qualified by the end of FY16, along with two Gear 3 Gurus in most stores.
We are already seeing the benefits of the investment in training.
Firstly, we have more multi-skilled colleagues.
Rather than having one fitter per store, we have many colleagues capable of replacing bulbs, wiper blades or batteries, or child car seats, enabling us to meet demand.
Secondly, we are already seeing an uplift in sales metrics, with average transaction value, 22% number of items per basket and average gross profit per basket all up several percent.
Finally, the Net Promoter Score has improved significantly, NET PROMOTER SCORE with a final quarter result of 77% compared to 55% two years ago.
FY13: 55% FY15: 77% 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Strategy Operational Review 12 Retail Strategy Getting into Gear 14 Autocentres Strategy 16 Milestones 18 Sustainability 19 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015
