OUR GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY SUMMARY As our Directors Remuneration Policy the This section of the report sets Policy is unchanged from that approved by out Halfords remuneration policy shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, for all of the Executive Directors 2.5m we have provided a summary of the Policy to give and Non-Executive Directors, context to decisions taken by the Remuneration WIPER BLADES explaining the purpose and Committee the Committee during the year.
The FY15 principles underlying the structure full Policy was in last years Report and Accounts of remuneration packages and and can be found on our website www.
com how the Policy links remuneration to the achievement of sustained A summary of the Policy is provided in the 00% 5.3m high performance and long-term following tables.
BULBS FY15 KEY ELEMENTS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Base salary Base salary is set at an appropriate level to attract and retain management of a high calibre with the necessary financial, retail, customer service and digital skill sets required to deliver a sustainable business model and drive shareholder returns.
Key policy features Implementation of the Policy in the period Base salaries are reviewed annually, typically With effect from 1 October 2014, the salaries with effect from 1 October, with increases of the CEO and CFO were increased by 2%, broadly aligned to those in the wider workforce.
mirroring the increase generally awarded to Occasionally, larger increases may be considered colleagues in the Support Centre.
to take account of changes in an individuals Changes made role or responsibilities, individual progression or None experience or external market trends.
Benefits To provide Executive Directors with market competitive benefits consistent with the role.
Key policy features Implementation of the Policy in the period Executive Directors receive various benefits as Executive Directors continued to enjoy the same part of their package, such as a fully expensed benefits package as they had in the prior year.
No car or a cash allowance and a fuel card, private allowances or benefits were increased.
health insurance and life assurance.
Where Changes made an Executive Director relocates to take up a None role, other benefits may be proposed, such as relocation expenses, a housing allowance and school fees.
Getting Into Gear 58 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 3 April 2015 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 STRATEGIC OUR FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Pensions To provide Executive Directors with an appropriate allowance for retirement planning.
Key policy features Implementation of the Policy in the period Defined employer contribution funding to the Halfords Pension Plan or The CEO received 20% of base salary, whilst the CFO received 15% of payments into a personal fund or a cash allowance for Executive Directors base salary.
to make their own pension arrangements.
The maximum payable by the Changes made Company will be 20% of base salary.
None Annual Bonus To incentivise Executive Directors to achieve annual financial targets and performance against strategic goals.
Key policy features Implementation of the Policy in the period The maximum annual bonus opportunity is 150% of base salary.
In the period, the CEOs maximum bonus opportunity was 150% of base salary, 1 3rd of which will be paid in shares and deferred for three years with The annual bonus is based on a mix of financial and strategic measures.
dividends reinvested, and the remainder paid in cash.
The CFOs maximum Measures are selected each year by the Committee to ensure continued bonus opportunity was 100% of base salary, paid in cash.
focus on the Companys strategy.
At least 50% of the bonus will be based Changes made on financial measures.
During the period the Committee considered changing market practices Generally the annual bonus is paid in cash, but the Committee might and, accordingly, the FY16 Executive Bonus and Deferred Bonus Plan will determine that it be paid in shares or in a mixture of cash and shares.
reinforce existing malus provisions in relation to any deferred element and introduce clawback provisions for any paid element, giving the Company The Committee may require a portion of any bonus earned to be deferred.
the power to seek redress from any individual for material misstatement, Deferred bonus awards are normally made in the form of nil cost options, employee misconduct, serious reputational damage or miscalculation of which normally vest three years from award.
The Committee may decide to metrics leading to an award under either scheme.
pay dividends on those shares during the vesting period, either as cash or as additional shares.
Malus provisions apply to any deferred shares, allowing the Committee to scale back any award before exercise in circumstances that the Committee determines is appropriate such as a material misstatement of the Companys results, serious reputational damage to the Company, or where the Company suffers serious losses.
com 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 OUR GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY SUMMARY continued PSP To attract and retain Executive Directors of a high calibre.
To incentivise and reward long-term performance and align Executive Directors interests with those of our shareholders.
Key policy features Implementation of the Policy in the period The PSP comprises annual awards, usually in the form of nil-cost options, Awards granted in 2015 will vest subject to the achievement of stretching with vesting based on performance against pre-determined conditions over Revenue and EBITDA targets.
The vesting of 25% of the awards will be determined by the growth in the The maximum core award is 150% of base salary.
A participant has the Groups Revenue and the vesting of 75% of the award will be determined by opportunity to earn up to 1.5 core award for exceptional performance and, the growth in the Groups EBITDA over a three-year performance period.
therefore, the maximum annual face value of awards is 225% of base salary.
In addition to achieving these targets, the vesting of awards will be subject to meeting a net debt underpin.
The core award for the CEO and CFO in the period was 150% of base salary.
Changes made The PSP rules expire in 2015, having been in place for 10 years.
The new PSP rules that shareholders are being asked to approve at the AGM will restate existing malus provisions and introduce clawback provisions, each giving the Company the power to seek redress from any individual for material misstatement, employee misconduct, serious reputational damage or miscalculation of metrics leading to an award under the PSP.
CEO Co-Investment Award This one-off award was implemented to recruit and retain Matt Davies as CEO, aligning his interests with those of our shareholders and to reward growth in the share price.
Key policy features Implementation of the Policy in the period A one-off award made on the appointment of the CEO.
The CEO was As Matt Davies, CEO, tendered his resignation in the period, all matching required to invest 500,000 in Halfords shares to receive a matching share share awards were forfeited upon his leaving in April.
As previously committed, the scheme was not utilised in the recruitment of Jill The CEO was granted an award of matching shares in the form of a nil cost McDonald, successor CEO.
option that may vest in tranches following the Committees assessment of Changes made performance.
None The maximum number of matching shares which may be acquired under the award excluding dividend equivalents is 3.5 times the number of investment shares acquired 574,196 shares.
Getting Into Gear 60 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 3 April 2015 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 STRATEGIC OUR FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION KEY ELEMENTS OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION POLICY NED Fees Fee levels are designed to attract and retain high-calibre individuals to serve as Non-Executive Directors.
Key policy features Implementation of the Policy in the period Fee levels are set to reflect the time, commitment and experience of the Fees for Non-Executive Directors remained static in the period, the annual fee Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, benchmarking fees against UK being 48,000, with an additional annual allowance of 5,000 for chairing the listed retail comparators.
The role of Senior Independent Director attracts a further annual allowance of 15,000.
The fees of Non-Executive Directors are normally reviewed every two years by the Board, following a recommendation from the CEO.
The Chairmans The Chairmans annual fee remained unchanged at 176,000. fees are determined by the Remuneration Committee, again following a The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not currently receive other recommendation from the CEO.
benefits but reasonable benefits may be provided in the future if appropriate.
The Chairmans fee includes a sum for chairing the Nomination Committee Reasonable travel and subsistence expenses were reimbursed.
but other Committee Chairmen may receive an additional fee for that role, as Changes made does the Senior Independent Director.
None The fees are normally paid in cash quarterly but may be paid in shares if this is considered appropriate.
