I I I n n n e e e r r r n n n i i i u u u o o o q q q v v v c c c a a a t t t A A A e e e Key Performance Indicators KPIs Strategic focus Strategic focus Through careful selection of our market niches and strategic investment in people development, The measure of how successful we are in international expansion and innovation we aim to achieve organic growth in excess of our blended growingour business organically and by market growth rate, broadly matching revenue and profit growth in the medium term.
We buy companies acquisition coupled with strong financial with business and market characteristics similar to those of existing Halma operations.
Acquired disciplines, including those related to tax businesses have to be a good fit with our operating culture and strategy in addition to being valueandcapital allocation, is captured in the enhancing financially.
Organic profit growth % Acquisition profit growth % EPS growth % constant currency adjusted earnings per share 7% 5% 5% 5% 9% 10% Performance Target Performance Target Performance Target 19 10 21 19 6 5 10 9 4 7 7 5 5 5 2 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Before restatement Before restatement KPI definition KPI definition KPI definition Organic profit growth is calculated at constant Acquisition profit growth measures the annualised Adjusted earnings are calculated as earnings from currency and measures the change in profit contribution to the Groups operations derived continuing operations excluding the amortisation of achieved in the current year compared with the prior from acquisitions made in the year, measured at acquired intangible assets: acquisition items: profit year from continuing Group operations.
The effect the date of acquisition.
or loss on disposal of operations: the effects of of acquisitions and disposals made during the closure to future benefit accrual of the defined Comment current or prior financial year has been equalised.
benefit pension plans net of associated costs Annualised acquisition profit growth met our target 2014 only : and associated tax thereon.
We have substantial financial Organic profit growth at constant currency capacity and bank facilities to finance more Comment exceeded our minimum target.
Performance was just below target and would included strong performances in Process Safety, have exceeded it if the impact of currency 2016 target Infrastructure Safety and Medical sectors.
translation and disposals had been excluded.
2016 began with one acquisition in the first quarter, 2016 target financed through our existing debt facilities.
2016 target The Board has established a long-term minimum Acquisitions must meet our demanding criteria We aim for the combination of organic and organic growth target of 5% p. a. slightly above and we continue to have a strong pipeline of acquisition growth to exceed 10% per annum over theblended long-term average growth rate of opportunities to meet our 5% growth target.
The Directors consider that adjusted ourmarkets.
earnings represent a more consistent measure of underlying performance.
Remuneration linkage Remuneration linkage Growth in acquired profit is the second Growth in organic profit is a key element of the keyelement of the economic value added Remuneration linkage economic value added performance which forms performance which forms the basis of the EPS provides a clear link to the aims of the the basis of the annual bonus plan, requiring annual bonus plan, requiring consistent annual business growth strategy.
It is a key financial consistent annual and longer-term growth, and longer-term growth, rewarding disciplined driver for our business and provides a clear line rewarding disciplined financial performance.
of sight for our executives.
EPS is 50% of the use of EVA clearly reinforces the Groups strategic performance condition attaching to the new objective to double Group profit every five years.
Also see Chief Executives Strategic Review P06 Financial Review P48 Also see Also see Principal Risks and Uncertainties P28 Note 2 to the Accounts P115 Chief Executives Strategic Review P06 Note 3 to the Accounts P116 Financial Review P48 Principal Risks and Uncertainties P28 Note 3 to the Accounts P116 22 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 E E E m m m w w w p p p o o o o o o r r r G G G w w w e e e r r r
