Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements k s I i R e n r n i u o q v c a t C A e o r p o r a t e Business Model and Strategy Business model What is Halmas growth objective?
Our business model objective is to double Group revenue and profit every five years.
We aim to achieve this through a mix of acquisitions and organic growth.
Return on Sales in excess of 18% and Return on Capital Employed over 45% ensure that cash generation is strong enough to sustain investmentfor growth and increase dividends without the need for high levels of external funding.
Grow Acquire KPIs KPIs Organic profit growth A cquisition profit EPS growth growth Revenue growth Cash generation Return on Sales ROTIC Read more PP18, 22 and 24 In ternational expansion Read more PP16 and 22 to 24 Sustainable growth Innovate Empower KPIs KPIs Research and Values alignment development Health & Safety Development Read more PP14 and 24 programmes Read more PP20 and 25 Strategy How do we grow?
We operate in relatively non-cyclical, specialised global niche markets.
Our technology and application know-how deliver strong competitive advantage to sustain growth and high returns.
Our chosen markets have significant barriers to entry.
Demand for our products is underpinned by resilient, long-term growth drivers.
We place our operational resources close toour customers through autonomous locally managed businesses.
We reinvest cash into acquiring high performance businesses in, or close to, our existing markets.
Governance Risk Corporate Responsibility Halma is committed to maintaining the highest Group risk is mitigated by means of an operating Halma companies are involved in the manufacture standards of corporate governance and ensuring structure which spreads the Groups activities of a wide range of products that protect and values and behaviours are consistent across the across a number of autonomous subsidiary improve the quality of life for people worldwide.
Halma promotes open and transparent companies.
Each of these companies is led by a Halma has developed meaningful key performance discussion and constructive challenge across high-quality board of directors including a finance indicators KPIs that reflect the importance the theGroup to ensure best practice is maintained.
Group companies operate under a Group places on corporate responsibility and Thatgovernance culture is integral to our strategy system of robust controls which address our enable the Board to monitor theGroups progress and decision-making processes for the benefit principal risks and uncertainties.
in meeting its objectives andresponsibilities in ofour shareholders.
Read more PP59 to 65 Read more PP26 to 31 Read more PP25 and 42 to 47 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13 R e s p o n s i b i l i t y E m w p e o c o r n a G w n r e e v r o G I n e r n i u o q v c a t A e Innovation through collaboration Strategy in action Innovation in products and processes is a key driver of organic growth.
It enables us to build competitive advantage, gain market share, open up new markets and achieve high returns.
In addition to increasing our spending on innovation and R&D, we held a fourth Halma Innovation and Technology Exposition HITE in April 2015 to encourage collaboration between all Halma companies.
In recent years, several products have been launched resulting from collaboration between Halma companies including Crowcons Sprint eVo gas flue analyser, one of the winners of this years Halma Innovation Awards, a collaboration between Crowcon and sister company Perma Pure.
The Sprint series of flue gas testers for domestic boilers is one of Crowcons mosthigh profile product lines.
To secure a renewal of its contract with British Gas, thecompany developed the Sprint eVo.
This successfully won the contract by combining new features, better performance, unique technology from Perma Pure and an enhanced version of the software which heating engineers were already trained to use.
Philippe Felten Sector Chief Executive, ProcessSafety Ive been very impressed by the effort andintelligence that went into the Sprint eVodevelopment process.
The products commercial success is proof of the value ofinnovation through collaboration, and reallyshows how well Crowcon responded tothe demands of the market and its customers feedback.
Read more P32 14 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 E m w p o o r G w e r Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15 I n e r n i u o q v c a t A e Growing through diversification Strategy in action We choose to operate in niches within markets with robust long-term growth drivers on a global scale.
This gives our businesses the opportunity to sustain growth in all regions of the world.
Our current focus is on increasing selling resources together with enhancing our local product development capabilities.
Through this, we aim to ensure that we areable to continue to achieve growth rates in excess of the underlying market growth through gaining market share and diversifying into new markets.
BEA designs, assembles and sells sensors for automatic doors.
When we acquired BEA in 2002 it was already the world leader in its specialised market.
Since then, thecompanys strategy for growth has been to maintain global market leadership in the pedestrian door sensors niche while diversifying into industrial, security and transport door control applications based on market-led innovation.
One new application for their technology is door sensors on the platform screen doors on the Paris metro.
Nigel Trodd Sector Chief Executive, Infrastructure Safety Platform screen doors are a fast-growing trend around the world, so it is especially pleasing tosee BEAs success here.
The companys technology, expertise and reputation in the automatic pedestrian door market positions itperfectly to expand into adjacent markets, ashundreds of thousands of passengers in Paris can now experience every day.
Read more P34 16 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 E m w p o o r G w e r Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17 I n e r n i u o q v c a t A e Acquiring innovative businesses Strategy in action Acquisitions are a key strategic investment which strengthen our product portfolio, add new technologies, deepen our management talent pool and extend our geographic reach.
They help us to sustain growth and high returns and create shareholder value over the long term.
Our strategy is to buy companies with technology we understand selling into markets we know.
They must fit well with our operating culture and growth strategy, in addition to having strong financial metrics.
As a highly cash-generative business with a strong balance sheet, we can invest in acquisitions without accumulating excessive debt.
Since acquiring Microsurgical Technology in 2012, single-use instruments have become more and more popular.
In 2015 the company launched the Allegro, a single-use device for removing part of the lens during cataract surgery.
It offers significantly improved performance and ease of use for both surgeons and nurses, and is safer for patients than competitive products.
Adam Meyers Sector Chief Executive, Medical Our offering to the ophthalmic surgery market has never been better, and response to market trends is a key part of our success.
Medical professionals are increasingly preferring the hygiene and simplicity of single-use disposable devices, so the recent launch of MSTs Allegro really highlights our ability to react quickly and effectively to customer demands.
Read more P36 18 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 E m w p o o r G w e r Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 19 I n e r n i u o q v c a t A e Responding tolocal marketneeds Strategy in action Halma has a highly decentralised organisational structure which delivers sustainable competitive advantage.
Subsidiary companies are given considerable freedom for entrepreneurial action and are empowered to make timely decisions inthe best interests of their business.
We place our operational resources close to our customers.
Research and development, manufacturing, sales, marketing and human resources are all managed at operating company level.
With an intimate knowledge of their market dynamics and customer needs, subsidiary management is best placed to make local resource allocation decisions swiftly in response to market changes.
The establishment of Ocean Optics Asia as a stand-alone business has led to more innovative products for the Chinese market including the Accuman.
Chinese regulations mean that every pharmaceutical manufacturer will soon have to check all their raw material to ensure quality.
Accuman is a portable tool which uses non-destructive spectroscopy to quickly perform the required tests.
Chuck Dubois Sector Chief Executive, Environmental & Analysis By designing products specifically for local markets, we can differentiate ourselves from the competition and better satisfy market needs.
Ocean Optics Asia is showing a great example of this by perfectly tailoring the Accuman to suit the regulatory and quality control requirements of the Chinese pharmaceutical market.
Read more P38 20 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 E m w p o o r G w e r Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21
