OUR GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS DENNIS MILLARD N R JILL McDONALD N ANDREW FINDLAY Chairman Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Dennis has been Chairman of the Group since Jill was previously CEO, UK & President, North Prior to his appointment, Andrew was Director of 28 May 2009.
His former appointments include Chief West Division, Europe for McDonalds Corporation.
Finance, Tax and Treasury at Marks and Spencer Financial Officer of Cookson Group plc, Finance Her responsibilities at McDonalds encompassed Group plc.
Prior to this, he held senior finance Director of Medeva plc and Premier Farnell plc.
around 3,300 owned and franchised restaurants roles at the London Stock Exchange and at Cable across seven countries, more than 500 franchisees and Wireless, both in the UK and US.
Andrew He has broad commercial and financial and over 200,000 colleagues.
Jill began her career qualified as a chartered accountant with Coopers experience in the retail, service, distribution in 1987 at Colgate Palmolive and joined British & Lybrand.
and manufacturing sectors in the UK and Airways in 1990, where she worked for 16 years.
Dennis is a member of the South Andrew has a track record in retail and other African Institute of Chartered Accountants and She brings outstanding business leadership, competitive, consumer and business facing holds an MBA from the University of Cape Town.
particularly with regard to customer service and industries.
Andrew has experience of: operational colleague engagement in a consumer facing and commercial finance: refinancing and pension He is also Non-Executive Deputy Chairman business.
She is a Non-Executive Director for scheme funding: bid defence: non-merchandise and Senior Independent Director of Pets at Intercontinental Hotels Group plc.
procurement: shared services: financial Home Group Plc and holds the roles of Senior accounting, tax and audit.
Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee at Debenhams plc.
A N R A N R A N R DAVID ADAMS CLAUDIA ARNEY HELEN JONES Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director David was Finance Director and Deputy Chief Claudia was previously the Group Managing Helen is currently a senior executive at Caff Executive of House of Fraser plc until 2006, then Director, Digital at EMAP until late 2010.
Helen was the CEO of the Zizzi Restaurants Executive Chairman of Jessops plc, becoming this she was Director of the Enterprise and Growth group and was also responsible for successfully Non-Executive Chairman in 2007.
In addition, he Unit at HM Treasury.
She has also worked as an launching the Ben & Jerry brand in the UK and has held several Executive and Non-Executive Executive Director at Goldman Sachs, FT. Com Europe.
roles in over 25 years in retailing including 10 and Mckinsey, and was Managing Director Helen brings valuable and relevant marketing years as a plc Finance Director.
Claudia brings extensive and branding experience in consumer focused experience of strategy formulation and business David is currently Chairman of Conviviality Retail businesses.
plc, Ecovision Ltd, Park Cameras Ltd and Walk the Walk a breast cancer charity and is Senior Claudia is Chairman of Public Data Group, Deputy Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair Chairman of Telecity Group PLC, and a Nonof the Audit Committee at Hornby plc and NonExecutive Director of Derwent London Plc and Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit the Premier League.
She is also a member of the Committee at Fevertree Drinks plc.
Advisory Board of the Shareholder Executive.
KEY TO COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP N Nomination Committee A Audit Committee R Remuneration Committee Getting Into Gear 38 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 3 April 2015 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015
