STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW MARKETPLACE Our presence in the auto, cycling and leisure markets WE CONTINUE TO GROW is unique in the UK.
MARKET SHARE IN OUR Backed by a heritage and brand trusted by millions, CORE SECTORS, BUILDING our position is strong, AND MAINTAINING LEADING and were well-placed to thrive in changing market POSITIONS.
Our product ranges continue to evolve in line with MARKETPLACE market requirements and advances in automotive Halfords operates in a number technology.
For example, stop-start batteries are of retail and service markets becoming increasingly prevalent and we have the 1 across our 467 stores and 305 right equipment and fully-trained colleagues to be 1 autocentres throughout the UK.
able to cater to this demand, both in our Retail stores and our Autocentres.
Our products and services can be grouped into auto, cycling and leisure, and our presence in We have seen good growth in some subsections these markets is unique.
With 90% of the UK of our in-car technology offering.
In-car cameras population living within a 20 minute drive of one of dash cams have proved very popular, with our locations, we are within convenient access for a full fitting service just landed.
In multimedia, a large customer base.
connectivity and streaming technology, this year saw us launch an Apple-certified system and an Backed by a heritage and brand trusted by Android one is coming soon.
millions, our position is strong, and were wellplaced to thrive in changing market conditions.
The sat nav market continues to decline, but this is becoming an increasingly smaller and less SUPPORTING DRIVERS OF EVERY CAR important part of our business.
Key products such The number of drivers in the UK the car parc is as child car seats continue to be important for increasing.
It is estimated that there are currently customers and are providing growth.
approximately 700,000 new drivers each year and the number of car registrations is growing faster Likewise, the services we offer alongside our than the number of cars being written off.
The products continue to evolve, as evidenced by number of miles driven in the UK increased again the continued success of our 3Bs bulbs, in 2014, having declined during the recession.
In FY15 in the Petrol prices dropping to a four-year low recently Retail stores we sold 5.3 million car bulbs and will help this trend to continue.
fitted 41% of these on demand.
In this expanding market, Halfords supports The growth in new drivers, cars, miles driven drivers of all ages.
Our expertise and service is and car complexity is also an opportunity for our important to both new and experienced drivers Autocentres business to attract and retain new alike.
Winning the hearts and minds of new customers.
Trust, value, convenience and the drivers through our expertise and value as they attitude of our colleagues are also key to doing gain experience is key to building a long-term this as well as retaining our long-standing Halfords customer base.
There are few businesses that can match us in what we offer.
The average car in the UK is currently estimated to be 7.4 years old.
More new cars on the road is conducive to increased fitting and servicing requirements, as newer cars are becoming more technically advanced and have more specific requirements for maintenance.
The shift from DIY to Do-It-For-Me DIFM is clear.
1 As at 3 April 2015 Getting Into Gear 04 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 3 April 2015 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 STRATEGIC OUR FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION OVERVIEW Halfords is one of many organisations lobbying Finally, as we see an increased demand for higherINSPIRING CYCLISTS OF EVERY AGE The cycling market in the UK is changing.
the Government to invest 10 in cycling for every value bikes, demand for cycle repair has also person in the UK.
increased - another area of focus for the business.
Whilst the total volume of bikes sold has remained level over the past few years, according to Mintel, This investment could further boost the valuable EQUIPPING FAMILIES the popularity of cycling has led to customers FOR THEIR LEISURE TIME road bike market, which is mainly represented in willing to pay more for better products and more This third category pillar occupies the smallest city centre cycling.
This has driven our introduction on accessories, meaning the market is growing in element of Halfords Retail sales.
It is spread of a new cycling only store format, Cycle Republic, value terms.
Mintel estimate the market will grow across several fragmented markets, principally to be opened in London and other key city cycling by c. 33% in the next five years.
encompassing camping and outdoor leisure.
locations, where Halfords penetration has been The range includes a variety of strategically low.
Halfords have reacted to and encouraged this chosen impulse products, which change trend by focusing on premium ranges, making These new Cycle Republic stores are giving us throughout the year.
available a wide range of parts and accessories, access to a new customer base, with a different and leveraging the knowledge of the colleagues appetite: a much higher proportion of sales to enhance recommendations and upselling.
We being accounted for by accessories than in other also remain very focused on our childrens bikes locations.
offer and there has also been significant effort to improve our offering on entry-level bikes.
Female cyclists are another area of focus for us, as theyre currently not being catered for Our bike sales are split by type, with mountain enough in the premium market.
While a significant and hybrid making up the bulk of adult bike sales.
amount of SKUs under 500 are accounted for by Road bikes represent a smaller proportion of womens bikes, the reverse is true for bikes above volume, but with higher average selling prices.
In response, we are launching five There has been considerable growth in sales of premium womens bikes in FY16, three from foldable commuter bikes.
the 13 range, and two in the VooDoo range.
The trend for road bikes is supported by We are experimenting with electric and powerGovernment regulation, with new laws that road assisted bikes in our Carrera range, in response to infrastructure in new builds must take cycling an emerging trend in Europe.
We anticipate these into consideration.
In recent months the Cycle products being particularly popular within our Superhighways in London received the green London market, and for older cyclists.
light and work has already started to create them.
SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS FREE BIKE WORKSHOPS In FY15 over 20,000 children and parents attended free Kids Bike Workshops in store to learn the basics of how to look after their bike, with 96% of parents likely to recommend the summer workshop to others.
In FY16, together with the Easter holiday, stores will run the workshop in the summer and during the October half-term week.
Building on the success of these workshops, Halfords now also partners with the Scouts Association, with over 9,000 children being taught bike maintenance as part of the Cub Cyclist Activity badge.
In addition, Halfords now runs tailored workshops in schools, focused on year-six pupils as they progress through Bikeability formerly called cycling proficiency with over 12,000 attending during the year.
In February 2015, Halfords launched a partnership with Breeze, British See more at www.
com bikeclub and Cyclings womens network.
The partnership will involve promotion of www.
uk halfords the network and its benefits, bike mechanic support at key Breeze events and workshops teaching women some elements of bike maintenance.
