STRATEGIC OUR FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of Halfords Group plc the Company together with its subsidiary undertakings the Group for the period ended 3 April 2015.
HALFORDS GROUP PLC Registered Number 04457314 Registered Office Address Icknield Street Drive, Washford West, Redditch, Worcestershire, B98 0DE Country of Incorporation England and Wales Type Public Limited Company SUMMARY OF GENERAL DISCLOSURES INCORPORATED INTO THIS DIRECTORS REPORT The following information required to be disclosed in this Directors Report has been provided by the Company: Disclosure Page The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities within the Chief Financial Officers Report.
25 to 29 The Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk within Note 20 to the Group Financial Statements.
99 The Statement of Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and description of the Groups corporate governance framework 40 to 49 within the Corporate Governance Report.
A summary of how the Company recognises its responsibility to its colleagues, customers, environment, and community through various 19 initiatives case studies being on pages 5: 9: 10: 17 and 36 and within the Sustainability Report.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements.
71 Board of Directors 38 Directors Report including interests and indemnities 39 to 41 Auditor 40 Going Concern 40 Political Donations 41 Share Capital, Major Shareholders and Authority to Purchase Shares 41 AGM 41 Leadership 43 to 48 Role of the Board Board Composition and Meeting Attendance Effectiveness 43 to 49 Composition of the Board Skills and Experience Independence Diversity Appointments to the Board Induction and Development Evaluation Re-election Directors and their Other Interests Board Committees Nomination Committee Accountability 46 to 49 Audit Committee Internal Control and Risk Management Remuneration 46 Relations with Shareholders 49 Audit Committee Report 52 to 55 Remuneration Committee Report 56 to 70 STOCK CODE: HFD 39 halfords.
com 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 OUR GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES DIRECTORS INTERESTS DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE The principal activities of the Group are: the retailing Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in AUDITOR of automotive, leisure and cycling products from In accordance with Section 418 2 of the Companies which they have, or may have, interests that conflict retail stores and car servicing and repair from Act 2006, each Director in office at the date the with those of the Company unless that conflict is first Autocentres.
The principal activity of the Company is Directors Report is approved confirms that: authorised by the Board.
The Companys registrar i. so far as the Director is aware, there is The Company has in place procedures for is Capita Asset Services, which is situated at The no relevant audit information of which the managing conflicts of interest.
The Companys Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent Companys auditor is unaware: and Articles of Association contain provisions to allow BR3 4TU.
the Directors to authorise potential conflicts of ii.
he she has taken all the steps that he she ought PROFITS & DIVIDENDS interest, so that if approved, a Director will not be to have taken as a Director in order to make The Groups results for the year are set out in the in breach of his her duty under company law.
In himself or herself aware of any relevant audit Consolidated Income Statement on page 77.
The line with the requirements of the Companies Act information and to establish that the Companys profit before tax on ordinary activities was 83.8m 2006, each Director has notified the Company of auditor is aware of that information.
2014: 72.6m and the profit after tax amounted any situation in which he or she has, or could have, to 65.8m 2014: 55.5m.
The Board proposes GOING CONCERN a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly that a final dividend of 11.0 pence per ordinary With effect from 14 November 2014 the ultimate may conflict, with the interests of the Company a share be paid on 28 August 2015 to shareholders holding company, Halfords Group plc, completed situational conflict.
Directors have a continuing duty whose names are on the register of members at the an amend and extend of its previously secured to update any changes to their conflicts of interest.
close of business on 7 August 2015.
This payment, four-year 200m revolving credit facility with an together with the interim dividend of 5.5 pence per option to extend for a further year.
The arrangement DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES ordinary share paid on 23 January 2015, makes a now consists of a 170m five-year revolving Directors and Officers insurance cover has been total for the year of 16.5 pence per ordinary share.
credit facility, ending in November 2019.
At the established for all Directors and Officers to provide The total final dividend payable to shareholders for year end, the Group had undrawn borrowing cover against their reasonable actions on behalf of the year is estimated to be 21.4m.
The Directors of the Company and current committed borrowing facilities contain Computershare Trustees Jersey Limited, trustee of the Companys subsidiaries have the benefit of a certain financial covenants, which have been met the Halfords Employee Share Trust, has waived its third-party indemnity provision, as defined by section throughout the period.
The Groups forecasts and entitlement to dividends.
236 of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys projections, taking account of reasonably possible Articles of Association.
PERFORMANCE MONITORING changes in trading performance, show that the The delivery of the Groups strategic objectives is AUDITOR Group should be able to operate within the level monitored by the Board through KPIs and periodic The Companys Auditor is KPMG LLP.
A resolution of its borrowing facilities and covenants for the review of various aspects of the Groups operations.
proposing the reappointment of KPMG LLP is foreseeable future.
As a consequence, the Directors The Group considers that the KPIs listed on pages expected to be in the notice of the AGM and will be believe that the Group is well placed to manage its 22 to 24 are appropriate measures for the delivery put to shareholders at the meeting.
business risks successfully, despite the uncertain of the strategy of the Group via its Retail and economic outlook.
The Directors have a reasonable Autocentres divisions.
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the DIRECTORS foreseeable future, hence they continue to adopt the The following were Directors of the Company during going concern basis of accounting in preparing the the period ended 3 April 2015 and, unless otherwise Financial Statements.
stated, at the date of this Annual Report: Dennis Millard Matt Davies resigned 30 April 2015 Andrew Findlay David Adams Claudia Arney Helen Jones Bill Ronald resigned 31 May 2014 Keith Harris resigned 31 May 2014 In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the UK Corporate Governance Code guidelines, all those persons holding office as a Director of the Company on 3 April 2015 will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the 2015 AGM.
Jill McDonald, who was appointed on 11 May 2015, will stand for election for the first time.
Getting Into Gear 40 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 3 April 2015 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 STRATEGIC OUR FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION of control to notify the facility agent and, if required COLLEAGUES SHARE CAPITAL by the majority lenders, these facilities may be The Group strives to meet its business objectives Details of the Companys share capital, including by motivating and encouraging its employees to changes during the year in the issued share capital cancelled.
The Company does not have agreements be responsive to the needs of its customers and and details of the rights attaching to the Companys with any Director or employee that would provide continually improve operational performance.
compensation for loss of office or employment ordinary shares, are set out in Note 21 on page 102. resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of All ordinary shares, including those acquired through The Group is committed to providing equality of Company share schemes and plans, rank equally the Companys share schemes and Deferred Bonus opportunity to employees and potential employees.
Plan may cause options and awards granted to This applies to recruitment, training, career Directors and employees under such schemes and development and promotion for all employees, All shareholders are entitled to attend and speak plans to vest on a takeover.
regardless of physical ability, gender, sexual at the general meetings of the Company, appoint orientation, religion, age or ethnic origin.
Full and fair Rules relating to the appointment or removal of the proxies, receive any dividends, exercise voting rights consideration is given to employment applications Directors, and their powers, are contained within and transfer shares without restriction.
There are no by disabled persons wherever suitable opportunities known arrangements that may restrict the transfer of the Companys Articles of Association, which in exist, having regard to their particular aptitudes and accordance with legislation can only be changed shares or voting rights.
Training and career development support with shareholder approval.
The Company has term and revolving credit facilities is provided where appropriate.
Should a colleague that require the Company in the event of a change become disabled, efforts are made to ensure their continued employment with the Group, with retraining being provided if necessary.
MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS The Group has established a framework of colleague As at 1 June 2015, the Companys register of substantial shareholdings showed the following interests of 3% communications, including a monthly magazine, to or more of the Companys issued ordinary shares.
provide colleagues with information on matters of concern to them and business performance, as well Number of % of issued as to encourage the engagement of every colleague Holder shares shares in the Boards commitment to high standards of Artemis Investments Management LLP 26,978,462 13.55 customer care and service provision.
J O Hambro Capital Management Limited 10,700,558 5.38 Schroders Plc 8,512,484 4.28 A whistleblowing policy and procedure enables colleagues to report concerns on matters affecting Legal & General Investment Management Limited 7,772,556 3.90 the Group or their employment, without fear of Rathbone Brothers Plc 7,510,079 3.77 recrimination.
In addition, the Group takes a zeroInvesco Limited 6,550,590 3.29 tolerance approach to matters of discrimination, Norges Bank Investment Management 6,462,138 3.25 harassment and bullying in all aspects of its business BlackRock Investment Management Limited 6,257,960 3.14 operations, including in relation to gender, race, national origin, disability, age, religion or sexual AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE SHARES orientation.
Appropriate policies and procedures are At the 2014 AGM, shareholders approved a special resolution authorising the Company to purchase a in place for reporting and dealing with such matters.
maximum of 19,906,322 shares, representing less than 10% of the Companys issued share capital at 1June POLITICAL DONATIONS 2014, such authority expiring at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2015 or, if earlier, on 30 September The Group made no political donations and incurred 2015. no political expenditure during the year FY14:nil.
It ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING remains the Companys policy not to make political The AGM will be held at the Hilton Garden Inn, 1 Brunswick Square, Brindley Place, Birmingham donations or to incur political expenditure, however B1 2HW on Thursday 30 July 2015.
The notice of the AGM and explanatory notes regarding the special the application of the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 is potentially very broad business to be put to the meeting will be set out in a separate circular to shareholders.
in nature and, as last year, the Board is seeking By order of the Board shareholder authority to ensure that the Group does not inadvertently breach these provisions as a result Justin Richards of the breadth of its business activities, although the Group Company Secretary Board has no intention of using this authority.
4 June 2015 STOCK CODE: HFD 41 halfords.
