Sector Review Medical Products used to improve personal and public health.
Devices used to assesseye health, assist with eye surgery and primary care applications.
Fluidic components such as pumps, probes, valves and connectors used bymedical diagnostic OEMs.
Adam Meyers Performance Sector Chief Executive, Medical Group The Medical sector again delivered record revenue and profit KPIs target withstrong contributions both from recent acquisitions and 1 Revenue growth 3.8% long-established businesses.
Profit performance was very strong 1 and constant currency revenue growth was above Group target.
Organic revenue growth constant currency 5.9% 5% 1 Returns remain high and continue well above Group targets.
Profit growth 8.5% TheMedical sector set a new Return on Sales record and 1 Organic profit growth constant currency 9.6% 5% cashgeneration remained strong.
2 Return on Sales 26.8% 18% 3 Continued investment in innovative technology and products is R&D % of Revenue 4.0% 4% increasing the proportion of sector revenue from products launched in the last three years.
Our Medical business acquisition pipeline is Contribution to Group robust and we continueto focus on acquiring in this sector.
In May m 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2015 we acquired VAS LLC which will operate within Diba Industries Revenue 169 163 136 100 82 and brings in important new component technology.
Profit 45 42 36 26 20 Revenue % of Group Profit % of Group 1 4 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared to the equivalent prior year figures.
23% 27% 2 4 Return on Sales is defined as adjusted sector profit before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
3 Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
4 Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition items see Note 1 to the Accounts.
The global growth rate for medical devices is expected to be 4% Market trends and growth drivers to5% inthe near term with developing economies offering slightly The Medical sector growth driver of increasing demand for healthcare stronger growth.
Within the overall medical market, cataract is underpinned by: operations, one ofthe most frequent surgical procedures throughout worldwide population ageing and increasing life expectancy the world and astrong focus of our ophthalmic surgery companies, increasing prevalence of diabetes, obesity and hypertension are growing annually at about 5%.
Eye surgeons continue to switch increasing healthcare access in developing economies tothe type of single-use instruments we make so our growth rate new medical diagnostic technologies should continue to outpace the procedure growth rate.
new or improved surgical and pharmaceutical therapies Increasing healthcare access and ageing populations are also The proportion of the global population aged over 60 continues to strongdrivers in the laboratory automation market, where demand is rise steadily and drives demand for healthcare, both in developed and forecast to rise annually by 6% through 2017, underpinning demand developing geographies.
Population ageing is a key driver for our for our critical fluidic components.
Ageing populations require higher ophthalmology and hypertension management businesses because level medical testing and laboratories need faster throughput and eyesight problems and high blood pressure are both age-related.
North America and Europe are the largest laboratory automation markets while growth in Asia is For example, one in three American adults has high blood expected to outpace all other geographies, with forecast annual pressurewhich causes, or leads to, over 2.4 million American growth of over 8%.
One of the fastest growing laboratory automation deathsannually.
Rising obesity increases both hypertension-related segments is molecular diagnostics tests on patients genetic codes, illness and diabetes-related eye disorders.
In China, people suffering forecast to grow worldwide by 11% annually through 2019. from hypertension increased by 34% between 2002 and 2010, but less than 20% of those affected were controlling their condition.
The global medical product regulatory environment continues Weexpect continued growth in spending on hypertension togettougher higher registration costs, increasing testing and management instruments.
We continue to invest in personnel to address these market pressures including hiring local regulatory affairs staff in keyterritories.
Increasingly complex medical device registration 1 See Note 1 to the Accounts.
requirements, combined with current macro-economic conditions, places significantly more value on Halmas well-established Medical 36 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements sector channels and market access.
Each year we add staff in our inour hypertension management niche and we have appointed Asian and South American healthcare markets, particularly in China, aPresident of Ophthalmology, Greater China toassist our Medical India, Brazil and the Middle East.
sector companies with growth in China.
R&D investment will rise to capitalise on our competitive Geographic trends advantagefrom strong sales channels in niche markets and Continued expansion of the global medical device market provides excellentcustomer relationships.
Medical sector R&D spend as a opportunity for sustained revenue growth but we also are prepared percentage of sales has historically been below the group target for market variation due to local economic conditions, government asrecent acquisitions typically spent less on R&D than we did as a spending programmes and currency fluctuations.
Thisis being builtup as we increase investment in our newer US healthcare spending is forecast to continue to grow above 4% businesses and continueto pursue product development activities forthe next few years.
Over 16 million Americans have gained health inour long standing businesses.
insurance since the Affordable Care Act became law in 2010.
This Medical sector R&D focuses on high quality components and has begun to raise patient flows but has yet to drive increased market instrumentation that will be readily accepted by our conservative revenue, so the US market is uncertain.
The market for single-use customer base.
However, local development and manufacture surgical devices in America is set to continue to grow, butcapital inemerging markets to satisfy local customer needs better is equipment sales may grow more slowly until increased patient flow increasingly important and is a key strategicpriority.
raises medical revenues or economic growth accelerates.
Acquisition of a small Swiss ophthalmic component producer in The US healthcare market was stronger than anticipated in the May2014 secured important manufacturing IP and the purchase pastyear and may continue to compensate for a weaker European ofVAS LLC in May 2015 adds important component technology.
Recent Euro exchange weakness should aid US market Westill seek to acquire value-enhancing healthcare businesses penetration for our European businesses, but our US and Swiss withinexisting and adjacent niches and we have focused more businesses will face higher price pressure when selling into Europe.
resources on achieving this objective.
The major European economies should see medical device demand grow between 2% and 6% over the next few years.
However, Performance stagnant economies and continued austerity measures are expected The Medical sector grew revenue by 4% to 169m 2014: 163m and 1 to challenge sales growth elsewhere in Europe.
Our non-Euro Zone profit by 9% to 45m 2014: 42m.
This was virtually all organic as we companies expect increased price pressure due to exchange rates.
only made one small acquisition in 2014 15.
Organic revenue growth atconstant currency was 6% and organic constant currency profit While growth in Asia, and in particular China, may be slowing, growthwas 10%, both above Group targets.
thesemarkets are still expected to grow faster than other regions.
Our Chinese investment continues with more product registrations, Return on Sales improved to 26.8%, a new Medical sector record.
more R&D engineers and development of localised products.
Margin improvement is due to improved ratios at recent acquisitions, cost reductions and overheadcontrol.
About 400,000 Chinese people become blind from cataracts each year but China has the lowest cataract surgery rate in Asia.
China Currency translation had an adverse impact in 2014 15.
Ifexchange willsee increasing rates of cataract surgery as access is improved, rates remain at current levels we expect an opposite impact in 2015 16 particularly in rural areas, and as more surgeons are trained to due to reversal of the relative strength of the US Dollar and Swiss Franc perform this surgery.
A third of Chinas adult population, about 330 million people, Outlook havehigh blood pressure with prevalence increasing particularly Ageing populations in both developed and developing economies, among the young and rural populations.
Raised awareness and increasing access and higher demand for healthcare in the developing programmes to combat hypertension will increase demand for world, and increasing prevalence of hypertension, diabetes and obesity ourdiagnostic devices.
globally, create afavourable environment of increasing demand for our high quality medical components and instrumentation.
Other territories, such as South and Latin America, the Middle Eastand Africa are forecast to grow annually by 7% to 8% for the We expect our Medical businesses to outperform the market in the next fewyears.
Medical sector companies are increasing sales and medium term driven by enhanced distribution in export markets, new marketing collaboration here and in particular we are increasing the products and acquisitions.
useof our Brazil Sector hub.
We expect growth to vary across territories and market niches in Strategy developed markets due to currency volatility, government austerity Medical sector strategy is to increase growth organically and via andspending controls.
Westill see the strong short-term growth acquisition by: opportunities in developing markets, especially Asia and the Middle East with Latin and South America.
We seek to acquire valueincreasing collaboration and shared resources to drive expansion enhancing businesses inthe healthcare market and our pipeline andjoint product development remains veryactive.
increasing R&D investment to broaden product lines and commercialise innovative new products further geographic penetration improving talent and increasing diversity expansion into adjacent market niches Our Medical sector companies are increasing collaboration astheyhave multi-company sales and marketing teams in China, Indiaand the Middle East and are looking to add parts ofEurope andSouth America to the mix in 2015 16.
As a result,  product is scheduled for launch Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 37
