GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT Hays is incorporated in the UK and registered POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS DIRECTORS POWERS TO ALLOT AND as a public limited company in England and There have been no significant events to BUY BACK SHARES Wales.
Its headquarters are in London and it report since the date of the balance sheet.
The directors have the power to authorise the is listed on the main market of the London issue and buy-back of the Companys shares Stock Exchange.
by the Company, subject to authority being DIVIDENDS An interim dividend of 0.87 pence 2014: given to the directors by the shareholders in general meeting, applicable legislation and STRATEGIC REPORT 0.83 pence per Ordinary share was paid A description of the Companys business to shareholders on 8 April 2015.
model and strategy is set out in the Strategic recommends the payment of a final dividend Report along with the factors likely to affect of 1.89 pence 2014: 1.80 pence per Ordinary APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT the Groups future development, performance share, representing a total dividend of 2.76 OF DIRECTORS and position.
An overview of the principal pence 2014: 2.63 pence for the financial Shareholders may appoint any person who risks and uncertainties faced by the Group year ended 30 June 2015.
Subject to the is willing to act as a director by ordinary are also provided in the Strategic Report.
shareholders of the Company approving this resolution and may remove any director by recommendation at the 2015 AGM, the final ordinary resolution.
The Board may appoint dividend will be paid on 13 November 2015 to The Statement of Compliance with the Code any person to fill any vacancy or as an those shareholders appearing on the register additional director, provided that they are for the reporting period is contained in the of members as at 9 October 2015.
submitted for election by the shareholders at ex-dividend date is 8 October 2015. the AGM following their appointment.
Specific conditions apply to the vacation of office, Information on environmental, employee, including cases where a director becomes FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS social and community matters, including Details of the financial instruments used prohibited by law or regulation from holding information on gender diversity within the office, or is persistently absent from directors by the Group are set out in notes 18 to 19 Group, is detailed in the Corporate to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
meetings, or if three-quarters of appointed Responsibility Report.
directors request his or her resignation or in A general outline of Hays use of financial the case of mental incapacity or bankruptcy.
instruments is set out in the treasury Information relating to matters addressed management section on page 33 of the by the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Financial Review of this Report.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS Committees, which operate within clearly Details of the interests of Hays directors defined terms of reference, are set out within and their connected persons in the ordinary the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination DIRECTORS shares of the Company are outlined in the Biographies of the serving directors of Committee Reports.
Hays are provided on pages 44 and 45 of this Report.
They all served on the Board All of the matters above are incorporated by throughout the 2015 financial year, with the DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES reference into this Directors Report.
exception of Peter Williams, who joined the The Company continues to maintain Board on 24 February 2015.
In addition, third-party directors and officers liability The purpose of this Report is to provide William Eccleshare served on the Board insurance for the benefit of its directors.
information to the members of the Company, during the year until his retirement on This provides insurance cover for any claim as a body.
The Company, its directors, 12 November 2014. brought against directors or officers for employees, agents or advisers do not accept wrongful acts in connection with their or assume responsibility to any other person positions.
The directors have also been GENERAL POWERS OF DIRECTORS to whom this document is shown or into granted qualifying third-party indemnities, The powers of the directors are contained whose hands it may come and any such as permitted under the Companies Act 2006, in the Companys Articles of Association.
responsibility or liability is expressly which remain in force.
Neither the insurance These powers may be exercised by any disclaimed.
This Report contains certain nor the indemnities extend to claims arising meeting of the Board at which a quorum of forward-looking statements with respect to from fraud or dishonesty and do not provide three directors is present.
The power of the the operations, performance and financial cover for civil or criminal fines or penalties Board to manage the business is subject to condition of the Group.
By their nature, these provided by law.
any limitations imposed by the Companies statements involve uncertainty since future Act 2006, the Articles of Association events and circumstances can cause results Articles or any directions given by special SHARE CAPITAL and developments to differ from those resolution of the shareholders applicable Hays has one class of Ordinary shares which anticipated.
The forward-looking statements at a relevant time.
carry no right to fixed income or control over reflect knowledge and information available the Company.
These shares may be held in at the date of preparation of this Report.
On 30 Nothing in this Report should be construed The Articles contain an express authority for June 2015, the Company had 1,464,096,566 the appointment of executive directors and as a profit forecast.
fully paid Ordinary shares in issue, of which provide the directors with the authority to 43,062,351 Ordinary shares were held in delegate or confer upon such directors any RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS treasury by the Company.
of the powers exercisable by them upon Details of the related party transactions such terms and conditions and with such undertaken during the reporting period are restrictions as they see fit.
The Articles The rights and obligations attaching to the contained in note 30 to the Consolidated contain additional authorities to delegate Companys Ordinary shares are contained Financial Statements.
powers and discretions to committees and in the Articles.
In brief, the Ordinary shares subcommittees.
allow holders to receive dividends and to exercise one vote on a poll per Ordinary share for every holder present in person or by proxy at general meetings of the Company.
They also have the right to a return of capital on the winding up of the Company.
58|Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION There are no restrictions on the size of MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS To ensure that employees remain engaged holding or the transfer of shares, which are As at 30 June 2015, the following shareholders in our business, an annual employee both governed by the general provisions of held an interest of 3% or more of the Companys engagement survey, known as TALKback, is the Companys Articles and legislation.
Under issued share capital: carried out each year.
This allows employees the Articles, the directors have the power to to voice their views and opinions on all suspend voting rights and the right to receive aspects of their workplace environment, % of total dividends in respect of Ordinary shares and to training and development, work culture, voting rights refuse to register a transfer of Ordinary shares leadership and client relations.
The results, BlackRock Inc 10.9% in circumstances where the holder of those which indicate employee engagement levels shares fails to comply with a notice issued and highlight any areas of concern, are Virtus Trust Limited 7.4% under Section 793 of the Companies Act presented to the Management Board and Baillie Gifford & Co 6.6% 2006.
The directors also have the power to to the Board.
refuse to register any transfer of certificated Cedar Rock Capital Limited 6.5% shares that does not satisfy the conditions set Hays believes in the value of loyalty and Columbia Threadneedle 4.5% out in the Articles.
considers its employee incentive programme Marathon Asset Management 4.2% of commission schemes, performance-related The Company is not aware of any agreements cash bonuses and share schemes to be Heronbridge Investment between shareholders that might result in important factors in keeping its employees Management LLP 3.4% the restriction of transfer of voting rights in motivated.
The employee share schemes relation to the shares held by such shareholders.
have been running successfully since No changes to the above have been disclosed to the Company as at 3 September 2015. inception and provide many employees with an additional stake in the business.
TREASURY SHARES As Hays has only one class of share in issue, EMPLOYEES it may hold a maximum of 10% of its issued Our goal is for our people to reach their GOING CONCERN share capital in treasury.
As at 30 June 2015, full potential and to give of their best as The Groups business activities, together 2.94% of the Companys shares were held in individuals and in teams.
In this context, we with the factors likely to affect its future treasury.
Legislation restricts the exercise of are committed to never discriminating on development, performance and position are rights on Ordinary shares held in treasury.
The the grounds of race, colour, creed, disability, set out in the Strategic Report.
The financial Company is not allowed to exercise voting religion, ethnic origin, gender, sexual position of the Group, its cash flows and rights conferred by the shares whilst they are orientation or age.
All Hays employees are liquidity position are described in the held in treasury.
It is prohibited from paying required to abide by these principles which Financial Review, with details of the Groups any dividend or making any distribution of are set out in the Groups Equal Opportunities treasury activities, long-term funding assets on treasury shares.
Once in treasury, Policy and Code of Conduct.
arrangements and exposure to financial shares can only be sold for cash, transferred risk included in notes 18 and 19 to the to an employee share scheme or cancelled.
Hays gives full consideration to applications During the 2015 financial year, Hays transferred for employment from disabled persons where 14,806,893 shares out of treasury to satisfy they have the right skills and abilities for the The Group has sufficient financial resources the award of shares under the Companys role.
Should an employee become disabled which, together with internally generated employee share schemes.
whilst working for the Group, Hays would cash flows, will continue to provide sufficient make every effort to accommodate them, to sources of liquidity to fund its current SHARES HELD BY THE EMPLOYEE assist them in any re-training or to find suitable operations, including its contractual and BENEFIT TRUST alternative employment within the Group.
commercial commitments and any proposed The Hays plc Employee Share Trust the dividends.
The Group is therefore well placed Trust is an employee benefit trust which to manage its business risks.
EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT is permitted to hold Ordinary shares in the Ongoing communication forms the basis of Company for employee share schemes the partnership between Hays leadership After making enquiries, the directors have purposes.
No shares were held by the Trust as and workforce.
Employees receive business formed the judgment at the time of approving at the year end: further details can be found in performance updates from Alistair Cox, the the financial statements, that there is a note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Chief Executive, and from their respective reasonable expectation that the Group has Statements on page 106.
Shares held in the regional Managing Directors, by email on a adequate resources to continue in operational Trust may be transferred to participants of four-weekly basis.
These are posted on the existence for the foreseeable future.
For this the various Group share schemes.
No voting Groups intranet, which acts as a source of reason, they continue to adopt the going rights are exercisable in relation to shares reference for the Groups brand, values, concern basis of accounting in preparing unallocated to individual beneficiaries.
Regular presentations the Consolidated Financial Statements.
are also made to employees by the Chief DILUTION LIMITS IN RESPECT OF Executive and regional Managing Directors ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION SHARE SCHEMES during office visits made over the course The Companys Articles may only be amended The current Association of British Insurers of the year.
by special resolution of the shareholders.
ABI guidance on dilution limits provide that the overall dilution under all share plans Hays continues to provide tailored training operated by a company should not exceed to the people who are in the front line of 10% over a 10-year period in relation to the delivering recruitment solutions as well as Companys share capital, with a further in management and leadership roles.
These limitation of 5% in any 10-year period on programmes take a number of different executive plans.
The Companys share plans guises across the Groups regional businesses operate within ABI recommended guidelines but all share the common goal of improving on dilution limits.
the service we provide to clients.
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015|59 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION Resolution 14 will be proposed as an ordinary The price paid for Ordinary shares will not TO THE AUDITOR resolution to seek authority to make political be less than the nominal value of 1 pence per So far as the directors who held office at donations, and if passed, such authority shall share and not more than the higher of 5% the date of approval of this Report are aware, expire at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
above the average of the middle market there is no relevant audit information of which quotations of the Companys Ordinary shares the external Auditor is unaware and each AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES as derived from the London Stock Exchange.
director has taken all steps that he or she At the 2014 AGM, shareholders authorised ought to have taken as a director to make the directors, subject to the Companies Resolution 17 will be proposed as a special himself or herself aware of any relevant audit Act 2006, to allot Ordinary shares or grant resolution to renew this authority for a period information and to establish that the external rights to subscribe for or grant rights to expiring at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
Auditor is aware of that information.
subscribe for or convert any securities into shares without the prior consent of NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETINGS This confirmation should be interpreted in shareholders.
This authority expires at the The notice period required by the Companies accordance with Section 418 of the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
Accordingly, Act 2006 for general meetings of the Company Companies Act 2006.
Resolution 15 will be proposed as an ordinary is 21 clear days, unless shareholders approve resolution to renew this authority for a period a shorter notice period, which cannot expiring at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
2015 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL however be less than 14 clear days.
STATEMENTS The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
On the recommendation of the Audit At last years AGM, shareholders authorised Committee and having considered all matters the calling of general meetings other than an brought to the attention of the Board during DISAPPLICATION OF PRE-EMPTION AGM on not less than 14 clear days notice and the financial year, the Board is satisfied that RIGHTS Resolution 18 will be proposed as a special the Annual Report and Financial Statements, Also at last years meeting, a special resolution and seeks to renew this authority.
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and resolution was passed under the Companies The authority granted by this resolution, understandable.
The Board believes that the Act 2006 empowering the directors to if passed, will be for a period expiring at disclosures set out in the Annual Report allot equity securities for cash without first the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
provide the information necessary for being required to offer such shares to existing shareholders to assess the Companys shareholders.
Resolution 16 will seek to renew The flexibility offered by this resolution performance, business model and strategy.
If approved, the resolution will be used where, taking into account the will authorise directors in accordance with circumstances, the directors consider this the Articles to issue shares in connection ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING appropriate in relation to the business to be The Companys AGM will be held at 12 noon with a rights issue and otherwise to issue considered at the meeting and in the interests shares for cash up to a specified maximum on 11 November 2015 at the offices of UBS, of the Company and shareholders as a whole.
nominal amount which includes the sale on a non pre-emptive basis of any shares RECOMMENDATION held in treasury.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the resolutions The directors consider that all the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM and gives to be put to the meeting are in the best details of the voting record date and proxy Resolution 16 will be proposed as a special interests of the Company and its shareholders resolution to renew this authority for a period appointment deadline for that Meeting.
Your Board will be voting in favour Notice of Meeting is contained in a separate expiring at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
of them and unanimously recommends that circular to shareholders which is being mailed you do so as well.
or otherwise provided to shareholders at the AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES same time as this Report.
A special resolution was also passed at By order of the Board last years meeting enabling the Company to purchase its own shares in the market.
AUDITOR DOUG EVANS Resolutions 12 and 13 at the forthcoming AGM Resolution 17 will seek to renew this authority.
COMPANY SECRETARY The directors intend only to exercise this will respectively propose the reappointment 27 August 2015 of Deloitte LLP as Auditor of the Company authority if to do so would, in their opinion, enhance shareholder value.
The Company and authorise the directors to determine its remuneration.
These resolutions will be will have the option of holding, as treasury shares, any of its own shares that it purchases proposed as ordinary resolutions and shall have effect until the conclusion of the next pursuant to the authority conferred by this resolution.
This would give the general meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid.
Company the ability to sell treasury shares, providing the Company with flexibility in the management of its employee shares schemes.
POLITICAL DONATIONS No dividends will be paid on shares whilst The Company made no political donations held in treasury and no voting rights will during the year and intends to maintain its attach to the treasury shares.
policy of not making such payments.
It will however as a precautionary measure to avoid inadvertent breach of the law, seek shareholder authority at the 2015 AGM to make limited donations or incur limited political expenditure, although it has no intention of using the authority.
60|Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
