STRATEGIC REPORT MARKET OVERVIEW MATURE & EMERGING The global specialist recruitment market is driven LONGER-TERM primarily by confidence among businesses to hire KEY TRENDS LABOUR FORCE EVOLUTIONS skilled people and candidate confidence to move These include the rise of the digital jobs.
economy, increased IT spend and demand for more flexible, project-based In addition, we identify four further factors which drive our markets: the work.
This, together with the greater emergence of structural growth markets in specialist recruitment: skills mobility of experienced workers and shortages in certain recruitment markets: the globalisation of the flow globalisation of jobs, is contributing to of labour: and the macroeconomic cycle.
the increase in the number of people offering their skills as independent contractors.
EVOLVING TECHNOLOGY Technology is in many ways transforming how people work, enabling remote working and impacting on how clients and candidates engage and interact with the jobs market and with Hays.
Also, the digitalisation of both supply and demand creates vast quantities of data to be analysed and put to use.
STRUCTURAL SKILLS GROWTH SHORTAGES MARKETS CHANGING CLIENT BEHAVIOUR Many companies are adding flexibility to their workforce by employing skilled people on a contract or project basis.
In return, they benefit from a workforce that has been building up a wide portfolio of relevant experience.
JOB CHURN CHANGING BUSINESS PRACTICES These include increased outsourcing of recruitment in many immature markets around the world where most professional recruitment is still done in-house, as well as the increased levels of procurement seen in large corporates.
GLOBALISATION MACROECONOMIC OF THE FLOW CYCLE OF LABOUR 12|Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION AUSTRALIA GERMANY UK RETURNED TO GROWTH CONDITIONS CONTINUED BROADBUT RESOURCES TOUGH REMAIN SOLID BASED RECOVERY In Australia, overall sentiment improved The German economy showed signs of The UK economy continued its broadduring the year, despite there being resilience during the year despite being based recovery during the year, despite a degree of caution over the differing impacted by continuing challenges within the sustained fragility and geopolitical conditions experienced across the regions.
the Eurozone, as well as lower growth instability in the neighbouring Eurozone Mining investment remained subdued as in some of its other key export markets, weighing down optimism.
There was a iron ore and other commodities prices including China.
These were offset by brief spell of deflation in the year, pushing experienced unprecedented lows.
After increases in private consumption and further back a potential interest rate rise a series of interest rate cuts earlier in the investment in construction.
Regulatory by the Bank of England.
This, together with year the economy experienced a transition uncertainty in the labour market persisted falling unemployment and rising wages, phase led by the services sector, which and, as of the end of the year, the current led to an increase in consumer and business showed signs of improvement especially coalition government had yet to ratify the confidence and a continuation in strong during the latter part of the year.
proposed legislation governing some levels of activity in the Construction and Temp and Contractor markets.
ECONOMIC BACKDROP The state of the macroeconomic cycle and outlook, and prevailing sentiment in our markets have a direct and often significant impact on activity levels.
This can be both positive and negative, particularly with respect to the confidence levels of the businesses to invest, and candidates to move jobs.
The year to June 2015 was characterised In the US the Federal Reserve announced the government was formed, following a clear by improved conditions in several key end of the quantitative easing programme outcome from the UK general election.
markets, such as Australia and across it started in 2008.
By contrast, in Europe Elections also took place in Japan and Greece, mainland Europe, where many countries the European Central Bank initiated its with the latter result increasing speculation saw significantly better candidate sentiment own bond-purchasing programme as the over a potential Greek exit from the Eurozone.
Elsewhere, market single-currency block drifted into a period conditions remained supportive overall in of deflation.
The UK also witnessed a spell Looking ahead, the International the vast majority of our countries.
of deflation, for the first time since the 1960s, Monetary Fund expects global growth which was generally seen as benign and to remain moderate, but overall conditions a boost to consumer spending.
As a result, Despite persisting Eurozone uncertainties, are expected to continue to see steady with inflation far below the Bank of Englands geopolitical instability in parts of the improvement.
Therefore, although risks target of 2%, the prospects of an interest world such as the Middle East and Ukraine, will continue to exist the outlook rate rise receded.
and volatile conditions in energy markets, remains positive.
there has been a lack of major economic shocks or significant negative events in the The UK took centre stage in the political arena Divisional Operating Reviews p2227 year, which is key to supporting sentiment during the year: Scotland voted to remain amongst our clients and candidates.
Proposed part of the UK and later in the year a new legislation governing some German Temp and Contractor markets continued to be a source of uncertainty for certain client segments, impacting on their recruitment decision-making.
In Australia the decline in ANNUAL PERFORMANCE OF MARKET INDICES commodity prices impacted activity levels in More optimistic sentiment was reflected in equity the resources-focused regions.
Otherwise, the markets over the year.
backdrop in our key markets remained good.
A ustralian ASX 200 1.2% German DAX 30 11.3% Major central banks maintained supportive UK FTSE 250 11.5% monetary policy measures, with historic low interest rates in the UK and the US, and a further cut to the Eurozones base rate.
China cut its benchmark interest rate three times in the space of six months, prompted by lower growth and declining property prices, while Australia also saw further cuts to its base rates fuelling a rise in property values in New South Wales and Victoria as well as driving down the Australian dollar, contributing to a general improvement in business confidence in the second half of the year.
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015|13 Jun 14 Sep 14 Dec 14 Mar 15 Jun 15
