STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL IN ACTION GLOBAL & LOCAL Cross-discipline recruitment with Vodafone New Zealand Hays is the market-leading specialist recruitment company in New Zealand, having operated in the country since 1999.
Our breadth of experience and technical expertise across a large range of specialisms enables us to act as a key partner to many of the leading companies in the country.
We have worked closely with Vodafone New Zealand for over a decade.
Last year we made more than 500 permanent placements for the company across many varied divisions including Technology, Finance, Human Resources and Systems Engineering.
We work with the client to provide expert advice throughout the recruitment lifecycle: from initial briefing discussions through to advertising, social media campaigns, testing, screening and compliance.
Working across France to source talent with Crdit Agricole Hays works with a variety of established companies in the financial sector with clients looking to fill Permanent and Temporary roles.
We have been a major supplier of Temporary employees to Crdit Agricole across France since 2007 and last year developed the relationship further to place over 250 Permanent candidates with them in Strasbourg.
Following that success we have evolved the relationship further this year, placing Permanent candidates across Lille, Lyon, Tours and Paris.
Additionally we are now working with Crdit Agricole to build a management training plan.
Stphane Bourdareau, HR Director, noted: The partnership we have built with Hays has enabled us to achieve our recruitment goals.
Hays is always able to react quickly and mobilise local resources to answer our specific and individual needs, offering valuable advice on the appropriate processes to secure the best candidates.
Working with IT leaders in the UK to develop teams and careers At the heart of how we work are the strong, long-standing relationships we build with candidates and clients.
Over the past nine years Hays has placed Wendy Naisby, a senior IT specialist, into roles at Virgin Group, Gada Group, and most recently Mot Hennessy Europe LVMH.
In her current position as European IT Director, Wendy has also worked with Hays to fill roles within her own team and she often attends our client-focused events.
Wendy noted: Since I moved to the UK, Hays has not only successfully placed me in key positions, but has also effectively managed my career progression.
My experience is that Hays differentiates itself in the market by working hard to understand your profile and ambition, developing its relationship with you through impressive online thought-leadership articles and hosting worthwhile events.
My consultants are experts in their fields and I have enjoyed working with them to fill important roles within my respective teams.
10|Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 UK & IRELAND CE&ROW ASIA PACIFIC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION GLOBAL EXPERTS AND LOCAL SPECIALISTS Our business model is designed to allow our consultants across 33 countries to deliver the best solutions for clients and candidates in every local market.
Supported by an array of local marketing events, this year we filled over 1,000 jobs every working day around the world.
ASIA PACIFIC ASIA The annual Hays Salary Guide launch was attended by Hays spoke to 145 CFOs in Asia over 4,000 clients and journalists across 30 events and about their background, experience, seven countries in Asia Pacific.
A variety of Hays Directors business, career and interests to presented our 2015 Hays Salary Guide findings, discussing uncover the DNA of a CFO.
A salary movements, hiring intentions, employment trends detailed paper was launched across and economic outlooks.
Guests also five countries with over 200 clients, presenting included speakers from candidates and journalists attending Standard Chartered Bank, NAB, events in Tokyo, Shanghai, Beijing ANZ Bank and Suncorp.
Hays Directors presented the findings of the report SALARY GUIDE LAUNCH ATTENDEES and guest speakers, including CFOs from Armstrong Investment, Dominos Pizza, Sirius Wells and Lafarge, all shared their advice.
4,000 GERMANY UNITED STATES Hays-Forum is a series of events that provides In December 2014 Hays completed the a platform for our German team to share acquisition of Veredus, a pure-play IT staffing knowledge with over 1,500 clients and company headquartered in Florida.
This year candidates each year across nine cities.
we sponsored the Enterprise Project World At the events, we present our latest thoughtConference, an event that was hosted in Orlando leadership findings, supported by a keynote and brought together project managers from speaker.
This year Thomas Sattelberger, former top listed global companies.
By supporting the Chief Human Resources Officer at Deutsche event, our IT consultants were able to network Telekom and a board member at Lufthansa, directly with over 120 professional experts in the talked about the future vision of leadership field of Project Management.
This included a in organisations and the working world combination of customers and consultants that as a whole.
consisted of CIOs, CTOs, project managers, directors, managers and project leaders, enabling our consultants to build valuable relationships at all levels.
UNITED KINGDOM UNITED KINGDOM LEADING THE DEBATE More than 80 people from Over 100 senior women from organisations such as PwC, companies such as Lloyds Every year we connect Bank of England, Hewlett Banking Group, Goldman clients and candidates with Packard and American Express Sachs and Sainsburys attended an evening panel to attended the latest quarterly the world of work through discuss workforce diversity.
seminar hosted by Hays Chaired by Robert Potter, Hays Leading Women.
At this events that include Group Human Resources event Jay Surti, a business inspirational speakers, Director, clients were invited to presentation mentor, network and listen to our senior gave advice on effective coaching, seminars and panel discuss how to build and communication and talked retain a diverse workforce about how to improve public networking opportunities.
whilst exploring examples of speaking skills and bring recruitment best practice.
gravitas to contributions made in meetings.
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015|11
