STRATEGIC REPORT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PERFORMANCE & PROGRESS 1 LIKE-FOR-LIKE NET FEE GROWTH PROPORTION OF GROUP NET FEES GENERATED 2 BY OUR INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS 2012 8% 2012 69% -1% 2013 2013 69% 2014 5% 2014 66% 2015 9% 2015 64% WHAT DOES IT DEMONSTRATE?
PROGRESS IN FY 2015 WHAT DOES IT DEMONSTRATE?
PROGRESS IN FY 2015 A measure of how the Groups We delivered good net fee A measure of the Groups 64% of Group net fees were 1 business is developing and growth of 9% this year, with internationalisation and relative generated outside of the UK growingover time.
all three divisions delivering exposure to markets which & Ireland this year.
are more immature and slightly on last year as our UK underpenetrated than the UK.
& Ireland business delivered further strong growth and as sterling strengthened against the Euro and Australian Dollar.
WHICH ELEMENTS OF OUR STRATEGY DOES IT MEASURE?
Delivering growth: achieving our 2018 aspirations.
Diversifying the geographic mix of our business.
PROGRESS IN FY 2015 Hays employees participation Over 80% of our employees A measure of the productivity Overall net fees per consultant in our employee engagement again engaged in our annual of the Groups fee earners.
In the UK survey which tracks their sense TALKback survey this year which productivity rose 3%, generating of belonging, discretionary is an excellent response rate profit that allowed us to invest effort, personal motivation for an international support additional capacity into underand job satisfaction.
penetrated Asian markets and to expand our Germany network.
Our focus on culture, quality of leadership and reward.
To have the most productive people in our industry.
1 LFL like-for-like growth represents organic growth of continuing operations at constant currency.
2 International defined as outside of the UK & Ireland.
3 Continuing operations only, excluding exceptional items.
28|Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our long-term goal is to be the worlds pre-eminent specialist recruitment business.
Along the way, we are focused on delivering well-diversified, profitable and cash-generative fee growth.
We measure our progress in this respect, as well as against our areas of operational focus, using a series of KPIs.
PROGRESS IN FY 2015 A measure of the absolute scale Like-for-like net fees in the Measures the underlying Basic earnings per share grew of the International business and International business grew by profitability of the Group.
by 21% in 2015, as a result of our the size of the platform for growth a good 9% in the year, although excellent operating profit growth in these less mature markets.
adverse currency movements and lower effective tax rate.
Delivering profitable growth, and 250m of operating profit by 2018.
PROGRESS IN FY 2015 Conversion of net fees into Conversion rate improved to A measure of the Groups ability We had a strong cash performance operating profit EBIT.
Measures 21.5% this year, back above 20% toconvert profit into cash.
in the year, converting 116% of the Groups effectiveness in for the first time since 2009 operating profits into operating controlling costs andmanaging and driven primarily by further cash flow.
We ended the year our level of investment for strong profit growth in the UK with 31 million of net debt, down futuregrowth.
32 million on last year, despite the 36 million acquisition of Veredus.
4 Consultant headcount in each year represents the average consultant headcount.
5 Conversion rate is the proportion of net fees converted into operating profit before exceptional items.
6 Cash conversion is the conversion of operating profit into operating cash flow before exceptional items and capital expenditure.
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015|29
