HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Governance Continued Executive Committee Said Darwazah improvements.
In 2014, he was promoted Majda Labadi to the newly created role of Chief Strategy Chairman and Chief Executive Corporate Vice President for Human and Corporate Development Officer, with Resources and Head of Operations, Please refer to page 69 for full Group-level responsibility for strategic MENA biographical details.
development, acquisitions, alliances and product development.
Bassam is responsible Appointed: 2009 Mazen Darwazah for delivering the expansion vision of the Joined Hikma: 1985 Nationality: Jordanian Executive Vice Chairman, Chief Executive.
Skills and experience: During her 30 years Chief Executive of MENA and Bassam is qualified as a US Certified at Hikma, Majda has held a variety of roles Public Accountant CPA and Chartered Emerging Markets including Purchasing Manager at Hikma Financial Analyst CFA.
Bassam has a BA Please refer to page 69 for full Pharmaceuticals Limited, Strategy Manager fromClaremont McKenna College and an biographical details.
at Hikma Investment, General Manager of International Executive MBA from Kellogg Hikma Farmacutica and Vice President of Recanati Schools of Management.
In February 2009, Majda Other appointments: Bassam currently holds assumed her current position as Corporate Chief Strategy and Corporate a Non-Executive Directorship in Arab Bank.
Vice President, Human Resources and she Development Officer Bassam has served on the Boards of Aqaba took on additional responsibility for MENA Development Co. Jordan Dubai Properties, Appointed: 2014 operations in January 2015.
She has been Zara Holding, Capital Bank of Jordan, responsible for establishing a central Joined Hikma: 2001 Nationality: Jordanian CEGCO and Paltel.
Bassam is active in human resource practice and leading Skills and experience: Bassam joined Hikma several non-profit and charity organisations the development of several Group-wide as Chief Financial Officer in 2001 and played and is currently a member of the Board initiatives, including the grading structure, a leading role in preparing for Hikmas IPO in of Trustees of the Welfare Association performance evaluation process and the 2005 and in its subsequent M&A activity.
January 2011, Bassam was promoted to the Committee membership: position of President and Chief Operating Executive Committee Officer for the MENA and EU regions, where he led the implementation of important Global Management Committee Chair organisational and operational Standing left to right: Michael Raya, Brian Hoffman, Majda Labadi, Said Darwazah, Khalid Nabilsi, Susan Ringdal, Bassam Kanaan Seated left to right: Mazen Darwazah, Riad Mishlawi 72 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Majda has completed the Advanced Susan holds a BA in History from Cornell Brian Hoffman Management Program AMP at INSEAD, University and an MBA from London President and Chief Executive of the holds a BA from the American University Business School.
Generics Division of Beirut and a Masters degree from Committee membership: Hochschule Fur Okonomie in Berlin, Germany.
Appointed: 2015 Executive Committee Committee membership: Joined Hikma: 2009 Nationality: American Global Management Committee Executive Committee Skills and experience: Brian was appointed Michael Raya President of West-Ward Pharmaceuticals Khalid Nabilsi in 2015 with responsibilities for two of President and Chief Executive of the US Chief Financial Officer Hikmas facilities, supply chain, business Appointed: 2008 development, and product selection.
Brian Appointed: 2011 originally joined West-Ward in 2009 to Joined Hikma: 1992 Nationality: American Joined Hikma: 2001 Nationality: Jordanian develop a strategy function and was later Skills and experience: Michael joined Hikmas promoted to VP Corporate Development Skills and experience: Prior to assuming US subsidiary West-Ward Pharmaceuticals and SVP & General Manager.
Brian has his current role, Khalid held several senior from Vitarine Pharmaceuticals where he had led many strategic initiatives including the positions in the Hikma finance department worked from 1984 until 1992 in various acquisitions and integrations of Baxters including Corporate Vice President, Finance roles, including Vice President, Quality Multi-Source Injectables business and and was a key member of the IPO team in Control.
Prior to this, Michael worked at Boehringer Ingelheims Roxane Laboratories.
Following qualification as a CPA Schering-Plough and Hoffman LaRoche.
he held a variety of roles in financial Brian worked for L. E. K. Consulting as a At Hikma, Michael was responsible for all accounting, reporting and financial advisory management consultant in their Boston West-Ward Pharmaceuticals operations as services, and with Atlas Investment Group office.
He led engagements for clients well as quality compliance for all worldwide now AB Invest where he was involved in in a wide variety of areas including growth Hikma facilities until his appointment as mergers and acquisitions advisory services.
strategy, merger evaluation and integration, President and Chief Executive of West-Ward Prior to Atlas, Khalid had managed several new product launches, and strategic Pharmaceuticals in 2008. multinational audit engagements at Arthur alliances.
Michael holds a Masters degree in Industrial Andersen in Amman, Jordan.
As Chief Brian holds a Bachelors Degree in Business Pharmacy from Long Island University and Financial Officer, Khalid has integrated Administration from Boston University a Bachelors degree in Chemistry from St. several acquisitions into the financial Questrom School of Management and an Francis College.
Michael is also a graduate reporting structure, developed the MBA from the University of Chicago Booth of INSEADs International Executive Program.
Group internal control framework and School of Business with concentrations Committee membership: implemented new leverage arrangements in strategic management, finance, to fund acquisitions and capital investment.
Khalid qualified as a US Certified Public Committee membership: Riad Mishlawi Accountant and has an MBA from the Executive Committee EU Vice President and Global Head University of Hull.
of Injectables Other appointments: Khalid is a founder of the Jordan Association for Management Appointed: 2011 Accountants and a Board member of the Joined Hikma: 1990 Nationality: Lebanese Jordan Armed Forces and Security Apparatuses Credit Union.
Skills and experience: Riad joined Hikma as a Project Engineer in the engineering Committee membership: department where he was involved in the Executive Committee construction of Hikmas facility in Portugal.
He spent a significant period in the 6.
Susan Ringdal manufacturing operations of many Hikma Vice President, Corporate Strategy sites, was General Manager of Hikma Italy and and Investor Relations became Head of Injectables Manufacturing Operations before assuming his current role.
Appointed: 2012 Riad was an Executive Director at Watson Joined Hikma: 2005 Nationality: American Pharmaceuticals from 1998 to 2005, Skills and experience: Susan joined Hikma as responsible for Injectables operations.
Riad Investor Relations Director, having previously has led Hikmas Injectables division through worked for the pharmaceutical distribution a period of rapid growth and has integrated and retail pharmacy group Alliance UniChem operations into a global operation.
plc as Investor Relations Manager.
She also Riad has a BSc in Engineering and a Masters has experience as an Equity Analyst at in Engineering and Management from Morgan Stanley in London.
In early George Washington University.
2012 Susan assumed responsibility Committee membership: for corporate strategy.
