HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Business and financial review Continued Branded Building on our leading position in the MENA region Strong growth in revenue and profitability in constant currency driven by good performance across our key markets Maintaining highStrengthening and quality manufacturing Developing a Maximising portfolio broadening our facilities and efficient Investing for highly skilled and opportunities product portfolio operations growth effective workforce Strong rebound in Launched 54 Received US FDA Acquired EUP to Launched the AUB Algeria following products approval for our further strengthen training programme implementation of oncology plant our position in for middle Received 139 restructuring and in Sahab, Jordan the fast-growing management approvals management change Egyptian market across our Successfully Signed three businesses in Excellent performance completed FDA Launched greenfield new licensing North Africa in Egypt with 14 new inspections of our investment in agreements for product launches facilities in Jordan Kazakhstan to more innovative in more chronic and Saudi Arabia gain a foothold in products therapeutic areas the CIS and Russia Good control of Double digit growth overheads and in the GCCdriven by operating costs enhanced distribution channels Targeting continued Leverage our local Maintain strict focus Targeting M&A Leverage newly strong performance R&D capabilities on quality across opportunities in implemented in Algeria, Egypt and to accelerate our MENA sites emerging markets development Saudi Arabia and development centre to provide Upgrade newly Pursuing licensing recovery in Iraq of new higher enhanced training acquired EUP and other partner value products opportunities facility in Egypt agreements Ensuring sustainable long-term growth Measuring our performance 1 Revenue Core adjusted operating margin Marketed products $ m % 15 570 15 20.7 15 377 14 551 14 20.1 14 376 1 Before the amortisation of intangible assetsother than software and exceptional items included in operating profit, as set out in note 5 to the financial information: previously referred to as adjusted operating margin.
20 2016 Objectives 2015 Highlights STRATEGIC REPORT products in growing therapeutic Summary financial highlights Branded categories.
Constant currency One of the licensing agreements 1 $ million 2015 2014 Change change signed during the year was with Revenue 570 551 3% 13% Vitabiotics, the UKs largest Gross profit 277 267 4% 18% nutraceutical and vitamin company.
Gross margin 48.6% 48.5% 0.1pp 2.2pp Under the terms of the agreement, 2 Core operating profit 118 111 6% 34% Hikma has the exclusive rights to 3 Core operating margin 20.7% 20.1% 0.6pp 3.9pp register, market, distribute and sell five of Vitabiotics leading specialist 2014.
Our Egyptian business grew by 2015 Highlights products in 15 of its MENA markets.
18% in constant currency, reflecting Branded revenue up 3% to In addition, we have the exclusive successful recent product launches, $570 million, up 13% in rights to market, distribute and sell including one product for which constant currency the full Vitabiotics product range Hikma was the first supplier on the Double digit growth in constant in five of these markets.
In the GCC, which includes currency in Egypt, the GCC and sales and marketing teams are well Saudi Arabia and the UAE, revenue Morocco and an excellent positioned to drive strong demand for increased by 14%, driven by the recovery in Algeria Vitabiotics rich portfolio of products, prioritisation of strategic products, which include some of the fastest Branded core operating profit up stronger distribution capabilities, and 6% to $118 million, up 34% in growing supplements in the UK the broadening of our customer base, and eight brand leaders.
constant currency with an increased focus on institutions.
Branded core operating margin Revenue in Morocco also grew in the Branded gross profit increased by was 20.7%, or 24.0% in double digits in constant currency, 4% to $277 million in 2015 and constant currency driven by new product launches gross margin was 48.6%, compared and an enhanced focus on strategic to 48.5% in 2014.
The benefit of Expecting the Branded business products.
These strong performances a more favourable product mix, the to perform in line with historical more than offset lower sales in Iraq strong recovery in Algeria and good trends in 2016, on a constant and Libya, where political disruptions control of costs were offset by the currency basis persist, and in Sudan, which continues net impact of exchange rates.
Branded revenue increased by 13% to suffer from hyperinflation.
Core operating profit, which excludes in 2015, before the impact of adverse During 2015, the Branded business the amortisation of intangibles of movements in the Algerian dinar, launched a total of 54 products Moroccan dirham, Tunisian dinar, $8 million and exceptional severance across all markets, including one new costs of $5 million, increased by 6% Egyptian pound and Sudanese pound compound and two new dosage forms to $118 million, or 34% in constant against the US dollar.
Core operating margin was basis, Branded revenue increased by also received 139 regulatory approvals 20.7%, or 24.0% in constant currency, 3% to $570 million, compared with across the region.
This margin improvement primarily reflects careful continued focus on strategic, higher Revenue from in-licensed products management of operating expenses value products and new product increased from $219 million to during the year.
launches, we achieved double digit $225 million in 2015, representing growth, on a constant currency basis, 40% of Branded revenue, in line with In 2016, we expect the Branded in each of our top markets Algeria, 2014.
We signed three new licensing business to perform in line with Egypt, the GCC and Morocco.
agreements for innovative products historical trends, on a constant during 2015, which will help us to currency basis.
We expect revenue In Algeria, revenue increased by 24%, grow our portfolio of higher value or 54% in constant currency, following growth to be driven by strong underlying market growth, our the restructuring we undertook in focus on strategic products and the 1 Constant currency numbers in 2015, represent statutory 2015 numbers restated using average strength of our sales and marketing exchange rates in 2014. teams.
Improvement in the Branded 2 Before the amortisation of intangible assets other than software and exceptional items included in operating profit, as set out in note 5 to the financial information: previously referred to core operating margin is expected as adjusted operating profit.
to be driven by revenue growth 3 Before the amortisation of intangible assetsother than software and exceptional items included and operational leverage.
in operating profit, as set out in note 5 to the financial information: previously referred to as adjusted operating margin.
21 Injectables from Opportunity In 2014, we acquired Bedford Laboratories from Boehringer Ingelheim, addingmore differentiated injectable productsto our portfolio and pipeline, anda state-of-the-art QDC centre with 39 R&D employees.
22 to Growth We are investing in future capacity through the transfer of equipment and machinesfrom the Ben Venue facility toour US and European facilities, enhancing our technological capabilities and enabling us to maximise the potential of our product portfolio.
