A long way in a short time Our mission We are committed to improving peoples lives throughour existing products and our extensive and differentiated pipeline.
Our aim is to provide patients with better access to high-quality, affordablemedicines in key therapeutic areas.
Our vision Our vision is to build Hikma into a leading speciality pharmaceutical company with a global presence.
Through organic growth and strategic acquisitions, we will continue to develop the business and maintain the high standards of ethics and responsibility that are central to the way we operate.
$262m Group revenue in 2005 $99m Group revenue in 2000 A renewed focus on growth Founded with a focus on quality Hikma was founded in 1978.
In its early days, the Company established Hikma listed on the London Stock Exchange itself as a leading supplier of branded generics and in-licensed products in 2005, raising proceeds of $124 million.
in the Middle East and North Africa MENA region, meeting local A successful initial public offering enhanced patient needs through the supply of high-quality affordable medicines.
Hikmasflexibility to grow the business through increased access to capital, whilst driving an Hikma then moved beyond the MENA, building a greenfield injectable even greater focus on shareholder returns.
manufacturing facility in Portugal in 1990 and entering the United States US market by acquiringWest-Ward Pharmaceuticals in 1992.
Having entered a new phase of growth, Hikma completed four strategic acquisitions in 2007 In the following years, Hikmasignificantly expanded its operations twoin Germany, to develop its oncology pipeline across its geographies growingtotalrevenue from $16 million in and manufacturing capabilities, one in Egypt, 1990 to $99 million in 2000. to establish a local manufacturing plant and commercial presence in this protected market, and one in Jordan, to consolidate itsleading position in the Jordanianmarket.
1978 2000 2005 2 STRATEGIC REPORT $1,440m Group revenue in 2015 $730m Group revenue in 2010 From opportunity to growth 2015 has been another significant year for Hikma during which it continued to expand its operations through organic growth and acquisitions.
Building a leading position in key markets Theacquisition of Roxane Laboratories Inc. Roxane from Boehringer Ingelheim, which closed in February 2016, will transform our non-injectables business in By 2010, following a period of significant the US, adding complementary and well differentiated investment, Hikmahad established a strong products, an attractive pipeline, proven R&D presence in the US, Europe and across the capabilities and greater overall scale.
Over the next five years, Hikma Hikma expects to benefit from the investments it has strengthened its position in these markets made in recent years in R&D, M&A, co-development through organic growth and further strategic partnerships and licensing agreements.
The Companyestablished itself as has an exciting pipeline across its business segments a leading injectables player in the US, acquired that will drive accelerated and sustainable future growth.
a business in Morocco to complete its footprint in the MENA, andexpanded its manufacturing capabilities and commercial operations in Europe.
Algeirs, Algeria Bedford, USA 2010 2015 and beyond 3
