A lifetime rich in achievements Throughout the course of a lifetime rich in achievements, Samih Darwazah rose to the heights of business success, creating a world-renowned legacy in the pharmaceutical industry as the Founder, CEO, Chairman and ultimately Honorary Life President of Hikma Pharmaceuticals.
Throughout his career, Samih encountered numerous professional triumphs, and was notably admired for his leadership and humanitarian qualities.
Samih truly believed in giving back to the community, and prioritised the wellbeing of his employees and customers.
Samih was born in Nablus in 1930.
As a young child, hedreamed of becoming an entrepreneur, and was fortunate to receive a scholarship to the Arab College of Jerusalem at the young age of 13.
He was later accepted to the American University of Beirut AUB, where he qualified for financial aid, while working toward his Bachelors degree.
It was during his time at AUB that he encountered further good fortune by meeting the love of his life, Samira, a fellow AUB student whom Samih married before graduation.
The couple raised four children together May, Said, Mazen and Hana who in turn have raised 11 grandchildren.
Samih Darwazah 1930 2015 After working as a pharmacist for several years in Amman, Samih successfully applied for a Fulbright The growing shift toward generic pharmaceuticals Scholarship at St Louis, Missouri, shows people want high-quality, innovative products where he obtained a Masters that are accessible and affordable.
Thats what Hikma degree in Industrial Pharmacy in will continue to provide.
For the next 12 years, he worked for Eli Lilly, progressively Samih Darwazah, climbing the occupational ladder Lessons to Grow a Billion-Dollar Company: Mixing Family and Business.
and taking on greater responsibilities within the company, leading him to relocate Samihs many well-deserved his excellence in community several times to regional offices awards and accolades are as varied and economic development in around the US, Europe and the as they are numerous.
in recognition of his remarkable was in Pharmacy from Jordan achievements as a businessperson, University of Science and In 1978, after moving back to Ernst and Young named him the Technology, in recognition for his Jordan, Samih took a calculated Middle East Entrepreneur of the outstanding achievements and risk and decided to fulfill his dream Year.
In 2010, the St. Louis College efforts in academia, science and of founding his own pharmaceutical of Pharmacy acknowledged his research in the fields of medicine company.
Despite considerable lifetime of accomplishments by and pharmaceutical sciences.
competition in the region, he granting him an Honorary Doctorate.
was convinced that by producing In 2004, Samihpublished his first In the following year, his four high-quality medicines, his new book, entitled Building a Global children paid tribute to their father company would ultimately gain Success, which opens with his first by establishing The Samih Darwazah the confidence of physicians and professional experience as a young Center for Innovation Management patients alike.
By the early 1990s, boy selling candied apples in Nablus.
and Entrepreneurship at the Olayan Hikma had begun to expand Written in style of a novel, Building School of Business at AUB.
Soon after establishing a a Global Success has been referred his alma mater AUB presented him successful operation in Portugal, the to by several Deans of the Faculty with the Distinguished Alumnus Company reached a new milestone: of Business Administration at both Award for his leadership in the operating a generic pharmaceutical Harvard and Columbia University.
business in the United States.
Throughout his book, Samihs love In that same year, he was granted and appreciation for his family, as an Honorary Doctorate from the Throughout Hikmas growth, well as his passion and high work Lebanese American University Samih remained committed to ethic, shine through.
Ten years maintaining a safe and supportive in recognition of his many later, he published his second work environment for his employees achievements, including raising the book entitled, Lessons to Grow standards of the pharmaceutical around the globe.
He also insisted a Billion-Dollar Company: Mixing sector in the MENA region.
the Company adhere to a strict Family and Business.
code of ethics, as well as contribute In 2014, Samih received three to community development by Today, Samihs legacy lives through additional Honorary Doctorates.
sponsoring robust corporate his children, grandchildren and the The first was a degree in Humane social responsibility programmes.
Hikma family who proudly continue Letters from AUB for his efforts to grow the company, which he in enriching the global quality In 1995, Samih was invited to serve ever so passionately founded.
as Minister of Energy and Mineral of life and in recognition of Resources.
This move followed years his commitment towards the community.
His second came from spent in public service where he Birzeit University, commemorating also served as a Senator, a member on the Advisory Economic Council to His Majesty King Hussein, and as the founder of the Jordanian Trade Association.
He was also a firm supporter of education and an advocate for womens rights, which is why, when he learned that many girls in Southern Jordan lacked access to quality schooling, he decided to do something about the problem himself.
In 2009, he established a school for girls in Al Shobak, which is now a thriving educational centre.
Young Samih addressing Hikma employees in the early years
