HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Governance Continued Board of Directors Around the table Independent Non-Executives 1.
Robert Pickering Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 3.
Listed environment and governance Capital markets 6.
Chair elect Remuneration Committee US andUK pharmaceuticals 11.
Human resources and people The Boardroom table 7.
Breffni Byrne Independent Non-Executive Director Full biographies are included on pages 69 to 71 Auditing and accounting 5.
Michael Ashton Chair Remuneration Committee 6.
North American, European and African manufacturing and distribution 8.
Dr Ronald Goode Chair Compliance, Responsibility Executives Non-Executives and Ethics Committee US and international pharmaceuticals 1.
Ali Al-Husry Chairman and Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Business integrity and ethics 10.
Pat Butler Strategic vision Financing and capital markets Chair Audit Committee Acquisitions and financing MENA region US pharmaceuticals Business development Financial affairs and audit Governance and leadership Pharmaceuticals Strategy and risk 2.
John Castellani Executive Vice Chairman, Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Chief Executive of MENA Acquisitions and business development US pharmaceutical market and Emerging Markets Treasury and capital management Regulatory and legislative MENA pharmaceuticals EU pharmaceuticals Regulatory and reputational Company Secretary Strategy and operations Business integrity and ethics 12.
Peter Speirs Company Secretary Governance 68 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 1.
Said Darwazah Other appointments: Said holds various and working in different capacities including public and charitable positions.
He is the Chairman and Chief Executive of Hikma Chairman and Chief Executive Chairman of the Queen Rania Foundation, Pharmaceuticals Limited, a major group Age: 58 Appointed: 1 July 2007 a major charitable project, and a Director of operational and holding company.
Endeavour Jordan, a charitable organisation Joined Hikma: 1981 Nationality: Jordanian Mazen is responsible for the strategic and that assists in the development of operational direction of the MENA business.
Skills and experience: Said has served entrepreneurs, and a Trustee of Jordan River He is also responsible for the expansion of as Chief Executive since July 2007 and Foundation, a charitable organisation that the Group into emerging markets outside Chairman since May 2014.
Said was aims to empower Jordanian society.
Said is the MENA region, global alliances, business Chairman and Chief Executive of Hikmas also Chairman of the Jordanian University relationships, CR and business integrity.
group holding company from 1994 to 2003 of Science and Technology and a trustee and Minister of Health for the Hashemite Mazen holds a BA in Business Administration of the American University of Beirut.
Said Kingdom of Jordan from 2003 to 2006. from the Lebanese American University and is a member of the Central Bank of Jordan an AMP from INSEAD.
He has served as the During his 34 years at Hikma, Said has Board.
He is also Chairman of the Dead President of the Jordanian Association of undertaken several executive roles which Sea Touristic and Real Estate Investments.
Manufacturers of Pharmaceuticals and have provided him with extensive experience Committee membership: Medical Appliances.
in each functional area of Hikmas global Executive Committee Chair generic pharmaceuticals business and Other appointments: Mazen holds various in the broader strategic leadership of public and charitable positions.
Mazen Darwazah an international and entrepreneurial the Chairman of the Jordan International Executive Vice Chairman, organisation.
Said has led the development Insurance Company and Vice Chairman of of the Group strategy, the Injectables Chief Executive of MENA the Capital Bank of Jordan.
Mazen is also a business in Europe and the MENA region trustee of the St. Louis College of Pharmacy and Emerging Markets and acquisitions including West-Ward and Birzeit University.
He is on the advisory Age: 57 Appointed: 8 September 2005 Pharmaceuticals and Baxters injectable Board for the Lebanese American University business.
Under Saids leadership, Hikmas LAU, Lebanon, and the Buck Institute for Joined Hikma: 1985 Nationality: Jordanian facilities in the US, Jordan and Portugal Education, San Francisco.
Skills and experience: Mazen was appointed received US FDA approval, the leading Group Executive Vice Chairman and MENA Committee membership: international pharmaceutical Chief Executive in 2005 and became CRE Committee regulatory standard.
President and Chief Executive of MENA Corporate Responsibility Said has a degree in industrial engineering and Emerging Markets in 2014.
During Committee Chair from Purdue University and an MBA his 30 years service at Hikma he has held from INSEAD.
Executive Committee an extensive range of positions within the Group starting as a medical representative Nomination Committee Standing left to right: Dr Jochen Gann, Peter Speirs, Robert Pickering, Said Darwazah, Dr Pamela Kirby, Michael Ashton, Ali Al-Husry, Mazen Darwazah, Pat Butler, John Castellani Seated left to right: DrRonald Goode, Breffni Byrne 69 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Governance Continued Board of Directors Continued 3.
Ali Al-Husry Jochen holds a Doctorate Degree previously held Non-Executive Director International Finance from University of positions with Smith & Nephew plc, Novo Non-Executive Director Hohenheim, Germany and a Masters Degree Nordisk A S, Curalogic A S and Oscient Age: 58 Appointed: 14 October 2005 in Business Administration and Science from Pharmaceuticals Corp. University of Karlsruhe, Germany.
Joined Hikma: 1981 Nationality: Jordanian Dr Kirby holds a first-class Bachelor of Other appointments: Jochen currently Science degree in Pharmacology and a PhD Skills and experience: Ali joined Hikma as holds a number of board positions at in Clinical Pharmacology from the University Director of Hikma Pharma Limited in 1981 companies of the Boehringer Ingelheim of London.
and has held various directorships within the group.
He is also currently Chairman of Group.
Ali brings great financial experience Other appointments: Dr Kirby is a Nonthe Finance committee at Verband Der to the Board as well as an in-depth Executive Director of DCC plc, Victrex plc Chemischen Industrie e. V. Germany knowledge of the MENA region and and Reckitt Benckiser Group PLC.
and a Member of the Advisory Board Hikma Pharmaceuticals.
Ali was a founder Committee membership: KfW IPEX-Bank GmbH, Germany.
of the Capital Bank of Jordan, which Audit Committee offers commercial and investment banking 5.
Robert Pickering services, and served as Chief Executive CRECommittee Senior Independent Director of the Bank until 2007.
Remuneration Committee Ali has a degree in Mechanical Engineering Age: 56 Appointed: 1 September 2011 Chair from 15 May 2016 from the University of Southern California Joined Hikma: 2011 Nationality: British 7.
Breffni Byrne and an MBA from INSEAD.
Skills and experience: Robert joined the Independent Non-Executive Director Other appointments: Ali is Chairman Board as a Non-Executive Director in of Endeavour Jordan, a not for profit Age: 70 Appointed: 14 October 2005 September 2011 and became Senior organisation that assists in the development Independent Director in May 2014.
Joined Hikma: 2005 Nationality: Irish of entrepreneurs and a Director of the Robert spent 23 years at Cazenove and Microfund for Women, which provides Skills and experience: Breffni is a chartered Co. becoming the first Chief Executive microfinance to low-income female accountant with over 30 years of experience of Cazenove Group PLC in 2001.
He is also a trustee for in public practice, including significant subsequently served as Chief Executive of the Jordanian University of Science and international responsibilities.
Breffni served JP Morgan Cazenove, until his retirement Technology.
Additionally, Ali is a Director as the Managing Partner of the Audit in 2008.
He has extensive experience of of the Capital Bank of Jordan.
and Business Advisory practice of Arthur capital raising, mergers and acquisitions Andersen in Ireland and as Director of Risk and of the relationship between quoted 4.
Dr Jochen Gann Management of Andersens audit practice in companies and investors.
Non-Executive Director the Middle East, India, Africa and the Nordic Robert is a qualified solicitor with a law countries.
Breffni has extensive experience in Age:51 Appointed:29 February 2016 degree from Lincoln College, Oxford.
financial reporting, international operations, Joined Hikma: 2016 Nationality:German corporate governance and general financial Other appointments: Robert is a Nonand commercial matters.
Breffni is a former Executive Director of Neptune Investment Skills and experience:Jochen is Global Head Non-Executive Director of Irish Life and Management, a fund management of Corporate Finance M&A and Corporate Permanent PLC and Coillte Teoranta, the company.
He is also a Non-Executive Director Vice President at Boehringer Ingelheim Irish state-owned forestry company.
Breffni of CLSA UK, a branch of CLSA Limited, an GmbH.
In his M&A role he leads Boehringer was Chairman of Avivas life insurance independent brokerage and investment Ingelheims mergers and acquisitions operations in Ireland and Chairman of group and Itau BBA International PLC, activities across all businesses.
He is also Investec Securities Holdings Limited the investment bank of the Ita Unibanco responsible for Business Development & formerly NCB Stockbrokers Limited.
He is Chairman of the Trustees Licensing Strategic Transaction and Alliance Breffni is considered by the Board to have of Lincoln College Oxford 2027 Trust.
Management for Boehringers prescription recent and relevant financial experience.
In addition, in his role as Committee membership: Corporate Treasurer he is responsible for Breffni holds a Masters degree in Economic Audit Committee the groups financing, asset management, Science from University College Dublin and Nomination Committee Chair risk management, and liquidity and credit is a chartered accountant.
management activities as well as the Remuneration Committee Other appointments: Breffni is Chairman corporate banking strategy.
Jochen is of Tedcastles Holdings, an oil distribution 6.
Dr Pamela Kirby also managing director of the Corporate company.
Breffni is also a Non-Executive Venture Fund.
Independent Non-Executive Director Director of Citibank Europe plc, Hillingdon Jochen has held several senior roles at Investment Company and Cpl Resources Age: 62 Appointed: 1 December 2014 Boehringer Ingelheim including Head of PLC, a human resources company.
Breffni Joined Hikma: 2014 Nationality: British Controlling Subsidiaries and Head of Tax.
has been a member of the Audit Committee Prior to joining Boehringer Ingelheim in Skills and experience: Dr Pamela Kirby was of all of the above companies, in most cases 2007, Jochen held the positions of Head Chief Executive of Quintiles Transnational the Chairman.
of Corporate Treasury at Cognis GmbH, Corp and has held senior executive Committee membership: Managing Director at Degussa Bank GmbH, positions in F Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd Audit Committee Head of Treasury Controlling at Hoechst and AstraZeneca plc.
Dr Kirby has chaired CRE Committee AG and Consultant at Metzler, Germany.
Scynexis Inc and was Senior Independent Director of Informa plc.
Dr Kirby has Remuneration Committee 70 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 8.
Michael Ashton Other appointments: Ron is the Chairman 11.
John Castellani of The Goode Group, advisers to the Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director pharmaceutical industry.
Ron is a Director of Age:70 Appointed: 14 October 2005 Age:65 Appointed:1 March2016 Mercy Ships International, a medical services charity.
Ron is a Senior Business Advisor to Joined Hikma: 2005 Nationality:Australian Joined Hikma: 2016 Nationality: American The Kinsella Group, an investment banking Skills and experience: Michael has over Skills and experience: company.
He is also a member of the 30 years experience in the pharmaceutical JohnJ.
Castellani was President and Chief Scientific Advisory Board to The North Texas industry, holding senior executive positions Executive Officer of Pharmaceutical Research Enterprise Center for Medical Technology.
Michael was Chief and Manufacturers of America PhRMA Additionally he is a member for Private Executive of Puricore until June 2015, from 2010 to 2015.
Prior to that, he was the Access, Inc. a medical record software SkyePharma PLC from November 1998 President and Chief Executive of Business developer.
Ron is a recipient of the to March 2006 and prior to that was Roundtable, an association of leading US University of Georgia distinguished Chairman, President and Chief Executive company Chief Executives.
During his career alumni award.
He has held a number of Johnhas also held senior positions with Committee membership: non-executive and advisory positions Burson-Marsteller, Tenneco, Inc. and across the pharmaceutical industry.
Audit Committee General Electric Corp. amongst others.
Michael has a Bachelor of Pharmacy degree CRE Committee Chair John holds a Bachelor of Science Degree from Sydney University, and an MBA degree Biology from Union College Schenectady, Remuneration Committee from Rutgers University, New Jersey.
Pat Butler Other appointments: Michael is a NonOther appointments: Johnis a member of Executive Director at Transition Therapeutics, Independent Non-Executive Director the board of trustees of The Johns Hopkins a therapeutics biopharmaceutical company.
Medical System Sibley Memorial Hospital, Age: 55 Appointed: 1 April 2014 He is also Chairman ofKomix, a private Washington, DC.
He is also a member of the childrens educational company.
Joined Hikma: 2014 Nationality: Irish board of directors of the National Patient Committee membership: Skills and experience: Pat is a former Senior Safety Foundation.
Director at McKinsey & Co. During his 25 Audit Committee Committee membership: years at McKinsey, he focused on advising Nomination Committee Audit Committee large corporations in the EU, US and MENA Remuneration Committee on strategic, acquisition and organisational CRE Committee Chair until 15 May 2016 issues.
Pat was a partner at the Resolution Remuneration Committee Group, a financial services investment and 9.
Peter Speirs Independent Non-Executive Director experience in strategy implementation, Company Secretary integrating acquisitions, performance Age: 72 Appointed: 12 December 2006 Appointed:3 April 2012 improvement and a range of finance Joined Hikma: 2006 Nationality: American functions including treasury and risk Joined Hikma: 2010 Nationality:British management.
Pat is considered to have Skills and experience: Ron has spent over Skills and experience: Peter joined Hikma recent and relevant financial experience.
30 years in the international pharmaceutical as a Deputy Company Secretary in 2010 industry, including roles as President of Prior to McKinsey, Pat qualified as a chartered and assumed the role of Company Secretary International Operations at Searle and Vice accountant with the audit and tax practice of in 2012.
Peter is responsible for advising President of Clinical and Scientific Affairs at Arthur Andersen.
He has a first class honours the Board and Committees on governance Pfizer.
Rons extensive experience includes degree in Commerce and a postgraduate matters.
Prior to joining Hikma he worked leading companies as Chief Executive and diploma in Accounting and Corporate for Barclays and Pool Re, the UK terrorism acting as an adviser to companies in the Finance from University College Dublin.
Ron also advises Other appointments: Pat is a Non-Executive Peter is a Fellow of the Institute of companies involved in nanotechnology Director of the Bank of Ireland, Res Media Chartered Secretaries and Administrators and in the information technology Limited and British Business Bank and holds a Law degree from the University business sectors.
He is also a of East Anglia.
Ron was formerly President and Chief Governor of the British Film Institute and Peter isVice Chair of Governors and Chair Executive of Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. a trustee of the Resolution Foundation.
of the Finance and Resources Committees and eXegenics Inc. Ron was a Trustee of Committee membership: of Lime Tree School.
Thunderbird School of Global Management, Audit Committee Chair which was ranked by the Financial Times as the premier international business school.
CRE Committee Ron has a PhD from the University of Nomination Committee Georgia and a MS and BS from the University of Memphis.
