CORPORATE GOVERNANCE HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Governance Message from our Chair Strong governance from the beginning Breffni has dedicated the past 11 years to Hikma and has been instrumental in developing our financial leadership and processes from listing to today.
We also welcome John Castellani as a new independent Dear Shareholders and Stakeholders director.
John brings a wealth of pharmaceutical Another year has passed.
As we reported last year, experience, particularly in the United States, we made significant changes to the Board during 2014. as well as regulatory, restructuring and broad We welcomed two new Directors, changed Roberts and business experience.
He has an excellent record.
my role and said goodbye to our dear friends Sir David Rowe-Ham and Samih Darwazah.
During 2015, we have We are in the process of transferring the committee focused on embedding these changes, with Roxane chair responsibilities.
During 2015, Pat Butler took the making the largeststrategic move in the Companys audit chair, having spent a year being inducted into the history, and considering succession further.
Also during the year, Michael Ashton began handing over responsibility for the Remuneration Firstly, I would like you to join me in expressing our Committee to Dr Pamela Kirby.
It is a strength that we sincere gratitude to Breffni Byrne, who is retiring at the are able to transfer responsibilities in an orderly manner, AGM.
Breffni has dedicated the past 11 years to Hikma avoiding the loss of history and ensuring that strong and has been instrumental in developing our financial relationships continue.
leadership and processes from listing to today.
We owe him a huge debt and must thank him for his integrity, Finally, I would like to commemorate Samih Darwazah, diligence and friendship.
the founder of Hikma and my father.
Samih passed away during the year and I know that a number of you, as well The Roxane acquisition brings with it a strategic as Hikma people, miss him.
I know howproud he was partnership with Boehringer Ingelheim through their of what Hikmas people have achieved and the direction equity holding, the appointment of Jochen Gann to our in which we are going.
Samih spent his entire career Board and ongoing business partnership.
I am delighted promoting our Hikma values of transparency, respect, that our friends atBI nominated Jochen to our Board.
These will continue to guide us.
We have been working closely with Jochen over the past two years on the Bedford and Roxane acquisitions and have formed an excellent relationship with him, both at a management and board level.
Jochen brings a wealth of corporate action, pharmaceutical and global business experience.
I am confident that he will enhance the Said Darwazah capabilities of the Board and that the appointment Chairman and Chief Executive will help to further strengthen our relationship with BI.
