HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Our business model Our inputs Creating Financial Through capital investment and M&A, we invest to expand our product portfolio, long-term technical capabilities, geographic reach and manufacturing capacity.
sustainable People We have a highly skilled, diverse and effective workforce.
Through continuous training value of our people and by hiring in new talent, we are supporting our future development.
Our success is underpinned by our diversified business model, which enables us to build a Values We are committed to conducting business leading global injectables business in the most ethical way possible and strive and invest in our non-injectables to achieve the highest-quality standards.
business in the US, while This approach helpsensure our business benefiting from the strength is sustainable.
of our market position in the MENA region.
Relationships Strong relationships with regulators and health authorities across all of our markets, and successful collaborations with industry partners enable us to achieve our growth objectives.
Capabilities We have extensive manufacturing capabilities across our global markets focused on driving operational excellence and greater efficiency.
How were different Our strategy and Key Performance Indicators Our commitment to quality To find out more about our Quality has been the founding principle of Hikma.
strategic priorities and how Our reputation for the highest possible standards ensures weve performed against our our strategic priorities are delivered, whilst maintaining targets in 2015, see page 16 a productive and ethical culture across the Group.
6 y t STRATEGIC REPORT i l a u q n i a t n i a m d n a e r u t c a f u n a M M a r k e t t Our activities The value we create Patient benefits Develop and innovate: Manufacture and maintain quality: Ourhigh-quality, We are developing broad and We are committed to maintaining the affordable generic differentiated portfolios of generic, highest quality standards in all of our medicines benefit branded generic and in-licensed manufacturing facilities.
We have 27 patients across products through internal R&D, plants across the Group that supply our markets.
co-development partnerships, our global markets with a broad range licensing agreements and acquisitions.
of injectable and non-injectable products, including 11 FDA-compliant facilities and nine EU-approved facilities.
Branded Leading pharmaceutical Shareholder returns manufacturer in MENA Economic and financial returns reinvested for future growth.
Our mission Providing patients with better access to high-quality, cost effective medicines Injectables Generics Leading global High-quality provider injectables of generics manufacturer in the US Sustainable business By conducting our business well and acting responsibly, we are benefiting our employees and our communities.
Market to regions: We actively market, sell and distribute our products in all our markets through experienced sales and marketing teams.
In the MENA region, nearly 2,000 representatives promote our brands to doctors and pharmacists, while our national sales teams in the US and Europe are selling to a broad range of customers including the leading wholesalers, pharmacy chains, governments and hospital purchasing organisations.
How were different Our unique global footprint Our differentiated portfolio Our presence today spans over 50 countries across We are continuously developing our product portfolio the globe.
We are leveraging our strong market position to addresspatients evolving needs, with a greater and local presence in each of our geographies, emphasis on more differentiated products.
