HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Remuneration report Letter from the Chair Aligning remuneration to Group success The journey over the last few years has built more systems and processes to support, but not deviate from, that vision of family.
Having completed that programme, this Dear Shareholders year has been one of minimal change in remuneration This is my final letter to you as Chair of the Remuneration practice, largely focusing on embedding the policies Committee.
Over the past year I have spent a significant that we have.
amount of time with Dr Pamela Kirby who will be taking the Chair from the AGM.
She is very experienced in Performance remuneration remains a very important remuneration matters and is now fully inducted part of the way that we incentivise and motivate all into Hikma.
I wish her every success in taking our employees.
It builds on our philosophy of providing the Committee forward.
a salary to ensure stability, but for the growth of our people and our Company we have to provide the Looking back over my tenure, I am delighted with the opportunities to excel and recognise where that occurs.
progress that has been made from the listing of a private company in 2005 to joining the FTSE 100 in early 2015.
I would like to add a personal note of thanks to This has been a period of immense development and Marcus Peaker of PwC.
His well-considered, practical growth, particularly in terms of our remuneration policy, and measured approach has been a steady guide during human resources practices and our people strategy.
Sadly, as PwC become our auditor Hikma has always treated its people as members of a in 2016, we must say good bye to Marcus.
We have family, providing the important elements of stability and conducted a review of remuneration advisers and I am an environment in which people can flourish.
The journey pleased to welcome Willis Towers Watson to the team.
over the last few years has built more systems and As an organisation, Hikma is committed to clear and processes to support, but not deviate from, that vision open communication.
I have always been available of family.
I feel privileged to have been on that journey.
to shareholders to raise matters directly and I remain Over the past few years we have undertaken significant open to discussion with shareholders should there work to develop our remuneration policy to ensure it be any matters that they wish to raise directly.
is fit for purpose for a global FTSE 100 enterprise and supports the entrepreneurial and acquisitive strategy of the Group.
This has resulted in significant change and I would like to thank all of our shareholders for their Michael Ashton Chair of the Remuneration Committee 102 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2015 Overview Our highlights Membership and attendance The Remuneration Committee consists of six Identified and inducted a new Committee Chair Independent Non-Executive Directors, with an Dr Pamela Kirby Independent Non-Executive Director holding the Undertook a search for a new remuneration chairmanship of the Committee.
All members of adviser, following the appointment of PwC the Committee have held positions at the highest as our auditors levels in multinational organisations and hence have Reviewed and enhanced the performance experienced business and resource issues at all levels.
criteria for the Executive Incentive Plan The members have spent a significant proportion of their careers leading teams and in executive Reviewed executive contractual and notice management.
The members understand the need arrangements to incentivise top management appropriately, while Maintained our remuneration policy position ensuring that rewards are fair throughout all levels Benchmarked Executive Director, Non-Executive of Hikmas business.
and senior management compensation Member Meeting Members since Attended Potential attendance Further developed advice and guidance Michael Ashton regarding remuneration below Board level Chair 14 Oct 2005 6 6 100% Considered developments in the business Breffni Byrne 14 Oct 2005 6 6 100% and governance arena Ronald Goode 12 Dec 2006 6 6 100% Acted as a sounding board for significant projects Dr Pamela Kirby undertaken by the Human Resources department Chair designate 1 Dec 2014 5 6 83% Robert Pickering 1 Mar 2014 6 6 100% John Castellani 1 Mar 2016 Total meetings 6 97% Calendar of events Allocation of time Setting executive 25% Q1 Q2 remuneration Executive performance Human Remuneration 11% resources update Executive policy remuneration MIP award Conditions in 30% EIP award Governance the Group Remuneration report Developing 6% Committee evaluation practices Corporate 28% Governance Q3 Q4 Advisers HR strategy Executive Internal External benchmarking Chairman and Chief Willis Towers Watson Governance Executive Adviser performance  VP Human Resources Adviser tender Company Secretary exercise Executive contracts 103
