HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Market review Opportunities for growth across our markets Hikmas senior management discuss market conditions and the exciting opportunities ahead and businesses across the MENA region are increasing investments in healthcare.
In 2016 alone, it is expected that public and private investment in the Middle East healthcare sector will exceed 2 $150 billion.
This level of investment is driving growth across our key markets.
Over the next five years, pharmaceutical sales in our largest markets Saudi Arabia, Algeria, Egypt and Morocco are expected to grow at an average rate of around 8%.
We have a long track record in the MENA region of growing slightly faster than the underlying market, having grown at a constant currency CAGR of 12% over the last five years.
We expect to continue to grow Q.
You have a presence in 17 Mazen Darwazah, in line with our historical trend by markets across the Middle East Vice Chairman and CEO of investing in the development of and North Africa.
How are our product portfolio and sales MENA and Emerging Markets and marketing teams.
While strong these markets performing?
demand for anti-infectives remains, The pharmaceutical markets in patients in the MENA region are MENA are performing well.
increasingly suffering from chronic Pharmaceutical sales in the top illnesses that require more advanced nine private retail markets, where treatments.
Obesity, cancer, diabetes Hikma generates most of its revenue, and heart disease are widespread 1 reached nearly $12 billion in 2015. in the MENA region and smokingGrowth in the region continues related respiratory diseases are to be underpinned by favourable increasing.
We aim to be a leading demographics, including a fast provider of medicines in these growing and ageing population, growing therapeutic areas.
increasing affluence and changing lifestyles.
To keep pace, governments 1 IMS Healthcare, YTD December 2015.
2 Healthcare Spending Surges as Demand Soars, The Middle Eastern Online, Peter Feuilherade.
What are some of Market size across MENA the challengesyou face operating in the region?
Lebanon Tunisia $635m The political and economic Kuwait Morocco $458m Jordan $201m $866m environment in the MENA region $235m Iraq has created challenges in recent Algeria Bahrain years.
Since the initial uprising of UAE Qatar $2.1bn Libya $1.3bn Egypt the Arab Spring in Egypt and Tunisia $2.8bn at the beginning of 2011, there Saudi Arabia has been an increased level of $3.1bn political uncertainty in many of our markets.
During this period, Yemen Oman we have benefited from our strong Sudan local presence across the region.
In our MENA markets, we are employing local people, investing in high-quality manufacturing facilities, working with local regulators and supporting the growth of the local pharmaceutical Q.
Where do you see opportunities We are employing local markets.
This localness has for expansion?
people, investing in highdifferentiated Hikma and enabled us to manage disruptions in the region.
As well as continuing to build our quality manufacturing position in the MENA region, we are In recent years, currency headwinds facilities, working with local actively looking for opportunities to in most of the North African regulators and supporting expand into new emerging markets.
countries have had a material impact We are currently in the process of the growth of the local on our revenue, while rising inflation building a local manufacturing pharmaceutical markets.
and even hyperinflation facility in Kazakhstan, a large and in markets like Sudan have had attractive pharmaceutical market a significant impact on costs.
and an entry point into Russia and Through a strict focus on costs neighbouring CIS countries.
We and operating efficiency, we have have also begun registering products been able to manage, and in many across Sub-Saharan Africa, leveraging cases offset the impact of economic our NorthAfrican operations to disruptions on our business.
supply certain markets in this region.
11 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Market review Continued time, demand for generic injectable products is increasing, with the global market projected to grow from $37 billion in 2013 to $70 billion 1 by 2020.
Numerous factors are steadily increasing demand for injectable drugs, including a number of patent expiries, an ageing population, increasing incidence of chronic diseases requiring hospital care and a rise in the number of patients in need of surgery.
Governments have also been actively looking to manage rising healthcare costs by increasing the use of generic medicines.
Is it still a differentiating factor?
Why is the injectables market Riad Mechlaoui, Quality is absolutely fundamental segment attractive to operate in?
Global Head of Injectables to our business.
Sterile injectable manufacturers must adhere to strict The manufacture of injectable regulations regarding quality control products requires specialised and maintain a stringent internal and sterile manufacturing facilities quality control programme.
Companies and techniques, and in some cases that can do this well will maintain Our focus is on continuing dedicated machinery, which must an edge over their competitors, meet the strict quality standards our excellent track record minimising supply disruptions for imposed by regulatory authorities.
of operating high-quality their marketed products.
Complying with these stringent and extremely efficient regulatory requirements, as well Quality is something that is as capital intensive manufacturing manufacturing facilities.
embedded in the culture of Hikma processes, demands significant and is built into every one of our continuous investment.
Our highsame time, investment in training quality manufacturing facilities are and development programmes clearly differentiated from many is essential to ensure the highest of our competitors, and we are levels of precision are implemented benefiting from our ability to throughout the manufacturing continue to reliably supply our process.
These factors have created customers.
In 2015, we successfully a market with high barriers to entry brought our Portuguese plant back and, as a result, a limited number into compliance with the US FDA, of competitors relative to other and have continued our focus segments.
Specialised technical on maintaining high-quality capabilities, high running costs operations in all our markets.
and the requirement for dedicated operational facilities have further restricted market entry.
At the same 1 Market Opportunities in the Global Injectables Market, Patricia Van Arnum, 2 March 2015.
What are the key factors to to and implemented at all times, region, where our regional footprint but to also prioritise patients and sets us apart from the competition, developing long-term sustainable physicians needs.
We have seen an we have only begun to scratch growth for this business?
increase in demand for a wider range the surface of our potential as we From early on, the Injectables of medicines as well as advanced, continue to build our pipeline and business has been an important high-quality delivery systems.
Both leverage our dedicated sales force driver of growth for the Group.
As patients and doctors are now across our markets.
our business has grown, so has the requiring better, faster access to diversity of our product portfolio and treatments and technology, and As our business has grown, manufacturing capabilities.
Through we are focusing on expanding our Bedford acquisition, we now so has the diversity of our our portfolio and enhancing have a state-of-the-art R&D centre our technological capabilities product portfolio and focused onintroducing more to be able to meet this demand.
differentiated products and an Our diversified geographic presence exciting pipeline, enhanced by will also bring real advantages going our own business development forward.
This will enable presence in the US will enable us us to access a broader range of to take advantage of the potential attractive growth opportunities.
of the worlds largest generic As a manufacturer of hospital injectables market.
Through direct products used for critical care, we sales and partnerships, we are in an not only have to ensure that the excellent position to penetrate new highest quality standards are adhered markets in Europe.
And in the MENA Cherry Hill, USA 13 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Market review Continued largest supplier of generic injectables by volume.
How will the focus on pricing impact you in the future?
Concerns about drug pricing have sparked intense debate in 2015.
I think it is important to point out that, for many years, generic manufacturers have been playing a key role in driving down healthcare costs, making medication more affordable and accessible to millions of patients.
Over the last ten years, generic drugs were responsible for around $1.7 trillion in healthcare savings.
These savings are expected to continue in the US in the 2 coming years.
How is the US Mike Raya, As a key player in the generics market performing?
President and industry, our aim is to be responsible when it comes to pricing and to Chief Executive The US generics market grew by be a reliable partner.
Across our 8% in 2015 according to IMS, and of the US Generics portfolio, price declines is forecasted to grow around 7% tend to outpace price increases, per annum over the coming five 1 which are typically implemented years.
Various factors are driving to offset certain market risks, the growth of generics namely, such as limited inventory or Active a continued focus by payers to Pharmaceutical Ingredients API minimise overall healthcare spend, price increases, or to offset certain along with an ageing population and opportunity costs related to a rise in chronic illnesses.
Further US generics market responding to market shortages healthcare reform should also for critical care products.
5 year CAGR benefit the pharmaceutical industry, increasing insurance coverage for Ultimately, our goal is to be a reliable prescription drugs and encouraging 9.1% supplier to our customers and higher use of generics.
Quality and manufacturing 63.83 issues have disrupted supply of While the US generics market 55.73 50.99 certain products in the US for a continues to grow, the market 44.47 number of years.
We are focused dynamics are changing.
Leading on maintaining the supply of our pharmaceutical manufacturers have products in the market and on been consolidating, as have their helping to address shortages wherever main wholesale and retail customers, possible.
Through the acquisition of as scale is becoming increasingly 11 12 13 14 15 Bedford, we were able to bring back important.
After the closing of two important products to the US Roxane, Hikma will be the sixth market in 2015, resolving acute largest player in the US generics market shortages.
market by value and the third 1 US Pharmaceuticals and Healthcare Report Q4 2015, BMI Research, 9 September 2015.
2 Generic Pharmaceutical Association, Generic Drug Savings in the U.
What are the factors for Quality will, of course, remain a We remain focused on priority for the Group and is essential long-term sustainable growth providing high-quality for long-term sustainable growth.
affordable products to Our excellent track record for Our overarching strategic priority regulatory compliance has been patients, ensuring we for our US business is to drive a key differentiator for us in the have a sustainable sustainable growth by continuously US market.
Like many of our business for the future.
evolving our product portfolio in competitors, we have not been response to the changing needs immune to regulatory issues, but we of doctors and patients.
The more have demonstrated to our customers differentiated our product portfolio that we will address any issues swiftly is, the better we can address these and aggressively in order to minimise changing needs.
Through our any impact on the supply of our in-house R&D, our business products to patients.
This approach development efforts and acquisitions, has enabled us to strengthen our we have been building a more relationships with our customers, differentiated product pipeline across for whom we have become a a range of therapeutic areas, dosage trusted partner.
