Strategic report Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Our business model Our business model Strategic priorities Progress in the year Our vision Nurture long-term We have over 80 affinity partners across the geographies in which we To become the worlds favourite plumbers, heating engineers affinity partnerships operate.
During the year, we signed 12 new utility partnerships in the USA and electricians.
and extended an existing arrangement to provide our products and services to an additional 2.5m residential households.
We also signed a long-term Our mission affinity partnership with Lyonnaise des Eaux LDE in France, enabling us to To provide home assistance membership, which frees our customers from offer our home heating, plumbing and electric products to their customers.
the worry and inconvenience of emergencies, repairs and installations.
During the year, we renewed three long-term partnerships in the UK.
Reduce customer effort We are focussed on providing high levels of customer service, and endeavour to make it an effortless experience for our customers at each touch point of Our business is built on developing long-term relationships with our affinity partners, offering their customer journey.
We continue to develop the channels through which our customers home assistance in respect of plumbing, heating and electrical-related our customers can purchase a policy, make changes to their account and emergencies and repairs.
We plan to extend our services to include provision of heating make a claim.
We monitor our engineer and contractor networks to ensure that we have sufficient capacity to meet our customers needs.
We provide our services through the use of directly employed, franchised and subour customer satisfaction ratings, measured by a third party, improved contract networks of engineers.
With the customer clearly at the heart of the business, we have across all our businesses.
developed strategies to enable us to fulfil our vision and mission.
Become a permanent In the UK through HomeServe Alliance, we are developing our boiler part of customers installations activity, working with independent heating contractor homes through businesses under a franchise model.
In the USA, we install water heaters installations and in customers homes through our directly employed technicians.
In the connected home connected homes space, we are the leading independent installer of smart thermostats in the UK.
Through our relationships with Nest, tado and Cosy Strong affinity Claims and network we give customers the opportunity to control their heating remotely, and with partnerships management tado to benefit from remote fault detection on their boilers.
Long-term relationships with partners whose We primarily use our own local Advocate energy In the USA we are working with gas and electricity utilities to offer energy brands are relevant to our products, allowing call centres to handle customers efficiency and efficiency products and services.
Through one of our partnerships, we are us to offer our products to millions of claims, and manage networks of water conservation able to analyse a households energy usage.
To customers with high energy homeowners through trusted brands.
qualified engineers in order to opportunities usage we offer in-home energy assessments, suggest improvements, Our partners benefit by offering their offer our customers the best manage upgrades, and provide on-going monitoring reports.
customers valuable home-related service when they experience We continue to work with our water partners in all of our territories to offer products while earning a risk-free a home emergency.
water conservation solutions, including the development of a water leak income.
Drive efficiency We are committed to improving efficiency in all aspects of our business, We create water, gas and We use our expertise in while ensuring we deliver high levels of customer service.
For example, we Happy customers electrical-related home direct marketing across a are investing to upgrade our core customer IT system, and to enable greater that stay with assistance products.
Our number of channels to offer our levels of self-service.
us year-on-year products are individually products directly to customers.
Develop great people We have a team of over 3,800 people across our businesses.
We are underwritten by third party Teamed with our affinity partners we who can embrace committed to developing our people, ensuring they are engaged, which underwriters, independent of HomeServe.
also offer our products through their sales technology and deliver in turn results in a better customer experience.
We continue to evaluate We act as an insurance intermediary and channels.
We constantly innovate to ensure innovation our teams, ensuring we have the correct capability to meet our business do not take on any material insurance risk.
our marketing is fresh and relevant.
Product Marketing design capability 4 | HomeServe HomeServe | 5
