Home Retail Group 32 Annual Report 2015 Board of Directors and Group Executive Board Board of Directors John Coombe John Walden Richard Ashton Mike Darcey Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Non-Executive Director Ian Durant Cath Keers Jacqueline fide Rojas Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Group Executive Board Richard Ashton Greg Ball Gordon Bentley Bertrand Bodson Finance Director Managing Director, Financial Company Secretary Chief Digital Director Services Steve Carson Peter Connor Julie Elder Paul Loft Retail and Customer Operations Information Systems Director Human Resources Director Managing Director, Homebase Director David Robinson Maria Thompson John Walden Chief Operating Officer, Argos Commercial and Supply Chain Chief Executive Director Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation Annual Report 2015 33 BoARD of DIRECToRS PRofILES Ian Durant 56 John Coombe 70 Non-Executive Director Chairman Ian is Chairman of Capital & Counties Properties, Chairman of Greggs John held a number of senior financial roles within Charterhouse and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of Greene King.
He is a Group and Charter Consolidated before joining Glaxo Holdings in 1986. former Finance Director of Liberty International renamed Intu Properties.
Appointed to the Board in 1992, he was ultimately Chief Financial Officer In his earlier career he worked for Hanson and Jardine Matheson and was of GlaxoSmithKline for five years before retiring in 2005.
He joined the Finance Director of Hongkong Land, Dairy Farm International and Thistle GUS board in 2005 and became the Senior Independent Director of Home Hotels and Chief Finance Officer of SeaContainers.
He joined the Home Retail Group in October 2006 and Chairman in July 2012.
He is Chairman Retail Group Board in July 2011. of Hogg Robinson Group, a former Non-Executive Director of HSBC Holdings and a former member of the Code Committee of the Panel of Takeovers and Mergers and of the UK Accounting Standards Board.
Cath Keers 50 Non-Executive Director John Walden 55 Cath started her retail career with Thorn EMI and, after marketing and Chief Executive business development roles at Sky TV, Avon and Next, joined the BT John started his retail career in the US with Peapod.
He joined Best Buy Group in 1996, holding a number of commercial roles, including Marketing in 1999 as President of its internet and direct-channels division and also Director of O2, Chairman of Tesco Mobile and Customer Director of O2.
served as Executive Vice President, Human Capital and Leadership, and She is a Non-Executive Director of the Royal Mail Group and LV, and ultimately as Executive Vice President of its Customer Business Group.
an advisory board member of The Foundation, a growth innovation John later moved to Sears where he led marketing, merchandising and consultancy.
Cath was previously a Non-Executive Director of Telefonica the internet, catalogue and home services divisions.
He joined Argos as Europe and of the Childrens Mutual.
Cath joined the Home Retail Group Managing Director in February 2012 and was appointed Chief Executive Board in September 2011. of Home Retail Group in March 2014.
Jacqueline fide Rojas 52 Richard Ashton 48 Non-Executive Director Finance Director Jacqueline is Vice President and General Manager of Citrix Northern Richard started his career at  where he trained Europe.
Her career has focused on the digital sector and she has held as a chartered accountant, and joined GE in 1994, spending eight years leadership roles within major enterprise software businesses including CA, in a variety of positions including Chief Financial Officer of GE Capitals McAfee, Novell, Business Objects and Informix.
She is Deputy President of pan-European equipment-financing business, assistant to GE Capitals techUK and is a judge on the everywoman Women in Technology and Chief Financial Officer in the US and various finance roles in the UK.
He EY Entrepreneur of the Year awards.
Jacqueline is also a member of the joined Argos Retail Group as Finance Director in 2001 and, in July 2006, Princes Trust Technology Leadership Group and joined the Home Retail became Finance Director of Home Retail Group.
Mike Darcey 49 Biographies of members of the Group Executive Board can be found on our Non-Executive Director corporate website homeretailgroup.
Mike became Chief Executive Officer of News UK in 2013 following 15 years with BSkyB where he had been Chief Operating Officer since 2006.
Prior to BSkyB Mike was an economic advisor with a number BoARD CoMMITTEES of consulting companies including Lexecon, Putnam Hayes & Bartlett and KPMG working across a wide range of industries, with particular Audit Committee: focus on entertainment and telecommunications.
Mike joined Ian Durant Chair, Mike Darcey, Cath Keers, Jacqueline fide Rojas Home Retail Group in April 2010 and was appointed Senior Independent Director in July 2012.
Remuneration Committee: Cath Keers Chair, John Coombe, Mike Darcey, Ian Durant, Jacqueline fide Rojas Nomination Committee: John Coombe Chair, Mike Darcey, Ian Durant, Cath Keers, Jacqueline fide Rojas, John Walden appointed 14 March 2014
