Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Remuneration Report Remuneration Report LTIP Changes to operation in FY16 Long-term incentive awards will be granted in accordance with the rules of the shareholder The Committee has reviewed the operation of the LTIP and concluded that it remains the most approved HomeServe 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and the discretions contained therein.
appropriate vehicle for long-term incentives at the current time.
However, to support the strategy The performance measures for the matching and performance awards are set using a sliding of sustainable long-term earnings growth, an Earnings Per Share EPS performance condition scale of targets and no more than 25% of the award under each measure will vest for achieving will be re-introduced alongside TSR for the FY16 awards.
In addition, a post vesting holding period will be introduced for awards granted in FY16 onwards.
The current performance measure used for LTIP awards is relative total shareholder return There will be a minimum period of five years from the date of grant of an award before shares performance TSR.
The performance period runs for three years and requires HomeServes TSR arising from the vesting of awards can be sold.
To the extent that nil cost options are exercised to match that of the FTSE 250 Index for 25% of the shares to vest, rising on a straight-line basis after the three year vesting point, but before five years, the net of tax value of the vested shares so that full vesting requires out-performance of the Index by 15% per annum.
TSR is deemed must continue to be held.
The dividend roll-up on unexercised nil cost options will continue until to be the most appropriate metric to measure sustained long-term performance, is aligned five years from grant.
This five year view will provide a longer-term perspective to the incentive with shareholder interests and does not encourage inappropriate risk taking.
However, the programme than the three year performance period.
These changes have been discussed with Committee retains the discretion to set different measures for future LTIP awards as set out our major shareholders.
Clawback Some past LTIP awards have been subject to a performance condition requiring growth in The Committee has the power to reclaim some, or all, of a cash bonus and vested LTIP awards earnings per share EPS in excess of inflation over the performance period with 50% of the performance and matching in exceptional circumstances, such as misstatement of financial award subject to the EPS condition and 50% to the TSR condition.
A split EPS and TSR condition results, an error in assessment of performance, the use of misleading information and or gross may be reintroduced for future LTIP grant cycles, if a suitably robust earnings growth measure misconduct on the part of the individual.
can be determined and the Committee considers it is appropriate to do so.
The Committee would inform its major shareholders in advance of such a measure being set but considers that Legacy arrangements this would not constitute a change in policy, and therefore would not require a revised vote on Details of the outstanding share awards held by Directors are set out in the annual report on the policy report.
These include vested but unexercised awards granted to Richard Harpin under the Executive Share Option Plan ESOP and Deferred Bonus Plan DBP which may be exercised Under the rules of the plan, the Committee has the discretion to adjust the targets applying to at any time until the tenth anniversary of grant and unvested awards granted to the Executive existing awards in exceptional circumstances providing the new targets are no less challenging Directors under the LTIP which for the 2011 awards, include an earnings per share performance than originally envisaged.
The Committee also has the power to adjust the number of shares condition for 50% of the awards.
No further awards may be granted under the ESOP or DBP.
subject to an award in the event of a variation in the capital of the Company.
For the avoidance of doubt, these outstanding share awards will be allowed to be paid out Awards under the LTIP may be granted as conditional allocations or nil or nominal cost options under the approved policy providing that the terms on which the awards have been granted with, or as, forfeitable shares.
The Committee may also decide to grant cash based awards of are satisfied.
an equivalent value to share based awards or to satisfy share based awards in cash, although it does not currently intend to do so.
Awards are satisfied through a mixture of either market purchase or new issue shares.
To the extent new issue shares are used, the 2008 LTIP will adhere to a 5% in 10 year dilution limit.
