Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Remuneration Report Remuneration Report Element Purpose and link Performance Operation including performance measures and Rationale behind performance metrics and targets to strategy Period maximum limits The Committee works hard to ensure that the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors Other Provides a N A Other benefits comprise a fully expensed car or cash supports the business strategy, and that the level of remuneration received is reflective of the benefits competitive alternative, fuel allowance, private health cover for the overall business performance and the returns received by shareholders.
A significant proportion package of individual, partner and dependant children, death in benefits to assist service benefits up to five times salary and permanent of the remuneration package comes from variable pay c. 60% at target performance with careful with recruitment health insurance for members of the HomeServe Money consideration given to the choice of performance metrics to ensure that the executives are not and retention of Plan.
There is no maximum limit on the value of the encouraged to take inappropriate risks.
benefits provided but the Committee monitors the total cost of the benefit provision.
Save As You To encourage N A The Executive Directors may participate in the Groups Annual Bonus Earn Scheme employee share Save As You Earn Scheme.
The Scheme is subject The annual bonus is designed to drive and reward excellent short-term operating performance ownership.
to limits on the level of individual participation.
No of the Company and encourage real year-on-year growth in profitability.
No annual bonus is performance conditions are attached to this Scheme.
paid unless a high level of performance is achieved.
The Committee reviews the annual bonus Chairman and To attract N A Non-Executive Director fees are determined by the plan measures annually in order to ensure that they are aligned with the Groups strategy and Non-Executive and retain Board.
The fees for the Chairman are determined by the Directors fees Non-Executive Remuneration Committee taking into account the views so that bonus arrangements are consistent amongst the senior executive team.
Performance Directors of the of the Chief Executive.
The Chairman excludes himself targets are set at the start of the financial year and are linked to the Groups strategic and right calibre.
The transition to a more customer focused culture across our business The fee levels are reviewed periodically and are set to is reflected in the use of customer metrics in the annual bonus scheme.
These are based on reflect the responsibilities and time commitment of the measures relating to customer complaints and customer satisfaction.
This is balanced by the role and the experience of the individual.
Fee levels are use of commercial and personal objectives to reflect other strategic priorities.
The commercial set by reference to rates in companies of comparable size and complexity.
The fees for the Non-Executive objectives included metrics relating to profit before tax and the number of core renewable Directors comprise a basic Board fee, with additional customers.
fees paid for chairing a Committee or for the Senior Independent Directorship.
The Chairman receives an all encompassing fee for his role.
The Committee retains the discretion to alter the choice and weighting of the metrics for future bonus cycles to reflect the changing needs of the business.
The payment of any bonus is at the In exceptional circumstances, additional fees may be payable to reflect a substantial increase in time discretion of the Committee and bonuses will only be paid once a minimum level of customer commitment.
The fees are paid monthly in cash.
and financial performance is achieved.
Changes to operation in FY16 Targets relating to net debt and employee engagement are being introduced to the bonus for FY16.
These will operate alongside the customer and commercial measures and personal performance objectives.
