Home Retail Group 62 Annual Report 2015 Directors report The directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial Profit and dividends statements for the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2015 the year.
The Groups consolidated income statement on page 72 shows a profit Home Retail Group plc the Company is the ultimate parent company for the year of 71.6m.
The directors recommend the payment of a final of Home Retail Group the Group, which operates in the UK and the dividend of 2.8p per ordinary share, to be paid on 23 July 2015 to Republic of Ireland.
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 22 May 2015.
Sections required to be included in this Annual Report and Financial An interim dividend of 1.0p per ordinary share was paid on 22 January 2015, Statements in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 are set out below.
giving a total dividend for the year of 3.8p per ordinary share.
Pages 62 to 64 inclusive together with sections of the annual report incorporated by reference form part of the directors report which is Directors presented in accordance with, and with reliance upon, applicable English The names and biographical details of the directors are shown in the Board company law.
The liabilities of the directors in connection with that report of Directors and Group Executive Board section on page 33.
On 14 March shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
2014, Terry Duddy stepped down from the Board as Chief Executive and John Walden joined the Board as Chief Executive.
Particulars of directors In accordance with s. 414C 11 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company remuneration are shown in the remuneration report on pages 44 to 61. has chosen to include certain information in the strategic report as follows: Details of the service contracts of the directors, and how a change of Particulars of important events affecting the Group since the last control will affect the service contracts of the executive directors, are financial year.
summarised within the directors remuneration report on pages 59 to 61.
Indication of likely future development of the business of the Group.
Neither contract of the executive directors provides for extended notice periods or compensation in the event of termination or a change of control.
Other information, which forms part of the directors report, can be found During the period and up to the date of this report, the Group in the following sections and locations within the annual report: maintained liability insurance and third-party indemnification provisions for its directors, under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Information Page Nos Note directors to the extent permitted by law in respect of all liabilities to third parties arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, Audit Committee report Page 40 duties and responsibilities as directors of the Company and any of its associated companies.
These indemnities are Qualifying Third-Party Board and committee membership Page 33 Indemnity Provisions as defined in Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 Chairmans statement Page 7 and copies are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during business hours on any weekday except public holidays.
Corporate governance Page 34 Shareholder rights, appointment, removal of directors and Corporate responsibility, including directors powers greenhouse gas emissions Page 22 The internal regulation of the Company is set out in its Articles of Directors biographies Page 33 Association which cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, the appointment or removal of directors and the conduct of the Board and Directors responsibilities statement Page 65 general meetings.
Copies are available upon request and are displayed on the Groups website at homeretailgroup.
In accordance with Diversity Pages 36 and 39 the Articles of Association, directors can be appointed or removed by the Financial results and dividends Pages 26 and 95 Board or shareholders in general meeting.
Subject to company law and the Articles of Association, the directors may exercise all the powers of Nomination Committee report Page 39 the Company and may delegate authorities to committees.
Details of Post balance sheet events the principal Board committees can be found in the corporate governance Financial statements Note 35 on page 113 section on page 35.
The Companys Articles of Association can be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Risk management Principal risks and uncertainties Page 24 Share capital and control As at 29 April 2015, the Companys issued share capital comprised a single Strategic report Pages 4 to 31 class of shares, referred to as ordinary shares.
Details of the ordinary share Publication of unaudited financial capital can be found in note 27 to the financial statements on page 109. information Group financial review Pages 27 to 31 Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company and ordinary rights to dividends.
Details of long-term incentive schemes Directors remuneration report Pages 44 to 61 Shareholder waiver of dividends Financial statements Note 12 on page 95 Shareholder waiver of future dividends Financial statements Note 28 on page 109 Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation Annual Report 2015 63 The rights and obligations attaching to the shares are more fully set out Employees in the Articles of Association of the Company.
There are no restrictions on The Group has in place measures to provide its employees with the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than the following: information on matters of concern to them as employees, including Certain restrictions may, from time to time, be imposed by laws and consulting employees or their representatives on a regular basis so that regulations such as insider trading laws.
the views of employees can be taken into account in making decisions Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the FCA, the Company requires certain which are likely to affect their interests.
Various communication routes are employees to seek the Companys permission to deal in the Companys made available to employees to give them awareness of the financial and ordinary shares.
economic factors affecting the performance of the Group and employees are also encouraged to be involved in the Groups performance through The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders which a SAYE share scheme.
may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
The Group has a policy in place for giving full and fair consideration There are no shareholdings which carry special rights relating to control of to applications for employment made by disabled persons, having the Company.
A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities, and for continuing the may cause a number of agreements to which the Company or its trading employment of, and for arranging appropriate training for, employees of subsidiaries is party to take effect, alter or terminate.
the Group who have become disabled persons during the period when they were employed by the Group.
The policy also covers the training, career Purchase of own shares development and promotion of disabled persons employed by the Group.
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 2 July 2014, authority was given for the Company to purchase, in the market, up to Employee share plans 81,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each.
At the Annual General Meeting Some of the Companys employee share plans include restrictions on to be held on 1 July 2015, shareholders will be asked to give the Company the transfer of shares while the shares are subject to the plan.
As described authority to purchase, in the market, up to 81,000,000 ordinary shares in the directors remuneration report, non-executive directors use part of 10p each, details of which are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
of their fees to purchase shares, which may not normally be transferred during a directors period of office.
Details of the Companys interests in its own shares are set out in note 28 Where, under an employee share plan operated by the Company, to the financial statements on page 109. participants are the beneficial owners of the shares but are not the registered owners, the voting rights are normally exercised by the Substantial shareholdings registered owner, at the direction of the participant.
As at 29 April 2015, the Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following holdings of voting change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest rights in the issued share capital of the Company: and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Total number of Percentage of voting rights total voting Financial risk management ordinary shares rights % The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group and Schroders plc 114,607,223 14.09 the exposure of the Group to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk are set out in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 85 to 88.
RBC cees Trustee Limited 59,439,113 7.31 Sanderson Asset Management Political donations LLP 59,246,016 7.28 The Group has made no political donations and incurred no items of political expenditure during the period.
Old Mutual plc 48,821,669 6.00 Relevant audit information The Capital Group Companies Inc 32,253,481 3.97 As at 29 April 2015, so far as each director is aware, there is no relevant Royal London Asset audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each Management Limited 24,504,400 3.01 director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to ensure that the auditors are aware of that information.
Home Retail Group 64 Annual Report 2015 Directors report continued Going concern The strategic report and financial highlights reviews on pages 4 to 31 contain information on the performance of the Group, its cash flow and net cash position, capital structure and liquidity and funding.
Further information relating to the Groups financial risk management is set out in note 4 to the financial statements and the principal risks and uncertainties that could impact the Groups performance are set out on pages 24 and 25.
After making enquiries, the directors are satisfied that the Company has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Independent auditors  LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office as auditors of the Company and a resolution proposing their reappointment will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Holiday Inn Milton Keynes, 500 Saxon Gate West, Milton Keynes MK9 2HQ, commencing at 11.00 am on Wednesday 1 July 2015.
The Notice of Meeting is included in a separate circular to shareholders which is available on the Groups website at homeretailgroup.
Paper copies will have been posted to shareholders who have elected to receive documents in that format.
The strategic report and the directors report were each approved by the Board and authorised for issue on 29 April 2015.
By order of the Board Gordon Bentley Company Secretary 29 April 2015 Registered Office: Avebury 489499 Avebury Boulevard Milton Keynes MK9 2NW Company no.
