Strategic report Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Chief Executives review New Markets including innovation initiatives Capital investment Technology investment We are making progress with our plans to upgrade our IT systems.
Our intention is to replace our core customer IT system and invest in new technology that allows us to improve the products Continued momentum in Italy with 0.2m customers and service we offer our customers and to increase our efficiency.
Our attention has initially been focused on our UK business, where we have now implemented a limited version of the Plan to exit Germany replacement Pega Systems software which is operating as expected.
Having now worked with the new software we are confident that we have the right technology solution to allow us to Increased investment in innovation significantly improve how we interact with our customers and reduce our cost to serve.
We expect to have completed the replacement of our UK system within the next twelve months, and, having done this successfully, we intend to roll out the new system to our business in the USA.
We also continue to look for further opportunities to invest in technology to allow us to drive greater revenue, improved efficiency and customer service.
As a result, during the year we have identified Our New Markets segment consists of our developing businesses in Italy, Germany and our opportunities to invest in new data warehouse technology, digital document composition, digital investment in innovation, including HomeServe Alliance and global digital initiatives.
asset management solutions and customer self service tools for our businesses in the UK and USA.
We also plan to upgrade the IT system for our Spanish Claims handling business.
As a result In Italy, we have 0.2m customers through our test agreement with Enel, who were principally of these additional investments, our capital investment will increase in 2016 before normalising at acquired through their doorstep sales channel.
We are also in active discussions with other around 25m in 2018. potential partners.
Partner payments During the year we continued test marketing in Germany using sales agents to target the energy Payments made to affinity partners in respect of the acquisition of customers originated by those switching market.
Initial results indicate that it is likely to take longer to establish a sizeable partners are capitalised.
During 2015 we invested 17.6m in respect of payments to Endesa in business than we consider acceptable.
As a result, we have decided to exit our German business, Spain and new partners in the USA.
During 2016 we expect to invest around 20m in partner focusing instead on building our business in Italy and investing in HomeServe Alliance and other payments with Endesa in Spain, LDE in France and new partners in the USA.
We set up HomeServe Alliance last year to establish a network of local independent heating installation and repair businesses through a franchised model, with potential to offer home emergency cover alongside a boiler installation.
While still at an early stage, we have developed a franchised network and a lead generation model for boiler installations and repairs.
We now plan to roll this model out in our UK business creating a combined heating installation and repair business.
We have also established a digital hub, based in London, to provide a common platform to accelerate our move towards self-serve for each of our customer touchpoints including claims and customer acquisition.
Financial performance Our New Markets businesses reported revenue of 13.8m 2014: 14.4m and an adjusted operating loss of 5.9m 2014: 5.7m.
Our investment in New Markets will continue to be in the range of around 6.0m per annum, such that the performance in Italy will be offset by investment in HomeServe Alliance and other innovation including investment in our digital hub activity.
The costs of ceasing activity in Germany are not material.
