Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Directors report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements for the 52 week period ended 39 26 December 2015.
Comparative figures relate to the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2014.
In order to make our Annual Report and Accounts more accessible a number of the sections traditionally found in this report can now be found in other sections of this Annual Report and Accounts where it was deemed that the information would be presented in a more connected and accessible way.
The Directors Report comprises the sections detailed below together with the Business Review and statement on political contributions on page 40.
Any sections that have been moved have been cross-referenced below for ease of reference: Located in the Strategic Report: Principal Group activities, business review and results: The principal activities of Howden Joinery Group Plc and its subsidiaries can be found on pages 4 to 35. Dividend: Information about the final dividend can be found in the Chairmans Statement on page 4 and the Review of Operations and Finance on page 13.
Going Concern, Viability and other Statements of the Directors: These statements may be found on page 17.
Located in the Corporate Greenhouse Gas Emissions: Details of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions, as required Social Responsibility Report: by Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulation 2008 SI 2008 410 as amended by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 SI 2013 1970, are set out on page 34.
Located in the Corporate Share capital, substantial shareholdings and acquisition of the Companys own shares: Governance Report: Information in this regard can be found on pages 44 and 45.
Employees: Information about the Groups employees is located on page 45.
Directors: Details of Directors and their interests are on page 45 and details of Directors Indemnity and Insurance on page 43.
Annual General Meeting: Information about the Annual General Meeting, including reappointment of the Groups Auditors, can be found on page 44.
A copy of the UK Corporate Governance Code can be accessed at www.
Located in the Nominations Directors: Information with regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors is located Committee Report: on page 75.
Employees: Information about the total number of employees and gender diversity statistics are located on page 77.
The average number of employees and their remuneration are shown in note 7 to the financial statements.
Directors report continued BUSINESS REVIEW 40 The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to include a business review in this report.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review can be found in the following sections which are incorporated in this report by reference: Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5: Chief Executives statement which includes a review of our model, our market and strategy on pages 6 to 11: Review of operations and finance which includes key performance indicators on pages 12 to 16: Going Concern and Viability statements on pages 17 to 18: Review of principal risks and uncertainties on pages 19 to 22: Corporate social responsibility report on pages 23 to 35 containing environmental matters, social & community issues and additional information on employees.
Corporate governance report on pages 41 to 46: and Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committee Report on pages 47 to 77.
The full results for the period are shown in the financial statements on pages 78 to 131.
Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company and its subsidiaries is given in note 27 to the financial statements.
The subsidiary undertakings affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in the table of parent company and subsidiary undertakings on page 132.
There have been no significant events since the balance sheet date.
POLITICAL DONATIONS The Group made no political donations during the current and previous period.
By order of the Board Forbes McNaughton Secretary 24 February 2016
