Board of Directors EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN 36 MATTHEW INGLE MARK ROBSON WILL SAMUEL Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chief Executive Chairman and Chief Financial Officer Will was appointed Non-Executive Matthew was appointed Chief Executive Mark was appointed Deputy Chief Director in July 2006 and became NonOfficer in October 2005.
Executive in May 2014, having joined Executive Chairman in October 2006. the Board in April 2005 as Chief He set up Howdens in 1995 and has Financial Officer.
He is Chairman of TSB Bank Plc, and been responsible for its growth into a Chairman of Ecclesiastical Insurance successful business today.
Mark spent the previous six years as Group plc.
Prior to this he was a Senior Group Finance Director at Delta plc.
Advisor to Lazard & Co, Senior Advisor Prior to joining the Company he had Prior to this, he had held a number to the Prudential Regulation Authority been Managing Director of the Magnet of senior financial positions with ICI PRA, formerly the Financial Services Trade operation.
He was elected to the between 1985 and 1998.
Authority, Director of Schroders plc, Board of the Company in 1998.
Co-Chief Executive Officer at Schroder He is a Chartered Accountant and Salomon Smith Barney a division of Matthew has no external appointments.
Citigroup Inc. Committee membership: Mark has no external appointments.
He has also served as Vice Chairman, None European Investment Bank of Citigroup Committee membership: Inc, Chairman of H P Bulmer plc, Deputy None Chairman of Inchcape plc, a NonExecutive Director of the Edinburgh Investment Trust plc and on the Board of Trustees and Honorary Treasurer of International Alert.
Committee membership: Nominations Chairman As announced by the Company on 2 December 2015, Will Samuel will step down from the Board with effect from the AGM on 5 May 2016.
Richard Pennycook will take over the role of Non-Executive Chairman from that date.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 37 MARK ALLEN ANDREW CRIPPS GEOFF DRABBLE Mark was appointed Non-Executive Andrew was appointed Non-Executive Geoff was appointed Non-Executive Director in May 2011.
He is Chief Executive Officer of Dairy He is Deputy Chairman of Swedish He is the current Chief Executive Officer Crest Group plc.
Match AB, Chairman of the Audit of Ashtead Group Plc, the FTSE100 Committee of Booker Group plc and international equipment rental company.
After a period at Shell, Mark joined Dairy Senior Independent Director and He was appointed as Chief Executive in Crest in 1991 as a general manager Chairman of the Audit Committee at the January 2007, having served as Chief and, after being promoted through 2 Sisters Food Group and Stock Spirits Executive Designate from October 2006 a variety of roles including Sales & Group plc.
and as a Non-Executive Director since Operations Director and two divisional April 2005.
Managing Director roles, he was Having qualified as a Chartered appointed to Dairy Crests main Board Accountant with KPMG, his consumer Geoff was previously an Executive in 2002, becoming Chief Executive product experience included Executive Director of The Laird Group plc where he in 2006.
Director roles in the UK and Europe with was responsible for its Building Products Rothmans International, where he was division.
Prior to joining The Laird Group, He is a Trustee for The Princes Corporate Finance Director.
he held a number of senior management Countryside Fund and a Non-Executive positions at Black & Decker.
He is also a More recently, Andrew has been NonDirector for The GLF Schools Board.
Executive Director of a number of public Committee membership: companies with consumer-facing and Audit Committee membership: manufacturing businesses.
Remuneration Audit Nominations Remuneration Committee membership: Nominations Audit Remuneration Nominations Board of Directors continued NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CONTINUED 38 TIFFANY HALL RICHARD PENNYCOOK MICHAEL WEMMS Senior Independent Director Richard was appointed Non-Executive Michael was appointed Non-Executive Tiffany was appointed Non-Executive Director in September 2013.
He is a fellow of the Institute of He was Chairman of House of Fraser plc She is currently Managing Director at Chartered Accountants in England and from 2001 until November 2006 and BUPA Home Healthcare.
Tiffany was Wales and has been a public company was an Executive Director of Tesco plc previously UK Marketing Director at director for over 20 years.
He was Chairman BUPA and Head of Marketing at British currently Group Chief Executive of The of the British Retail Consortium from Airways.
She was also Chairman of Co-operative Group, having previously 2004 until 2006 and has also held Airmiles and BA Holidays.
Prior to that, been Group Finance Director.
Non-Executive Director positions with she held various positions at British Moneysupermarket.
com plc, Majid Airways including Head of Global Sales He is also Non-Executive Chairman of al Futtaim, A&D Pharma and Coles and Distribution and Head of UK Sales The Hut Group Limited and is currently Myer Ltd. and Marketing.
Tiffany was previously a Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Director of Think London.
Chairman of the Audit Committee He is currently Chairman of the Board of Persimmon plc, though he has of Trustees of E-ACT, the independent Committee membership: announced his intention to retire from academy sponsor.
Audit the Board of Persimmon at their AGM Remuneration Chairman in April 2016.
Richard also serves as Committee membership: Nominations Chairman of the Institute For Turnaround.
Audit Remuneration His previous Finance Director roles Nominations include Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc, RAC Group plc, H P Bulmer Holdings plc, Laura Ashley Holdings plc and J D Wetherspoon plc.
Richards other past roles include President of Allders International North America, Chief Executive Officer of Welcome Break Holdings Ltd and a NonExecutive Director of Richer Sounds plc.
Committee membership: Audit Chairman Remuneration Nominations
