Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Remuneration Report Remuneration Report For a good leaver, any outstanding unvested LTIP awards will vest on the normal vesting date likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria of the remuneration being forfeited.
The subject to an assessment of performance, with a pro-rata reduction to reflect the proportion LTIP permits the grant of restricted share awards to Executive Directors in the case of recruitment of the vesting period served.
The Committee may dis-apply the time pro-rating requirement if to facilitate this, although awards may also be granted outside of this scheme if necessary, and it considers it appropriate to do so.
In the case of cessation due to death, the Committee can as permitted under the Listing Rules.
determine that the awards vest early.
Outstanding vested but not exercised awards can be exercised by a good leaver until the expiry of the normal exercise period or within 12 months in The service contract for a new appointment would be in accordance with the policy for the the case of death.
current Executive Directors and in line with the contract for Johnathan Ford which is the most recent.
In determining whether an Executive should be treated as a good leaver and the extent to which their award may vest, the Committee will take into account the circumstances of an individuals In the case of an internal hire, any outstanding variable pay awarded in relation to the previous departure.
role will be allowed to pay out according to its terms of grant.
The treatment of share awards on a change of control is the same as that set out above in Fees for a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director will be set in line with the approved policy.
relation to a good leaver albeit with the vesting period automatically ending on the date of the change in control.
Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment Non-Executive Directors serve under letters of appointment for periods of three years.
The Recruitment Policy Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman have a notice period of three months but no Base salary levels will be set in accordance with HomeServes remuneration policy, taking liquidated damages are payable.
account of the executives skills, experience and their current remuneration package.
Where it is appropriate to offer a lower salary initially, a series of increases to the desired salary positioning Fees are determined by the Executive Directors within the limits set by the Articles of Association, may be given over subsequent years subject to individual performance.
Benefits will generally and are based on information on fees paid in similar companies and the skills and the expected be provided in accordance with the approved policy, with relocation expenses and or an time commitment of the individual concerned.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to expatriate allowance paid for if necessary.
For an overseas appointment which may include bonus payments or pension arrangements, nor do they participate in the Companys long-term the relocation of an existing Director, the benefit and pension arrangements may be tailored incentive plans.
to reflect local market practice subject to the overall maximum limits on pension set out in the policy table.
Details of their current three year appointments are as follows: The structure of the variable pay element will be in accordance with HomeServes policy as Name Date of contract detailed above.
The maximum permitted variable pay opportunity under the Plan rules is 450% J M B Gibson 1 April 2013 1 of salary 100% of salary bonus 200% of salary LTIP 150% of salary matching award.
However, I Chippendale 1 January 2013 the normal award limits are a bonus of 100% of salary, a performance share award of 150% of S David 23 November 2013 salary and up to a 150% of salary matching award.
In the case of the matching awards, a new B Mingay 1 January 2015 recruit may invest up to 25% of salary from their own funds in the first year in order to receive a M Morris 27 February 2015 matching award in determining the number of matching awards to be granted, the investment 1 Ian Chippendale stepped down on 31 March 2015. is deemed to be made gross of tax.
Outside Appointments The performance and matching awards would be granted on a consistent basis to the other Executive Directors may hold one outside appointment and can retain any fees received.
In the case of the annual bonus, different performance measures may be set for the first year, taking into account the responsibilities of the individual and the point in the financial year at which they joined.
If it is necessary to buy-out incentive pay which would be forfeited on leaving the previous employer in order to secure the appointment, this would be provided for taking into account the form cash or shares, timing and expected value i. e. 76 | HomeServe HomeServe | 77
