Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Remuneration Report Remuneration Report Remuneration policy FY16 This report has been prepared in accordance with the disclosure requirements for Directors We are making some changes to how we apply our remuneration policy for Executive Directors pay - Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports in FY16.
These changes will not require a shareholder vote for a new policy, but are described Amendment Regulations 2013.
The report also satisfies the relevant requirements of the Listing fully in the Annual Report on Remuneration, on which there will be the usual advisory vote at the Rules and describes how the Board has applied the principles and complied with the provisions 2015 Annual General Meeting.
We have consulted with our major shareholders in advance of relating to directors remuneration in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Directors remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and is not In summary, we are reintroducing an earnings per share performance condition to the LTIP, subject to a shareholder vote this year.
The policy is set out below for information only.
In order adding a holding period for net vested shares and increasing our shareholding requirement to assist shareholders, the remuneration scenario charts later in the report have been updated for Directors.
The annual bonus opportunity is unchanged at 100% of salary, but Performance to reflect the proposed remuneration levels for FY16 and we have added additional commentary, Awards under the LTIP in FY16 will be granted at the policy maximum of 200% of salary up from where relevant, to explain how the policy will be operated in FY16.
Matching Awards will continue to be offered.
The changes are designed to reflect our business strategy and support sustained long-term earnings growth.
Remuneration policy The Committees remuneration policy for the remuneration of Executive Directors and other In addition, we are making one final adjustment to the base salary of Johnathan Ford, Senior Executives is based on the following principles: moving his salary from 325,000 to 375,000.
Whilst substantial, this increase is considered to align rewards with the Groups financial and operational performance appropriate recognising his strong development in the role, as well as the broader range and to ensure that remuneration, in particular, variable pay, supports the Groups strategy as a strategic contribution of his role compared to many other Chief Financial Officer roles in similar customer focused operation businesses.
to provide a remuneration package that is sufficient to attract, retain and motivate high calibre executives.
Following this final adjustment, we believe that the salary levels for Executive Directors are now set at the correct position.
Any future increases will be in line with the average increase for the To that end, the Committee structures executive remuneration in two distinct parts: fixed workforce, barring genuinely exceptional circumstances.
Martin Bennetts salary will increase remuneration of basic salary, pension and benefits and variable performance-related by 2% and Richard Harpins salary will remain unchanged.
Salary increases take effect from remuneration in the form of a cash bonus and long-term incentive arrangements.
Remuneration 1 July 2015. for Executive Directors is structured so that the variable pay element forms a significant portion of each Directors package.
We have reviewed our policy for recovery and withholding in line with changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code and we are comfortable that our approach is robust and workable The Committee is satisfied that neither the structure of the remuneration packages, with the if this provision ever needs to be operated.
high weighting on variable pay, nor the performance measures targeted under the annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements, encourages inappropriate risk taking.
The Stella David remuneration arrangements are designed so as to provide a strong alignment of interest Chairman of the Remuneration Committee between the Executives and shareholders and to support the growth and performance aspirations of the Company.
The Committee is satisfied that the current arrangements meet these objectives.
Furthermore, a clawback provision to annual bonuses and long-term incentive awards was introduced in 2011 which helps to guard further against excessive risk-taking.
