Home Retail Group 4 Annual Report 2015 Our business model We aim to provide outstanding value and convenience for our customers by building an infrastructure of market-leading retail capabilities, which can be leveraged by our retail brands Argos and Homebase to provide leading offers across multiple channels.
Customers are at the heart of our business, with around 180m transactions during the year.
We use the insight that ourmany customers provide to add value to our business model.
Financial services Financial Mobile devices strength Digital development Building Online Store formats Retail brands market-leading deliver leading multi-channel retail Technology convenience infrastructure capabilities Click & Contact Engaged collect centres colleagues Partnerships Products Sourcing & distribution Building market-leading retail capabilities engaged colleagues retail brands deliver leading multi-channel Sourcing and distribution Our ability to deliver our business model is convenience We source our products both locally and globally.
underpinned by our 47,000 dedicated colleagues We are one of the UKs leading home and general The scale of the combined sourcing synergy of who serve our customers every day and we are merchandise retailers, bringing together two Argos and Homebase allows us to offer great committed to their ongoing training and of the UKs most recognisable retail brands choice and value to our customers.
We are a multi-channel strong supply chain which, together with our retailer in that we offer our customers a number logistics infrastructure, enables us to provide Financial Services of convenient ways in which they can both products for our customers cost-effectively Both Argos and Homebase are supported by an purchase and physically obtain their products.
in-house financial services offer, which provides We are taking advantage of developments a range of credit products for our customers.
in digital technology that have brought about a Products fundamental and permanent shift in the way our We offer a comprehensive range of over 90,000 Financial strength customers shop.
Our successful Online and products across home and general merchandise.
The Group has strong operational cashMobile channels help make us a market leader We support our offer of well-known product generating characteristics and is in a strong in multi-channel retailing.
This is supported brands with a portfolio of own and exclusive financial position, with 309m of cash.
with a national network of over 1,000 stores brands such as Habitat, Heart of House, Bush, This supports our strategy for growth.
in various Store Formats, including big box Alba, Chad Valley and Odina.
speciality retail stores and a range of Argos digital development formats.
Our store network can offer not only technology infrastructure The internet has inspired a revolution in the a selection of shopping options, but also a Many modern and innovative retail capabilities way customers shop, with digital channels leading Click & Collect service for customers depend on new technologies.
Technology is such as online and mobile representing a who order a product on a digital channel and central to our multi-channel business model, growing share of business.
Our business model collect it in-store.
In addition to store collection, where information of interest to customers prioritises the rapid development of customer we offer Home Delivery options for products must be maintained securely and be available features on these digital channels.
of all shapes and sizes, and Contact Centres to whenever and wherever a customer needs it.
provide our customers with personalised service.
Increasingly, we are entering into Partnerships to help us access new customers online or through store concessions.
