Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation annual report 2015 5 Our strategy Home Retail Groups strategy is to create long-term value by offering leadership in convenience and choice for customers in an emerging digital age.
The strategy uses Argos as a base with which convenience This Plan has four principal components: to build contemporary, market-leading retail In a digital world convenience is being redefined Universal customer appeal capabilities and a leading customer offer across to mean the ability for customers to obtain Ensure competitive pricing and value the many ways customers shop, purchase and our products at the location and the time they Extend product ranges to build both obtain goods including digital online and desire.
The presence of a local store remains authority and choice mobile, store formats and home delivery.
critical for many customers, to meet traditional Strengthen both exclusive and These capabilities and multi-channel offer shopping needs and as locations from which to own-brand offer through fewer, can be extended to Homebase, Habitat click & collect items previously ordered online.
cross-category own brands and potential partners to accelerate their Home delivery options are equally important Enhance product quality and design competitiveness and achieve long-term to customers.
Home Retail Group operates a to meet the needs of new growth for Home Retail Group.
nationwide distribution network across multiple customer segments The Group strategy is built around five distribution centres and over 1,000 stores.
Reposition brand and customer elements of a competitively advantaged and Our logistics network is based on a wellexperiences differentiated customer proposition: product developed infrastructure that allows us to Expand customer reach and build loyalty choice, digital, convenience, human and continue to focus on improving the speed Develop large-scale customer data financial services.
at which products can be delivered to our collection, insight and personalisation customers, through whichever channel they capabilities Product choice choose to shop with us.
Reposition channels for a digital future The scale and strength of our retail brands Create market-leading digital customer drives market leadership in general merchandise Human experiences product categories.
Home Retail Group offers Our 47,000 colleagues working in stores, Invest in systems to drive online over 90,000 products across Argos and home delivery, distribution and contact sales growth Homebase, including a substantial element of centres are fundamental to how our customers Innovation of the store experience, exclusive and own-brand lines such as Habitat, experience our brands.
They are a key factor in including fast-track collection and is continually expanding its offer to build building trust with customers, particularly in an and tablet browsers credibility, choice and differentiation.
We utilise increasingly technology-driven environment.
Shift the paper catalogue in Argos our scale advantage to source products for our to a supporting role for the digital customers, enabling us to offer them a broad Financial services offer, and develop a market-leading choice of products at competitive prices.
Both Argos and Homebase are supported by digital catalogue an in-house financial services offer.
Our Financial More choice available faster digital Services business offers a range of credit products Provide high levels of availability Retail has seen technology drive a fundamental which make it easy for our customers to buy the to our customers and permanent shift in the way customers shop.
products they want, when they want.
Exploit the strategic advantage Increasingly customers choose to shop online of having efficient distribution, and or on the move through mobile devices.
Our retail brands collection points in local markets The Group strives to develop digital customer Each of our retail brands is pursuing across a variety of different formats experiences that are intuitive, inspiring and comprehensive strategies to help deliver Introduce market-leading fulfilment consistent across many devices, and provide Home Retail Groups ambition.
options to complement the immediacy information to customers that is helpful in their of in-store collection purchase decision such as an up-to-the-minute argos transformation Plan Maintain a lean and flexible cost base view of stocking levels for each product.
In 2012 Argos announced its five-year Multi-channel experiences are core to what we Transformation Plan to reinvent itself as do, and the reason we have an ongoing focus on a digital retail leader.
developing our successful internet and mobile commerce channels.
Home Retail Group 6 Annual Report 2015 Our strategy continued Financial management Homebase Productivity Plan We have a strong track record of delivering In 2014 Homebase announced a three-year significant organisational and infrastructure Productivity Plan with the aim of strengthening changes which improve the flexibility of our the foundation of Homebase store and digital businesses and reduce costs, while maintaining capabilities, and improving its customer or improving our operational standards.
This Plan has three principal This means we will maintain a lean and flexible components: cost base through: Improve in-store effectiveness Ongoing cost-reduction programmes Down-size the store estate targeting Renegotiating improved store lease terms a 25% reduction in stores as existing leases expire Improve customer in-store experiences across stock availability, merchandising Continuing to re-shape the store estate, and customer service including the development of different Argos and Habitat concessions within format options in Argos, together with a Homebase store reduction programme in Homebase Strengthen customer propositions Improve promotional effectiveness The Group has strong operational cash flow and selectively invest in pricing characteristics and it has 309m of net cash as at Further iterate refit trial stores, including 28 February 2015.
In addition, we have a 250m product displays to help our customers committed borrowing facility which is undrawn with ideas and inspiration and which expires in March 2019.
This financial Strong offer of both exclusive and strength will enable us to deliver on the own brands investment plans incorporated in both the Accelerate digital capabilities Argos Transformation Plan and the Homebase Leverage Argos investments in multiProductivity Plan.
platform apps, features and functions Agile development via the Argos You can read more about our progress in all digital hub areas of the Argos and Homebase strategies Improve product fulfilment including in the respective business reviews on pages named or next-day delivery, and 12 to 19.
There are areas of risk and nationwide click & collect through uncertainty associated with our strategy that Argos estate you can read about in the principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 24 and 25.
