OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 79 Directors Directors The names of the Directors who served during the period and up tothe date of this report are on pages 42 to 43.
Of those Directors, Tracey Graham and Lynn Minella have been appointed as Report Non-Executive Directors of the Company since the year-end.
Detailsof the Directors interests in the share capital of the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 76.
The powers given to the Directors are contained in the Companys The Directors present their report for the financial period ended Articles of Association and are subject to relevant legislation and, 31December 2015. incertain circumstances, including in relation to the issuing or buying back by the Company of its shares, subject to authority Cautionary statement being given to the Directors by shareholders in general meeting.
This Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for the The Articles of Association also govern the appointment and members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
TheCompany, its Directors, employees, agents or advisers do notaccept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom Articles of Association this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and The Articles of Association may be amended in accordance with anysuch responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
By their the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of a special nature, the statements concerning the risks and uncertainties resolution of the Companys shareholders.
facing the Group in this Annual Report involve uncertainty, sincefuture events and circumstances can cause results and Share capital and control developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The Details of the Companys share capital are in Note 22 to the forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information consolidated financial statements.
The rights attaching to available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the theshares are set out in the Articles of Association.
Company undertakes no obligation to update these forwardlooking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be Diamond BC S. r. l. has entered into a lock-up period of 180 days construed as a profit forecast.
from Admission and the Companys Directors and certain of the Companys senior managers have entered into a lock-up period Corporate Governance Statement of365 days from Admission.
During the lock-up periods, Diamond The information that fulfils the requirements of the corporate BC S. r. l. the Directors and the relevant senior managers agree governance statement for the purposes of the Disclosure and not to dispose of any securities held in the Company.
All lock-up Transparency Rules can be found in the corporate governance arrangements are subject to customary exceptions.
There have information on pages 42 to 78 all of which forms part of this been no movements in the Directors shareholdings post the Directors Report and in this Directors Report.
Information included in Strategic Report The Company has established a trust in connection with the Groups The Companys Strategic Report is on pages 1 to 41 and includes Share Incentive Plan the SIP, which holds ordinary shares on trust the following information that would otherwise be required to be for the benefit of employees of the Group.
The trustees of the SIP trust disclosed in this Directors Report: may vote in respect of Ibstock shares held in the SIP trust, but only as instructed by participants in the SIP in accordance with the SIP trust Page deed and rules.
The trustees will not otherwise vote in respect of Subject matter reference shares held in the SIP trust.
Important events since the financial period end 41 Purchase of own shares Likely future developments in the business 11,22,23 At the general meeting held prior to Admission, shareholders Research and development 29 passed a special resolution in accordance with the Companies Employment of disabled persons 27 Act2006 to authorise the Company to purchase in the market amaximum of 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
No Employee involvement 28 shares have been purchased under this authority since Admission.
Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions 29 The Directors are seeking renewal of the authority at the AGM 2016, in accordance with relevant institutional guidelines.
Disclosure of information under LR 9.8.
4R The information that fulfils the reporting requirements relating to the Substantial shareholdings following matters can be found on the pages identified.
As at 31 December 2015, the Company had been notified, in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the Page following interests in its ordinary share capital.
Subject matter reference Information about the relationship agreement Number of % interest in shares issued share Nature of withDiamond BC S. r. l. 47 Name of shareholder disclosed capital holding Diamond BC S. r. l 190,700,435 47.03% Direct Dividends Subject to shareholder approval, the Directors have proposed a In addition to the above holding, the Company is aware of final dividend for the financial period ended 31 December 2015 32,885,824 shares 8.11% held by The Bank of New York of4.4 pence per ordinary share.
Nominees Limited UK REITS account.
indd 79 12 04 2016 12:59 80 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Disclosure of information to auditors Directors Each person who is a Director of the Company as at the date of Report approval of this report confirms that: continued a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and b the Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make him herself aware of any In the period from 31 December 2015 to the date of this report, relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys nofurther notifications were received.
auditors are aware of that information.
Information provided to the Company under the Disclosure Directors Responsibility Statement andTransparency Rules is publicly available via the regulatory The Directors Responsibility Statement is included on page 51. information service and on the Companys website.
Directors and Officers liability insurance and indemnities Significant agreements change of control The Company has purchased and maintains appropriate insurance The Company is required to disclose any significant agreements cover in respect of Directors and Officers liabilities.
The Company that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the has also entered into qualifying third party indemnity arrangements Company following a takeover bid.
for the benefit of all its Directors, in a form and scope which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
These The Company has committed debt facilities all of which are indemnities came into force on 22 October 2015 and remain in directlyor indirectly subject to change of control provisions, force up to the date of this Annual Report.
albeitthe facilities do not necessarily require mandatory prepayment ona change of control.
Financial instruments Details of the financial instruments used by the Group are set out In the event of a takeover or other change of control usually inNote 21 to the Group financial statements, which are incorporated excluding an internal reorganisation, outstanding awards under into this Report of the Directors by reference.
The Groups financial theGroups share plans vest and become exercisable, to the risk management objectives and policies are included in the Risk extent any performance conditions if applicable have been met, management overview on pages 30 to 35, and in Note 21 of the and subject to time pro-rating if applicable, in accordance with Group financial statements.
In certain circumstances, the Board may decide with the agreement of the acquiring company that awards Political donations will instead be cancelled in exchange for equivalent awards over No political donations were made during the period ended shares in the acquiring company.
Going concern Annual General Meeting 2016 The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to The Annual General Meeting will be held on 26 May 2016, at affect its future development, performance and position are set 2:00 p. m. at the Mercure Leicester The Grand Hotel, Granby Street, outin the business review on pages 36 to 37.
The Notice convening the meeting together with of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing explanatory notes on the resolutions to be proposed and full details facilities are described in the Directors Report on pages 79 to 80. of the deadlines for exercising voting rights is contained in acircular Inaddition, Note 21 to the financial statements includes the which will be circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its before such meeting together with this Report.
capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures The Companys Articles of Association require that a Director tocredit risk and liquidity risk.
shallretire from office if he or she has been appointed since the previous Annual General Meeting or if it is the third Annual General The Group regularly reviews market and financial forecasts, and Meeting following that at which he or she was elected or last has reviewed its trading prospects in its key markets.
However, in accordance with the UK Corporate itbelieves its trading performance will demonstrate continued Governance Codethe Directors will all retire and will offer themselves improvement in the coming periods, and that liquidity will for election or re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman has confirmed that the performance of all of the Directors continues to be effective and to demonstrate their After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable commitment to the role.
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for a period of On behalf of the Board atleast 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
The Board has concluded that the going concern Robert Douglas basis of accounting of its financial statements is appropriate.
Company Secretary 10 March 2016 Viability Statement The Groups Viability Statement is set out on page 35.
