36 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Commentary in this report refers to How we have thepresentation of results for the year to31 December 2015. performed United Kingdom The UK business, which accounts for c81%of the Group, has performed strongly in2015 with an increase in revenue of 9.0%to 336m.
Adjusted EBITDA in the UKhasincreased to 99.0m a 71.0% increase in the year to 31 December 2015.
This improvement in revenue and  reflects a stronger pricing environment for clay bricks and goodpricingfor other products.
Despite therelease and reduction of brick stocks bysome housebuilders, total UK industry brick demand continued to exceed reportedannual domestic production duringthe year.
All UK businesses performed very well operationally, working on major projects andinnovation whilst also delivering good customer service survey results in busy markets.
This was achieved whilst also managing the additional work arising fromthe IPO.
The UK business Clay products UK clay products has delivered strong performed strongly in growth in revenue of 13% in 2015 driven principally by increases in the levels of 2015 with an increase UKhousebuilding.
This increase has beensupported by Help to Buy, improved mortgage availability, some improvements in revenue of 9.0% in local authority planning response and strong demand for new homes.
UK revenue 2015 12 months During 2015, brick availability concerns eased due to the release of inventory fromhousebuilders who had heavily 336m stocked in 2014, increased UK brick production and the continued availability UK adjusted EBITDA 2015 12 months ofimported bricks from continental Europe.
As domestic supply improved during the year, imported brick volumes began to fall from annualised peaks seen in the second 99m quarter of 2015.
As noted in Our markets on pages 16 and17, further growth in housebuilding volumes are forecast in 2016, again driven by Help to Buy, the Help to Buy ISA, the recently introduced Help to Buy London, which offers up to 40% deposit, and the The US business ever growing gap between housebuilding rates and the requirement for new homes.
performed strongly in Growth is also forecast in Public Nonhousing, notably in Education, Health, 2015 with an increase Commercial and Repairs, Maintenance & Improvement RMI, all of which have a in revenue of 9.5% significant influence on UK brick usage.
US revenue 2015 12 months A number of improvement capital projectsareunderway within our UK clayoperations which are focused onimproving operational efficiency, $117m productionvolume and reducing our costbase.
In addition, the construction US adjusted EBITDA 2015 12 months ofour new factory at Ibstock in Leicestershire hasnow commenced.
Thisinvestment willprovide the most modern, efficient andflexible stock $12m brickfactory in the UK.
indd 36 12 04 2016 13:05 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 37 1.
B ricks being a popular choice for dispatched from public buildings Glen-Gerys HanleyPlant 3.
Landmark Stone cladding complements Glen-Gery bricks 1 2 3 United States The new factory at Ibstock will commission The outlook for our new housing market Clay products inthe second half of 2017 and is a major concrete products look positive for 2016 The US business, which accounts for c19% statement of Ibstock plcs ongoing underpinned by the continued demand of the Group, performed strongly in 2015 commitment to the UK brick industry and to fornew housing.
withan increase in revenue of 9.5% to $117m.
servicing the future product requirements of Adjusted EBITDA in the US has increased to its customer base.
The new factory will have Sales of concrete fencing products, $12m a 12.7% improvement in the year to a capacity of c100 million bricks per annum whichare primarily focused on the private 31December 2015 reflecting a combination servicing the Housing, Public Non-housing, domestic repair and maintenance sector, of rising volumes and higher average prices Commercial and RMI markets.
reduced in the year to 31 December 2015. which include the benefit from a more This was largely due to 2014 comparatives favourable product mix.
With both residential UK clay products continues to develop its that included exceptional sales in the first and non-residential markets in the North East product and service package across all of half of that year as a result of sustained and Mid West showing growth, Glen-Gerys its market segments and remains focused gale force wind conditions which boosted balanced exposure across these markets on maintaining and developing its unrivalled fencing sales for that year.
There has been drove the favourable mix.
no change in the underlying market position of the UK concrete business in the concrete Profitability improvement also reflects a Concrete products fencing segment which was strengthened renewed focus on selling the complete UK concrete product revenues in 2015 during the year by a two-yearsole supply product bundle of manufactured and were1.5% lower than 2014 with increased deal with the UKs largest independent sourced products embracing an revenue in new build housing related merchants buying group.
In addition, engineered wall solutions product and products including roof tiles outweighed thereis continued focus on maintaining service portfolio to the residential and by lower activity in fencing related products competitive position in these product architecturally specified commercial and rail products where projects have been areasby reducing manufacturing costs channels.
These efforts were enabled delayed.
Revenue into the UK fencing sector withfurther mechanisation of the inmany key markets by the combined in 2014 had been boosted by unusual production process and commercial focus strength of existing independent and weather conditions in the first half of that year.
on opportunities to broaden the core Group owned distribution capabilities.
product range and maximise the sales of The revenue of aesthetic concrete products core products to established customers.
Prudent steps taken in the last economic targeted at the private residential and private downturn to contain costs and right-size domestic repair and maintenance markets Concrete rail product sales declined during the organisation are now also being increased in 2015 driven by an increase in the year as a result of the slow release reflected in improved operational demand from the private residential market ofprojects following the introduction of efficiencies and profit performance as which reflected the same positive trends in NetworkRails Control Period 5 in 2014 and revenues and volumes continue to recover.
private housebuilding seen in our UK clay subsequent internal reorganisations within operations.
As a result, sales of our award Network Rail.
It is anticipated there will be an With the continued gradual recovery in winning Gemini roof tile, roofing accessories increase in activity in these product areas as thenew residential construction sector, and natural stone substitute products saw Network Rail enters year three of its five-year US clay products has been aided by a continued growth in 2015. control period cycle with the overall aggregate healthy improvement in sales to the spend across the whole five-year control period expected to remain unchanged architecturally specified commercial A major capital project has commenced despite the current delays to projects.
construction sector where revenues and inthe concrete roof tile business which margins are more favourable.
These mix willprovide a new tile line at our Leighton The outlook across the UK concrete andmargin gains are expected to continue Buzzard facility to broaden our existing businesses remains positive with strong in2016 with continued architecturally concrete tile range.
The design phase of the support for growth expected from new build specified commercial construction growth project is complete with the manufacturing, housing volumes, the benefits of new concrete inthe education, retailand office sectors installation and commissioning phase tile products in 2016 and the continued togetherwith the benefits of renewed scheduled for the second half of 2016 optimisation of existing strong market positions growthin single familyand multi-unit housing aheadof a formal launch of the new in concrete fencing and the rail sector.
in our core geographic trading regions.
productrange from the beginning of 2017.
