24 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Key Performance Indicators We work hard to turn our strategic objectives into measurable performance, using individual key performance indicators to measure our progress.
indd 24 12 04 2016 13:07 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 25 Revenue Adjusted Cash flow before Net promoter 1 EBITDA major projects score 2015 12 months 2015 12 months 2015 12 months 413m 107m 92m 44 What is it?
Revenue represents the value Represents profit before Represents the net cash flow As part of our annual satisfaction for the sale of our building interest, taxation, depreciation after adjusting for capital survey, customers are asked how products, exclusive of local and amortisation after adjusting expenditure on major projects.
likely they are to recommend the sales tax and trade discounts.
Group to friends or colleagues.
Responses are between zero unlikely and 10 very likely.
Thenet promoter score NPS isderived from the proportion of our customers scoring 9 and 10 less those scoring six or lower.
Delivery of profitable revenue As with all businesses we As part of our capital There is a well-documented growth is important to the measure our financial success management, we focus on the correlation between high Groups success.
cash available to the business customer loyalty and superior inorder to achieve the Groups long-term financial performance.
capital structure and allocation The NPS is a means of objectives.
Adjusted EPS Return on capital Net debt Lost Time employed adjusted EBITDA Accidents 2015 12 months 2015 12 months 2015 12 months 16.2p 19.6% 1.35 21 What is it?
Basic earnings per share The ratio of profit before interest, Net debt, comprising short The number of lost time adjusted for exceptional items, taxation, and amortisation after andlong-term borrowings less accidents exceeding one day amortisation and depreciation adjusting for exceptional items cash, over Adjusted EBITDA across our Groups workforce of fair value uplifted assets.
This helps us to ensure we This reflects the returns available This is a key measure of Safety is a priority for Ibstock maintain a progressive dividend forinvestment in the business, balance sheet strength and plc and we constantly strive to policy and deliver annual and servicing of debt and equity.
It helps us improve our performance.
The growth in return to our This is also a measure for our toensure that our debt is KPI helps us to provide a safe shareholders.
investors as to how well we are conservatively managed.
workplace as a strong safety using their money.
culture is a key element to ourbusiness strategy.
1 Net promoter, net promoter score and NPS are registered trademarks of Bain & Company, Inc. Satmetrix Systems, Inc. and Fred Reichheld.
