42 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 1 Board of Directors 2 3 1.
Jamie Pike MA, MBA, MIMechE 3.
Kevin Sims ACMA Non-Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Chief Financial Officer NominationCommittee Committee memberships: Committee memberships: None.
Jamie Pike is Chairman of the Nomination Committee and a Date of appointment: memberof the Remuneration Committee.
Kevin Sims age 54 joined the Board in September 2015, prior Date of appointment: towhich he was appointed a Director of Figgs Topco Limited in Jamie Pike age 60 joined the Board in September 2015 as a February 2015 pursuant to the Bain acquisition.
Non-Executive Director, and became Non-Executive Chairman Independent: No upon Admission.
Skills and experience: Independent: No Kevin Sims has been with the Group for 29 years and has 30 years of Skills and experience: experience within manufacturing businesses.
Kevin Sims was appointed Jamie Pike has over 24 years of experience at the senior management Chief Financial Officer of Ibstock Building Products in October 2014, or director level of businesses, including cement manufacturing, having held various finance-related managerial roles within the Group, construction, mining and building materials industries.
He currently including Financial Director of Ibstock Brick and CRH Product Group serves as Non-Executive Chairman at Tyman plc and RPC Group plc.
He is a chartered management He also serves as a Senior Independent Director at Spirax Sarco accountant and Chairman of Ibstock Pension Scheme Trustees.
He previously served as Non-Executive Chairman to 4.
Michel Plantevin MSc EEng, MBA Lafarge Tarmac Limited, MBA Polymers Inc, and the Defence Support Non-Executive Director Group and as a Non-Executive Director of two FTSE 250 companies, Committee memberships: RMC Group plc and Kelda Group plc.
Jamie Pike served asthe Michel Plantevin is a member of the Nomination Committee.
ChiefExecutive Officer of Foseco plc from 2001 until its acquisition by Cookson Group plc in April 2008.
Priorto that, he held various roles at Date of appointment: Burmah Castrol from 1991 where he rose to become Chief Executive Michel Plantevin age 59 joined the Board in September 2015 as Officer of the Chemicals division before leading the Foseco buy-out aNon-Executive Director.
from Burmah Castrol in 2001, which culminated inflotation on the Independent: No main market in 2005.
His early career was as a consultant with Bain and Co and A T Kearney.
Jamie Pike is a member of the Institute of Skills and experience: Mechanical Engineers.
Michel Plantevin joined the Group in February 2015 as NonExecutive Chairman of Figgs Topco Limited pursuant to the Bain 2 Wayne Sheppard BSc, CEng MIMechE, MIET acquisition.
Michel Plantevin currently serves as Managing Director Chief Executive Officer of Bain Capital, a role he has held for over 12 years.
Michel Committee memberships: Plantevin has been involved in a wide variety of transactions in the None.
industrial and energy sectors over that period.
In his capacity as Date of appointment: Managing Director at Bain Capital Europe LLC, Michel Plantevin Wayne Sheppard age 56 joined the Board in September 2015, serves as Non-Executive Director for a number of companies prior to which he was appointed a Director of Figgs Topco Limited including FCI SA, IMCD N. V. Maison du Monde SAS and Trinseo in February 2015 pursuant to the Bain acquisition.
Prior to joining Bain Capital he was a Managing Director at Goldman Sachs.
Tracey Graham Skills and experience: Non-Executive Director Wayne Sheppard has been with the Group for 20 years and has over Committee memberships: 20 years of experience at the managing director level across a broad Tracey Graham is a member of the Audit Committee, range of businesses and business groups within the building and Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
construction products sector across Europe and latterly the United States.
He is a chartered engineer, Principal of the Construction Date of appointment: Products Association, Director and former President of the British Tracey Graham age 50 joined the Board as a Non-Executive Ceramic Confederation, and Director of the Brick Development Director in February 2016.
He is also a member of the Institution of Mechanical Independent: Yes Engineers and the Institution of Engineering and Technology.
indd 42 12 04 2016 13:03 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 43 5 6 4 8 9 7 Skills and experience: Independent: Yes Tracey Graham is a Non-Executive Director of Royal London Group, Skills and experience: the largest mutual life insurance and pensions company in the UK, Jonathan Nicholls has over 17 years of experience at the senior where she is Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Tracey Graham is management or director level of businesses, including those also a Non-Executive Director of Link Scheme Limited, the operator of inbrick manufacturing, roofing and construction, and property the LINK system as set out in the Financial Services Banking Reform development.
Previously, Jonathan Nicholls served as the Chief Act2013, where she is also Chair of the LINK Consumer Council: Financial Officer of Hanson plc from 1998 to 2006 and Chief aNon-Executive Director of ACAL plc, an international supplier of Financial Officer of Old Mutual plc from 2006 to 2008.
Since 2009, customised electronics to industry: and a Non-Executive Director he has served as a Non-Executive Director at Great Portland ofDialight plc, an international LED lighting company.
Among other Estates plc and DS Smith plc, where for both companies he is the previous appointments she was a Non-Executive Director of RPS plc.
Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Tracey Graham was Chief Executive of Talaris Limited until 2010 and has served since 2009 as a Non-Executive Director of SIG plc where she led the companys management buy-out from fide La Rue where he is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
She has also held senior positions in banking and insurance with the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and HSBC and AXA Insurance.
aFellowship member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Matthias Boyer Chammard MSc, MPA Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Non-Executive Director Committee Committee memberships: Committee memberships: None.
Lynn Minella chairs the Remuneration Committee and is a member of the Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Date of appointment: Matthias Boyer Chammard age 35 joined the Board in September Date of appointment: 2015 as a Non-Executive Director.
Lynn Minella age 57 joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in February 2016.
Independent: No Independent: Yes Skills and experience: Matthias Boyer Chammard joined the Group in February 2015 Skills and experience: asNon-Executive Director of Figgs Topco Limited, pursuant to the Lynn Minella is a member of the Executive Committee of BAE Bainacquisition.
Matthias Boyer Chammard currently serves as Systems plc and Group Director of Human Resources.
Prior to joining aPrincipal of Bain Capital Europe LLC, a role he has held for over BAE Systems, Lynn Minella was the Senior Vice President for Human fouryears.
In his capacity as a Principal at Bain Capital Europe Resources and Communications for Air Products, a global industrial LLC, Matthias Boyer Chammard also serves as a Non-Executive gases company based in the USA.
She joined Air Products in 2004 Director for Brakes Bros Ltd.
Prior to joining Bain Capital, he asa member of the companys Corporate Executive Committee and worked at Boston Consulting Group in the energy and the was responsible for the leadership and management of the Human industrial goods practices.
Resources and Corporate Communications functions globally.
Beforejoining Air Products, Lynn Minella spent 22 years at IBM, 9.
Robert Douglas BSc Econ, FCA whereshe served in a variety of HR leadership positions.
Company Secretary Robert Douglas is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 7.
Jonathan Nicholls BA Hons, ACA, FCT in England and Wales.
He joined the Group as IPO Project Manager Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and in June 2015 and was appointed Company Secretary in October Chairmanof the Audit Committee 2015.
Robert Douglas brings with him considerable experience Committee memberships: gained as CFO in listed and private companies.
He was Deputy Jonathan Nicholls is Senior Independent Director, Chairman of Group Finance Director and Company Secretary of a FTSE 250 theAuditCommittee, and is also a member of the Remuneration house builder and developer.
Earlier in his career he held a number Committee and the Nomination Committee.
of Finance Director and senior finance appointments in businesses Date of appointment: engaged in construction and engineering.
Jonathan Nicholls age 58 joined the Board in September 2015 asaNon-Executive Director, and became Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee upon Admission.
