22 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Our strategy Strategic priority 1 Strategic priority 2 Strategic priority 3 Strategic priority 4 Safety Invest Innovate Evaluate Continuing to focus Maintain existing Penetrate markets Evaluate on a safe working capacity and invest through innovative opportunities to environment that in new capacity to products expand existing has the development optimise output and product portfolio of employees and take advantage either through customer service of structural organic investments at its core imbalances in the or acquisitions Groups markets What we achieved in 2015 What we achieved in 2015 What we achieved in 2015 What we achieved in 2015 The Group continues to make Health and On 10 September 2015, the Group received Further building on its track record of The Group sees its development of Safety its number one priority.
Lost Time planning approval to build a new stock bringing innovative products to the market, component products, such as Faststack Accidents have been reduced significantly brick manufacturing plant in Leicestershire.
the Group placed equipment orders for chimneys and pre-formed arches that over the past 10 years, recording 21 in Construction of the new plant is currently anew concrete tile line at Forticrete, to support the use of traditional building 2015.
The Groups Health and Safety underway and the new Ibstock plant is produce an innovative large format design products, as a means of maintaining its performance compares favourably with expected to add capacity of approximately targeting approximately 55% of the new products as an affordable and efficient industry benchmarks.
100 million bricks per annum approximately build concrete roof tiles market in the UK.
The Groups aim is to 13% of the Groups total annual UK realisable brick capacity.
continue to develop and invest in its marketleading building products businesses and to be its customers partner of choice by providing Our objectives for 2016 Our objectives for 2016 Our objectives for 2016 Our objectives for 2016 Employees are at the heart of the Groups The investment at our Ravenhead factory The new tile line is expected to be The Group continues to develop its consistent, high quality, business and the Group is committed innew packaging facilities is expected to commissioned during the second half existingrange of components and will toproviding continuous professional be completed in the first half of 2016. of2016.
The Group expects the launch continue to assess opportunities to development and training with the aim ofthe new products from this line to lead broaden its components portfolio.
reliable and innovative oflow turnover levels amongst its staff.
The new Leicester plant is expected to be the evolution of UK concrete tile design commissioned in the second half of 2017. towards more efficient products.
Relevant KPIs Relevant KPIs Relevant KPIs Relevant KPIs q q q q With a constant focus on strong Lost Time Accidents Return on capital employed Net promoter score Net promoter score q q q Net promoter score onceoperational Return on capital employed Return on capital employed customer service and value, we q q q Revenue Revenue Cash flow before major projects q q Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA evaluate opportunities to add q q Cash flow before major projects Cash flow before major projects q q Lost Time Accidents Lost Time Accidents newcomplementary products q Net promoter score tobroaden the Groups portfolio.
The following are the key elements of the Groups strategy: IBSTOCK 08 Our Strategy DRF2.
indd 22 12 04 2016 13:08 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 23 Strategic priority 1 Strategic priority 2 Strategic priority 3 Strategic priority 4 Safety Invest Innovate Evaluate Continuing to focus Maintain existing Penetrate markets Evaluate on a safe working capacity and invest through innovative opportunities to environment that in new capacity to products expand existing has the development optimise output and product portfolio of employees and take advantage either through customer service of structural organic investments at its core imbalances in the or acquisitions Groups markets What we achieved in 2015 What we achieved in 2015 What we achieved in 2015 What we achieved in 2015 The Group continues to make Health and On 10 September 2015, the Group received Further building on its track record of The Group sees its development of Safety its number one priority.
13% of the Groups total annual UK realisable brick capacity.
Our objectives for 2016 Our objectives for 2016 Our objectives for 2016 Our objectives for 2016 Employees are at the heart of the Groups The investment at our Ravenhead factory The new tile line is expected to be The Group continues to develop its business and the Group is committed innew packaging facilities is expected to commissioned during the second half existingrange of components and will toproviding continuous professional be completed in the first half of 2016. of2016.
oflow turnover levels amongst its staff.
Relevant KPIs Relevant KPIs Relevant KPIs Relevant KPIs q q q q Lost Time Accidents Return on capital employed Net promoter score Net promoter score q q q Net promoter score onceoperational Return on capital employed Return on capital employed q q q Revenue Revenue Cash flow before major projects q q Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA q q Cash flow before major projects Cash flow before major projects q q Lost Time Accidents Lost Time Accidents q Net promoter score IBSTOCK 08 Our Strategy DRF2.
