18 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Explanation of business model Our business The Group is a leading manufacturer ofbuilding products with a diversified rangeofclay and concrete products, model andoperations in the UK and the US.
Itsprincipal products are clay bricks, brickcomponents, concrete roof tiles, concrete stone masonry substitutes, concrete fencing, pre-stressed concrete products and concrete products for the railindustry.
The Group trades through operating companies that have leading positions in their product segments and have specific manufacturing process skills and technical and commercial know-how in those product areas.
The operating companies are strong brand names in their respective areas of operation and their commercial structures and policies reflect the requirements of theirindividual customer bases.
The operating companies are underpinned by a Group structure that sets common values and compliance standards and provides financial and strategic support.
The Groups management team has extensive experience in the building products market.
The Groups CEO WayneSheppard and CFO Kevin Sims have a combined experience of nearly 50years at Ibstock and are supported byacommitted and highly experienced seniormanagement team.
The current management team has been instrumental in significantly expanding the Groups market leadership positions over the lastdecade.
Brief description of the inputs Manufacturing facilities The Group has a strategic operational footprint across its UK and US markets.
Itsmain manufacturing locations consist of 33 manufacturing plants and six speciality brick assembly sites in the UK and 10 manufacturing plants and 10 resale centresin the US.
The Groups clay brick manufacturing plants are located near strategic raw material reserves.
The Groups concrete manufacturing plantsproviding fencing, structural elements, rail products and building products under the Supreme brand are geographically distributed around the UKcreating a national plant network with scalable production capacity.
The Groups concrete masonry products, alternative cladding products to natural stone marketed under the Forticrete brand, aremanufactured across the UK at plantslocated near areas where stone hashistorically been used for building.
Similarly, the Group selected a plant The Group has a inLeighton Buzzard, a location in the SouthEast of England which is well strategicoperational locatedto serve theactive South East building market in theUK, to produce its concrete roof tiles.
Within the UK and the footprint across its US, plants are alsostrategically located close to main transportation links to UKand US markets.
indd 18 12 04 2016 13:08 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 19 Our business model OUR HOW WE BRANDS CREATE VALUE Extraction Ibstock Brick Procurement Bricks Glen-Gery Product design INPUTS Bricks OUTPUTS Ibstock Kevington Know-how Shareholders Manufacturing process Bricks, Prefabricated systems People Employees HAND MASS Supreme CRAFT PRODUCED Plants and factories Customers Precast concrete components Long-term Communities Forticrete Technical support Concrete, Walling & Cast Stone relationships Anderton Customer service Concrete, Walling & Cast Stone Distribution Underpinned by: Quality assurance ISO Health and Safety Our values Sustainability see pages 26-29 Raw materials and inputs Clay reserves and resources Technical support The raw materials required to produce the In the UK, the operation of quarries The Group offers technical support to its Groups clay and concrete products are requiresplanning permission.
Permission customers to assist in the use of its products specific to each product and segment.
The isgranted in respect of a specific quarry in design and application.
Support is primary material used by the Group in the design, providing an allowable volume of provided by in-house technical design teams production of its products is clay.
This clay material which may be extracted over a utilising Computer-Aided Design CAD and shale is sourced from clay quarries that setperiod oftime.
Therefore, once the where appropriate and by technical sales the Group operates on land that it owns or authorised amount of material has been teams, including in-house designers.
leases under long-term agreements in the extracted or the period of the permission vicinity of its brick manufacturing plants in has expired, itisnecessary to apply for Distribution and logistics the UK and US.
The Groups clay products arenewal or extension of the planning The Groups products are manufactured utilise fuel and power as a key part of their permission.
The Group holds planning and distributed through a network of 43 manufacturing processes to dry and fire permissions over portions of its clay main manufacturing locations in the UK and thebrick clays.
deposits and categorises its clay the US.
Due to the strategic locations of the  on the basis Groups manufacturing plants, the Groups For the Groups concrete products, the main ofwhether or not it holds planning brick products in the UK travel an average raw materials consist of cement, sand and permissionfor extraction of the clay.
ofapproximately 65 miles from the aggregates.
Due to the bulky nature of these manufacturing plant to the customer.
materials and the corresponding high Within the US, all quarry locations that transportation costs involved, the Group Glen-Gery leases or owns are zoned In addition, in the US, the Group operates tends to source materials from suppliers local formineral extraction mining.
Assuch, anetwork of 10 resale centres across its to each manufacturing facility but cement is Glen-Gery has the legal right to extract primary markets.
These resale centres interchangeable between suppliers in most clayand shale with no time limit for a enhance access to customers in circumstances, if necessary.
Most of these quarryit owns and for the length of marketswith poor distributor coverage raw materials as well as water, which is thelease for leased quarry.
andsignificantly increases the distribution another key input for the manufacturing capabilities of the Groups operations in ofboth clay and concrete products are theUS through these inclusive one stop widely available commodities.
shop solutions for masonry products.
indd 19 12 04 2016 13:08 20 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Our business model continued Intellectual property Employees Supreme As at 31 December 2015, the Group As at 31 December 2015, the Group had A leading UK manufacturer of concrete ownedover 100 trademarks worldwide.
over 2,600 full time equivalent employees.
fencing products and concrete lintels, These trademarks primarily relate to the withseven manufacturing plants in the Groups seven main brand names and In the UK, although the Grouphas no formal UK.
Supreme also manufactures general logos as well as certain other trademarks.
collective bargaining agreements with any precast products for the house building The Groups most important trademarks union, there are legacy voluntary procedural and rail sectors.
are Ibstock Building Products, Ibstock, agreements in place with trade unions at Glen-Gery, Supreme, Forticrete, Kevington most of the Groups manufacturing sites and Forticrete and Anderton.
In the UK, the Groups approximately 50% of the workforce in the A leading UK manufacturer of concrete concrete products are sold under trade UK is covered by these agreements.
substitutes for natural stone walling and dressings and niche concrete roof tiles, names other than Ibstock, such as with seven manufacturing plants in the UK.
Supreme and Anderton for the Groups In the US, approximately 61% of Forticrete also manufactures concrete concrete fencing, building and structural Groupsworkforce is covered by collective architectural masonry walling blocks.
elements and rail products, and Forticrete bargaining agreements.
The Group has not for the Groups concrete roof tiles, had any union-organised work stoppages Process description at high level architectural masonry products and in the UK or US over the past ten years.
In theUS, the The Group believes that it has good The Group manufactures and sells a range Groups brick products are soldunder relationships with its employees and with of clay products.
While it has an extensive thetrade name Glen-Gery.
the unions representing its employees.
range of clay products, the vast majority of the Groups clay revenue comes from the Information technology Brands and products sale of its wire cut and stock bricks which Within the UK, the Group uses a suite The Groups four primary businesses are: are manufactured in two distinct production ofapplications to manage reporting processes.
To make a wire cut brick requirements, client relationships and Ibstock Brick alsocalled an extruded brick, clay is salesanalytics and reporting.
In the US, The leading manufacturer by volume of continuously extruded to a required size Glen-Gery has recently transitioned to claybricks sold excluding imports in the and shape.
The clay column is then cut by aGroup ERP platform.
With 19 manufacturing plants and a wire into individual bricks and is dried or total realisable production capacity of loaded directly onto a kiln car and then The Group also utilises information c780million bricks per annum, Ibstock Brick dried.
The dried bricks are fired in a kiln.
technology systems in its manufacturing has the largest brick production capacity The wire cut brick manufacturing process plants.
While the technology used by the based in the UK.
Its network of 23 active ishighly automated.
Stock bricks are Group varies at different plants depending quarries are generally located close to its manufactured by placing a mix of clay and on their age or time when last refurbished, manufacturing plants, which limits the water into individual moulds to create the the Group believes that an appropriate transportation costs of raw materials from brick shape, ejected from the mould and information technology infrastructure within the quarries to the manufacturing plants.
then dried and fired in a kiln.
Although its manufacturing plants is important to manufactured by modern machinery in support its growth.
Glen-Gery anautomated process, stock bricks A leading manufacturer, by despatches, retainthe look of hand-moulded bricks.
of brick in the North East and Mid West regions of the US.
Glen-Gery hasa network These core products are complemented of 10 manufacturing plants, 10 resale centres bya number of innovative and specialised and 29 active quarries covered by 20 active products and components.
Brick capacity is c460 million bricks per annum.
indd 20 12 04 2016 13:08 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 21 Concrete Forticrete manufactures concrete substitutes Dividend policy Supreme and Forticrete are the for natural stone walling and dressings, The Directors intend to adopt a dividend Groupsprincipal concrete niche concrete roof tiles and concrete policy based on a payout ratio of 40 to 50% .
of adjusted profit after tax over a business cycle.
This dividend policy will reflect the underlying earnings and growth of the Supreme offers a variety of precast Concrete roof tiles are made from cement, business and the cash conversion of the concrete fencing products which include sand, admixtures, water and pigments.
Assuming that there are sufficient slotted posts, morticed and recessed These materials, with the exception of the distributable reserves available at the time, concrete posts, concrete posts for pigments, are deposited in a pan mixer the Directors intend that the Company will chainlinkor welded mesh and concrete andblended.
The mixture is conveyed to pay an interim dividend and a final dividend gravel boards or panels.
amechanical mixer for further blending, in respect of each financial year in the adding the pigments and additional water.
approximate proportions of one-third Fencing Products are grey concrete From the mechanical mixer, the concrete andtwo-thirds, respectively, of the total products manufactured using a semi mix is extruded onto moving pallets and annual dividend.
dryora wet cast manufacturing process.
then cut to form individual roof tiles.
A Semidry products are manufactured pre-cure coating is then added and the tiles withconcrete discharged from a machine are placed in curing chambers.
Post-curing, hopper into a mould containing steel the tiles are finished, coated and dried.
reinforcement bars with high frequency vibration used to compact the mixture and Value flowing to stakeholders then manually finished off to the required Customers quality standard.
The products are The Group sells its clay and concrete fide-moulded using an instant fide-mould products to a diverse group of customers system by turning the moulds over and inthe construction industry in the UK and allowing them to move free from the mould.
Builders merchants, housebuilders, Due to the compaction of the material specialist brick distributors, and contractors through vibration, the products are free and installers are the four main customer standing.
Freshly cast products are groups for the Groups clay products in transferred onto a curing rack where theUK.
In the US, clay products sold to theyundertake a curing process.
Cured distributors constituted the majority of sales products are lifted from the curing pallets for the year, with the remainder soldto using an automatic stacking system.
In a house builders, contractors and developers.
wet cast process, steel reinforcement bars These customers are not alwaysthe same are placed into each mould and concrete as the individuals and organisations that are isdischarged from the machine hopper making the buying decisions for the Groups intothe mould.
In many cases, the preference ofthe end customers dictates the choice ofproduct rather than the intermediary thatactually purchases theproduct from theGroup.
In the decision-making process for the choice of clay and concrete products, the Directors believe that the Group benefits from the broad recognition of its brands, itsreputation for quality, aesthetics and itsfocus on customer service.
