OUR BRANDS AND MARKETS Were optimising our portfolio to focus on our Growth and Our Brands Specialist Brands.
These are the most important brands in our portfolio and generate more than half our tobacco net revenue.
1 1 Growth Brands Specialist Brands Our Growth Brands have broad consumer appeal and account Our Specialist Brands are enjoyed by specific consumer for 50.9 per cent of our total volumes.
We manage our Growth groups and include cigarette, fine cut tobacco, paper, cigar Brands to drive quality sustainable growth.
Specialist Brands have a track record of generating strong returns.
1 As a result of the USA acquisition these brands have been reclassified, effective 1 October 2015.
Tobacco net revenue by brand Portfolio Brands Growth Brands 43.1% 45.8% Our Brands 11.1% Specialist Brands 4 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS We manage our markets according to the strategic role Our Markets they play, not by geographic location.
Our markets prioritise either Growth or Returns, driving more effective resource allocation and greater collaboration.
Growth Markets USA Market Returns Markets In Growth Markets, which include We manage the USA as a standalone In Returns Markets, which include selected markets in the EU, Eastern Growth Market following an acquisition Australia and markets in the EU, Europe, Asia and the Middle East, our that has significantly enhanced our Eastern Europe and Africa, we focus priority is to drive long-term share and portfolio, market share and distribution on sustainable profit performance, profit growth.
while actively managing our strong share positions.
Tobacco net revenue by market Growth Markets 23.2% Returns Markets North 42.4% Our 2 Markets USA Market 11.3% 23.1% Returns Markets South 2 Including a 3.9 per cent net contribution from ITG Brands since the completion of the acquisition on 12 June 2015.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 5
