THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES Board ensuring regulatory engagement and preparedness maintaining focus on our people agenda including building capabilities and succession viability and risk management Focus for 2016 investment prioritisation to generate quality growth from key brands and markets and create new opportunities for Fontem continue implementing new ways of working to simplify the business and improve our effectiveness and agility drive further cost savings and capital discipline further investment in our people including building capabilities and succession and improving engagement continue the integration of the USA business and deliver against our business plan Mark Williamson Chairman Overview The Directors are collectively responsible and accountable to our The continued focus on our shareholders for the long-term sustainable success of the Group.
growth strategy and business The Boards role is to provide leadership to the Group, set its strategy and oversee its implementation.
transition creates sustainable The Board has a key role in ensuring that in achieving our strategy value for shareholders.
management operates responsibly within our governance framework whilst clearly demonstrating our values and high ethical standards.
Members The Directors are also mindful of their legal duties to act in the way Mark Williamson Matthew Phillips they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Chairman Oliver Tant success of the Company for its shareholders whilst having regard Alison Cooper Karen Witts to the interests of other stakeholders.
Ken Burnett Malcolm Wyman As part of the governance framework the Board has adopted a David Haines schedule of matters on which it must make the final decision.
These Michael Herlihy John Downing include approving the Groups strategy, business plans, dividends Company Secretary and major financial announcements.
The Board is also responsible Focus in 2015 for approving the acquisition or disposal of assets exceeding defined completing the acquisition of assets, including a portfolio of USA thresholds.
cigarette brands and the e-cigarette brand blu, and commencing Within this framework the Board delegates responsibility for the integration of our enlarged USA business developing and implementing strategy and for day-to-day investment prioritisation in our market and brand portfolios management to our Chief Executive, Alison Cooper, who is supported by the Operating Executive OPEX, which she chairs.
The continuing to support our standalone subsidiary Fontem Ventures, Board also delegates matters to Board Committees.
Clearly defined including the integration of the acquired e-cigarette brand blu terms of reference and written limits support these delegations.
implementing new ways of working to simplify the business and improve our effectiveness and agility The OPEX consists of senior executives from across the business.
It oversees operational execution and delivers our strategic and continuation of our cost optimisation programme financial plans.
The OPEX and Audit Committee also ensure that focus on capital discipline to enhance cash conversion appropriate internal controls, which function effectively, are in place and effective risk management processes operate throughout the Group.
Matters Considered by the Board in 2015 Five principal scheduled Board meetings were held during the year 2014 2015 Oct Nov-Dec Jan Feb-Mar Apr May Jun Jul-Aug Sep Report and accounts First quarter results Half year report Strategy Business Dividend Business performance Dividend meeting performance Business performance Corporate Business performance Business Business plan Business planning development Corporate development performance Corporate Corporate AGM Group funding US acquisition development development Operating model US acquisition update integration Board evaluation US acquisition Brand strategies Overseas visit research Chairman and class 1 circular Viability and risk and development NED fees Group funding management facility, Hamburg Viability and risk Operating model Shareholder Cost optimisation management Group footprint audit Capital discipline development Viability and risk Cost optimisation management Capital discipline 34 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 34 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Succession and Nominations Committee Overview Role The Committee keeps under review and evaluates the composition of the Board and its Committees to maintain the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, experience and independence to enable them to function effectively.
Succession plans for the NEDs, Executive Directors and Groups senior management, in particular the OPEX, are also kept under review.
The Committee also retains an overview of the development of OPEX members together with the wider organisational structure and talent management.
To reflect the Committees increased focus on succession planning it changed its name to the Succession and Nominations Committee.
The Committees terms of reference are available on our website.
Boardroom Diversity Mark Williamson Chairman To maintain the appropriate balance of skills, diversity of knowledge, professional and geographic backgrounds and experience we look ahead to upcoming retirements to identify potential gaps and appoint Having the right people in place individuals who are best suited to fill any vacancy.
The Committee is and appropriate succession plans mindful of the Davies Review on gender diversity but continues to embrace diversity in the widest sense, including diversity of thought.
ensures we can continue delivering Appointing the best people to our Board is critical to the success of significant returns to our the Company: the search for candidates and any subsequent appointments are, therefore, made purely on merit regardless of shareholders.
gender, race, religion, age or disability.
Given our commitment to appointing the best people and ensuring that all employees have an Members equal chance of developing their careers within the Group, we do Mark Williamson Karen Witts not think it is appropriate to set targets for Board appointments.
1 Chairman Malcolm Wyman Women, including our Chief Executive, make up 22 per cent of Ken Burnett our Board.
We also have 22 per cent women on our OPEX.
David Haines John Downing Michael Herlihy Company Secretary Further details on our workforce diversity are set out on page 21.
1 Unless dealing with the succession to the Chairman.
Director Development Executive Directors are invited to attend when appropriate.
We are committed to the continuing development of our Directors Focus in 2015 in order to build on their expertise and develop an ever more the appointment of Matthew Phillips to the role of Chief detailed understanding of the business and the markets in Development Officer which we operate.
increasing the Committees focus on succession planning In addition to the ongoing NEDucation and training discussed identifying the skillset required for a new NED appointment on page 43, we held our April 2015 Board meeting in Hamburg 2 and devoted a day to providing NEDs with insights into the local and instructing Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann to identify market strategy and the Groups research and development appropriate candidates activities.
They also received updates on projects focused on Focus for 2016 building the brand equity of our tobacco products, discussed ongoing review of skillset and composition of the Board current product development strategies and received an continuing business updates and education for NEDs introduction to our growing innovation pipeline.
Board and senior management succession planning 2 Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann also provides online assessments to our sales function with a total value in the year of 40,000.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 35 THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES Succession and Nominations Committee continued Board succession Succession and Nominations During the year the Committee identified the profile and skillset Committee in 2015 required for a NED and instructed Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann to identify appropriate candidates.
Within the Companys policy Election and re-election of Directors of appointing the best people Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann were All Directors are appointed by the Board following a rigorous selection requested to give consideration to candidates who, in addition process and subsequent recommendation by the Committee.
to meeting the profile and skillset, add to the overall diversity of The performance of each Director is considered as part of the annual the Board.
Following the 2015 evaluation, a review of the independence of each NED, particularly in respect of those who have served six years or more, and consideration of attendance, the Board recommends the re-election of all Directors at our 2016 AGM, with the exception of Ken Burnett who, having served on the Board for nine years, will be retiring at the AGM.
Meetings of the Board, Board Committees and AGM Annual Succession and General Nominations Audit Remuneration Meeting and Board Committee Committee Committee General Meeting Total number of meetings in Financial Year 5 2 4 3 1 Number of meetings attended in Financial Year Executive Directors Alison Cooper 5 5 1 1 Oliver Tant 5 5 1 1 Matthew Phillips 5 5 1 1 Non-Executive Directors Mark Williamson 5 5 2 2 1 1 Ken Burnett 5 5 2 2 4 4 3 3 1 1 1 David Haines 5 5 2 2 2 4 3 3 1 1 Michael Herlihy 5 5 2 2 4 4 3 3 1 1 Karen Witts 5 5 2 2 4 4 3 3 1 1 Malcolm Wyman 5 5 2 2 4 4 3 3 1 1 1 David Haines was unable to attend two Audit Committee Meetings, however, he fully considered the papers before the meeting and provided his thoughts and recommendations to the Audit Committee Chairman.
The maximum number of meetings for each individual Director is the number which they were eligible to attend.
Tenure of Non-Executive Directors Board gender balance 8 years and over 1 Male 7 5 to 7 years 2 Female 2 3 to 5 years 1 1 to 2 years 2 36 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 36 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Audit Committee Our auditors, both internal and external, provide the Committee with detailed reports on their audit work.
These reports are reviewed and discussed and, where appropriate, challenged to ensure the Committee fully understands all issues and, if required, appropriate action can be instigated.
I also meet with the Director of Group Internal Audit and the lead Audit Partner of our external auditors,  PwC, on a regular basis between Committee meetings.
Management prepared and presented to the Committee a wide range of papers on key matters, which provided a sufficient understanding of each matter to facilitate discussions and enable effective decisions to be taken.
Following updates to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code the Committee spent time ensuring that additional requirements introduced by the Code were met by the Group.
In particular the enhancements to the risk management framework and processes, and systems of internal control, were a focus area for the Committee.
Malcolm Wyman Chairman We also spent time considering the processes supporting the assessment of the Groups longer-term solvency and liquidity which underlie the new viability statement.
Following which we agreed that The Committee maintained the appropriate period over which the assessment should be made for the viability statement is that of the Groups business plan, being its focus on its key priorities three years.
throughout the year including I am satisfied our activities provided the Committee with a good ensuring high standards of understanding of the key matters impacting the Group during the year and, in conjunction with its oversight of the governance and financial governance and operation of the Groups significant controls and processes, the enhancement of the risk ultimately enabled the Committee to draw the conclusions set out on page 40. management framework and systems of internal control.
1 Members 2 Malcolm Wyman Michael Herlihy 2 Chairman Karen Witts Ken Burnett Malcolm Wyman David Haines John Downing Chairman of the Audit Committee Company Secretary Other regular attendees 3 Board Chairman Director of Group Internal Audit Deputy Company Secretary Chief Financial Officer Representatives from PwC our Director of Finance and Planning 3 external auditors Group Financial Controller 1 All members are independent NEDs.
2 Malcolm Wyman and Karen Witts meet the Codes requirement of having recent and relevant financial experience.
3 At each meeting, both the Director of Group Internal Audit and PwC have the opportunity to meet with the Committee without management present.
This report provides insight into the Audit Committees major activities and its deliberations in respect of the 2015 financial year to ensure the Groups financial governance processes remain relevant, robust and of a high standard.
Set out on page 39 are the key matters we considered during the year and our conclusions.
We meet at key times within the Groups reporting calendar, with comprehensive agendas covering all significant matters to be considered by the Committee.
I also meet with management on an ad-hoc basis.
37 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 37 THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES Audit Committee continued Main objective maintaining appropriate oversight over the work and effectiveness To assist the Board in fulfilling its corporate governance of the Internal Audit department, including reviewing its audit responsibilities relating to the Groups external financial reporting, findings and monitoring managements responses: internal control systems, risk management process and framework, scrutinising the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the internal audit function and the external audit.
During the year we, PwC, including reviewing and approving the annual external audit as a Committee, achieved this by: plan, reviewing the audit findings, monitoring compliance with ensuring the integrity of our financial reporting and confirming that, ethical and professional guidance and approving PwCs terms taken as a whole, our Annual Report is fair, balanced and of engagement: and understandable and provides the information necessary for throughout the year, considering the key matters, detailed below, shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business including taking account of PwCs views.
model and strategy: The Committees full terms of reference can be found on our monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of our risk management website: www.
com and internal control systems and speaking-up process: Audit Committee Meetings held in respect of the 2015 financial year Four Committee meetings were held in respect of the 2015 financial year, at key times within our reporting and audit calendar and included the following matters on the agenda: 201 2015 5 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Aug Sept Oct Jan Feb Mar Apr May Aug Sept Oct A Audit planning udit planning Half Y Half Year Report ear Report I Impairment r mpairment re eview view Annual r Annual report and account eport and accounts s Group Internal IImpairment r mpairment review eview Tax Foreign Exchange management Group Internal Tax Foreign Exchange management Exter External Auditor final Auditors s rre eview view Audit and Ri Audit and Risk sk U US acquisition accountin S acquisition accounting g I Impairment r mpairment re eview view of Half Year Report Management update Management updatess of Half Year Report Gr Group Inter oup Intern final al Going concern and viability Going concern and viability Tax Tax Tr Tre easury update asury update Audit and Ri Audit and Risk sk s statement tatement Exter External Auditor final Auditors s Exter External Auditor final Auditors s Management update Management updates s Exter Extern final Auditor al Auditors s rre eport port fee fees and independence s and independence ef effectivene fectiveness ss Complex Complex supplier and supplier and Gr Group Inter oup Internal Audit and Ri final Audit and Risk sk U US acquisition accounting S acquisition accounting U US acquisition accounting S acquisition accounting cu customer ag stomer agrre eement ements s Management update Management updates s Group Internal Audit and Group Internal Audit and Inter Intern final contr al control ol Exter Extern final A al Auditors uditors rre eport port U US acquisition accounting S acquisition accounting Risk Management updates Risk Management updates S Segmental r egmental reporting eporting and independence and independence Exter Extern final Auditor al Auditors fees and s fees and Inter Intern final contr al control ol Going concer Going concern and viability n and viability independence independence T Tobacco r obacco re elated litigation lated litigation For Fore eign Exchange ign Exchange I Inter ntern final contr al control ol A Audit tendering udit tendering management management T To obacco r bacco related litigation elated litigation Re Restructuring costs and structuring costs and I Inter ntern final contr al control ol Retir Retire ement benefit ment benets s benets benets Di Distributable r stributable re eserve serves s Revenue r Revenue re ecognition cognition For Fore eign Exchange ign Exchange Re Restructuring cost structuring costs s U Use of adjusted measu se of adjusted measure res s management management S Segmental r egmental reporting eporting Re Restructuring costs and benets structuring costs and benets Di Distributable r stributable re eserve serves s 38 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 38 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Key Matters Considered The Committee considered the appropriateness of the following areas of significant judgement, complexity or estimation in connection with the financial statements, as set out below.
Focus area Why this area is significant How we as a Committee addressed this area 1 Goodwill and Goodwill and intangible We regularly received and considered detailed reports from management and intangible asset assets form a major part of challenged the methodology applied, the achievability of underlying business impairment the Groups balance sheet forecasts, and macro-economic assumptions used.
For the cash generating units reviews and their current valuations with the lowest headroom Drive Growth Division and Other Premium Cigars, we must be supported by examined different scenarios and sensitivities to assess whether managements see Note 11 of the financial future prospects.
conclusions were fair and balanced.
The Committee also considered detailed statements reporting from, and held discussions with, PwC.
Resulting from the above, we for further concluded that managements assertion that goodwill and intangible assets were information.
not impaired was reasonable and, therefore, approved the disclosures in our financial statements.
2 Accounting for The fair values and asset We reviewed and challenged the detailed reports management had prepared to our USA lives used in accounting for support the value of goodwill, intangible assets and other major asset categories, acquisition the assets acquired have an together with the asset lives ascribed to them.
We also considered the effect on the future earnings appropriateness of the adjusting items in the reporting of the acquisition and, in see Note 29 of the business.
particular, we concluded that the determination of acquisition and integration costs for further information.
was appropriate, consistent with our adjusted measures guidelines and treatment of prior acquisitions.
We also reviewed and discussed PwCs detailed report on this area noting that it supported the proposed accounting treatments.
3 Use of adjusted Non-GAAP or adjusted The Committee considered whether adjusted performance measures had been measures measures provide a useful prepared in accordance with our policy on the use of adjusted measures set out in assessment of business Note 1 to the financial statements.
We also reviewed and challenged papers prepared see Note 1 for further performance and reflect the by management which considered the appropriateness of our policy in the light of information.
way in which the business is both the practice of other companies and externally published guidelines.
They are also this topic was discussed with PwC.
We concluded that the Groups policy continues used in determining annual to be appropriate and that it has been applied consistently.
and long-term incentives for remuneration, and are widely used by our investors.
4 Treatment of We periodically reviewed papers from management on actual and forecast levels of Restructuring costs is one of restructuring restructuring costs.
The restructuring costs disclosure for inclusion within the Groups the main items affecting our costs financial statements and half-year results were also reviewed and discussed with adjusted measures.
There is management and PwC.
Following these detailed reviews and discussions, we a risk that restructuring costs see Note 5 concluded that determination of restructuring costs was consistently applied and for further are treated or presented information.
that, notwithstanding the duration of some restructuring projects, costs were inappropriately within the disclosed appropriately.
5 Going concern The Directors are required We examined the Groups committed funding, its ability to generate cash and its and viability to consider whether it is ability to raise further funding.
We challenged managements cash projections and statement appropriate to prepare the sensitivity analysis including mitigating actions.
In addition, in assessing the Groups financial statements on a longer-term viability we considered outputs of the annual corporate planning see page 30 for further going concern basis and processes including the strategic review, a three year business plan and a rolling information.
explain how they have re-forecast of current year business performance and prospects.
We also considered assessed the prospects the resilience of the Group to the potential impact of the Groups principal risks and of the Company over a mitigating actions.
We concluded that it was appropriate to prepare the financial longer period.
statements on a going concern basis and that the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to September 2018.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 39 THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES Audit Committee continued Focus area Why this area is significant How we as a Committee addressed this area 6 Revenue There is a risk that We reviewed managements report on complex supplier and customer arrangements recognition arrangements could be and noted the enhanced policy wording on revenue recognition.
The Committee is made to recognise sales satisfied that the Groups criteria for revenue recognition are appropriate.
Discussions see Note 1 that do not meet the were held with management and PwC and no breaches of the Groups revenue for further information.
Groups criteria for recognition policy were brought to the Committees attention.
7 Segmental As a result of the USA Having considered detailed papers from management, we agreed with its conclusion reporting acquisition, changes to that it is appropriate to report the USA business as a separate segment.
management reporting see Note 3 for further lines and the increased information.
importance of new business areas we reviewed segmental reporting.
8 Taxation The Group is subject to We received and discussed reports from management in respect of the taxation taxation in a number of affairs of the Group, including the structuring of the USA acquisition and the potential see Notes 8 jurisdictions and significant impact on the Group of various UK and foreign taxation reform proposals.
Following and 21 for further judgement is required in consideration and discussion of these reports and a review of the report provided by information.
relation to taxation provisions PwC, we remain satisfied that the taxation provisions are appropriate.
which could materially affect the Groups reported results.
9 TobaccoThe Group is exposed We considered reports from the Groups external lawyers which confirmed that the related litigation to litigation arising from Group continues to have meritorious defences to the actual and threatened legal claimants alleging smoking proceedings and concluded that risks in respect of tobacco-related litigation are see further details on related health effects.
appropriately disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Risk Management Group Internal Audit In January 2015, the Corporate Assurance function was restructured and Internal Control to establish Group Internal Audit GIA as a standalone department During the year, the Group continued to refine its risk management with a stronger, more independent identity and a remit to increase framework and processes to further formalise and embed the the level of challenge provided to management across the full range evaluation of risks across the business.
This approach is designed of the internal control framework.
GIA continued to extend its to provide greater consistency in the identification and assessment coverage across the Business Transformation agenda, incorporate of risks, at both a Group and local level.
higher levels of strategic insight into all audit work and increase the level of engagement with senior stakeholders.
GIA introduced its The Committee received updates during the year on the embedding Guest Auditor programme which allows selected staff from across of the risk management framework and on the risk management the business to participate in audits, both harnessing their specialist systems and processes operating within the Group.
Additionally, the expertise and widening their experience of the broader business.
Committee has reviewed the process for identification, assessment, and reporting of the Companys principal risks set out on pages 27 The Committee reviews the annual internal audit plan, including its to 29.
The Committee has also considered and confirmed to the scope and extent, and reviews reports from GIA at each quarterly Board that this work is in accordance with the provisions in the Committee meeting to monitor the functions achievements against 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code and the Financial Reporting plan.
The Committee considered the results of the audits undertaken Councils FRC associated Guidance on Risk Management, Internal by GIA and monitored management responses to the audit matters Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Satisfaction surveys are completed by management following The Group is aware of the risks to its information technology systems, each audit and feedback on GIA performance during the year has and employs subject matter experts, including a Chief Information been broadly positive.
Security Officer to manage these risks.
Assurance over compliance GIA conducted a self-assessment of effectiveness against the best with Group requirements is achieved through our Group Internal Audit practice standards of both the Institute of Internal Auditors IIA plan which includes specific reviews to assess compliance with the and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales Groups relevant information technology standards and policies.
Whilst highlighting some areas for continual improvement In line with the reporting of all internal audit issues, any significant the self-assessment reflected an improving level of GIA performance.
matters are reported to the Committee and their resolution monitored.
The above processes and those described in the Risk Management section on pages 25 to 26 enable the Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, to review regularly the effectiveness of the key procedures which have been established in order to provide appropriate internal controls.
They also enable the Board to confirm that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups principal risks has operated throughout the year and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
40 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 40 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS from across the Group.
Responses indicated that, as with previous Independence of our reviews, there was a consistently high perception of auditor External Auditors effectiveness, with no pervasive Group-wide concerns identified.
In order to ensure the independence and objectivity of PwC, the Based on its consideration of the responses, together with its own Committee maintains and regularly reviews our Auditor Independence ongoing assessment, for example through the quality of PwCs Policy.
This policy provides clear definitions of services that our External reports to the Committee and its interaction with the audit partner, Auditors may and may not provide and can be found on our website.
and taking into account the audit quality inspection report issued by the FRC in regard to PwC in May 2015, the Committee remains PwC, and its predecessor firms, has been the Companys Auditors satisfied with the efficiency and effectiveness of the audit.
In line with our Auditor Independence Policy, the Group Audit partner is required to rotate after a maximum Following the introduction of the audit tendering provisions in the of five years seven years for subsidiary companies.
John Maitland, Code, the Committee annually considers if the audit should be put our Audit Partner, has been in post since 2013. out to tender.
The result of this years review was not to put the audit out to tender.
The audit has not been put to tender since PwC were PwC may only provide non-audit services where those services do appointed as the Companys Auditors in 1996. not conflict with its independence.
The policy establishes a formal authorisation process, including the tendering for individual non-audit The new European Union Audit Directive has been finalised and its services expected to generate fees in excess of 250,000, and prerequirements have to be in place in the UK by 16 June 2016. approval by the Committee for allowable non-audit work that they Although the UK legislation has yet to be published we anticipate that may perform.
Guidelines for the recruitment of employees or former it will set significant restrictions on the non-audit services our auditors employees of PwC, and for the recruitment of our employees by will be able to supply to the Group from 1 October 2016.
We also PwC, are contained in the policy.
During the year, the only non-audit anticipate that these requirements will make audit firm rotation fee in excess of 250,000 was in relation to work undertaken in mandatory for the Group by 2023.
We believe it is in the interest of connection with the USA cigarette brand and e-cigarette acquisition.
both the Group and its stakeholders to ensure that the pool of major accountancy firms with the capacity to be appointed as auditor is During the year PwC undertook non-audit.
This non-audit work was maximised.
As part of our tender planning we have, therefore, awarded to PwC due to its knowledge of the Group and it being established a number of processes including the pre-approval of any deemed best placed to provide effectively the services required.
future services by appropriate accountancy firms to maintain an This non-audit work included: adequate level of independence to allow them to tender.
During the regulatory assurance work pursuant to the USA acquisition auditor independence reviews, detailed above, we also considered the remuneration for audit services, audit-related services and tax advisory and tax compliance work non-audit work undertaken by such accountancy firms.
verification of our corporate social responsibility reporting and There are no contractual or similar obligations restricting the Groups underlying processes choice of external auditors.
agreed upon processes in respect of the performance criteria of our employee share plans Statement of Auditors In the current year non-audit fees were 87 per cent 2014: 64 per cent of total audit fees see note 4 on page 87.
This ratio is Responsibilities significantly impacted by the work undertaken in connection with the PwC is responsible for forming an independent opinion on the financial USA cigarette brands and e-cigarette acquisition.
The Committee statements of the Group as a whole and on the financial statements considers that the level of non-audit fees is appropriate in the light of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC as presented by the Directors.
In of the above activities, and is comparable with those disclosed by addition, it also reports on other elements of the Annual Report as similar companies with international activities, and does not believe required by legislation or regulation and reports its opinion to members.
that the objectivity of the external audit has been impaired as a result of this non-audit work.
PwCs opinions are included on pages 68 and 116.
To ensure compliance with this policy, during the year the Committee carried out two auditor independence reviews including consideration Auditors and Disclosure of the remuneration received by PwC for audit services, audit-related of Information to Auditors services and non-audit work.
The Committee also considered reports by both management and PwC which did not raise any concerns in Each of the Directors in office at the date of approval of this Annual respect of PwCs independence and confirmed that PwC maintains Report confirms that: appropriate internal safeguards to ensure its independence and so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information objectivity.
The outcome of these reviews was that performance of the that is, information needed by PwC in connection with preparing relevant non-audit work by PwC was in compliance with the policy its report of which PwC is unaware: and and was the most cost-effective way of conducting our business.
No conflicts of interest were found to exist between such audit and noneach has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as audit work.
The Committee, therefore, confirmed that the Company a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant and Group continues to receive an independent audit service.
audit information and to establish PwC is aware of that information.
The Board accepted at its October 2015 meeting the Committees Audit Quality and recommendation to put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM a resolution to reappoint PwC as Auditors to the Company.
Approach to Audit Tender We place great importance on ensuring that we receive a high standard and effective external audit.
To assist the Committee to assess the performance of our external auditors, during the year audit effectiveness questionnaires, covering the audit scope and planning, quality and delivery, challenge and communication and independence, were completed by members of both the Committee and Logistas Audit Committee as well as by senior managers and finance executives Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 41
