38 IMI plc Operational Review IMI Critical Engineering IMI Critical Engineering is a world-leading provider of flow Revenue control solutions that enable vital energy and process industries to operate safely, cleanly, reliably and more efficiently.
631m Down 10% We operate a global service network with manufacturing facilities in 12 countries and employ over 4,300 talented people across a range of disciplines, all committed to providing excellent Operating profit service to our customers.
We design, manufacture and install customised, highly engineered solutions for new plant builds 93.1m Down 24% and also provide complete plant lifecycle service support.
This ensures that our customers benefit from efficient maintenance, speedy issue resolution and plant optimisation at all times.
organic Our products are at the heart of complex energy and production processes.
They control the flow of steam, gas and liquids in harsh environments they are designed to withstand temperature, Engineering and pressure extremes, as well as intensely abrasive or corrosive cyclical operations.
GREAT Solutions Our engineering expertise sets us apart.
We combine technical knowledge, engineering design capability, application experience and innovative custom-designed products to deliver safe, reliable and durable solutions.
Performance Full year order intake at 619m 2014: 686m was down 13% on an organic basis after adjusting for acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate movements.
In the second half, order intake decreased 20% on an organic basis.
The Oil & Gas sector, where we have a significant position in the LNG market, showed resilience with order intake decreasing by 3% in the year despite the drastic reduction in the oil price.
LNG new construction orders played a key role in Oil & Gas, with orders up 23% in the year, more than offset by upstream orders down 25%.
Due to the slower new order activity in China, Fossil Power orders were down 1% on the prior year.
In the Petrochemical sector, orders were down 42% due to a combination of lower market activity in China, large one-off orders in 2014 and slippage of some large projects from 2015 into 2016.
As anticipated, Nuclear orders were down 76% reflecting on-going weakness in the market post-Fukushima.
Aftermarket orders were down 3% compared to 2014 with Oil & Gas being up 3%, more than offset by Fossil Power down 4% and the remaining segments down 6%.
After adjusting for the impact of adverse exchange rate movements of 26m and for acquisitions and disposals, revenues decreased 10% on an organic basis.
Revenues of 631m 2014: 692m were down 9% on a reported basis with IMI Bopp & Reuther contributing 46m of revenues in the year.
Segmental operating profit of 93m 2014: 131m declined by 29% on a reported basis and was 24% lower on an organic basis while margins decreased to 14.8% from 19.0% in 2014.
This decline in profitability and margins was primarily due to the reduction in volumes.
The division made good progress on a number of its growth initiatives including the division wide adoption of Obeya, a visual project management system, lean manufacturing and implementation of new ERP systems in two key sites.
Oil & Gas Petrochemical Power Fossil & Nuclear IMI Critical Engineering is the global market leader IMI Critical Engineering is the global leader in the design IMI Critical Engineering supplies the critical, customised in the supply of anti-surge valve and actuator and manufacture of integrated flow control systems for turbine by-pass valves to the worlds most efficient systems to the worlds largest LNG compression critical applications in Fluid Catalytic Cracking FCC.
Our valves control high pressure superfacilities, including Gorgon in Australia.
Our systems We also supply bespoke valves into the ethylene and heated steam at temperatures up to 650C, protecting operate below -160C, with ultra-fast response to polypropylene production processes, as well as for the turbine and optimising power yield.
Globally, we maximise liquid natural gas production while delayed coking at temperatures up to 1,600C.
have an installed base of over 100,000 valves and are protecting the compressor.
a leader in the combined cycle gas sector.
We also supply both products for new nuclear reactors and upgrades to existing facilities to improve safety levels.
To date we have supplied products to over half the worlds reactor fleet.
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 During the year IMI Critical Engineering made significant progress towards achieving its strategic objectives including the completion of a brand new world-class facility in Korea, the successful launch of a new ERP system, excellent progress in lean and project management, as well as sector leading performance in a tough market environment.
Roy Twite Divisional Managing Director IMI Bopp & Reuther Market review IMI Bopp & Reuther was acquired on 2 January 2015 and has been Conditions across much of the capital goods sector were particularly fully integrated into Critical Engineering with 97% of 400 integration difficult in 2015 resulting in Critical Engineerings key markets being actions being completed by the year-end.
Hard synergies are now more challenging than expected.
The sharp decline in the oil price being delivered and actions have been taken to close the Swiss caused significant weakness in the Oil & Gas sector and post the and Canadian Nuclear businesses and transfer their operations 2011 Fukushima incident, investment continued to be depressed in to the IMI Bopp & Reuther manufacturing facility in Mannheim by the Nuclear sector.
More generally the slowdown in China and the the end of 2016. cautious global capital spending environment impacted new order opportunities significantly.
In response, the division initiated a number of cost-cutting initiatives Key achievements including the restructuring of its European and Canadian nuclear IMI Bopp & Reuther successfully integrated in the year businesses which are now centred at IMI Bopp & Reuthers Completion of the new 8m manufacturing facility for IMI CCI in Mannheim facility in Germany and the transfer of IMI TH Jansens South Korea and commencement of a 5m refurbishment of the production facilities to IMI Z&Js plant at Dren.
IMI Z&J Germany manufacturing plant Two new service centres opened in China and a new 9m China Outlook manufacturing localisation plan started Based on the current order book and market outlook, we expect Successful adoption of lean with scores improving from 26% to 56% first half revenues and margins to reflect a similar percentage reduction as experienced in the full year of 2015.
Subject to order Obeya project management process implemented in key book timing, and including the benefits of restructuring actions, manufacturing plants we anticipate a second half improvement in both revenues and New process improvements embedded in each of the business margins when compared to the first half of the year.
units including the 5 year strategic planning process, new risk profiling process and financial internal controls process New divisional ERP system successfully launched in Austria and Czech Republic with a further four sites on track for go-live in 2016 Won a number of new orders including new choke valves for the Kashagan project, new monitoring and isolating equipment to prevent fugitive emissions and aftermarket high temperature nozzles for fide-superheating applications Sale of non-core IMI Scott and IMI Z&J South Africa to remove complexity from the division CASE STUDY Readying our businesses for accelerated growth efficient systems and processes installed to strengthen operational infrastructure and enhance competitiveness During the year, a new ERP system, an integrated IT system that automatically manages multiple business processes and functions, was successfully installed on time and to budget at Critical Engineerings Brno, Czech Republic facility.
The new system embeds a common way of working, consistent processes and accurate data collection all of which make day-to-day operations more cost and time efficient and product and service offerings more competitive.
Repetitive time consuming manual data entry is now a thing of the past.
Day-to-day tasks are now performed more efficiently and effectively, project cycle times have been reduced and data retrieval has been made quicker and easier.
Today, as a result of access to accurate consistent data, operating costs at the Brno facility can be better monitored and controlled and the profitability of every single project carefully managed.
The team in Brno also now has better visibility across the entire production process which has resulted in improved inventory management and customer responsiveness.
Following the successful Brno launch, the same ERP system will be rolled out across Critical Engineerings eight other major facilities, starting with Japan and Sweden during the first quarter of 2016.
As a result of this investment in a key part of the divisions infrastructure, Critical Engineerings operational performance has been enhanced and the business is now better equipped to harness significant market opportunities in the coming years.
