Directors report The Directors present their report and audited financial statements of the Group for the year ended 30 April 2015.
The following additional disclosures are made in compliance with the Companies Act 2006, the Disclosures and Transparency Rules and the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board has prepared a Strategic report, including the Chairmans statement page 7 and the CEOs review page 32, which provides an overview of the development and performance of the Companys business to 30 April 2015.
Certain information required to be included in the Directors report can be found in other sections of the Annual Report as described below.
All information presented in these sections is incorporated by reference into this Directors report and is deemed to form part of this report: Review of the performance and future development of the Group, Strategic report, pages 32 to 41 Principle risks and uncertainties, Strategic report, pages 43 to 44 Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions, Strategic report, pages 47 to 48 Employment matters, Strategic report, pages 48 to 50 The Corporate governance report set out on pages 62 to 68, Audit Committee report, pages 69 to 72, Nomination Committee report, pages 73 to 74 and the Directors Remuneration Committee report, pages 75 to 97 form part of this report.
There have been no significant events since the balance sheet date to disclose.
Research and development The continuing cost of research and development expenditure and advanced technology projects charged directly to the income statement was 123,859,000 2014: 114,835,000.
An indication of likely future developments in the business of the Group and details of research and development activities are included in the Strategic report.
Political donations No political donations were made during the year.
Imagination has an established policy of not making donations to any political party, representative or candidate in any part of the world.
Financial instruments Details of the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are set out within note 19 to the financial statements along with details of the Groups exposure to market risk, credit and liquidity risk.
Share capital Details of the authorized and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Groups issued share capital during the year are shown in note 16, which is incorporated and deemed to be part of this report.
The Group has a single class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Group.
As at 30 April 2015, there were 271,623,108 ordinary shares in issue listed on the London Stock Exchange of which 2,122,071 2014: 1,996,246 were held in trust.
No person has any special rights of control over the Groups share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provision of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Groups shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
56 Directors report | With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, the Group is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act and related legislation.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Authority to allot At the Annual General Meeting in September 2014, shareholders approved a resolution to give directors the authority to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 8,933,891.
In addition, shareholders provided approval to directors to allot up to an aggregate nominal amount of 17,867,782 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue in accordance with the Investment Association guidelines.
The directors have no present intention to make use of the authority sought under this resolution except to satisfy share awards under employee share schemes.
The authority will expire on the earlier of the 31 October 2015 or at the conclusion of the AGM in 2015 and will be proposed for renewal again at this years AGM.
Purchase of own shares At the Annual General Meeting in September 2014, authority was granted to the Company to purchase its own shares in the market up to a maximum aggregate number of 26,801,674 shares, being approximately 10% of the issued share capital.
The directors authorized the purchase of 192,000 shares to put in trust to satisfy future share awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The current authority will expire the earlier of the 31 October 2015 or at the conclusion of the AGM in 2015.
The Group would like to retain the flexibility offered by this resolution and it will therefore be proposed again at this years AGM.
Dividends The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend.
Directors The membership of the Board and biographic details of the Directors are provided on pages 53 to 55 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
Geoff Shingles retired as Chairman of the Board in March 2015 and Bert Nordberg was appointed as the new Chairman of the Group on Geoffs retirement.
Bert has also assumed the role as Chairman of the Nominations Committee from March 2015 and has joined the Remuneration Committee.
Bert will seek election as Chairman of the Board for the first time at the 2015 AGM to be held on 18 September 2015.
Kate Rock was appointed to the Board in August 2014 and her appointment was approved by the Shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
She joined the Remuneration Committee in January 2015.
David Hurst-Brown left the Company at the AGM held in September 2014.
The rules for the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Each new appointee to the Board is required to stand for election and the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
In addition, the Companys Articles of Association require each director to stand for re-election at least once every three years.
However, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors wishing to serve again will submit themselves for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting and are recommended for re-election.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance and all directors of the Company benefit from qualifying third party provisions which were in place during the financial year.
Article 130 of the Groups Articles of Association provides for the indemnification of directors of the Group against liability incurred by them in certain situations, and is a qualifying indemnity provision within the meaning of section 236 of the Companies Act 2006.
The qualifying indemnity was in force during the financial year and up to the date of signing the Annual Report.
Directors report 57 | Directors interests Interests of the directors in Group shares and share options are set out in the Directors Remuneration Committee report on pages 75 to 97, together with details of directors remuneration and service contracts.
Change of control The Groups share based incentive plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
The Long-Term Incentive Plans, share awards and performance share awards for the CEO and CFO would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control of the Group, subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions.
There are no significant agreements to which the Group is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control.
Substantial shareholdings As at 30 April 2015, the Group has been notified under Rule 5 of the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following voting rights as a shareholder of the Company.
Ordinary Shares of 10p Percentage of issued ordinary share capital % Baillie Gifford & Co Ltd 37,392,752 13.76% M&G Investment Management Ltd 29,967,315 11.03% Apple Inc, 23,047,770 8.48% Newton Investment Management Ltd 22,274,326 8.20% Majedie Asset Management Ltd 13,794,888 5.08% Save for the above, the Group has not been notified, as at 10 June 2015, of any interest exceeding 5% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Essential contracts There are a large number of agreements in place with the Groups customers and partners.
There are no parties with whom the Group has contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Group.
Annual General Meeting The 2015 AGM of the Group will be held at Imagination House, Home Park Estate, Kings Langley, Hertfordshire WD4 8LZ commencing at 11am on 18 September 2015.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting with full description of the business to be conducted is set out at www.
58 Directors report | Information presented in other sections For the purposes of compliance with LR 9.8.
4C R, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R can be found in the following locations: Section Requirement Location 1 Interest capitalized Not applicable 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes Remuneration report, 95 to 96 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director Remuneration report, 93 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director Not applicable 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable 8 Non pre-emptive issues by a major subsidiary undertakings Not applicable 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable 10 Contracts of significance Directors report, 58 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Not applicable 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Not applicable 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable Statement of Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
Directors report 59 | The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors report, Directors Remuneration Committee report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the directors in respect of the annual financial report We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Going concern The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adapt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Disclosure of information to auditors Each director confirms that, at the date this Annual Report and Accounts was approved, so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditor is aware of that information.
Independent auditor The Groups independent auditor, KPMG LLP KPMG have expressed their willingness to continue in office and resolutions for their reappointment and to authorize the directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
KPMG has been the Groups external auditor since 1994.
Whilst the Group has not formally tendered the audit since then, the Audit Committee undertakes an annual review of the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the audit firm in considering 60 Directors report | whether to recommend the reappointment of the external auditors at the AGM.
The current partner at KPMG was appointed as Group Audit Partner in 2010, and under the requirement to rotate this position every 5 years, is due to rotate off the Groups audit after completing the 30 April 2015 financial year audit engagement.
Further information on the Groups approach to audit tendering can be found in the Audit Committee report on page 72.
For and on behalf of the Board Anthony Llewellyn Company Secretary 29 June 2015 Company number: 2920061 Directors report 61 |
