BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 32 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 32 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 1.
Karen Witts, FCA Chairman of the Board Chief Development Officer Non-Executive Director Skills and experience Mark is a qualified Skills and experience Matthew held a number of Skills and experience Karen brings significant accountant, who brings considerable financial and senior roles prior to his appointment to the Board financial and management expertise to the Board.
general managerial experience to our Board.
Mark as Corporate Affairs Director in June 2012 and She is currently Chief Financial Officer and was Chief Financial Officer of International Power has been integral to the development and Executive Director of Kingfisher plc and was plc until 2012 and is experienced in managing implementation of the Groups strategy.
previously Chief Financial Officer of the Africa, relationships with the investor and financial In his current role he is responsible for Group Middle East, Asia and Asia Pacific Region, at communities.
Prior to joining International Power Strategy, Corporate Development and Fontem Vodafone plc.
Prior to that Karen held a number plc, Mark was Group Financial Controller and Ventures and corporate, legal of senior positions at BT, including Chief Financial Group Chief Accountant of Simon Group.
Officer of BT Retail and Managing Director Operations Openreach.
Appointment Mark joined the Board in July 2007 Appointment Appointed Director in June 2012. and was appointed Senior Independent NonAppointment Appointed Non-Executive Director in Appointed Chief Development Officer, June 2015.
External appointments No external Director subsequently appointed Deputy Chairman of appointments.
External appointments Chief Financial Officer and the Board in January 2013 before being made Executive Director of Kingfisher plc.
D A N R External appointments Senior Independent Non- 5.
Ken Burnett, MA, MBA, PhD, Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit M Inst M 9.
Malcolm Wyman, CA SA Committees of National Grid plc and of Alent plc.
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director D N Chairman Skills and experience As a qualified accountant Skills and experience Ken, an independent management consultant, brings significant and former Chief Financial Officer of SAB Miller 2.
Alison Cooper, BSC, ACA plc, with responsibility for the groups financial experience of the consumer goods sector in the Chief Executive Officer Asia Pacific region.
He was President, Asia Pacific operations, corporate finance and development Skills and experience Since being appointed as and group strategy, Malcolm brings not only a of Allied Domecq from 1996 until its acquisition by Chief Executive Officer Alison has led the Pernod Ricard in 2005. wealth of financial expertise but also considerable development and implementation of the Groups general management experience to the Board.
Prior to joining Allied Domecq, he held senior sustainable sales growth strategy.
Alison joined He also meets the recent and relevant financial management positions in the Asia Pacific region the Group in 1999 and, through a number of experience requirements of the UK Corporate with Seagram, Interbrew and International Distillers senior roles, has contributed significantly to Governance Code.
& Vintners Ltd now part of Diageo plc.
the international expansion of the Group.
Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director in Appointment Appointed Director in July 2007. in October 2011 and Chairman of the Audit April 2006.
Appointed Chief Executive in May 2010.
External appointments Non-Executive Chairman of External appointments Non-Executive Director, External appointments Senior Independent Elemental Energy Technologies Limited.
Director of Inchcape plc since July 2009.
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Elemental Energy Technologies Asia Pte Limited Committee of Nedbank Group Limited, listed on E and New Zealand Quality Waters 2006 Limited.
the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, and a NonD A N R Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit 3.
Oliver Tant, BSc, CA Scotland Committee of Serco Group plc.
David Haines D A Chairman N R Skills and experience Oliver held a number of Non-Executive Director senior positions in a 32-year career at KPMG, Skills and experience David brings considerable 10.
John Downing, MA, Solicitor including Global Managing Director Financial senior level board experience and is currently Company Secretary Advisory and Private Equity Division and Head Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Grohe of UK Audit.
Skills and experience John joined Imperial in 2005 Group Srl and Chief Executive Officer of Lixil having worked for the law firm Linklaters.
He was also a member of both the UK and Water Technology Group and he joined Grohe in German boards of KPMG.
Oliver has international 2004 from Vodafone Group PLC where he was He has had a number of senior legal roles in experience in change management, organisational Imperial and was appointed Head of Group Legal Global Marketing Director.
He is also a former restructuring, corporate finance and mergers Chairman of Vimpelcom A O. in 2010 and played a leading role in the Altadis and acquisitions.
He has considerable experience in Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director managing key corporate projects related to Appointment Appointed to the Board of Directors in February 2012, and Chairman of the financing, business development and other in October 2013 and became Chief Financial Remuneration Committee in April 2012. commercial matters.
External appointments Chairman and Chief Appointment Appointed Company Secretary External appointments No external Director Executive Officer of Grohe Group Srl and Chief in June 2012. appointments.
Executive Officer of Lixil Water Technology Group.
Michael Herlihy, MA Oxon, E Executive Director Solicitor D Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director S Company Secretary Skills and experience Michael is General Counsel N Succession and Nominations Committee for Smiths Group plc.
He was formerly General A Audit Committee Counsel and Head of Mergers and Acquisitions R Remuneration Committee for ICI PLC with overall responsibility for corporate acquisitions and divestments and has extensive experience of both private and public market transactions.
Skills and experience of Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director in our Board July 2007.
In February 2014 he was appointed as The in-depth tobacco experience of our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Executive Directors is complemented by the diverse global experience of our NonExternal appointments Serves on the board of Compass Partners International LLP and is Executive Directors, which includes FMCG, finance, mergers and acquisitions, and currently General Counsel of Smiths Group plc.
D A N R Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 33
