INVESTING IN THE USA A dynamic new business ITG Brands is our dynamic new business in the USA, combining ITG Brands, now the third largest tobacco company in the market, our former Commonwealth-Altadis operations with assets is headquartered in Greensboro, North Carolina and led by Chief we bought from Reynolds American, following its acquisition Executive David Taylor, former Chief Financial Officer of Lorillard.
With great brands and great people, were confident of establishing These assets are: the American cigarette brands Winston, ITG Brands as a winning business with a long-term future.
Maverick, Kool and Salem, the e-cigarette brand blu, which is Performance has been in line with our plans and were making now part of Fontem Ventures, a cigarette factory and most of excellent progress with integration.
Were investing to support growth, with funds primarily targeted at The transaction has transformed our presence in this key Growth Winston, the sixth largest cigarette brand in the market.
Excluding China, the USA is the most profitable tobacco investment is being allocated to Maverick, Kool and USA Gold.
market in the world and the second largest by volume, at around 260 billion stick equivalents a year.
Cigarette brands Cigar brands The iconic Winston Dutch Masters is brand is one of one of the most the best-selling well-known natural cigarettes in the US.
Maverick is a leading Backwoods is a cigar value brand with strong famed for its unique positions in a number style, taste and aroma.
USA Gold is a popular value brand in the discount sector.
Kool is one of Americas most famous menthol cigarette brands.
Salem is another prominent brand in the menthol category.
10 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued In the UK we continued to focus on stabilising the performance of Capital Discipline our Growth Brands and further expanded our share in the growing We use our substantial cash flows to create returns for sub-economy segment.
shareholders, pay down debt and reinvest in the business.
Net revenue per thousand stick equivalents increased 2.8 per cent Our commitment to capital discipline underpins our focus on cash on an underlying basis and adjusted operating profit was up by generation and the effective management of our working capital.
1.3 per cent on a constant currency basis.
We increased cash conversion to 97 per cent, up from 91 per Growth Brands performed well, accounting for 50.9 per cent of cent last year.
net revenue, an increase of 770 basis points.
As a result of the USA acquisition adjusted net debt increased Our share across Returns Markets was similar to last years, in line to 11.6 billion.
We reduced adjusted net debt in the existing with our strategy for managing these markets.
business by 1.1 billion, taking the total reduction over the last two years to 2.1 billion.
Fontem Ventures Dividend growth was again strong at 10 per cent and during Following the USA acquisition Fontem Ventures has focused on the year we began quarterly dividend payments to provide integrating the blu team and consolidating its operations in the shareholders with more regular cash returns.
Sales are currently focused on the USA, UK, Italy and France, Outlook four markets that between them account for around 80 per cent We delivered a good performance in 2015 and in the year ahead of the global e-vapour market.
we will continue to focus on further strengthening the business and improving the quality of our growth.
The blu brand continues to gain traction in the UK and plans are being implemented to strengthen its position in the USA.
Maintaining momentum behind our Growth and Specialist Brands and maximising opportunities for Fontem Ventures and blu are Fontem also continues to focus on developing and licensing a key priorities.
The diversity of our geographic footprint provides considerable Logista opportunities for growth.
We have large shares in Returns Markets Logista is one of the largest logistics businesses in Europe, making and will concentrate on effectively managing these positions, while more than 35 million deliveries a year to 300,000 outlets across maximising profit delivery.
In Growth Markets we expect a headwind Spain, France, Italy, Portugal and Poland.
from Iraq and Syria in the first half but see continued portfolio and pricing opportunities as we target share and profit growth.
The business services tobacco and non-tobacco customers and has established a long track record of delivering sustainable value.
Our expanded USA business has had an excellent first few months and we look forward to a full years contribution from On a constant currency basis distribution fees were down 1 per ITG Brands.
The portfolio is performing in line with our plans and cent to 749 million and adjusted operating profit increased by integration is progressing exceptionally well, providing a great 2 per cent to 154 million.
Cost control measures and efficiency improvement programmes Cost optimisation and capital discipline underpin our growth continued to mitigate the impact of tobacco volume declines in strategy, enhancing our resilience, improving margins and releasing tobacco logistics.
In non-tobacco logistics there was growth in funds to invest in growth.
the pharma and transport businesses.
Looking to the year ahead, we expect first quarter volumes will The Logista team continues to focus on managing costs and continue to reflect the situation in Iraq and Syria as well as a strong generating new growth opportunities to drive the profitable comparator quarter for volumes last year, while first half revenue development of the business.
should benefit from stronger relative pricing.
Overall, we are well Cost Optimisation placed to meet expectations for the coming year.
Our cost optimisation programme remains on track to save Challenges will persist in some markets but we have the assets 300 million per annum from September 2018. and capabilities to further drive quality growth in this environment.
85 million was realised in the year through a range of initiatives We have the brands, the footprint and the people to make 2016 that are reducing complexity, driving operational efficiencies and another successful year of value creation.
securing further global procurement benefits.
Reducing complexity and implementing new ways of working through the ongoing refinement of our operating model enhances our ability to efficiently manage cost and provides opportunities to further develop our margins.
Alison Cooper Chief Executive Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 11
