40 IMI plc Operational Review IMI Precision Engineering IMI Precision Engineering is a world leader in motion and fluid Revenue control technologies wherever precision, speed and reliability of process are essential.
We deliver integrated solutions which 662m Down 3% improve the productivity and efficiency of customers equipment.
Operating profit We operate sales and service networks in 75 countries and have manufacturing facilities in the US, Germany, China, UK, Czech Republic, Mexico, India and Brazil.
Product support is provided through global centres of technical excellence, and facilities 117.7m Down 14% for computational fluid dynamics design, research and development and testing.
We also employ a dedicated team of field engineers, sector specialists and key organic account managers all committed to providing excellent service to customers.
Engineering Performance After adjusting for the impact of adverse exchange rate movements of 23m and for GREAT Solutions acquisitions and disposals, revenues of 662m 2014: 710m decreased 3% on an organic basis and were down 7% on a reported basis.
Industrial Automation revenues were down 5%, driven by lower market demand in North America and the Asia Pacific region.
Commercial Vehicle sales decreased 1% in the year through a combination of 9% growth in Europe, a good first half performance in North America and significantly lower truck production in Brazil.
Rail was up 17%, while Oil & Gas declined 10% and Life Sciences was up 1%.
Segmental operating profit at 117.7m 2014: 138.5m was 15% lower on a reported basis and, after adjusting for the impact of adverse exchange rate movements of 3m, 14% lower on an organic basis.
Operating margins suffered from weaker market conditions in the second half H1 2015: 18.6% v H2 2015: 16.9% and in the full year operating margins of 17.8% were also lower reflecting an adverse sales mix and the increased investment to support long-term growth.
The application of lean made terrific progress right across the division with significantly improved productivity, nearly 50% reduction in warranty costs, a 23% reduction in scrap costs and 7.5% lower inventory when compared to 2014.
Industrial Automation Commercial Vehicle Oil & Gas Life Sciences Delivering benefits to global customers An extensive range of cab, chassis IMI Precision Engineerings extensive IMI Precision Engineering has a including auto in-plant, machine tools and powertrain solutions deliver range of products and expertise is proven track-record of supporting the and general industry IMI Precision fuel efficiency, emissions reduction acknowledged widely throughout development of advances in medical Engineerings high performance and faster assembly times for the the Oil & Gas industry.
In addition to devices, diagnostic equipment and products include valves, valve islands, worlds leading commercial vehicle IMIs customised solutions, Precision biotech and analytical instruments.
proportional and pressure monitoring manufacturers.
Acknowledged for their Engineering produce a comprehensive In particular, the divisions products controls and air preparation products, safe and reliable operation, Precision range of certified, world-class products and expertise have helped reduce the as well as a comprehensive selection Engineerings products have been which deliver precision control in even size of equipment, while enhancing of pneumatic actuators rodless, proven in the harshest environments the harshest environments, including accuracy, throughput and fluid control compact, roundline and rotary.
and over millions of miles of reliable stainless steel valves and regulators, performance.
The division is recognised These are quickly and easily selected service.
We understand the market nuclear class valves and emergency for products which manage the precise and ordered via our Norgren Express trends, environmental challenges, shutdown controls.
control, repeatability and safety needs activities globally and supported emissions standards and specifications of the industry.
Our solutions are found with high quality technical advice.
that matter to truck manufacturers and in equipment for anaesthetics and Tier 1 suppliers.
patient therapy through to molecular diagnostics and pathogen detection.
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Performance Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 During the year we made good progress on a number of strategic initiatives including rationalising the product portfolio in Europe, improving operational performance through the application of lean, addressing supply chain complexities and implementing a new system of new product development world-wide.
Massimo Grassi Divisional Managing Director The division focused on a number of strategic activities during Market Review the year including simplifying the organisational structure, The global industrial economic outlook for 2016 remains improving operational performance through the application mixed with leading indicators, including the Purchasing of lean manufacturing, upgrading IT systems, addressing Managers Index, weakening in the second half of 2015. supply chain complexities and increasing investment in While we expect the general industrial markets in Europe to new product development.
remain broadly neutral, the US and Asian markets will remain challenging, particularly in China.
In the truck sector we expect Our review of the Industrial Automation market confirmed that the European market to remain stable while North America we have excellent market positions, with a valuable installed class 8 volumes are expected to be lower in the year ahead.
base and access to a high margin aftermarket.
We are now developing detailed product roadmaps in each of the key geographies which will underpin our plans for growth.
Outlook Based on current market conditions, we expect first half revenues to reflect a similar percentage reduction to Key Achievements the second half of 2015.
Margins in the first half will be New Divisional Managing Director, Massimo Grassi, appointed comparable to second half of 2015.
While markets remain with effect from 1 June 2015 uncertain the benefits of restructuring activities in Brazil and Successful adoption of lean with scores improving from a the actions taken to lower our costs are expected to deliver year 1 assessment of 32% to 59% at year end 2015 improved margins in the second half of the year.
Division-wide adoption of new product introduction process, reducing lead time and improved job 1 readiness New divisional ERP system launched successfully in Brazil and Farmington, Connecticut New division-wide quality system implemented across all IMI Norgren global sites Parts rationalisation completed in Europe, reducing 450,000 SKUs by 295,000 in the year CASE STUDY Implementing a robust New Product Development and quality system to deliver competitive advantage helps secure new contract win During the year Precision Engineering won a new contract to supply patent protected Phoenix valves to Kongsberg Automotive, the Norwegian based company that provides world-class products to the global vehicle industry.
The Phoenix valve plays a key part in managing the engine and transmission systems of large commercial trucks, in particular their clutch control mechanisms, ensuring that the trucks run efficiently and avoid off-road time which is very costly for the truck operators.
The Phoenix valve was designed in Precision Engineerings Fellbach facility in Germany and is manufactured in the Czech Republic at the divisions Brno plant.
In the past 18 months both plants have significantly improved their operational performance and this was a key factor in the successful development and commercialisation of the Phoenix valve.
In particular, a new robust product development process, that now operates across the whole of the Precision Engineering division, guarantees the quality of the product through every stage of its development ensuring that each valve one of which will be produced every five seconds is delivered on time, to specification and to cost.
As a result quality issues, late delivery and costly overruns have been eliminated.
