Board of Directors Bert Nordberg Chairman Appointment Date: March 2015 to present Nationality: Swedish Skills and Experience Bert joined the board following an executive career spanning 30 years in the technology sector.
He has a wealth of relevant experience, and was President and CEO of Sony Ericsson from 2009 to 2012 and Executive Vice President at Ericsson from 1996 to 2009.
Since 2012 Bert has been Chairman of the Board, the Compensation Committee and the Nomination Committee at Vestas Wind Systems A S. Board Committees Other current appointments Nomination Committee Chairman Vestas Wind Systems A S Chairman Remuneration Committee AB Electrolux SE Non-executive director Sigma Connectivity AB SE Non-executive director Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA SE Non-executive director Geoff Shingles Chairman retired Appointment Date: 1996 to March 2015 Nationality: British Skills and Experience Geoff has over 30 years experience within Europe and US in the digital technology industry and extensive knowledge of the semiconductor industry.
Geoff was Chief Executive and Chairman of Digital Equipment Co. Limited.
Geoff retired from the Board in March 2015.
Board Committees Other current appointments Nomination Committee IS Solutions Non-executive director retired March 2015 Sir Hossein Yassaie Chief Executive Officer Appointment Date: 1995 to present Nationality: British Skills and Experience Hossein has a BSc in Electronic and Electrical Engineering and a PhD.
Hossein obtained relevant industry experience at STMicroelectronics Inmos, where he spent eight years, ultimately becoming responsible for the system divisions, including research and development, manufacturing and marketing.
After joining Imagination Technologies in 1992 as Technical Director, Hossein refocused the business on advanced technology development and created Imaginations successful silicon IP business model.
He was appointed as CEO in 1995.
Board Committees Other current appointments Nomination Committee 7digital Group plc Non-executive director Toumaz Holdings Limited Non-executive director Directors report 53 | Richard Smith Chief Financial Officer Appointment Date: July 2011 to present Nationality: British Skills and Experience Richard holds an MBA from Henley Business School, has an MA in Economics from Cambridge University, and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
His early career included positions with Porsche Cars and .
Richard has worked in a number of privately held technology businesses as CFO, and prior to that held senior financial roles at Vodafone.
He joined Imagination Technologies in May 2011 and was appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer in July 2011.
Richard has no other current appointments and is not a member of any board committees.
David Anderson Non-executive director and Senior Independent Director Appointment Date: November 2010 to present Nationality: British Skills and Experience David has over 30 years investment banking experience including 17 years at Lazard including two years heading up the Lazard business in Asia and six years at JP Morgan Cazenove.
He spent two years at Vodafone as group corporate finance director from 2000 to 2002.
Since 2008 he has run his own corporate finance business, EPL Advisory LLP, and also built up a portfolio of board roles.
He has specific skills in mergers and acquisitions both domestically and cross-border, restructuring and capital raising.
He also chairs audit committees at Bibby Line Group Limited and Hibu previously Yell.
He chairs the trustees of the Lazard pension schemes.
Board Committees Other current appointments Audit Committee Chairman Bibby Line Group Limited Nomination Committee Hibu Group 2013 Limited Remuneration Committee Gilles Delfassy Non-executive director Appointment Date: June 2012 to present Nationality: French Skills and Experience Gilles has worked in the semiconductor and mobile and wireless industry for more than 35 years.
He has significant industry experience and is a respected international figure.
During his 30 years at Texas Instruments Inc. he was a key pioneer and driving force behind mobile and wireless initiatives, which helped shape the industry.
He has also held the position of Chief Executive Officer of ST-Ericsson SA.
Board Committees Other current appointments Audit Committee Kalray Chairman Nomination Committee Sequans Communications Director Remuneration Committee 54 Directors report | Andrew Heath Non-executive director Appointment Date: August 2012 to present Nationality: British Skills and Experience Andrew has a BSc in engineering and an MBA.
Andrew brings a wealth of international business experience gained through his executive roles over the past 30 years.
He is currently Chief Executive Officer of Alent plc FTSE 250 and previously served as a member of the Executive Leadership team and President of Rolls Royce plc, Energy.
He was previously a Non-executive Director of LG Fuel Systems Inc. and Oxford BioSignals.
Board Committees Other current appointments Remuneration Committee Chairman Alent plc Chief Executive Officer and Director Audit Committee Nomination Committee Ian Pearson Non-executive director Appointment Date: 1998 to present Nationality: British Skills and Experience Ian has over 30 years experience with companies specializing in semiconductor design, manufacturing and management, with industry Director level responsibilities.
These companies include Inmos and SGS Thompson.
Ian is not a member of any board committees and has no other current appointments.
Kate Rock Non-executive director Appointment Date: August 2014 to present Nationality: British Skills and Experience Kate holds a BA in Publishing and History.
Kate has spent her career in corporate communications and has many years of experience providing strategic counsel and business communication strategies to both public and private companies, including several technology businesses.
She is currently the Conservative Partys Vice Chairman with special responsibility for business relations.
Board Committees Other current appointments Nomination Committee Newsbridge Ltd Non-executive director Remuneration Committee Directors report 55 |
