12 IMI plc Strategic growth priorities Our strategic plan, which was first presented to the market in the summer of 2014, outlined our objective to accelerate growth and focuses on the following key priorities: 1 2 3 4 Capitalising on Improving operational Increased investment Expand addressable significant organic performance in product markets through growth opportunities development targeted acquisitions We already operate in a The benefits of moving We are increasing our We plan to supplement our number of attractive endtowards and achieving best in investment in product organic growth opportunities markets and we intend to class operational performance development, a key enabler with targeted acquisitions focus on those that offer the are significant.
As we improve of our growth plan, which is to capable of producing greatest potential in terms how our businesses operate build sustainable competitive returns in excess of the of delivering top and bottom we will better utilise capacity, advantage.
Progressively we Groups weighted average line growth.
These endenhance our competitiveness, will increase R&D spend from cost of capital within three markets include those where reduce working capital and around 3% of revenue in 2014 years.
Beyond our existing we already are, or have the generate cost savings by to 5% over the next few years.
business portfolio, our potential to be, in a leading operating more efficiently.
Our To ensure that we maximise review has identified the position, markets where we ambition is to progressively the benefits of this increased potential to double the can grow and where there self-fund our organic growth investment, we are improving Groups addressable market are significant higher margin initiatives using the benefits our product development by making acquisitions in aftermarket opportunities.
generated from our processes and systems and adjacent non-valve product Our current market positioning operational improvements.
further detail is contained on markets.
Further details of and the growth targets we Details about how we are pages 22 and 23. our acquisition strategy are have set are detailed on improving operational detailed on page 24. pages 16 and 17. performance are set out on pages 18 to 21.
Strategic timeline 2014 2015 2016 Year 0: Year 1: Year 2: The hard work Increased Benefits starting begins investment to show Supported by value enhancing acquisitions Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic enablers To deliver our strategic growth objectives while capitalising on the geographic and operational capabilities of the Group we have outlined the following key strategic enablers: Maintain financial Invest in Group-wide IT Work together as one discipline and infrastructure simplified IMI As we execute our strategy to deliver The programme to equip our businesses To harness the Groups full potential accelerated growth, we will continue to with effective IT has begun with the first we remain determined to channel maintain financial discipline.
Capital will sites either launched or on track to do so and maximise our scale to act as one be allocated to drive organic growth, across all three of the Groups operating IMI.
Establishing core processes has maintain a progressive dividend policy in divisions.
This commitment, alongside provided a strong platform that underpins line with earnings and fund acquisitions.
selective investment to upgrade or a framework for creating consistent Whilst retaining flexibility to develop replace our manufacturing facilities, and Groupwide standards and behaviours.
IMIs full potential, we will continue to our on-going initiatives, is a pre-requisite The global intranet, that all employees focus on maintaining an efficient balance to achieving our strategic goals.
regardless of location, are able to access, sheet and, in the event of us having was established last year and enjoys IT implementations are being phased on cash in excess of the Groups current substantial and growing usage as our a site by site basis to minimise risk and businesses share best practice and needs, we will return this excess capital deliver an optimal solution.
Overall capital establish rigorous processes that improve to shareholders.
Through the life of our spending is progressively increasing to competitiveness and profitability.
five year plan we will work to maintain closer to two times depreciation where net debt to EBITDA of no more than it will remain for the first few years of In 2015, all Group businesses adopted a two times through the cycle.
standard IMI branding enabling a coherent go to market approach under a single IMI umbrella.
Net debt to adjusted EBITDA 0.9 New image 0.6 0.3 2014 2015 Financial discipline will support our strategy The Groups core manufacturing operations Investments in IT, E-commerce and intranets for accelerated growth over the life of our have improved considerably in 2015 improve Group-wide communication five year plan 2017 2018 2019 Year 3: Year 4: Year 5: Nearly firing on Up to full Double all cylinders speed operating profits 14 IMI plc Business priorities For each of the divisions we initially developed and have now fine-tuned our five year plans to be closely aligned to the ambitions of the Group.
These plans are now fully embedded within each division and are already beginning to deliver real progress.
The key strategic priorities for each division are as follows: Focus and grow Fix, focus and grow Focus and grow Capitalise on attractive growth in Fix the basics in the next two years Capitalise on attractive growth in existing markets existing markets Simplify organisational structure Our goal is 6-8% organic compound Introduced standard costing Our goal is 5% organic CAGR over average growth rate over five years five years New ERP launched in Brazil and first Invest to support growth markets Increase new product development USA site with the balance of USA New larger sites in Houston, Italy and 15 new products launched in 2015 underway and on track Korea now complete Double investment in new product Commenced the refurbishment of IMI Z&J Grow emerging market local development over five years site in Germany manufacturing content 15 new products planned for 2016 Investing in additional service locations Address supply chain complexity to support aftermarket Optimise organisational structure Manufacture closer to end customers Introduce core processes Enhance systems and processes Increase plant utilisation Project underway to implement new New product development divisional ERP system Significantly improve operational Project execution benchmarking and performance implementation of Obeya methodology Acquisitions ERP system launched in Czech Republic Revitalise industrial automation Potential bolt-on acquisitions in Europe and progressing well at IMI CCI and larger targets in North America and grow organically New product development Acquisitions to support growth Our goal is growth in line with market in Add strategically aligned bolt-ons years one and two and 6-8% organic such as Bopp & Reuther acquired in CAGR thereafter January 2015 Extend into adjacent markets Acquisitions Expand product portfolio - semi-severe Future opportunity for larger acquisitions and configured valves to accelerate growth Executive Committee Mark Selway Daniel Shook Roy Twite Massimo Grassi Peter Spencer Paul Roberts Geoff Tranfield John OShea Chief Executive Finance Director Divisional Managing Divisional Managing Divisional Managing Group Business Group Human Group Legal Director From 1 March 2015 Director, IMI Critical Director, IMI Precision Director, IMI Hydronic Development Director Resources Director and Company Engineering Engineering Engineering Secretary Douglas Hurt was the Finance Director and a member of the Executive Committee until 28 February 2015 Executive biographies www.
