42 IMI plc Operational Review IMI Hydronic Engineering IMI Hydronic Engineering is the leading global provider and Revenue recognised expert in hydronic distribution systems and room temperature control, with experience in more than 100,000 264m Up 2% construction projects world-wide.
Operating profit We help clients optimise their heating, ventilation and air conditioning HVAC systems by providing products and knowledge to deliver perfect indoor climate at minimum energy use and at the right energy cost.
51.8m Down 1% Our team of just under 2,000 people operate around the world, and we have design organic and manufacturing facilities in six countries.
Performance Engineering After adjusting for the impact of adverse exchange rate movements of 23m and GREAT Solutions disposals of 2m, revenues were 2% higher on an organic basis.
Revenues on a reported basis of 264m 2014: 284m were down 7%.
The strong growth in the second half of the year was driven by sales of new products and the absence of adverse weather conditions experienced in the prior year.
Segmental operating profit at 52m 2014: 57m was 9% lower on a reported basis and, after adjusting for 4m of exchange rate impact, 1% lower on an organic basis.
Operating margins showed their normal second half seasonal improvement to 21.2% 2014: 21.4%, full year margins at 19.6% were slightly lower compared to last year 2014: 20.0%.
During the year we continued to invest in new product development and successfully launched 15 new products, which delivered annualised revenues of around 30m.
A good pipeline of exciting launches is scheduled for 2016, which will underpin our growth ambitions for the division.
Good progress was also made on other strategic initiatives, including a further implementation of the lean principles in our factories and of the new ERP system in the division.
The full implementation of lean, including Kanban and Pull Systems, resulted in base load inventory reductions of 18% while on-time delivery rose to 92%.
These improvements were delivered despite the impact of 15 great new products which required their own additions to inventory and operational complexity in the year.
Balancing and Control Thermostatic Control Pressurisation Water Quality Hydronic balancing is about controlling With an unparalleled history of success Changes in temperature result in Our wide range of separators and water flow, which ensures that a waterowing to our dedication to precision changing water volume, which have degassers protect the installation based heating or cooling system and control, IMI Hydronic Engineerings to be dealt with immediately to avoid and maintain system performance by performs to its full potential.
Today thermostatic control systems guarantee damage and system breakdown.
Our keeping water free of micro-bubbles and unbalanced systems are the cause of reliability in room temperature reliable pressure control systems with sludge in heating, solar and chilled water two thirds of all indoor climate problems.
All our thermostatic control compressors or pumps, together with systems.
Our latest cyclonic technology As the balancing experts, IMI Hydronic bodies and housings are made from our robust range of static expansion has been proven to be up to nine times Engineering enable customers to gunmetal.
Resistant to corrosion and vessels and water make-up devices, more efficient at removing dirt from HVAC maintain comfort at the right level and dezincification, this tough material is make sure there is the right amount systems ensuring a longer life of the increase HVAC efficiency by up to 30%.
shaped using our own casting process.
of water, at the right pressure in the installation, lower maintenance costs Our expertise covers all types of The result is unmatched temperature system at all times.
as well as lower energy costs.
hydronic systems constant flow control and thermostatic valve quality.
and variable flow, static balancing and dynamic balancing.
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 IMI Hydronic Engineering delivered positive results in 2015 in a still challenging European environment.
We continued to strengthen our business, launched a number of great new products and introduced operational improvements.
All of these initiatives resulted in positive sales development in 2015 and will drive significant future growth.
Peter Spencer Divisional Managing Director Key achievements Outlook Delivered 2% organic sales growth In 2016 European construction markets are forecast to remain broadly flat, however, the success of our new product Launched 15 new products including Eclipse, a revolutionary launches is expected to result in good revenue growth in thermostatic radiator valve based on our patented 2016.
Operating margins are expected to show their normal AFC technology second half improvement and reflect the on-going investment Good progress on lean implementation resulting in for longer term growth.
an improved lean assessment score of 72%, an 18% reduction in inventory levels and over 92% on time deliveries Hydronic Engineerings Polish site first in IMI to achieve worldclass lean ranking with score of 88% Market review Governments and international bodies continue to launch initiatives to significantly increase energy efficiency, such as the European Unions plan for nearly-zero energy buildings by 2020: the agreement by the US and China to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase energy efficiency over the next 20 years: and the United Nations plan to double the rate of improvement in energy efficiency by 2030.
The trend towards a more sustainable and energy efficient world will be a key driver for IMI Hydronic Engineering.
While building construction in our core European markets has remained weak in 2015, the global ambition to improve energy efficiency will continue to drive demand for the divisions new and world leading products.
CASE STUDY Capitalising on new product development winning new contracts Eclipse, the next generation automatic thermostatic radiator valve product developed and launched by Hydronic Engineering in just eleven months, has enabled the division to win a number of significant new contracts.
In July 2015, following an introduction to Eclipse during the ISH Exhibition Launch in Frankfurt in March of that year, Vivawest Wohnen GmbH Vivawest Wohnen, one of the largest housing associations in Germany, which owns and manages over 120,000 residential properties, entered into its first contract with Hydronic Engineering.
The contract covers the supply of Eclipse valves for installation into 369 flats at its Neue Stadtgrten housing estate in Recklinghausen all of which are being renovated.
As the Eclipse product automatically balances the heating system and does not require complex calculations to be undertaken, both time and costs are saved during the installation process, which in the case of Neue Stadtgrten totalled 65,000.
Hydronic Engineering is currently in discussions with Vivawest Wohnen to supply Eclipse to a number of other renovation projects it is planning to undertake.
com media imi-in-action 44 IMI plc Corporate Hydronic Governance Engineerings new Slider actuator prototypes are Corporate Governance Report built in an all new The Company Secretary, John OShea, reports design lean cell on corporate governance and the main activities of the Board.
49-53 46-47 Audit 54-56 The Board Committee Report Our business is governed by the Board Ross McInnes, Chairman of the Committee, of directors.
Biographical details of the reports on the oversight role and other directors can be found here.
activities of the Audit Committee.
Nominations Remuneration 57-58 59-71 Committee Report Report Lord Smith, Chairman of the Committee, Bob Stack, Chairman of the Committee, outlines the Committees work on Board gives a full and transparent picture of appointments and succession and other executive director remuneration.
activities of the Nominations Committee.
Above Daily factory performance reviews are a key part of the rhythm of all IMI facilities Right Three IMI CCI Korea employees use the new Obeya Project Management room to deliver exceptional on time deliveries to customers Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Engineering GREAT the IMI Way
