16 IMI plc Strategy in action 1.
Capitalising on significant organic growth opportunities The Group currently operates in attractive end-markets and to achieve our ambitions we must focus on those that offer the greatest potential in terms of delivering top and bottom line growth.
Our priority is to capitalise on those end-markets where we already are, or have the potential to be, in a leading position markets where we can grow and where there are significant higher margin aftermarket opportunities.
Market and positioning Power Oil & Gas Petrochemical Actuation We are the world We supply anti-surge We design and We focus on the design leading supplier of valve and actuator manufacture integrated and production of Almost 7bn addressable market engineered to order systems to the worlds flow control systems complete actuation Attractive growth markets turbine bypass valves largest LNG compression for critical applications systems to operate Leadership position in power for critical applications in facilities.
Our systems in Fluid Catalytic industrial valves for and potential to achieve in other conventional and nuclear are capable of ultra-fast Cracking.
We also supply the most demanding key sectors power plants helping to response to maximise bespoke valves into the applications and provide the safest, most LNG production ethylene, polypropylene processes in terms Barriers to entry provide excellent reliable and efficient while protecting and delayed coking of forces, speed opportunity in high margin power generation.
aftermarket 2015 Revenue: 259m 2015 Revenue: 185m 2015 Revenue: 98m 2015 Revenue: 32m In 2015, IMI Critical Engineering had 57m of other revenue.
Industrial Automation Commercial Vehicle Oil & Gas Life Sciences We supply high We design and We offer a comprehensive We supply precision performance products manufacture a range range of products which flow control solutions 14bn addressable market including valves, valve of cab chassis and deliver precision control used in medical devices, Challenging competitive environment islands, proportional powertrain solutions in even the harshest diagnostic equipment Best in class returns but falling and pressure monitoring which deliver fuel environments, including and biotech and analytical market shares controls and air efficiency, emissions stainless steel valves and instruments.
Our products preparation products, as reduction and faster regulators, nuclear class help to reduce the size Significant potential in Industrial well as a comprehensive assembly times for valves and emergency of equipment, while Automation range of pneumatic the worlds leading shutdown controls.
enhancing accuracy, leading brand actuators.
commercial vehicle throughput and fluid 2015 Revenue: 62m high margins from aftermarket manufacturers.
2015 Revenue: 392m 2015 Revenue: 158m 2015 Revenue: 50m Balancing & Control Thermostatic Control Pressurisation Water Quality Our hydronic balancing We design and Reliable pressurisation is The single most 2bn addressable market opportunity and control solutions manufacture thermostatic a basic requirement for important component enable buildings to keep control systems which a trouble-free operation in any hydronic system Low cyclicality due to resilience of comfort at the right level guarantee direct or of heating, cooling and is the water itself.
When refurbishment markets and lift HVAC efficiency automatic control of solar systems.
Our compromised, the effects Leadership position in core by up to 30%.
Our radiators and underfloor robust range of pressure can be felt throughout the European markets expertise covers constant heating systems to maintenance systems system.
Our dirt and air Best in class returns and as from and variable flow and perfectly control individual with compressors or separators and pressure- 2015 growing market shares both static and room temperatures.
pumps and expansion step degassers protect dynamic balancing.
vessels maintains the right the installation by keeping 2015 Revenue: 89m pressure in the system water free of micro- 2015 Revenue: 135m at all times.
2015 Revenue: 29m 2015 Revenue: 11m Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Market position Market position Market position Attractive higher growth markets with Attractive higher growth markets with Attractive higher growth markets with good competitive position.
Goal Goal Goal Over the life of our five year strategic Significantly improving operational Our goal is to deliver compound organic plan our goal is for an average organic performance and driving organic growth growth in excess of 5% over the life of growth rate of around 6 to 8%.
As we focus on these our five year plan.
priorities, during the first two years of our plan the goal is to grow at a rate in line with the market.
Thereafter the goal is to grow at an average organic rate in the range of 6 to 8%.
Building our presence in attractive Capitalising on organic growth Increasing addressable market markets that offer the greatest opportunities identifying markets expanding product portfolio into potential for growth expanding that offer best returns adjacent markets our presence in China In our Precision Engineering division and in line New product development is the cornerstone of with our strategic plan, during 2015 we undertook Hydronic Engineerings growth plan.
In addition to In 2015, the IMI Board approved significant a significant amount of work to identify the markets developing next generation products to succeed investment to enhance Critical Engineerings that offer the greatest potential for growth.
the divisions existing product portfolio a great footprint in mainland China, an attractive market deal of work was undertaken during the year to with good long-term growth potential.
With a The Industrial Automation sector currently identify new product ranges that will complement greater presence in China, the division will be contributes more than half of the divisions and expand Hydronic Engineerings existing able to manufacture more of its products locally revenues and operates across over 14 global endoffering and enable the division to access in a cost competitive way and be closer to its markets and a very large number of sub-regional new growth markets.
existing key customers and a range of potential markets.
To ensure that we properly harness the new customers.
businesses potential, understanding the current In 2015, Hydronic Engineering began developing landscape it operates within is essential.
a new actuator product known as Slider.
During the first quarter of 2015, the existing Using the divisions new product development Critical Engineering manufacturing facility was During the year we undertook a detailed review processes, Slider was developed, manufactured transferred from Shanghai to the Qingpu Industrial of Precision Engineerings 56 businesses to build and launched in just under twelve months.
Zone, which is west of Shanghais city centre.
a comprehensive understanding of their markets, This new product, which is sold alongside the This facility has additional space and will be the customers, products and competitors.
Equipped divisions valve products, provides accurate base for Critical Engineerings Chinese business with an accurate picture of the current position and efficient control of heating systems.
until early 2018 when all manufacturing will move we were then able to identify those markets into a new purpose built facility, which will also which have the greatest potential to deliver the To support the Slider launch, Hydronic be located in Qingpu.
This new facility will cover best returns.
Using this valuable information as Engineering created an innovative marketing 130,000 square feet and include a dedicated our baseline, we have now developed plans campaign.
The first phase of this campaign, research and development capability.
to accelerate the divisions growth including which targets the divisions own sales team detailed business specific plans for each region aiming to educate, motivate and excite them and product roadmaps that will underpin our about the project, was rolled out successfully sustainable competitive advantage.
Roy Twite, Divisional Managing Director and Jackie Hu, Precision Engineerings industrial products will deliver Hydronic Engineerings new actuator product which President, IMI China sign the commitment for IMI Critical new business opportunities in Rail launched in January 2015 Engineerings new Shanghai facility 18 IMI plc Strategy in action 2.
Improving operational performance The benefits of moving towards and achieving best in class operational performance are very significant.
As we improve how our businesses operate we will better utilise capacity, enhance our competitiveness, reduce working capital and generate cost savings by operating more efficiently.
By doing this, we will also improve services for our customers.
Our ambition is to progressively self-fund our organic growth initiatives using the benefits generated from our operational improvements.
We are on a self-help lean journey, underpinned by the engagement of management and employees at all levels as we believe this is the best way to sustain our achievements.
The operational performance of every site in the Group is benchmarked every six months against the ten areas of lean and significant progress has already been achieved.
A world-class operational performance score is 85% or more.
At the time of the first benchmark, none of our facilities came close to achieving this, with the highest score being 57%.
At the most recent review, the average score reached 59%, with Hydronic Engineerings Polish plant achieving a world-class score of 88%.
All of our businesses continue to implement detailed plans to achieve world-class performance by 2018.
Fourth round assessment average lean scores by division IMI Critical Engineering Chart shows significant opportunity IMI Precision Engineering to improve competitiveness IMI Hydronic Engineering Cultural World-class 85% Awareness Level Visual Management & Housekeeping Production The lean assessment score for every IMI site is available for all employees to view via the lean benchmarking application on the global intranet.
Benchmarking identifies best practice within IMI and provides visibility of where Material Standardised to focus improvements and where to go for assistance Control Work to improve performance going forward.
2015 operational snapshot Obeya room introduced in Total Productive Flexible Critical Engineering to accelerate Maintenance Operations project execution Hydronic Engineerings Polish plant first to achieve world-class audit scores Quick Continuous Value engineering and competitor Changeover Improvement tear downs instituted across Error all divisions Proofing Lean assessments During the course of 2015, our sites have been the subject of semi-annual assessments as we closely monitor the progress being made with lean.
Improvements to date have been encouraging with average Group scores rising from 31% at the first assessment to 59% at the latest review.
Most gratifying has been the collaboration across sites and divisions to achieve that progress which itself is indicative of an important and promising shift in Group culture.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2015 Year end 2014 Year end First assessment Year end target assessment score average 40% 1H 2014 average 56% Site key: average 56% average 26% 1 IMI CCI Korea 13 IMI Z&J Germany 2 IMI CCI Brno 14 IMI T ruflo Rona Belgium % score 3 IMI CCI RSM 15 IMI T ruflo Marine 80 4 IMI STI 16 IMI SSF 5 IMI CCI Japan 70 17 IMI Bopp & 6 IMI InterAtiva Reuther 60 7 IMI CCI SriCity 50 8 IMI Fluid Kinetics 9 IMI CCI Sweden 40 10 IMI Remosa 30 11 IMI Critical Engineering 20 Houston 12 IMI Orton 10 Site 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 Strengthening our operational capabilities new project management tool increases operational agility and customer responsiveness During the year, Critical Engineering Using Obeya, bottlenecks in production significantly enhanced its project can be easily identified, spare capacity management capabilities by introducing in the process flagged and likely delays a new tool called Obeya at many of its anticipated and, as a consequence, 17 sites around the world.
As a result, stock levels and the Japanese word meaning big room, work in progress can be reduced and is a dedicated space within a production on time delivery improved.
Furthermore facility which provides a detailed visual the comprehensive overview of the entire overview of the entire production process, that Obeya provides, enables process from customer order through the plants production process effectively to customer delivery.
to be set to the customers timetable ensuring on time delivery and Every member of the team involved customer satisfaction.
in the design, development and manufacture of one of Critical Engineerings complex bespoke valves has access to Obeya and uses the tool to review and track not only their own area of responsibility but every stage of the entire production process.
The Obeya room process provides real time information to better manage even the most complex projects 20 IMI plc 2015 Year end 2014 Year end First assessment Year end target assessment score average 46% 1H 2014 average 60% Site key: average 59% average 32% 1 IMI Norgren Seattle16 IMI Webber 2 IMI Norgren Brno17 IMI Norgren Warehouse % score 3 IMI FAS Switzerland Louisville 80 4 IMI Norgren 18 IMI Norgren Australia Farmington 70 5 IMI Norgren India 19 IMI Norgren Detroit 6 IMI Norgren China 20 IMI Norgren Kloehn 7 IMI Norgren 60 21 IMI Norgren Singapore Littleton 8 IMI EDC Warehouse 22 IMI Norgren 50 Alpen Brookville 9 IMI Watson Smith 23 IMI Norgren Brazil 40 10 IMI Thompson 24 IMI IMF Valves 25 IMI Norgren 11 IMI Buschjost 30 Denmark 12 IMI Norgren 26 IMI Herion Germany Fellbach Systemtechnik 20 13 IMI Norgren 27 IMI Norgren Germany Alpen Belgium 14 IMI Norgren 10 Queretaro 15 IMI Norgren Fradley Site 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Building strong foundations for future growth driving efficiency through simplification In line with our strategic plan, much of During 2015 excellent progress was our work in 2015 and during this year is made in rationalising the product portfolio.
aimed at making a very fragmented and Approximately 295,000 products were complex business simpler to manage eliminated and the division is well on particularly in terms of structure and track to remove a further 50,000. day-to-day operations.
Most importantly, this project has been delivered without any material impact A key part of this simplification process is on day-to-day business.
rationalising our existing product portfolio to reduce waste and complexity, eliminate Building on the success of the Europe duplication and create space in the product rationalisation project, similar portfolio for new products.
In 2015 we projects are now being implemented launched a project to significantly reduce across the divisions North American the number of products in Precision and Asian operations.
At the start of the project the European product portfolio included 450,000 products of which 13,500 represented 80% of sales.
Many products were no longer sold to customers while others were sold in very small volumes.
As a result, our portfolio contained a large number of redundant products driving unnecessary complexity Excellent progress is being made across Precision and heightened levels of inventory and Engineering sites to reduce complexity and combine working capital.
assembly operations Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2015 Year end 2014 Year end First assessment Year end target assessment score average 59% 1H 2014 average 69% Site key: average 72% average 37% 1 IMI Hydronic Poland 2 IMI Hydronic Slovenia % score 100 3 IMI Hydronic Sweden 90 4 IMI Hydronic Germany 5 IMI Hydronic Switzerland 80 6 IMI Hydronic North America 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 Site 1 2 3 4 5 6 Achieving operational excellence becoming more efficient and more competitive Improving operational performance enabled a second production line to will help our businesses improve their be installed without the need for any competitiveness and achieve their additional floor space.
Each of our 50 across the division have increased from facilities around the world are working four to nine and the installed capacity towards world-class operational is better utilised.
Furthermore, customer performance and during the year responsiveness has improved significantly Hydronic Engineerings Polish plant in with on time delivery now at 91% Olkusz, near Krakow was the first to compared with 82% 18 months ago.
A continuous improvement culture is We assess operational performance now embedded throughout the Olkusz using the renowned lean benchmarking facility.
While the team have secured system.
When the Olkusz plant was first world-class operational status, assessed two years ago, it recorded a maintaining momentum and further score of 53%, which was considerably improving the plants operational below a world-class performance performance to increase the divisions score of 85% or more.
A most recent competitiveness, remains an assessment of the Olkusz facility resulted on-going target.
in a lean score of 88%, and the benefits are very evident.
The plants original production line is now more efficient.
It also operates on a smaller footprint freeing up additional capacity which has Employee involvement and daily tool box talks improve communication 22 IMI plc Strategy in action 3.
Increasing investment in new product development The development of rigorous and standardised processes in different functions is an initiative of fundamental importance at IMI, no more so than in New Product Development.
At the beginning of 2015 we launched a new Group-wide advanced product quality planning APQP process and a more standardised approach to the computer assisted design CAD systems and procedures that we use across the Group.
The APQP manual is a Advanced product quality planning APQP guideline for project teams to ensure that the process On 1 January 2015, we launched a new Group-wide APQP process which, for of new product development the first time, provides a standardised stage gate structure for all new product and introduction is efficient and brings added value to development projects.
The goal of APQP is to deliver projects on time, to the required the customer.
quality, at the agreed cost and in the most efficient way possible.
A crucial element of the process is the creation of a cross-functional team, including representatives from all necessary functions including sales, R&D, engineering, procurement, operations and finance.
APQP timing plan Idea Programme Programme Confirmation Design Launch Launch Job 1 concept approval readiness prototype freeze readiness sign off Planning Product design and development Process design and development Product and process validation Production Feedback assessment and corrective actions Computer assisted design CAD We are rationalising the number of CAD systems that we use as part of the new product development process.
Going forward we will use two core systems which enable both 3D modelling and detailed two dimensional drawings.
By harmonising the systems we will ensure consistency of approach across the product development process and also benefit from economies of scale by purchasing Group-wide solutions.
IMI Critical Engineering, Korea IMI Precision Engineering, Germany IMI Hydronic Engineering, Poland Engineering GREAT Solutions Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Technical expertise and Driving organic growth through Driving organic growth innovation delivers new product development maintaining competitiveness and market-leading positions through significant contracts responding to market potential new product development During the year Critical Engineering won For the first time in eight years Precision eight separate contracts to supply valves Engineering is preparing to launch a new Capitalising on Hydronic Engineerings and actuators for Yamal LNG project, Industrial Automation product range leading market positions across Europe, one of the largest industrial projects in the which will progressively come to market new product development is the Arctic.
Yamal LNG is based in the estuary from the later part of 2016. cornerstone of the divisions growth plan.
of the Ob River in Northern Siberia and Since 2014, 29 new products have been In 2015, building on the extensive work is ice bound for nine months of the developed and launched and today undertaken to assess the potential of year.
Given this extremely challenging generate over 10% of the divisions revenue.
the divisions Industrial Automation environment, the divisions valves business new product roadmaps One of these new products is Eclipse, were selected for a number of reasons were created.
A number of Industrial the next generation automatic thermostatic including their ability to withstand Automation product concepts are now radiator valve that accurately and silently temperatures below -162 celsius.
being developed using new processes controls room temperatures.
Eclipse was and procedures, including competitor successfully launched in March 2015 product benchmarking which involves at the ISH Exhibition in Frankfurt, the the physical tear down of competitors worlds leading trade fair for innovative products to examine the differences building solutions.
and identify product advancement Customer reaction to this new product opportunities.
Teams from Hydronic has been excellent.
500,000 valves were Engineering, who have introduced 29 sold in the first five months of the products new products to market in the past life, a dramatic improvement in demand two years, have worked closely with compared to the product that preceded the Precision Engineering product Eclipse, which sold only 100,000 units development teams, sharing best during its lifetime.
In addition, a number practice and practical guidance of large European wholesalers have based on their own experiences.
IMI Remosa, part of the Critical expressed interest in Eclipse and, as Engineering division, secured several a result, Hydronic Engineering has multi-million euro contracts to supply, developed a new sales strategy using fluidised catalytic cracking valves to a wholesalers as a distribution channel in refinery and petrochemical integrated those markets where the division currently development RAPID in the Southern does not have a strong presence.
This Johor region of Malaysia.
RAPID will new sales strategy came to fruition cover an area of 2,000 hectares and will in November 2015 when Hydronic include a refinery capable of producing Engineering entered into its first wholesale 300,000 barrels a day.
The petrochemical contract with one of Europes largest complex, using the latest technologies distributors of building parts and materials.
and adhering to the most stringent environmental regulations, will produce highly specialised products such as Following the successful roll-out polyethylene, polypropylene of the new product development and synthetic rubbers.
process across Precision Engineerings Industrial Automation business, similar processes will be initiated in the divisions Commercial Vehicle, Rail and Life Science businesses during 2016.
Underpinning Eclipses success are a number of new product development procedures which have enabled this product to be developed and launched in eleven months, a process that would have previously taken around four years.
com media imi-in-action 24 IMI plc Strategy in action 4.
Expanding our addressable markets through targeted acquisitions We will supplement our organic growth initiatives with targeted acquisitions, capable of producing returns in excess of the Groups weighted average cost of capital within three years.
Beyond our existing business portfolio, we have identified the potential to double the Groups addressable market by making acquisitions in adjacent non-valve product markets.
Criteria for such acquisitions include a focus on North American revenues, strong aftermarket dynamics and critical products that create significant barriers to entry.
Our acquisition strategies for each of the divisions are as follows: The growth opportunities within Precision We continue to target bolt-on acquisitions Although the growth plan in our Hydronic Engineering remain significant.
However, to expand our product range and our Engineering division is predominantly readying the business to maximise these geographic footprint within our existing organically focused, there is potential to opportunities was always going to take enhance the division through acquisition.
markets and to extend our presence into adjacent attractive markets, particularly time.
The first phase of our plan has Any addition would need to satisfy where there is an attractive aftermarket focused on simplifying the organisation, stringent criteria but there are business available.
We will also consider implementing robust systems and opportunities including, in particular, expanding our product range to include improving operational performance.
to build critical mass in the North semi-severe and configured opportunities Once the division is operating optimally American market.
in each of our key sectors.
In 2015 we we will look to supplement growth by acquired and successfully integrated targeting larger scale acquisitions.
Broadening the acquisition universe Potential to double addressable market Leverage existing positions in attractive end-markets Non-valve related products and businesses Geographies Market dynamics Products North America Aftermarket 30% Barriers to entry Europe Growth rate 5% pa Criticality of application Latin America Customer intimacy Predictable aftermarket Asia Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 IMI CCI Control valves ready for customer witness testing at IMI Critical Engineerings site in the Czech Republic
