133 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their report, together with the audited financial statements, for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Strategic Report is on pages 8 to 43.
Results and dividend There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: The Group consolidated income statement is shown on page 76.
Segmental operating profit amounted to 239m 2014: 298m and profit before taxation certain restrictions as may from time to time be imposed by laws and and discontinued operations amounted to 163m 2014: 246m.
regulations for example insider trading laws : and pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby the directors and certain The directors recommend a final dividend of 24.5p per share 2014: 24.0p per employees of the Company require approval to deal in the Companys shares.
share on the ordinary share capital payable, subject to shareholder approval, at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 5 May 2016 to shareholders on The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders that the register at the close of business on 8 April 2016.
Together with the interim may result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on voting rights.
dividend of 13.9p per share paid on 18 September 2015, this final dividend will None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control of bring the total distribution for the year to 38.4p per share 2014: 37.6p per share.
The only restrictions on voting rights are those that apply to the ordinary shares held in treasury.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and Research and development voting instructions must be received by the Companys registrars not later See section 2.1.
3.3 to the financial statements on page 89. than 48 hours excluding any non-working days before a general meeting, or subject to the Companys articles of association any adjournment thereof.
Shareholders funds Own shares acquired by the Company Shareholders funds increased from 509m at the end of 2014 to 546m at 31 December 2015.
In 2015 the Company did not make market purchases of its own ordinary shares.
The Company was granted authority at the Annual General Meeting held on Share capital 7 May 2015 to purchase up to 40,774,071 of its ordinary shares of 28 4 7p each.
As at 31 December 2015, the Companys share capital comprised a single class This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of share capital which was divided into ordinary shares of 28 4 7p each.
Details to be held on 5 May 2016 where shareholders will be asked to give a similar of the share capital of the Company are set out in section 4.6 to the financial authority, details of which are contained in the separate Notice of Annual statements on page 49.
The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the General Meeting.
As at 31 December 2015, 14,248,836 ordinary shares nominal value 4,071,096 The Company has a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR programme for were held in treasury representing 5.2% of the issued share capital excluding which Citibank, N. A. acts as depositary.
The ADRs are traded on the US overtreasury shares at that time.
The maximum number of shares held in treasury the-counter market under the symbol IMIAY, where each ADR represents two during the year ended 31 December 2015 was 14,248,836. ordinary shares.
Substantial shareholdings As at 31 December 2015, 925,169 shares were held in an employee trust for use in relation to certain executive incentive plans representing 0.3% of the issued Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Disclosure and share capital excluding treasury shares at that time.
The independent trustee Transparency Rules is published on a regulatory information service and on the of the trust has the same rights as any other shareholder.
Participants in option Companys website.
As at 31 December 2015, the following voting interests in schemes do not hold any voting rights on the shares until the date of exercise.
the ordinary share capital of the Company, disclosable under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, had been notified to the Company: During the year, 144,709 new ordinary shares were issued under employee share schemes: 136,749 under save as you earn plans and 7,960 under executive 1 % Held share plans.
Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank equally with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited 7.77% The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set MFS Investment Management 5.04% out in the Companys articles of association, copies of which can be obtained Blackrock Inc 5.01% from Companies House in the UK, from the Companys website or by writing to the Company Secretary.
Changes to the articles of association must be Ameriprise Financial Inc 5.01% approved by a special resolution of the shareholders 75% majority required in accordance with the legislation in force at the time.
Subject to applicable Legal & General Group plc 3.03% statutes, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide or if there is no such resolution or so far as it 1 As of the date in the notification to the Company does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys report and Subsequent to 31 December 2015 and up to the date of this Report, the accounts, to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Company, Company was notified that the interests of MFS Investment Management were and to appoint proxies to exercise their rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may 10.17%.
receive a dividend and on a liquidation may share in the assets of the Company.
As far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with substantial holdings Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares may requisition in the Company other than those noted above.
a general meeting of the Company or propose resolutions at Annual General Meetings.
Voting rights for ordinary shares held in treasury are suspended and Statement on corporate governance the treasury shares carry no rights to receive dividends or other distributions The required disclosures are contained in the Corporate Governance Report on of assets.
pages 49 to 53 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
134 IMI plc DIRECTORS REPORT Continued Employment policies Our CO e accounting methodology follows DEFRA guidelines and includes 2 all material emissions across IMI.
The Group continues to invest in employee involvement at all levels of the organisation.
Since the global intranet was put in place in 2014, we have had Political donations over 4 million hits from employees.
It has been instrumental in developing cross No political donations were made during the year.
business collaboration and sharing of best practice.
To date we have invested 1.6m in developing the intranet recognising the importance we place on Directors keeping employees informed and connected with Group and individual business developments.
Each Division has now launched its own Divisional intranet to The membership of the Board and biographical details of the directors are given communicate and support business developments specific to its particular needs on pages 46 and 47 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
The Group also continues to publish its cross-divisional newsletter, Quarta resigned as Chairman and Director with effect from the end of the Annual the IMI eye, bi-annually which features news stories from sites around the globe General Meeting held on 7 May 2015.
Lord Smith of Kelvin was appointed as and is distributed to employees and key stakeholders.
The Companys European a director on 7 May 2015 and was appointed as Chairman of the Board at the Works Council, which has been in operation since 2003, meets at least once a end of the Annual General Meeting held on 7 May 2015.
Douglas Hurt and Anita year to exchange views on pan-European issues facing the Group.
At the date Frew retired from the Board at the end of the Annual General Meeting held on 7 of this Annual Report, there are 15 members of the European Works Council May 2015.
Daniel Shook became Finance Director Designate on 1 January 2015 comprising 13 employee representatives nominated from among employees and become Finance Director on 1 March 2015.
Isobel Sharp was appointed to from each of our European businesses, covering 11 countries, with the balance the Board on 1 September 2015. being Company appointees.
The Groups financial results and important The rules for the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in initiatives such as health and safety, training and development, and employee the Companys articles of association.
Each new appointee to the Board is engagement are communicated through a number of mechanisms including required to stand for election at the next Annual General Meeting following their the Works Council, newsletters and intranets for the individual businesses and appointment.
In addition, the Companys articles of association require each the Companys website and town hall meetings.
A Global Benefits Review, director to stand for re-election at least once every three years.
However, in which commenced in early 2015, is underway across the Group to harmonise accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, all directors the remuneration for our employees across each country and align to local wishing to serve again will submit themselves for re-election at the next Annual market practice.
General Meeting and are recommended for re-election.
Share schemes are a long established and successful part of our total reward The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance and all package, encouraging and supporting employee share ownership.
Further details directors of the Company benefit from qualifying third party indemnity provisions of employee share schemes are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages which were in place during the financial year.
At the date of this Annual Report 59 to 71 and in section 4.7 of the financial statements on pages 123 to 126. there are such indemnity arrangements with each director in respect of the A number of people initiatives, including development, employee engagement, costs of defending civil, criminal and regulatory proceedings brought against global benefits and diversity are co-ordinated across the Group.
These initiatives them, in their capacity as a director, subject always to the limitations set by and the Companys approach to investment in these areas are explained on the Companies Act 2006. pages 26 to 29.
Role of the Board Our policy on employee diversity and inclusion is to comply with relevant The role of the Board is: legislation in the countries in which we operate and to actively promote our diversity goal to recruit the very best people to execute our strategic priorities to promote the success of the Company: and to reflect the diverse nature of our global business.
Every effort is made to be guardians of stakeholders interests: ensure that applications for employment from disabled employees are fully and to set monitor leadership behaviour and culture: fairly considered and that disabled employees have equal opportunity in training, to select and appoint the executive management team: succession planning and promotion.
Further details of our approach to diversity and inclusion are set out in pages 29 and 57 and are incorporated into this to provide supportive challenge to the executive management team: report by reference.
to approve business plans and strategy: At all levels we are focused on increasing our diversity as reflected in the to oversee governance, risk and the control environment: and composition of our Board: further details of the Board composition along with to monitor and oversee the businesses and management.
biographies are set out on pages 46 and 47.
The Board provides leadership, direction and governance for the Company and Health, safety and the environment oversees business and management performance.
The Board has adopted a corporate governance framework which defines Board roles and includes the list It is Group policy to continuously improve healthy and safe working conditions of matters reserved to it and written delegations of authority for its committees and to always operate in an environmentally responsible manner.
Board reserved matters include strategy and Our carbon reporting statistics indicate that our recent performance in gross key areas of policy, major operational and strategic risks, significant investment tonnes of CO e has continued to improve: 2012-71,000, 2013-69,000, 2014- 2 decisions and material changes in the organisation of the Group.
Of the 2015 total, our direct Scope 1 emissions of CO e, 2 In the IMI Corporate Governance Framework the Board has clearly defined in essentially gas, diesel and fuel oil consumed, amounted to 18,250 tonnes.
writing those matters which are reserved to it and the respective delegated Our indirect Scope 2 emissions of C0 e, essentially the emissions generated 2 authorities of its committees and it has also set written limits of authority for on our behalf to provide our electricity, amounted to 43,000 tonnes.
The Group has a clear organisational structure and wellIn addition to gross tonnes of CO e, we report CO e intensity relative to million 2 2 established reporting and control disciplines.
Managers of operating units sales.
There has been a slight deterioration in our CO e intensity metric to 2 assume responsibility for and exercise a high degree of autonomy in running 39.5 tonnes m sales in 2015 2014: 37.4, largely on account of exchange day-to-day trading activities.
They do this within a framework of clear rules, rate movement.
On a normalised line-for-line basis however, the IMI carbon policies and delegated authorities regarding business conduct, approval of intensity metric has comfortably achieved our 2015 year-end target of a 7.5% proposals for investment and material changes in operations and are subject reduction over 2012 performance.
Using 2015 as our new baseline, we plan to regular senior management reviews of performance.
to continuously improve our emissions performance going forward, building on the results from the European Energy Directive audits undertaken in 2015 and cascading these lessons throughout our non-European facilities.
135 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Division of responsibilities amongst directors Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation in which they have or may have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly Chairman: may conflict with the interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition to the building a well-balanced Board duty that they owe to the Company to disclose to the Board any interest in any chairing meetings, setting the agenda and ensuring the best use of time transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Company.
If any director becomes aware of any situation which may give rise to a conflict of interest, that ensuring effectiveness of the Board including the quality of debate director informs the rest of the Board and the Board is then permitted under the and decisions articles of association to decide to authorise such conflict.
The information is promoting the right environment and relations for effective engagement recorded in the Companys register of conflicts and a conflicts authorisation and challenge around the boardroom table letter is issued to the relevant director.
setting the tone and high standards of governance practice Change of control getting the right executive leadership and succession plans in place The Company and its subsidiaries are party to a number of agreements that may There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief allow the counterparties to alter or terminate the arrangements on a change of Executive, which is reflected in the written corporate governance framework control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts approved by the Board.
In summary, the Chairman is responsible for the and employee share plans.
Other than as referred to in the next paragraph, leadership and effectiveness of the Board but does not have any executive none of these is considered by the Company to be significant in terms of its powers or responsibilities.
The Chief Executive leads the executive management likely impact on the Group as a whole.
team in running the businesses and implementing operational and strategic plans under authority delegated by the Board.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Groups main funding agreements allow the lenders to renegotiate terms or give notice of repayment The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board meetings operate to for all outstanding amounts under the relevant facilities.
an appropriate agenda, and that adequate information is provided sufficiently in advance of meetings to allow proper consideration.
He is supported by the The Company does not have agreements with any director or employee that Company Secretary, who also assists in ensuring that the Board operates in would provide compensation for loss of office or employment specifically accordance with good corporate governance under the Code and relevant resulting from a takeover, although the provisions of the Companys share regulatory requirements.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the schemes include a discretion to allow awards granted to directors and standing committees of the Board.
The Board has a recognised procedure for employees under such schemes to vest in those circumstances.
any director to obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense and all directors have access to the Company Secretary who is a solicitor.
Information included in the Strategic Report All disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions as required to be Chief Executive: disclosed by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors leadership of the executive management team Report Regulations 2013 are contained on the previous page.
Likely future developments are also covered in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 43. formulating strategy, business plans and budgets ensuring the highest compliance and internal control standards are maintained Information to be disclosed under Listing Rules 9.8.
4R developing organisation structure Listing Rule Detail Page resourcing, talent development and succession plans 9.8.
4R 4 Long-term incentive schemes 59 to 71 The powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation and the articles of association of the Company in force from time to time.
The directors were authorised to allot and issue ordinary shares and to make market purchases Internal control of the Companys ordinary shares by resolutions of the Company passed at its The Board has responsibility for oversight of the Groups system of internal Annual General Meeting held on 7 May 2015 by the passing of new resolutions, control and confirms that the system of internal control takes into account the in respect of the new ordinary shares of 28 4 7p each.
The current authorities Code and relevant best practice guidance including the Financial Reporting will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting to be held on Councils September 2014 publication, Guidance on Risk Management, 5 May 2016, at which new authorities will be sought.
Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Further details of authorities the Company is seeking for the allotment, issue and All operating units prepare forward plans and forecasts which are reviewed in purchase of its ordinary shares are set out in the separate Notice of the Annual detail by the Executive Committee and consolidated for review by the Board.
Performance against forecast is continuously monitored at monthly meetings of the Executive Committee and, on a quarterly basis, by the Board.
Minimum Directors interests standards for accounting systems and controls, which are documented and The interests of the persons including the interests of any connected persons monitored, are promulgated throughout the Group.
Certified annual reports who were directors at the end of the year, in the share capital of the Company, are required from senior executives of operating units, confirming compliance and their interests under share option and incentive schemes, are shown on with Group financial reporting requirements.
The internal audit function, Group page 70.
Assurance, operates a rolling programme of internal assurance on site reviews at selected operating units.
Additionally, visits to operations are carried out Management of conflicts of interest by senior Group finance personnel.
These internal assurance processes are The Companys articles of association include certain provisions relevant to the co-ordinated with the activity of the Companys external auditor.
activity of the Board and its committees and can be viewed on the IMI website.
These provisions include requirements for disclosure and approval by the Board of potential conflicts of interest.
These procedures apply, inter alia, to external directorships and it is the Boards view that they operated effectively during 2015.
136 IMI plc DIRECTORS REPORT Continued Capital investments are subject to a clear process for investment appraisal, The directors also recognised a number of key features of the Companys authorisation and post-investment review, with major investment proposals operations.
The Companys wide geographical and sector diversification, and the referred for consideration by the Executive Committee and, according to their lack of a single major production site, help minimise the risk of serious business materiality, to the Board.
In addition, the Executive Committee and the Board interruption.
Furthermore, our business model is structured so that the Company regularly review the operation of corporate policies and controls including those is not overly reliant on a few large customers.
Our largest customer constitutes relating to ethics and compliance matters, treasury activities, environmental only 2% of Group revenue and our top 20 customers account for just over issues, health and safety, human resources, taxation, insurance and pensions.
In addition, our ability to flex our cost base reduces Compliance and internal audit reports are made available to the Board, the our exposure to sudden adverse economic conditions.
Audit Committee and the Executive Committee, to enable control issues and Going concern developments to be monitored.
Accounting standards require that directors satisfy themselves that it is reasonable Control processes are dynamic and continuous improvements are made for them to conclude whether it is appropriate to prepare financial statements on to adapt them to the changing risk profile of operations and to implement a going concern basis.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors proportionate measures to address any identified weakness in the internal control likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the system.
The internal control declaration process introduced in 2014 is now Strategic Report on pages 6 to 43.
Principal risks are detailed on pages 32 to 35. fully embedded and is enabling improvement in control through bi-annual selfThe financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing assessments from all operating units.
Action plans to improve controls as a result facilities are described in the financial statements.
In addition, section 4.4 to the of these assessments are being tracked and reported to the Audit Committee.
financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes We are committed to further strengthen the key financial control processes.
for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its More information in relation to risk is given on page 32 under the heading financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and Principal Risks and Uncertainties.
Section 4.5 to the financial statements addresses the management Through the procedures outlined here, the Board has considered the of the funding risks of the Groups employee benefit obligations.
effectiveness of all significant aspects of internal control for the year 2015 and up The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-standing to the date of this Annual Report.
The Board believes that the Groups system of relationships with a number of customers, suppliers and funding providers across internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, provides different geographic areas and industries.
The Groups forecasts and projections, reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
taking account of potential and realistic changes in trading performance, indicate that the Group is able to operate within the level of facilities either in place on Financial reporting processes 31 December 2015, or renewed since, without the need to renew any further The use of the Groups accounting manual and prescribed reporting requirements facilities before 25 February 2016.
As a consequence, the directors believe that by finance teams throughout the Group are important in ensuring that the Groups the Group is well-placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the accounting policies are clearly established and that information is appropriately uncertainties inherent in the current economic outlook.
Such uncertainties as reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process.
The use of a standard have been identified are not regarded as material uncertainties for the purpose reporting package by all entities in the Group ensures that information is of the going concern assessment.
presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the consolidated financial statements.
After making due enquiry, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Viability statement foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
In accordance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the directors have assessed the viability of the Company over a relevant period, taking into Disclosure of information to the auditor account the Groups financial and trading position as summarised in this Annual Report, the principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 32 to 35 and the Each director confirms that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant five year business plan reviewed by the Board in September 2015.
Based on audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each director this assessment, and other matters considered and reviewed by the Board, the has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
over the period from the date of this Annual Report to 31 December 2020.
Annual General Meeting The directors have determined that the period to 31 December 2020 constitutes The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Hilton Birmingham Metropole an appropriate period over which to make its assessment of viability.
Whilst the Hotel, National Exhibition Centre, Birmingham on 5 May 2016 at 10am.
directors have no reason to believe the Company will not be viable over a longer Notice of the meeting will be published on the Companys website.
timing horizon, the five year period to 31 December 2020 was chosen as it aligns with the Companys business and strategic planning timing horizon and is a Auditor sensible period for such an assessment.
It is believed this period provides readers of the Annual Report with an appropriately long-term view with which to assess the Resolutions for the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the Companys prospects although future outcomes cannot be predicted with certainty.
Company and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting.
In making its assessment, the Board recognised the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
A summary of these risks can be found on By order of the Board pages 32 to 35 of the Annual Report.
John OShea The five year business plan was used to assess the headroom on the Companys Company Secretary facilities and to stress test ongoing covenant compliance under scenarios where 25 February 2016 its principal risks materialise.
The analysis considered both running business risks, such as reducing revenues and margins, as well as one-off event risks IMI plc is registered in England No.
The Board also considered the Companys ability to raise capital in the future, as well as both the ongoing actions undertaken to prevent occurrence and the potential actions to mitigate the impact of any particular risk.
137 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, which includes the Directors Report, Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement, and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: state that the Group financial statements have complied with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and state for the parent company financial statements whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the parent company and enable them to ensure that the Group and parent company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation as appropriate.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the parent company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibility statement under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Each of the directors, as at the date of this report, confirms that: the Group and parent company financial statements in this Annual Report, which have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK law and with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Annual Report which includes the Directors Report and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Board considers the report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board John OShea Company Secretary 25 February 2016 138 IMI plc INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified Overview of our audit approach We have audited the financial statements of IMI plc for the year ended Risks impacting audit strategy - Revenue and profit recognition 31 December 2015 set out on pages 76 to 151.
In our opinion: - Inventory valuation IMI plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements - Valuation of the overall pension scheme the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups liabilities and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the - The assessment of the carrying value of Group profit for the year then ended: goodwill and acquired intangible assets the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance - Accounting for the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in Audit scope - We performed an audit of the complete accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: financial information of 14 entities and audit and procedures on specific balances for a further 29 entities.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the - The entities where we performed full or requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group specific audit procedures accounted for financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
85% of profit before tax adjusted for nonrecurring items, 66% of revenue and 83% What we have audited of total assets.
We audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements of IMI plc Materiality - Overall Group materiality of 9.4m which for the year ended 31 December 2015 which comprise: represents 5% of profit before tax adjusted Group Parent Company for non-recurring items.
Consolidated balance sheet as at Balance sheet as at What has changed - The accounting for the acquisition of Bopp 31 December 2015 31 December 2015 & Reuther has been included as a risk of Consolidated income statement for Statement of changes in material misstatement.
Bopp & Reuther has the year then ended equity for the year then ended also been included as a full scope entity.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive Related notes C1 to C11 to the income for the year then ended financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 5 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
139 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Our response to the risk Risk Revenue and Profit Recognition 1,557m, PY We carried out testing of controls over revenue recognition with a focus on those related to the timing of comparative 1,686m revenue recognition: Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 55 : We performed analytical procedures to compare revenue recognised with our expectations from past Accounting policies page 128 : and section experience, managements forecasts and, where possible, external market data: 2.1.
1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements We obtained support for individually unusual and or material revenue journals: page 85 We performed tests of detail for a sample of revenue transactions to confirm the transactions had been Revenue recognition is a significant audit risk appropriately recorded in the income statement.
We verified that the risks and rewards of ownership of the across all divisions within the Group.
Specifically products had been transferred to the customer by: there is a risk of inappropriate revenue and analysing the contract and terms of the sale to determine that the Group had fulfilled the requirements of profit recognition if deliveries are recorded within the wrong accounting period, contract the contract: confirming revenue could be reliably measured by reference to underlying documentation: loss provisions are misstated or revenue is not confirming collectability of the revenue was reasonably assured by agreeing to collection history: and accounted for in line with contractual terms.
tracing the costs of the transactions to bills of materials and expenses incurred: The cyclical nature of deliveries within the Critical Engineering divisions results in significant We performed cut-off testing by tracing a sample of transactions around the period end to third party shipments near the December period end which delivery note documentation and customer acceptance.
increases the risk of a cut-off error.
In respect of the Critical Engineering division we audited managements assessment of forecast costs to complete, corroborating the underlying assumptions against historic experience and future production plans to confirm that any contract losses are appropriately recognised.
We performed the same audit procedures at full and specific scope entities over this risk area in 34 locations where revenue is in scope, which represents 66% of the total revenue balance.
We also performed specific procedures over 268m of revenue recognised in the 50 Precision and Hydronic divisions marketing companies.
These companies purchase IMI manufactured products, either directly from the manufacturing IMI entity or through the Groups centralised warehousing, and sell into local markets.
The specific procedures performed included verifying the occurrence and completeness of a sample of sales transactions recognised by the marketing companies through to goods despatch documentation.
We also test a sample of transactions recognised in these companies to determine that the valuation of revenue recognised is consistent with the Groups transfer pricing policies and the inter-company transactions eliminate on consolidation.
What we concluded to the Audit Committee: Our year-end audit procedures did not identify any concerns regarding revenue or profit recognition in the Group.
All transactions tested have been recognised in accordance with contractual terms.
140 IMI plc INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC Continued Our response to the risk Risk Inventory Valuation 233m, PY comparative We carried out testing on controls over inventory valuation to verify the Group values inventory appropriately: 226m We tested the accumulation of cost within inventory, confirming that the valuation reflected the products Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 55 : stage of completion including agreement to the physical inventory counts we attended: Accounting policies page 132 : and section We tested the appropriateness of overhead absorption in the inventory valuation by analysing the nature of 3.1.
1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements costs being absorbed and verifying the level of costs absorbed based on production data: and page 96 We audited the adequacy of excess and obsolete provisions held against inventory by verifying received The valuation of inventory across the Group is orders, inspecting approved budgets, considering historical usage and the historical accuracy of dependent on establishing appropriate valuation provisioning and understanding managements future plans to utilise the inventory.
controls and physical counting procedures.
This includes reliance on manual processes.
We performed the same audit procedures at full and specific scope entities over this risk area in 28 locations Management judgement is applied to formulaic where inventory is in scope, which represents 81% of the total inventory balance.
calculations for standard costing and excess and obsolete inventory provisions.
If these judgements are not appropriate then this increases the risk that inventory is inappropriately stated.
What we concluded to the Audit Committee: Inventory valuation across the Group is considered appropriate including the adequacy of the excess and obsolete provision.
Our audit procedures confirmed the variances between standard and actual costs and the overheads absorbed in the inventory valuation had been correctly calculated.
Our response to the risk Risk Valuation of the overall pension scheme Using external data we benchmarked the key actuarial assumptions, as detailed in section 4.5.
3.2 of the liabilities 1,342m, PY comparative 1,510m consolidated financial statements, used by management, in determining the pension obligation under IAS within the net pension asset of 4m 19 R to determine that their assumptions were appropriate, met the requirements of IFRS and were in line with market practice.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 55 : Accounting policies page 132 : and section This included a comparison of life expectancy with relevant mortality tables, benchmarking inflation and 4.5 of the Consolidated Financial Statements discount rates against external market data, considering changes in historical assumptions and evaluating page 115 the independence, qualifications and results of work performed by managements experts involved in the valuation process.
The actuarial assumptions used to value the UK and overseas pension scheme liabilities We used our pension specialists to assist us with these procedures.
Due to the The audit procedures performed to address this risk have been performed by the group audit team.
significance of the value of the pension obligation, a small change in assumptions may result in a material difference to the amounts reported.
The risk has marginally reduced on the valuation of pension scheme liabilities reflecting further scheme closures in the current year, although the UK scheme represents the vast majority of the total liability and the assumptions continue to be subject to judgement.
What we concluded to the Audit Committee: The actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of the year end liabilities are well within the acceptable range when compared to external benchmarks.
We consider the valuation of pension scheme liabilities to be appropriate.
141 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our response to the risk Risk The assessment of the carrying value of We walked through managements controls in respect of their assessment of the valuation of goodwill goodwill and acquired intangible assets and acquired intangible assets and determined these to be designed and placed in operation: 411m, PY comparative 338m We examined managements methodology, as detailed in section 3.2 of the consolidated financial Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 55 : statements, and models for assessing the valuation of significant goodwill balances to confirm the Accounting policies page 129 : and section 3.2.
2 composition of managements future cash flow forecasts, and the process by which they were drawn up.
of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 98 This included confirming that the underlying cash flows were consistent with the Board approved budgets: As a consequence of the Groups growth strategy In accordance with the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, management performed an a significant value of goodwill and intangible impairment test on all CGUs that have goodwill allocated.
assets has arisen from acquisitions.
There is a For all CGUs we calculated the degree to which the key assumptions would need to fluctuate before an risk that cash generating units CGUs may not impairment conclusion was triggered and considered the likelihood of this occurring.
achieve the anticipated business performance to support the carrying value of these assets In respect of the CGUs identified as having impairment indicators or low levels of head room we performed leading to an impairment charge that has not detailed testing to critically assess and corroborate the key inputs of the forecast cash flows including: been recognised by management.
Significant corroborating the discount rate used by obtaining the underlying data used in the calculation and judgement is required in assessing the future cash benchmarking it against comparable organisations: flows of the CGU, together with the rate at which validating the growth rate assumed by comparing them to economic and industry forecasts: and they are discounted.
analysing the historical accuracy of budgets to actual results to determine whether forecast cash flows During 2015, and as a result of changes to the are reliable based on past experience.
operational activities within the Group to integrate the activities of acquired business, transfer We considered the appropriateness of the amortisation rates and useful economic lives of intangible assets technology and increase the incidence of crossallocated to CGUs on acquisition with reference to their expected usage and future economic inflows.
selling by its businesses, management have We obtained evidence of increased cross-selling within the Critical businesses and interdependencies redefined the groups of CGUs within the Critical of cash flows within this division.
We confirmed the change in internal reporting has occurred and the engineering division to which goodwill is allocated.
CGUs considered for impairment testing are aligned to this new basis of internal reporting on financial In particular, some previously separate CGUs have performance.
been combined to reflect those groups which now generate cash inflows that are largely independent The audit procedures performed to address this risk have been performed by the group audit team.
These changes led management to restructure its internal reporting accordingly.
A risk exists that the CGUs used in the impairment testing are not appropriate.
What we concluded to the Audit Committee: We concurred with managements conclusion that none of the CGUs are required to be impaired as at 31 December 2015.
Based on the change in the way in which cash inflows are generated and the changes in the associated internal reporting structure, we consider the CGUs to be appropriate.
Risk Our response to the risk Accounting for the acquisition of Bopp & We obtained and inspected the key contracts associated with the acquisition, including the sale and purchase Reuther Consideration of 109m, Goodwill agreement, to confirm that significant terms and conditions have been appropriately accounted for.
New risk for FY15 With involvement of EY business valuations specialists, we evaluated managements determination of the Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 55 : fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired, and in particular the valuation of intangible assets.
This Accounting policies page 129 : and section 3.4 of included corroborating the key assumptions made by management, such as the useful economic lives, the Consolidated Financial Statements page 100 discount rates and growth rates applied.
These assumptions were also benchmarked against historic IMI acquisitions and other transactions in the sector.
The identification and valuation of intangible assets arising on the Bopp & Reuther acquisition We worked with EY tax audit specialists to determine the completeness and accuracy of the current and is considered to be a significant risk for the IMI deferred tax balances included in the acquisition balance sheet including the impact on the tax balances plc group audit.
Management has exercised of the fair value adjustments applied in the acquisition accounting.
significant judgement in determining the The audit procedures performed to address this risk have been performed by the group audit team.
appropriate fair value adjustments in respect of the assets and liabilities acquired.
In particular, the judgement in determining the fair value and estimated useful economic life of intangible assets acquired such as customer relationships, the order book and the Bopp & Reuther brand.
What we concluded to the Audit Committee: We confirmed management had used appropriate valuation techniques to determine the fair value of the identified assets and liabilities acquired.
Accordingly, we concluded the goodwill and intangibles of 118.1m were correctly recognised.
142 IMI plc INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC Continued The scope of our audit Profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items - CY PY Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation 26% 17% of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Full scope entities Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account the level of Group revenue and operating profit, risk profile including country risk, risk determined to be 15% 15% associated based on the grading of internal audit findings, controls findings, Other procedures historical knowledge and discussions with management and the level of growth in the entity, the number of significant accounts based on performance materiality and any other known factors when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
59% 68% In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, Specific scope entities and to achieve adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 128 reporting entities of the Group, we selected 43 entities, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 43 entities selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial Revenue - CY PY information of 14 entities full scope entities which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 29 entities specific scope entities, 40% 38% we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that entity that we Full scope entities considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
17% 18% The reporting entities where we performed audit procedures accounted for 85% Other procedures 2014: 85% of the Groups profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items, 26% 27% 66% 2014: 65% of the Groups revenue and 83% 2014: 82% of the Groups Specific scope entities total assets.
17% 17% We also performed procedures over the revenue recognised in the Precision Procedures on and Hydronic divisions marketing companies, which provided additional marketing companies coverage of 17% in respect of the Groups Revenue.
Excluding full and specific scope entities, there are a further 85 reporting entities with average revenues of 6.1m and average profit before tax adjusted for Total assets - CY PY non-recurring items of 0.3m.
In addition, these locations do not have common systems and controls.
As a consequence, we consider the likelihood of any systematic error arising within this population to be low.
Notwithstanding 20% 26% this, for the remaining 85 entities we performed other procedures, including Specific scope entities analytical review and enquiries of management to address the residual risk of material misstatement.
The charts to the right illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed 17% 18% by our audit teams.
Other procedures 63% 56% Full scope entities 143 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Involvement with entity teams Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the entities by us, as aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
the group audit team, or by entity teams from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the 43 full scope and specific scope entities, On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the where the work was performed by entity teams, we determined the appropriate Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had materiality was 50% 2014: 50% of our planning materiality, namely 4.7m 2014: 6.2m.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to conclude that undetected been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our planning materiality level.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the group Audit work at entity locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over audit team to the entity teams in China, Czech Republic, Germany, India, significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage Mexico, Sweden, Switzerland and the USA.
These visits involved meeting of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each entity with our entity team to discuss and direct their audit approach, reviewing is based on the relative scale and risk of the entity to the Group as a whole and and understanding the significant audit findings in response to the risk areas our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that entity.
In the current year, including revenue, profit recognition and inventory valuation, holding meetings the range of performance materiality allocated to entities was 0.45m to with local management, undertaking factory tours and obtaining updates on 1.35m 2014: 0.7m to 1.8m.
local regulatory matters including tax, pensions and legal.
The group audit team interacted regularly with the entity teams where appropriate during various Reporting threshold stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional clearly trivial.
procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all opinion on the Group financial statements.
uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.5m 2014: 0.6m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, Our application of materiality in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative Materiality considerations in forming our opinion.
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the Scope of the audit of the financial statements aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 9.4m 2014: 12.4m, which is This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 5% 2014: 5% of profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items.
We believe the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently that profit before tax, adjusted for the items described in the table, provide us applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality and is the most estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the During the course of our audit, we reassessed and reduced materiality Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited from preliminary materiality of 10.9m to final materiality of 9.4m following financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially a reduction to the forecasted profitability of the Group.
This was due to a incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us combination of adverse exchange differences, lower profit within the Critical in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material Engineering division due to the economic weakness observed in China and misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
a weakening in market conditions in Europe affecting the Precision and Hydronic Engineering divisions which developed throughout the period.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 137, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial Profit before tax - 162.7m Starting basis statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our For the year ended 31 December 2015 responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Loss on disposals of businesses - 8.4m Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Note 3.5 to the Financial Statements This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance Gain on special pension events - 9.1m with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been Adjustments Note 2.2.
3 to the Financial Statements undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
Restructuring - 27.1m To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Note 2.2.
2 to the Financial Statements to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items - Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 189.1m basis for materiality Materiality In our opinion: Materiality - 9.4m 5% of 189.1m the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
144 IMI plc INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC Continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the Annual Report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review requirements We are required to review: the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 136, and longer-term viability, set out on page 136: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Conclusion in respect of all matters on which we are required to report by exception: We have nothing to report in respect of any of the items above.
Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs UK and Ireland reporting We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the directors explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Conclusion: We have nothing to add or to draw attention to in respect of the above.
Andrew Walton Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 25 February 2016 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the IMI plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions 145 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 COMPANY BALANCE SHEET At 31 December 2015 2015 2014 Note m m Fixed assets Investments C5 173.2 173.2 Current assets Debtors C6 397.3 447.3 Deferred tax assets C7 1.9 4.3 Cash at bank and in hand 11.3 3.4 410.5 455.0 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Other creditors C8 2.9 41.2 Net current assets 407.6 413.8 Total assets less current liabilities 580.8 587.0 Net assets 580.8 587.0 Capital and reserves Called up share capital C9 81.8 81.7 Share premium account C9 11.8 10.8 Capital redemption reserve C9 174.4 174.4 Profit and loss account C9 312.8 320.1 Equity shareholders funds 580.8 587.0 Approved by the Board of Directors on 25 February 2016 and signed on its behalf by: Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman 146 IMI plc COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY for the year ended 31 December 2015 Share Share Redemption Retained Parent capital premium reserve earnings equity m m m m m At 1 January 2014 85.3 171.8 7.9 333.9 598.9 Retained profit for the year 730.1 730.1 Dividends paid on ordinary shares 97.3 97.3 Shares issued in the year 0.1 1.8 1.9 Issue of B shares - capital option 151.9 151.9 - Issue of C shares - income option 10.9 10.9 - Redemption of B and C shares 162.8 162.8 162.8 162.8 Dividends paid on C shares 457.5 457.5 Cancellation of treasury shares 3.7 3.7 - Share-based payments 4.4 4.4 Shares acquired for: employee share scheme trust 30.7 30.7 At 31 December 2014 81.7 10.8 174.4 320.1 587.0 Retained profit for the year 91.8 91.8 Dividends paid on ordinary shares 102.5 102.5 Shares issued in the year 0.1 1.0 1.1 Share-based payments 1.1 1.1 Shares issued by: employee share scheme trust 2.3 2.3 At 31 December 2015 81.8 11.8 174.4 312.8 580.8 147 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C1.
Significant accounting policies Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required with items considered material in relation to the financial statements, by IAS12 Income Taxes.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are except where otherwise noted below: expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse, based on the tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
A Basis of accounting deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable The financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
Equity and equity-related compensation benefits The Company has not presented a separate profit and loss account as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company operates a number of equity and equity-related compensation benefits as set out in section 4.7 to the Group financial statements.
The fair The Company has transitioned to FRS 101 from previously extant UK Generally value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options Accepted Accounting Practice for all periods presented.
Transition tables is recharged in full to the principal employing company and accordingly, there is showing all material adjustments are disclosed in note C11.
no net charge recorded in the Companys financial statements.
The recharged amount is recognised as a debtor falling due for payment within one year.
The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under FRS 101: The total amount recharged over the vesting period is determined by reference a the requirements of paragraphs 45 b and 46-52 of IFRS2 Share based to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market Payment: vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
Nonb the requirements of IFRS7 Financial Instruments: market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
The fair value of the options at c the requirements of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS13 Fair Value Measurement: the date of grant is determined based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
d the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements to present comparative information in respect of paragraph 79 a At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of iv of IAS1: original estimates, if any, in the amount recharged to subsidiary undertakings.
e the requirements of paragraphs 10 d, 10 f and 134-136 of IAS1: For newly issued shares, the proceeds received, net of any directly attributable f the requirements of IAS7 Statement of Cash Flows: transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share g the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS8 Accounting Policies, premium when the options are exercised.
Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors: h the requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS24 Related Party Disclosures: and Treasury shares i the requirements in IAS24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related The consideration paid by the Company on the acquisition of treasury shares party transactions entered into between two or more members of the Group, is charged directly to retained earnings in the year of purchase.
Consideration provided that any subsidiary which is party to the transaction is wholly owned received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any by such a member.
Related party transactions with the Companys key difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost taken to share management personnel are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages premium.
If treasury shares are subsequently cancelled the nominal value of 59 to 71 and in section 5.2 on page 127 of the Group financial statements.
the cancelled shares is transferred from share capital to the capital redemption reserve.
No gain or loss is recognised on the purchase, sale or cancellation of Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty treasury shares.
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make Dividends judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability income and expenses during the year.
However, the nature of estimation means at that date to the extent that they are authorised and are no longer at the that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
Foreign currencies The Companys functional currency and presentation currency is sterling.
Remuneration of directors Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling The detailed information concerning directors emoluments, shareholdings and at the date of transaction.
options are shown in the audited section of the Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 71 and section 2.1.
3 of the Group financial statements.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date C3.
Staff numbers and costs and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
The number of people employed by the Company, including directors, during Investments the year was 32 2014: 28 all of whom were employed in administrative roles.
The costs associated with them were borne by a subsidiary undertaking.
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less any provision for impairment.
The Companys cost of investments in subsidiary undertakings is The Company participates in the IMI UK Funds, which are defined benefit stated at the aggregate of a the cash consideration and either b the nominal schemes in which the assets are held independently.
The total net defined value of the shares issued as consideration when section 612 of the Companies benefit costs of these Funds are borne by a subsidiary undertaking and Act 2006 applies or c in all other cases the market value of the Companys therefore in accordance with IAS19, no net defined benefit costs are recognised shares on the date they were issued as consideration.
in the Companys financial statements.
Section 4.5 to the Group financial statements provides further details regarding the defined benefit schemes.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of temporary differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
148 IMI plc COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued C4.
Dividends The aggregate amount of dividends comprises: 2015 2014 m m Prior year final dividend paid - 24.0p per qualifying ordinary share 2014: 22.5p 64.9 60.6 Current year interim dividend paid - 13.9p per qualifying ordinary share 2014: 13.6p 37.6 36.7 Aggregate amount of dividends paid in the financial year 102.5 97.3 Dividends paid in the year of 102.5m represent 37.9p per share 2014: 36.1p.
After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the directors.
The dividends have not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences.
2015 2014 m m Current year final dividend - 24.5p per qualifying ordinary share 2014: 24.0p 66.4 64.9 Dividends proposed after the balance sheet date may differ from the final dividend paid.
This is a result of the final number of qualifying shares entitled to dividends differing from those in issue at the balance sheet date.
Fixed assets - investments Subsidiary undertakings 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 2015 and 31 December 2015 cost and net book value 173.2 173.2 Details of subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2015 are shown on pages 152 to 153.
Debtors 2015 2014 m m Falling due for payment after more than one year: Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 316.4 334.3 Falling due for payment within one year: Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 80.9 113.0 397.3 447.3 C7.
Deferred tax 2015 2014 m m The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: Employee benefits and share based payments 1.9 4.3 Deferred tax asset included in the balance sheet 1.9 4.3 m Reconciliation of movement in deferred tax asset: At 1 January 2015 4.3 Deferred tax charge in the profit and loss account 2.4 At 31 December 2015 1.9 It was announced in the Budget of July 2015 that the UK corporate tax rate will reduce to 19% and 18% in 2017 and 2020 respectively.
These rates were substantively enacted on 26 October 2015.
The deferred tax balance has been calculated based on the rates applicable when the balances are expected to reverse, which is mainly 18% 2014: 20%.
Other creditors falling due within one year 2015 2014 m m Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 1.0 39.5 Other payables 1.9 1.7 2.9 41.2 C9.
Share capital and reserves Share Share Redemption Retained Parent capital premium reserve earnings equity m m m m m At 1 January 2014 85.3 171.8 7.9 333.9 598.9 Retained profit for the year 730.1 730.1 Dividends paid on ordinary shares 97.3 97.3 Shares issued in the year 0.1 1.8 1.9 Issue of B shares - capital option 151.9 151.9 - Issue of C shares - income option 10.9 10.9 - Redemption of B and C shares 162.8 162.8 162.8 162.8 Dividends paid on C shares 457.5 457.5 Cancellation of treasury shares 3.7 3.7 - Share-based payments 4.4 4.4 Shares acquired for : employee share scheme trust 30.7 30.7 At 31 December 2014 81.7 10.8 174.4 320.1 587.0 Retained profit for the year 91.8 91.8 Dividends paid on ordinary shares 102.5 102.5 Shares issued in the year 0.1 1.0 1.1 Share-based payments 1.1 1.1 Shares issued by : employee share scheme trust 2.3 2.3 At 31 December 2015 81.8 11.8 174.4 312.8 580.8 Details of treasury and employee trust share scheme movements are contained in section 4.6 of the Group financial statements and details of dividends paid and proposed in the year are shown in note C4.
All of the retained earnings held at both 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 are considered to be distributable reserves.
Contingencies Contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of business and other items amounted to 64.4m 2014: 73.5m.
There is a right of set-off with three of the Companys bankers relating to the balances of the Company and a number of its wholly-owned UK subsidiaries.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
150 IMI plc COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued C11.
Transition to FRS 101 For all periods up to and including the year ended 31 December 2014, the Company prepared its financial statements in accordance with previously extant United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice UK GAAP.
Accordingly, the Company has prepared individual financial statements which comply with FRS 101 and the significant accounting policies meeting those requirements are described in the relevant notes.
In preparing these financial statements, the Company has started from an opening balance sheet as at 1 January 2014, the Companys date of transition to FRS 101, and made those changes in accounting policies and other restatements required for the first-time adoption of FRS 101.
As such, this note explains the principal adjustments made by the Company in restating its balance sheet as at 1 January 2014 prepared under previously extant UK GAAP and its previously published UK GAAP financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
On transition to FRS 101, the Company has applied the requirements of paragraphs 6-33 of IFRS1 First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
Reconciliation of equity at 1 January 2014 FRS 101 reclassifications and UK GAAP re-measurements FRS 101 m m m Fixed assets Investments 573.4 334.3 239.1 Current assets Debtors 88.0 334.3 422.3 Deferred tax assets - - - Cash at bank and in hand - - - 88.0 334.3 422.3 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Bank overdraft 2.5 - 2.5 Borrowings 19.0 - 19.0 Other creditors 41.0 - 41.0 Net current assets 25.5 334.3 359.8 Total assets less current liabilities 598.9 - 598.9 Net assets 598.9 - 598.9 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 85.3 - 85.3 Share premium account 171.8 - 171.8 Capital redemption reserve 7.9 - 7.9 Profit and loss account 333.9 - 333.9 Equity shareholders funds 598.9 - 598.9 151 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Reconciliation of equity at 31 December 2014 FRS 101 reclassifications and UK GAAP re-measurements FRS 101 m m m Fixed assets Investments 507.5 334.3 173.2 Current assets Debtors 43.0 404.3 447.3 Deferred tax assets 3.5 0.8 4.3 Cash at bank and in hand 3.4 - 3.4 49.9 405.1 455.0 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Other creditors 41.2 - 41.2 Net current assets 8.7 405.1 413.8 Total assets less current liabilities 516.2 70.8 587.0 Net assets 516.2 70.8 587.0 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 81.7 - 81.7 Share premium account 10.8 - 10.8 Capital redemption reserve 174.4 - 174.4 Profit and loss account 249.3 70.8 320.1 Equity shareholders funds 516.2 70.8 587.0 a Loans to subsidiary undertakings Under UK GAAP at 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014, the Company recognised 334.3m of long-term loans to subsidiary undertakings as fixed asset investments in accordance with FRS15.
Under FRS 101, these amounts have been reclassified as debtors falling due after more than one year.
b Defined benefit pension costs Under UK GAAP, the Company was unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the IMI UK Funds and consequently was required to account for pension costs as if the schemes were defined contribution schemes in accordance with FRS17 paragraph 9 b.
As a result of a contractual arrangement, the total net defined benefit obligation of these Funds are now borne by a subsidiary undertaking and therefore in accordance with IAS19, no net defined benefit costs are recognised in the Companys financial statements.
The 70.0m pension costs recognised in the profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2014 have been restated to comply with IAS19.
c Deferred tax asset Under UK GAAP, the Company had an unrecognised deferred tax asset at 31 December 2014 of 0.8m relating to future tax relief for pension contributions paid in 2014.
Upon transition to FRS 101, this deferred tax asset has been recognised.
152 IMI plc SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS A full list of the Groups subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2015 is included below.
Except where indicated, the undertakings are subsidiaries incorporated in the United Kingdom and the share capital consists of ordinary shares only.
The principal country in which each subsidiary operates is the country of incorporation.
IMI plcs effective interest in the undertakings listed is 100%, except where indicated, and is held in each case by a subsidiary undertaking, except for IMI Group Ltd which is held directly by IMI plc.
The Group has an interest in a partnership, the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership, which is fully consolidated into these Group accounts.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by regulation 7 of the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 and has, therefore, not appended the accounts of this qualifying partnership to these accounts.
Separate accounts for the partnership are not required to be and have not been filed at Companies House.
Aero Dynamiek B. V. Netherlands Fluid Automation Systems Technologies SA IMI Hydronic Engineering Limited Switzerland Aero-Dynamiek BVBA Belgium IMI Hydronic Engineering Ltda Brazil Heimeier GmbH Germany Anson Cast Products Limited IMI Hydronic Engineering NV Belgium Herion Systemtechnik GmbH Germany Ashford Valves Limited IMI Hydronic Engineering OY Finland Holford Estates Limited B&R Holding GmbH Germany IMI Hydronic Engineering Pte Ltd Singapore IMI Americas Inc United States Bopp & Reuther Gesellschaft mit beschraenkter IMI Hydronic Engineering s. r. l. Italy Haftung Austria IMI Australia Pty Limited Australia IMI Hydronic Engineering SA France Bopp & Reuther Sicherheitsund Regelarmaturen IMI CIF Trustee Limited IMI Hydronic Engineering SA Spain GmbH Germany IMI Components Inc United States IMI Hydronic Engineering UAB Lithuania Bopp & Reuther Zikesch Maintenance Group s. r. l. IMI Components Limited IMI Hydronic Engineering Switzerland AG Romania IMI Consulting Shanghai Co Limited China Switzerland Brookvale International Insurance Limited Bermuda IMI Critical Engineering Holding GmbH Germany IMI Indoor Climate AB Sweden Buschjost GmbH Germany IMI Deutschland II GmbH & Co KG Germany IMI Indoor Climate Trading Shanghai Co Ltd China C. H. Zikesch Armaturen GmbH Germany IMI Deutschland Limited IMI Interamerica Inc. United States CCI Asia Pacific Pte Ltd Singapore IMI Deutschland Verwaltungs GmbH Germany IMI International EOOD Bulgaria CCI AG Switzerland IMI Euro Finance Limited IMI International Co Srl Romania CCI America do Sul Comercio fide Equipamentos IMI Fluid Controls Finance Limited IMI International d. o. o Slovenia Industriais Ltda Brazil IMI Fluid Controls Holdings Inc United States IMI International d. o. o. CCI Czech Republic s. r. o. Czech Republic Beograd Serbia and Montenegro IMI France SARL France CCI Flow Control Shanghai Co Ltd China IMI International d. o. o. Croatia IMI Germany Holding Limited & Co. KG Germany CCI International Limited IMI International Kft.
Hungary IMI Germany Limited CCI Italy Srl Italy IMI International LLC Russian Federation IMI Group Inc United States CCI KK Japan IMI International s. r. o. Czech Republic IMI Group Limited CCI Limited Korea, Republic of IMI International Sp.
z. o. o. Poland IMI Group Services Limited CCI Switzerland AG Switzerland IMI Kynoch Limited IMI Hidronik Muhendislik Iklimlendirme Sistemleri CCI Valve Technology AB Sweden Ltd Sti Turkey IMI Lakeside Five Limited CCI Valve Technology GmbH Austria IMI Holdings Limited IMI Lakeside Four Limited Charles Baynes Netherlands BV Netherlands IMI Holdings LLC United States IMI Lakeside Ireland Limited Ireland Church Bell Financial Services Limited IMI Holland Limited IMI Lakeside NZ Limited New Zealand Commtech Limited IMI Hydronic Engineering SA Luxembourg IMI Lakeside One Limited Control Component India Pvt Limited India IMI Hydronic Engineering A S Denmark IMI Lakeside Three Limited Control Components Inc United States IMI Hydronic Engineering AB Sweden IMI Lakeside Two Limited Deeside Titanium Limited 18% IMI Hydronic Engineering AS Norway IMI Marston Limited Engineering Appliances Limited IMI Hydronic Engineering BV Netherlands IMI Netherlands Holdings BV Netherlands EVU Energi & VVS Utveckling AB Sweden IMI Hydronic Engineering Deutschland IMI Norgren Herion PVT Limited India FAS Medic SA Switzerland GmbH Germany IMI Norgren Limited Ireland FCX Ireland Limited Ireland IMI Hydronic Engineering FZE IMI Norgren Limited Canada FCX North America Limited United Arab Emirates IMI Norgren Pneumatics Shanghai Co Limited FCX Pension Trustees Limited IMI Hydronic Engineering GesmbH Austria China Fluid Automation Systems GmbH Germany IMI Hydronic Engineering Inc United States IMI Norgren SA Sociedad Unipersonal Spain Fluid Automation Systems SA Switzerland IMI Hydronic Engineering International SA IMI Norgren Terracco S. L. Spain Switzerland 153 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 IMI Overseas Investments Limited Norgren B. V. Netherlands Quanta Fluid Solutions Limited 24% IMI Pensions Trust Limited Norgren Co Limited China Remosa Service & Construction Srl Italy IMI plc Norgren Co Limited Thailand Remosa Srl Italy IMI Property Investments Limited Norgren European Logistics Company Limited SAIC CCI Valve Co. Ltd. China 44% IMI Refiners Limited Norgren Finland OY Finland Shanghai CCI Power Control Equipment Co Ltd China 70% IMI Retirement Savings Trust Limited Norgren Ges.
m. b. H Austria Stainless Steel Fasteners Limited IMI Scotland Limited Norgren GmbH Germany STI s. r. l. Italy IMI Sweden AB Sweden Norgren GT Development Corporation United States TA Hydronics Holding AG Switzerland IMI Sweden Finance Limited Norgren Inc United States TA Hydronics LLC Ukraine IMI Systems Limited Norgren Kloehn, Inc. United States TA Regulator d. o. o. Slovenia IMI Vision Limited Norgren Limited New Zealand TH Jansen Armaturen GmbH Germany IMI Watson Smith Limited Norgren Limited Hong Kong The Commtech Group Limited IMI Webber Limited Norgren Limited The IMI Scottish Limited Partnership Industrie Mecanique Pour Les Fluides SA France Norgren Ltda Brazil Thompson Valves Limited Interativa Indstria, Comrcio e Representaes Ltda Brazil Norgren Manufacturing Co Ltd China Transpal Limited Ireland Kynoch Sweden Holding AB Sweden Norgren Manufacturing fide Mexico SA fide CV Truflo Group Limited Mexico Lakeside Finance Ireland Truflo International Limited Norgren NV Belgium Lakeside Treasury Ireland Truflo Investments Limited Norgren Pte.
Limited Singapore Liquick 200 Limited Truflo Marine Limited Norgren Pty Limited Australia Liquick 211 Limited Truflo Rona S. A. Belgium Norgren SA fide CV Mexico Liquick 213 Limited Truflo Rona S. r. l. Italy Norgren SAS France Martonair International Limited Tube Fittings Sales Pty Limited Australia Norgren SDN BHD Malaysia Martonair Limited Valves Holding GmbH Germany Norgren SpA Italy Middlepark Z&J High Temperature Equipment Shanghai Co Norgren Sweden AB Sweden Ltd China Newman Hattersley Limited Canada Norgren Taiwan Co Limited Taiwan Z&J Technologies GmbH Germany Norgren A S Denmark Oldpeg Limited Ireland Zimmermann & Jansen Inc United States Norgren AG Switzerland Orton S. R. L, Italy Norgren AS Norway Pneumatex GmbH Germany Norgren Automation Solutions LLC United States Premier Profiles Limited GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES The following table shows the geographic distribution of employees as at 31 December 2015 and is not required to be audited.
UK 1,439 Continental Europe 6,160 Americas 2,187 Asia Pacific 1,469 Rest of World 45 Total 11,300
