Imagination Ideas behind ideas At Imagination we create and license market-leading processor solutions for graphics, video and vision processing, general purpose and embedded processing CPU & MCU, and multi-standard communications.
Our broad range of silicon IP intellectual property includes the key processing blocks needed by our customers to create the Systems on Chips SoC that power electronic devices.
We call these processing engines our three key pillars, and we have built strong brands around them: PowerVR multimedia, MIPS processors, and Ensigma Imagination is one communications.
of the worlds top Imagination is one of the worlds top three silicon IP companies source, Gartner: three silicon IP 2015 and has been for the past five years 2010. companies Weve achieved that position because we have a passion for innovation and the drive to develop technologies that deliver leadership for our customers products, and enrich users lives.
Our technologies have not only already been instrumental in key markets such as mobile phone, computing, home electronics, handheld multimedia, automotive and networking, they are also enabling new kinds of devices across the Internet of Things IoT, wearables and other markets.
Because of this we believe that the Imagination story is just beginning.
With over eight billion units shipped containing our technology there is an Imagination enabled product for everyone on earth but we regard this as merely the start.
Our goal is to help create a smarter, more connected world that enriches lives in many ways every day.
Difference Our technology has unique advantages that make it highly desirable both to market leading technology companies who might otherwise develop such technologies themselves, and start-up companies who seek to disrupt established markets.
Our reputation is built on innovation.
Our focus on low power consumption, the smallest silicon area, and the highest efficiency are three key reasons our technology is in demand from leading chip companies.
These design imperatives permeate everything we do.
We are also now introducing new areas of profound differentiation, such as security.
We package our IP in ever more creative ways, from IP cores, through subsystem IP platforms, to full reference IP platforms.
We are also introducing new technologies that enable better SoCs to be made using our IP, such as multidomain security, advanced design flows, and much more.
Customers can license just one IP core or take a whole range.
They can integrate our IP individually, or as pre-verified combined subsystems with their own technology, and if needed rely on us to help in creating their SoC.
8 Strategic report | SoC fabric Combining our This makes us unique in the IP business.
We are the only IP company with a true IP cores enables focus on the solutions our customers require as a springboard to differentiation, our customers to best time to market and compelling ROI return on investment.
create their own Strategy differentiated platforms Ensigma PowerVR Communications Graphics and GPU Compute Processors Processors FlowCloud Connectivity Unified PowerVR Memory Video Processors MIPS General Processors PowerVR Vision Processors Imaginations long-term strategy is to build, with our customers, solutions of real scale across a wide range of markets, based on some or all of our three fundamental silicon IP families PowerVR multimedia, MIPS processors, and Ensigma communications and the platforms they enable.
These three complementary and essential IP families, used in various configurations across every market we address, are central to the Groups overall strategy.
They: Individually: offer a comprehensive and highly scalable range of IP products that are technology leaders in their respective areas Collectively: enable the creation of IP platforms addressing a growing range of subsystem and solution needs that form the basis of our customers differentiated solutions Imagination is a different kind of IP company.
We see that the future is about secure heterogeneous platforms that combine our IP with our customers and partners differentiating IP to create unique solutions and we are unique in this area by going much further than anyone else to realize scalable IP platforms to accelerate the path from concept to volume production.
We believe that each of our IP pillars is better than other point solutions but also that together in a heterogeneous SoC they enable our customers to have opportunities to create solutions faster, at lower cost and lower risk.
Well-defined The Way Proven, Customizable Application & unique Forward Scalable IP IP platforms know-how differentiation IP provider Customer Strategic report 9 | The SoCs that power everything in the consumer and embedded electronics space can be constructed from combinations of our unique portfolio of IP cores.
Combining our IP cores enables our customers to create their own differentiated platforms.
We also license a number of configurable IP subsystems that show how such IP platforms can be made.
Innovation We have spent the best part of two decades creating a company with the breadth of fundamental technologies and skills required to create advanced Everything heterogeneous platform SoCs.
Our vision is to constantly be at the leading edge, driving innovation and improving the quality of life of everyone who touches our Imagination designs technologies.
starts from the Over time, we have enabled mobile graphics to revolutionize user interfaces and principle that it must gaming, delivered one of the first true RISC processor architectures, created technologies enabling on-chip communications for the IoT era, and driven mobile be ultra low power video quality and efficiency.
and efficient Innovation and efficiency are in our DNA.
Everything Imagination designs starts from the principle that it must be ultra low power and efficient and integrated onto a single heterogeneous SoC.
This is why our technologies are the best for all the markets we serve.
Imagination has delivered on a strategy of innovation and diversification that has created a globally recognized technology company.
Thanks to the long and deep relationships we have with our licensees, strategic partners and our shareholders, we believe the lives of billions of consumers around the world are being enriched by Imagination.
Key Licensees SUNPLUS P M C - S I E R R A Strategic Partners 10 Strategic report | The drive to innovate through smart R&D is behind everything we do.
That Our licensees innovation has delivered a portfolio of technologies that is innovative in include many of every important field for our target markets: multimedia, processor and communications.
Imagination is now focused on ensuring that our innovations the worlds leading reach the widest audience we can.
semiconductor manufacturers, Trust Our business model is simple.
We receive a payment when we license our pillar network operators technologies to leading electronics companies and when those companies create and OEMs products using our technologies we also receive a royalty for each unit shipped.
Our licensees include many of the worlds leading semiconductor manufacturers, network operators and OEMs ODMs Original Equipment Device Manufacturers.
They are attracted to us because we build win-win partnerships that enable our customers to differentiate their products using our IP, and together deliver unique products and businesses.
We enable world-class companies to deliver truly life enhancing products, developers to create engaging user experiences, and students and makers to create exciting new applications for education and entertainment.
Through our market leading and innovative customers we are in some of the most iconic and culturally important products of the 21st century.
We are intensely relationship focused, working closely with our partners to help them get successfully to market, ultimately shipping high volumes of advanced semiconductors containing our technologies.
As a royalty-based business, our partners success is our success.
Strategic report 11 | Our key strategic partnerships include numerous API, operating system, We work with standards and tools organizations as well as many tier-one technology thousands of companies, game engine providers and foundries.
developers Our ecosystem communities formalize the ways we work with some partners, providing them with benefits and resources such as education, tools, support, who support introductions to key partners and access to our best technologies and each other.
Imagination-based These communities comprise companies large and small that create software or platforms with the other products using chips containing our IP.
Our customers want ecosystems surrounding our IP and that is exactly what we deliver.
most innovative and We work with thousands of developers who support Imagination-based platforms exciting content with the most innovative and exciting content as well as with comprehensive tools, middleware and support.
Increasingly Imaginations partners are working together in communities that target distinct areas in which we excel, including graphics, Linux and Android, silicon and embedded software design, tools and security, as well as key markets such as mobile, computing, home electronics, automotive, networking, enterprise, wearables and IoT.
We continue to expand our ecosystem programmes, to help Imaginations licensees and key partners meet and engage with a broad community of developers, middleware providers, foundries, EDA and tool vendors, and third party support teams and provide extensive co-marketing opportunities for product manufacturers, content developers and semiconductor companies.
Openness With the emergence of new categories of devices and new use cases for existing devices, there comes a need to support a growing range of operating systems and new software alongside new and developing standards.
This means that open platforms are critical.
Imagination has long been an industry leader in delivering superior implementations of open standards in fields such as graphics, video and communications.
This approach ensures that our partners can benefit from the value of open source communities and open standards bodies, whilst also leveraging the unique advantages and extended features of our IP solutions.
OmniShield, our multi-domain security technology, is the latest example of how we bring together the unique benefits of our IP with open standards.
Our MIPS and PowerVR GPUs are already OmniShield ready, with much more to come as we roll out OmniShield-ready cores across all our products lines.
In parallel with this we are working with the prpl Foundation to define the open APIs and open source communities needed to access and promote this technology.
Trends we have observed this year have further strengthened our opinion that open APIs and ecosystems are the best course for driving a competitive 12 Strategic report | electronics industry, enabling the maximum innovation and competitiveness.
As an example of our commitment to this, Imagination is a founder of the prpl Foundation, an open-source, community-driven, collaborative, non-profit foundation targeting and supporting the MIPS architecture and open to others with a focus on enabling next-generation datacentre to device portable software and virtualized architectures.
prpl is enabling developers to draw on considerable resources to deliver applications and devices that share open source innovations created by some of the best minds from member companies to many key MIPS markets.
Imagination is a To address open security, the prpl Foundation has created a Security PEG founder of the prpl prpl Engineering Group.
The prpl Security PEG is focused on defining a security roadmap to enable evolution from todays single secure domain binary Foundation, an opensecurity solutions to multi-domain security enforced by full hardware supported source,  across all processors CPUs, GPUs, RPUs, VPUs, NPUs used in heterogeneous SoCs and systems built on these technologies including driven, collaborative, connected devices, routers and hubs.
non-profit foundation prpls next focus will be on open standards for IoT.
With the emergence of a diverse set of devices and fragmented markets for IoT, Imagination believes in the need for open protocols and APIs from server to gateway and from gateway to device.
This is a trend that was central to many of Imaginations discussions with partners this year and is an area where Imagination expects to see significant collaborations developing.
The prpl Foundation, a leading proponent of an open and secure IoT, will be championing interoperability and security for future generations of devices, and is a key tool for Imagination and its partners to demonstrate leadership in these issues.
The prpl ecosystem includes SoC manufacturers, IP providers, security specialists, hypervisor vendors, and tools and services specialists Strategic report 13 | We are known Pillars Each of our core IP technologies is built on innovation, whether it is innovative for our smart architecture, algorithms, programmability or simply great design.
solutions to difficult We are known for our smart solutions to difficult challenges, such as: the challenges efficiency and multi-threading of our MIPS processors: the tile-based deferred rendering TBDR of PowerVR graphics: the disruptive approach of our PowerVR ray tracing IP: the efficient combination of fixed and reconfigurable elements in PowerVR video: and the highly programmable data-parallel heart of our Ensigma communications core.
With Imagination, every customer can be unique.
All of our IP core families are designed to maximize opportunities for our customers to differentiate their products.
For example: by using some of our extensions to standard APIs: selecting from our wide range of IP cores optimized for different power, performance and cost metrics: combining different MCU and CPU cores in a scalable, power-smart SoC: combining customers hardware and or software IP with Imaginations, or integrating our IP into our customers unique SoC architectures.
Our business is fundamentally driven by our ability to create a vision of future technologies that accurately anticipates the requirements of tomorrows consumers.
At the heart of our approach we have a simple design philosophy: deliver the maximum performance and efficiency per mW of power consumed, while taking up the minimum silicon area possible and ensuring the security of all elements.
Connected Connected Internet of Mobile Wearables Enterprise Infrastructure Car Home Things Customer technologies Domain Solutions & know-how Ecosystems software, tools, apps, Customizable IP platforms middleware, hardware Innovation in SoCs: Scalable IP IP platforms PowerVR multimedia The leader in visual IP Consisting of a comprehensive range of multimedia IP, from GPUs for graphics and GPU compute, to video, imaging and vision, PowerVR is the technology that 14 Strategic report | goes from sensor or CPU to screen, delivering stunning images for entertainment, PowerVR enables user interfaces and much more.
a powerful, These cores combine perfectly to create uniquely optimizable IP platforms that can power-efficient incorporate customer IP to create highly differentiated, state of the art solutions for all forms of visual challenges from the latest games to smart IoT cameras.
and flexible solution for all PowerVR graphics GPU forms of graphics The worlds leading GPU for the connected era processing The PowerVR graphics processor GPU family leads the market in architectural and feature leadership, roadmap breadth and ecosystem, setting the benchmark for mobile and embedded GPUs.
PowerVR graphics IP consists of a broad portfolio of the industrys leading graphics processors, supporting a broad range of applications.
PowerVR enables a powerful, power-efficient and flexible solution for all forms of graphics processing, including 3D and 2D graphics as well as high-performance GPU compute, all in the same unified engine.
Imaginations PowerVR graphics technologies are licensed by world-leading companies to power iconic products delivering the best in smartphone, tablet, TV and console apps, including the most advanced user interfaces and highest performance gaming.
PowerVR is the leading graphics technology because it uses a sophisticated and unique architecture.
PowerVRs efficiency through tile-based deferred rendering TBDR ensures the lowest possible bandwidth usage and the lowest amount of processing cycles per task, and all of this leads to high performance efficiency and the lowest power consumption per frame, outperforming other solutions.
Scene from the Dwarf Hall demo Strategic report 15 | PowerVR ray tracing Transforming the state-of-the-art in mobile graphics Imaginations forthcoming PowerVR Wizard ray tracing products represent the next significant revolution in graphics technology.
PowerVR Wizard ray tracing graphics IP cores raise the bar for ray traced graphics to a dramatic new level, delivering astonishing realism and performance at mobile power budgets for the first time.
PowerVR ray tracing will enable more immersive games and apps with real-life Imaginations dynamic lighting models that enable advanced lighting effects, dynamic soft shadows, and lifelike reflections and transparencies, previously unachievable in a PowerVR ray mobile form factor.
PowerVR ray tracing IP is highly scalable, making it disruptive tracing technology to many other markets beyond mobile.
represents the next step in graphics technology evolution PowerVR ray tracing PowerVR video Making better pixels PowerVR video IP addresses video codec needs for customers in a diverse range of applications.
Our differentiated, multi-standard approach has made PowerVR video the most widely deployed video codec IP technology shipping today.
Our flexible video architecture addresses a wide range of applications including IoT, wearables, ADAS Advanced Driver Assistance Systems, mobile devices and cameras.
16 Strategic report | By using PowerVR video decoders, our customers are able to build the efficient decoding required for up to 4K broadcasts into their silicon today.
They can also deliver better image quality using the industrys first complete IP cores with 10-bit colour depth support throughout.
Multi-standard and multi-stream capabilities are standard across the range.
With PowerVR video encoders, our partners can add a wide range of features and solutions, such as: deliver the highest possible quality for prosumer video and entry-level broadcast recording, or the highest performance low cost consumergrade camera: save costs with the ability to record and store more video content in less memory space: reduce upload bandwidth and power required to access Our innovative cloud video hosting services: minimize the required transmission bandwidth for PowerVR Raptor video conferencing streaming on a mobile device: enable high-quality, low-latency mirroring for video games on a TV from a mobile device or tablet in real time: or cores take cameraensure the low latency needed for safety critical applications like ADAS.
based image processing to the PowerVR vision next level The evolution of camera vision Our innovative PowerVR Raptor cores are low-power, highly-configurable camera image signal processor ISP cores designed for SoC integration that take camerabased image processing to the next level.
Vision-aware technologies are increasingly incorporated in smartphones, IoT devices, automotive, robotics, and other products.
This year also confirmed the re-emergence of virtual reality VR and a growing interest in augmented reality AR.
To create a new breed of SoCs that support smart computer vision, computational photography and new user and social experiences, our customers need processing solutions that go beyond CPU DSP cores to deliver sustained video-rate processing of HD content.
PowerVR vision platforms are unique in that they work with Imaginations other PowerVR graphics and video cores, as well as still image encoders and decoders, to form a complete, integrated vision platform that saves power and bandwidth for todays camera applications, and can provide the basis for next-generation context-aware applications such as facial and gesture recognition.
Strategic report 17 | MIPS processors CPU The leading alternative mainstream CPU IP The MIPS family of CPU IP is a comprehensive portfolio of low-power, highperformance 32 64-bit processor architectures and cores, ranging from the ultimate high-performance cores for high-end applications processors down to extremely small cores for deeply embedded microcontrollers.
With a strong position in home entertainment, embedded, and networking products and a growing position in mobile, wearable and IoT devices, MIPS CPUs power billions of products worldwide, and are supported by a broad ecosystem of MIPS architecture commercial and open source software, operating systems and tools.
is the industrys Based on a heritage built over more than three decades of constant innovation, most efficient Imaginations MIPS architecture is the industrys most efficient RISC architecture, delivering the best performance and lowest power consumption in a given silicon RISC architecture, area.
delivering the SoC designers can use this efficiency advantage for significant cost and power best performance savings, or to implement additional cores to deliver a performance advantage in the same power, thermal and area budget.
and lowest power MIPS cores deliver scalable performance through multi-threading, multi-core consumption and multi-cluster coherent processing.
The newest MIPS Warrior family of CPUs includes 32-bit and 64-bit variants with a focus on superior performance efficiency across the range.
Building on the true 32-bit and 64-bit instruction set compatibility of MIPS, Warrior cores provide binary compatibility from the entrylevel to the high-end.
32-bit embedded 64-bit servers and... and everything microcontrollers infrastructure processors in-between The most scalable processor architecture 18 Strategic report | Lower Power Connectivity The cores come in three classes of performance and features: Warrior M-class entry-level ultra low power and ultra small cores for embedded and microcontroller applications Warrior I-class highly scalable mid-range, feature-rich cores for mainstream Linux and Android devices Warrior P-class high-performance cores for demanding applications With around five billion MIPS-based products already shipped, and many universities and schools around the world teaching CPU architecture using MIPS Todays connected as their preferred platform, MIPS is truly the ideal CPU for tomorrows SoCs, from the highest-performance mobile applications processors to the lowest power devices are moving connected sensor processors.
away from using separate wireless Ensigma communications combo chips Delivering on-chip efficiency in a connected world Ensigma connectivity, communications and networking IP can, singly or in toward integrating combination, solve the fundamental problems that plague connected devices.
connectivity How do I bring communications on-chip?
How do I deliver the range of connectivity standards required by almost all devices today and tomorrow?
Todays consumers expect to be connected wherever they go, with whatever device they choose.
Ensigma blends programmable and fixed function blocks to deliver a family of highly scalable multi-standard connectivity platforms that offer exceptional performance as well as outstanding silicon efficiency.
High Performance Ensigma Explorer Whisper Broadcast Architectures Algorithms Lower Power Scalable and flexible wireless communications solution Strategic report 19 | High Performance Connectivity Ensigma radio processor RPU Uniquely flexible communications processor Our award winning Ensigma programmable radio processing units RPUs address the ever-growing challenge of proliferating broadcast and connectivity standards by supporting them all on a single engine, and enabling them to be integrated onto SoCs for the lowest possible system cost.
Traditionally, radio, TV, Wi-Fi and Bluetooth used to have their own chipsets but, Ensigma Whisper RPU has won the 2015 IoT as the number of standards to be supported continues to increase, this approach Evolution Product of the Year Award from TMC.
net becomes less cost-effective and more power hungry.
Todays connected devices are moving away from using separate wireless combo chips towards integrating connectivity onto the main application processor as companies look to reduce power, footprint and bill-of-materials.
With their focus on delivering high performance within an ultra-low power envelope, Imaginations Ensigma RPUs can enable companies seeking to make this disruptive leap.
Ensigma Whisper is a flexible ultra-low power sensor and cloud connectivity IP family, designed specifically to enable the integration of low power communications in SoCs targeting wearables, IoT and other connected devices that require exceptional battery life and low cost points.
The Ensigma Explorer RPU family is focused on enabling high-performance onchip communications with Wi-Fi and Bluetooth connectivity, as well as global DTV, digital radio, and FM receiver capabilities.
Wi-Fi, Ensigma Explorer Bluetooth Classic, RPU TV, Radio Bluetooth LE Whisper GPS, Zigbee RPU NFC Data throughput FlowCloud Enhancing devices with cloud based services FlowCloud is a wide range of cloud-based connected device services.
It provides a comprehensive, secure and  platform to enable rapid construction, management and deployment of digital services.
This portfolio of cloud connectivity technologies enables consumer, industrial and embedded products to be fully cloud-connected.
With FlowCloud, users 20 Strategic report | Scalability Fabric Scalable & Secure Fabric can construct highly optimized device-to-cloud solutions for a wide range of Our IP solutions are applications, including security, health monitoring, energy management, content complemented by delivery and much more.
a wide portfolio of FlowCloud works brilliantly with our Ensigma RPU and MIPS CPU cores to deliver connected platforms for IoT.
software drivers, FlowCloud technology minimizes the resources required to make a product fully developer tools and connected, bringing together people, devices and services in a platform for easily extensive market building connected applications and businesses.
and technologyFlowCloud technology features include device and user management, asynchronous messaging services, event logging, data storage facilities, secure focused ecosystems transactions and electronic payment services, and much more.
Our OmniShield security technology and FlowCloud will combine to provide a completely secure solution for connected platforms, from device to cloud.
Platforms Our silicon and software intellectual property solutions for systems-on-chip are complemented by a wide portfolio of software drivers, developer tools and extensive market and technology-focused ecosystems.
Unlike some IP companies, we think from the chip to the system.
Our close interaction with leading consumer electronics companies, and our own consumer brands such as Pure, Flow, Creator and Caskeid, give us an insight into consumer thinking and market demand that helps us identify and create the right technologies for the future.
Differentiated Differentiated Scalable IP Customisable IP Platforms Customer Soc products Domain know-how PowerVR graphics Pre-verified baseline SW Partner SW PowerVR video 3rd party SW PowerVR vision Wi-Fi, BT, Graphics & Baseline SW TV, Radio GPU Compute Video decode & encode CPU processors MIPS processors RPU GPU Camera ISP VDE CPU Peripheral VPU IP Ensigma Peripherals Customer IP communications IP platforms: addressing the emerging demand And it is the success and respect for those technologies that has won us loyal support from a wide community of movers and shakers in the technology world.
For example, Imagination understands that a smart healthcare technology company needs to understand how their medical sensors work and what Strategic report 21 | algorithms are needed to extract that data and usefully apply it, as well as the While we innovate logistic and legal complexities of deploying a complete wireless system in existing in new processor hospitals.
But theres no point in that company spending time worrying about the processor or connectivity technologies used when they could be focused on the architectures and areas where their specialist domain knowledge is most valuable.
their delivery, our Imagination is there to supply the processor, connectivity and cloud technologies customers are free on which that company can build its innovative healthcare application.
to create new user For companies seeking to produce SoCs for extremely broad and demanding markets, such as mobile or computing, the range of domain knowledge and experiences applications required will be larger but the fundamental principle is the same.
Such companies deliver value best by focusing on the platform they deliver rather than on the SoC building blocks on which that platform rests.
While we innovate in new processor architectures and their delivery, our customers are free to create new user experiences, develop new markets and build strong content and ecosystem propositions.
The SoCs that power everything in the consumer and embedded electronics space can be constructed from combinations of our unique portfolio of IP cores.
Our IP platforms help customers achieve the highest performance at lowest power consumption and silicon area by making full use of our intimate knowledge of each block and how they work together efficiently.
No one else in our industry has this unique capability across such a broad range of applications.
Examples of our IP platforms include: Vision IP platform Our vision platform is a complete, integrated vision platform, combining GPU, video and vision cores, that saves power and bandwidth for todays camera applications, and can provide the basis for next-generation context-aware applications such as facial and gesture recognition, augmented reality and more.
Connected processor IP platform Imaginations connected processor platform combines MIPS processor, Ensigma connectivity and FlowCloud platform to deliver a new class of embedded Connected Processor solutions that will power an Internet-everywhere generation of consumer electronics.
Caskeid audio IP platform Our unique audio IP platform contains key technologies needed to build and differentiate high quality audio systems.
From audio engine to Wi-Fi connectivity, patented software and the codecs in-between, this platform delivers outstanding wireless stereo, multiroom and multi-channel playback that sounds as good as a wired system.
Our Caskeid solution combines multiple licensable technologies, building on MIPS CPU and Ensigma RPU core IP, to deliver a total IP solution powering the ultimate audio experience.
22 Strategic report | Security Security is fast becoming one of the most significant differentiators for the future of the electronics industry.
While PPA Power, Performance and Area remains a key metric for silicon IP, today security across every part of the SoC, including the fabric is an important area where there is a rapidly growing demand from OEMs and operators for security solutions addressing the new era of multi-application platforms.
Connected products must increasingly be designed to support numerous Imaginations new separate applications, various content sources, and in-the-field software updates from service providers and operators, all while ensuring privacy and data OmniShield security protection.
Applications must be effectively and reliably isolated from each other technology is as well as protected from non-secure applications while still meeting required levels of functionality, performance, cost, and power consumption.
Todays designed to provide security solutions simply dont address this.
the industrys most Imaginations new OmniShield security technology is designed to provide the scalable and secure industrys most scalable and secure solutions for protection of next-generation SoCs.
Imagination is ensuring that customers SoCs and OEMs products are solutions designed for security, reliability and dynamic software management as use models and services evolve across a wide range of connected devices such as Internet of Things IoT, gateway routers, IPTV, mobile and automotive.
Normal World Secure Domain Secure Domain Secure Domain Virtual Machine Virtual Machine Virtual Machine Virtual Machine Normal Apps Health Apps Streaming Apps Enterprise Apps Rich operating system Trusted Trusted Trusted operating operating operating system system system Trusted Hypervisor Hardware Virtulization MIPS PowerVR PowerVR PowerVR PowerVR... CPU GPU RPU Vision Vision Strategic report 23 | Todays leading SoCs are heterogeneous, meaning they are enabled by We take the initiative specialized processors for functions such as CPU, GPU, video, and connectivity.
to get inside In heterogeneous architectures, application data and resources will be shared between the CPU and other processors in the system.
This means that those how consumers processors will now face the same level of exposure as the CPU, and must be think about and given the same level of protection and currently there is no solution in the market today that addresses this security challenge in its entirety.
OmniShield addresses experience new this by protecting all of the processors in an SoC including the CPU, GPU and technology other processors and hardware engines using hardware-enforced security based on a well-known processor technology called Virtualization.
OmniShield creates multiple secure domains, where each secure non-secure application operating system can operate independently in its own separate environment.
For example, secure processes such as DRM and payment systems can coexist with non-secure processes such as gaming and web browsing.
This multi-domain separation architecture not only ensures security and reliability, but also eases development and deployment of applications and services.
Markets mobile phones mobile computing consumer multimedia automotive networking enterprise internet of things wearables Imagination understands market trends and helps our partners navigate the increasing convergence between traditionally separate markets.
We focus on key market segments where technology is a driver.
This translates into a wide array of markets including mobile phones, mobile computing, home electronics, handheld multimedia, automotive, networking, wearables and Internet of Things, including key IoT areas such as health, smart energy and video and audio-based analytics.
And because Imagination is focused on platforms and solutions, we take the initiative to get inside how consumers think about and experience new 24 Strategic report | technology.
Increasingly, consumers expect to be able to access the broad range We provide of media and features they use every day no matter what device they are using.
support for all This convergence means that markets increasingly share common requirements requirements fulfilled by our IP pillars.
stages of SoC and product Comprehensive support development We provide support for all stages of SoC and product development.
We have an extensive range of complementary technology offerings that support our customers SoC designs and help them succeed.
A key part of this is IMGworks which helps our customers SoC and software design teams, providing silicon design services, software integration services and support expertise to provide a fast and low-risk path to production.
This year we introduced IMGsystems, which enables our partners and ecosystem both with Creator boards featuring our technologies and our FlowCloud services.
IMGsystems will enable Imagination partners to achieve fast time to market in new areas of connected technology and access the most advanced Imagination IP without requiring extensive internal engineering resources.
More than B2B Unlike other IP companies we think about the solutions consumer markets require, and find ways to help our customers leverage our technologies to differentiate consumer products.
By developing consumer product brands, like Pure and Creator, and technology B2C brands, like Caskeid and ClearCall, we promote the benefits of our technology to consumers and help our OEM partners clearly articulate the unique value of their Imagination IP enabled products.
Pure Where innovation and consumers meet Pure is Imaginations consumer electronics CE division, creating products built on the technologies developed by our technology division.
Pure help keep us solutions-focused with first-hand experience of getting complex products to volume production.
Pure raises Imaginations engagement and profile with consumers, helping us to understand deeply every aspect of how to get technology to consumers, including the retail supply chain dynamics, the latest consumer product trends, and how to communicate effectively with consumers and retailers.
This experience is a significant part of what sets Imagination apart from other IP suppliers.
Pure uses chips and technologies from Imaginations partners, pathfinding in new markets, promoting the capabilities of our IP and allowing us to experience Strategic report 25 | market and technology conditions as OEMs and consumers do.
Through Pure we understand fully the OEM experience, which helps us make better licensable technologies.
Pure helps to drive our technology business acting as a showcase for our IP.
It has been key to raising the profile and interest in our Wi-Fi, processor and cloud connectivity technologies as well as the Caskeid audio platform.
Pure DAB digital radios showcase our Ensigma receiver technology, while its Jongo wireless speakers showcase both Ensigma and FlowCloud technology, as well as the Caskeid multiroom streaming audio experience.
Creator Ci20, is an Pure is also a vehicle to spearhead our strategic partnerships in the worlds of affordable microentertainment and content with companies such as Onkyo, Media-Saturn, 7digital and Universal Music Group.
computer that runs Pure has significantly broadened its market reach to now include: broadcast Linux and Android radio: in-car radio and audio: andmultiroomand internet connected audio.
Thanks to Pure, Imagination is a leading supplier of DAB radio technologies and a key player in the ongoing transformation of music listening with our wireless multiroom systems and Caskeid technology.
Creator Performance platforms for developers, makers and students The Creator range is designed to fulfil the growing interest within a broad spectrum of academic, professional and hobbyist developer communities for affordable, fully featured development platforms.
Imaginations Creator development board family enables open source developers, the maker community, system integrators and others to create a wide range of applications and projects, ranging from home automation and gaming to wireless multimedia streaming.
The first board in the family, Creator Ci20, is an affordable micro-computer that runs Linux and Android and help developers create applications for fast-growing markets such as IoT, wearables, mobile and gaming.
Creator Ci20 includes two essential ultra-low power technologies from Imagination: a dual-core MIPS32 CPU central processing unit and a PowerVR SGX540 GPU graphics processor.
Creator Ci20 has been designed for people who want high performance and advanced features for their development projects and to create access at the software and hardware level to allow creativity to come to the fore.
26 Strategic report | Caskeid The ultimate platform for wireless multiroom and multi-channel audio Caskeid is a breakthrough in technology for wireless audio systems From audio engine to Wi-Fi connectivity, patented software and the codecs inbetween, Caskeid forms the platform that delivers outstanding wireless stereo, multiroom and multi-channel playback that sounds as good as a wired system.
Caskeid is the consumer expression of our audio platform and contains all the key technologies needed to build and differentiate high quality audio systems.
Caskeid is a Caskeid is content agnostic.
It works with, and enhances, all the major high breakthrough in quality wireless audio connectivity protocols including Apple Airplay, Google Cast for Audio and Spotify Connect as well as multichannel technologies from Dolby technology for and others.
wireless audio systems Caskeid enabled products: PEAQ and Pure ClearCall and FlowTalk High quality voice and video VolP Imaginations ClearCall range of licensable technologies includes everything needed to implement high-quality, power-efficient enhanced WebRTC, Voice over IP and LTE VoIP, VoLTE, Voice and Video over IP VoIP and Rich Communications Suite RCS 5.0 for multi-mode wireless and wireline devices.
Our ClearMediaRTC media engine is designed to deliver a new level of quality to companies building native or browser-based voice and video conferencing services based on WebRTC.
With our advanced algorithms encapsulated in an off-the-shelf product, we are enabling our customers to dramatically improve the WebRTC user experience.
ClearCall IP is complemented by the FlowTalk service, which enables customizable, robust, high-quality Android iOS VoIP clients.
ClearCall IP products and technologies are already deployed in millions of devices.
Strategic report 27 | Communities Education Imagination believes there are three fundamental reasons why we must engage with academia: Influence to help guide future generations Research to discover new ideas Growth to recruit the brightest talent Through MIPSfpga, We give practical help to academics around the world so they can use our technologies in courses and student projects.
Our new Imagination University Imagination is Programme IUP was launched this year to further develop the excellent transforming relationships with academia we have built over many years.
Around the world, from China to the US and all across Europe, the IUP focuses on promoting MIPS, CPU architecture PowerVR, Ensigma and FlowCloud into universities.
IUP fully integrates with our education in IDP Imagination Developer Programme enabling us to engage with members right through their careers.
universities around A new IUP website has been launched, giving students a coherent summary of the globe boards, software, teaching materials, books and support available.
Graduates Imaginations recruitment team runs a graduate recruitment programme, which targets a variety of universities and colleges throughout the UK.
Having developed strong relationships with a number of universities including Southampton, Imperial College London, Surrey, Bristol and Manchester, the programme is already achieving great depth.
We are an active sponsor of the UK Electronic Skills Foundation UKESF where we recruit and sponsor scholars every year.
We sponsor a student each year under UKESF, as well as sponsoring PhD, Master and undergraduate projects.
A variety of events are also done on site at Imagination including developer days, open days, demo room tours and more.
As a direct result of all 100 activities we do in conjunction with universities and students every year we secure around 40 interns each year along with a high number of direct graduate applications and offers.
MIPSfpga This year Imagination has revolutionized CPU architecture education with the MIPSfpga programme which provides free and open access to a modern MIPS CPU.
Through MIPSfpga, Imagination is transforming CPU architecture education in universities around the globe by offering them free and open access to a fullyvalidated, current generation MIPS CPU complemented by a complete teaching package written by leading academics.
28 Strategic report | The MIPS architecture was originally developed at Stanford University in the early 1980s.
It has been the teaching architecture of choice for decades because of its elegant true RISC design.
MIPSfpga is already running in several academic institutions including Harvey Mudd College, Imperial College London, University College London UCL, and the University of Nevada, Las Vegas UNLV.
Schools We have also been increasing science, technology, engineering and maths STEM activities at school level over the last few years, providing talks and attending The success of a career fairs.
Many schools visit Imagination to get an insight into the work we do.
company like ours We also have involvement with other STEM schemes including Go4SET and The Brilliant Club, where we have sponsored a maths and physics chair.
relies in major part Government on its employees Imagination believes that it is essential that the UK does everything possible to and we work to strengthen its strategic position on the world stage, achieve scale and participate create a culture that in every stage of the value chain.
Through our interactions with government in the UK we are creating opportunities for the UK electronic systems community, promotes innovation government, and academia to work together to make a substantive and and staff retention sustainable difference to the UKs global competitiveness.
As well as continuing to play a key role in ESCO Electronic Systems Community, Imagination has a wide range of touch-points with government providing advice on policy, influencing change, supporting governmental organizations, such as UK Trade & Investment UKTI, the National Microelectronics Institute NMI, TechUK, and the International Electrotechnical Commission IEC, as well as working closely with the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills BIS.
Culture At Imagination we want to succeed and make a real difference.
We are extremely proud of what we do.
Our success ensures that we can do the things we want to do and care about.
The success of a company like ours relies in major part on its employees and we work to create a culture that promotes innovation and staff retention.
We have over 40 nationalities working for Imagination and we strive to create a welcoming cross-cultural workplace.
Within our offices, sports and social activities expand work into a broader social experience.
We support charity and our local communities: and we reward employees who do the same.
Benefits for staff are seen as some of the best in the industry.
Strategic report 29 | As a result of our nurturing of an Imagination culture we have staff that are Imagination customer focused, committed, responsible, agile, smart and, most importantly, has over 1,700 fixated on the companys success.
employees across Global more than a dozen Established in the UK in 1985, Imagination has a long history as an IP provider, with partners amongst the worlds top-20 semiconductor and OEM companies.
countries We are a British company with a world outlook.
Imagination has over 1,700 employees May 2015, and growing, across more than a dozen countries.
Our headquarters and primary R&D base is in Kings Langley near London, with major R&D centres across the UK, as well as in Europe, USA, China and India.
We keep close to our technology customers and partners with sales and support offices worldwide.
Our growing support and sales teams are located in all our key regional markets to ensure that customers always have access to experts who speak their language in their time zone.
Our R&D centres are in strong technology regions, which offer highly developed skills and academic excellence.
Each year we run a wide range of our own events as well as attending major trade shows such as CES and MWC, reaching thousands of people around the world.
Our Imagination Executive Events bring together key influencers in our core territories while our Imagination Summit events series now reaches six cities in the USA, Japan, China and Taiwan, and delivers an in-depth conference covering Imagination and our partners.
30 Strategic report | R&D Sales Australia China Headquarters China France Kings Langley India Germany New Zealand Israel Poland Italy Sweden Japan UK South Korea US Taiwan UK US Strategic report 31 |
