DIRECTORS REPORT To ensure Directors are kept up-to-date on developing issues and to Application of the UK enhance the overall effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, Corporate Governance Code our Chairman and Committee chairmen communicate regularly with the Chief Executive and other Executive Directors.
The latest revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code was published by the FRC in September 2014, together Our NEDs play a key role in corporate accountability and governance with Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related through their membership of the Boards Committees.
The Financial and Business Reporting.
The 2014 amendments are membership and remit of each Committee are considered on applicable to reporting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014. pages 35, 37 and 49.
The open atmosphere at our Committee meetings enables our NEDs to use their judgement, experience and We are pleased to confirm that the Company has complied in full independence to review critically and, where appropriate, challenge with the Code, including the 2014 amendments, throughout this constructively strategies proposed by management.
The Company has not, however, tendered for audit the further development of our business, effective use of our services in the last ten years.
resources and maintenance of our high standards of conduct.
We detail below how, in practice, the Company has applied the Matters Reserved for the Board Codes principles and complied with its detailed provisions.
In order to retain control of key decisions the Board has adopted Specifically, the 2014 amendments include the requirement for a schedule of matters on which it must make the final decision additional statements by the Directors in respect of the longer-term including approval of the Group and parent company financial viability of the Company and that they have made a robust assessment statements, the Groups business strategy, the annual capital of the principal risks facing the Company.
These new requirements are expenditure plan, major capital projects, major changes to the addressed in the new Viability Statement that follows the disclosures Groups management and control structure, material investments of Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page 30. or disposals, risk management strategy, sustainability and environmental policies, the appointment or removal of Directors Board and its Committees and the Company Secretary and treasury policies.
Each of our Board Committees has specific written terms of Division of Responsibilities of our Chairman and Chief Executive reference issued by the Board and adopted by the relevant Whilst retaining a close working relationship, our Chairman and Chief Committee.
All Committee chairmen report on the proceedings of Executive have clearly defined and separate responsibilities divided their Committee at the next meeting of the Board and, where between running the Board and the business.
They meet regularly appropriate, make recommendations to the Board.
In addition, between Board meetings to ensure a full understanding of evolving minutes of all Committee meetings are circulated to Board members.
issues and to facilitate swift decision making.
They are responsible to our shareholders for the successful delivery of our strategy.
Board Composition and Roles Chairman Mark Williamson Leads the Board and creates an environment that ensures there are strong links between the Board and our shareholders and management.
Mark met the independence criteria of the Code on appointment and there have been no significant changes to his external commitments subsequent to his appointment.
Chief Executive Alison Cooper Supported by the Executive Directors and the OPEX, has day-to-day management responsibility for the Group, for recommending the Groups strategy to the Board and, once agreed, its implementation.
Alison promotes the Groups values, culture and high standards of conduct and behaviour which underpin our reputation and support the delivery of our sustainable sales growth.
Executive Directors Oliver Tant Support the Chief Executive in devising and implementing our strategy and overseeing the operations and development of the entire Group, in addition to specific responsibility Matthew Phillips for managing their own areas of the business.
Senior Independent Michael Herlihy Responsible for assisting the Chairman with effective shareholder communication and is Director available to them should they have any concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels or if these channels are not appropriate.
No such concerns were raised during the year.
Michael is available to our NEDs should they have any concerns which are not appropriate to raise with the Chairman or which have not been satisfactorily resolved by the Chairman.
He also acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and carries out the Chairmans performance evaluation.
Non-Executive Ken Burnett Evaluate information provided and challenge constructively managements viewpoints, Directors assumptions and performance.
They bring to the Board a diverse range of business David Haines and financial expertise which complements and supplements the experiences of the Karen Witts Executive Directors.
Malcolm Wyman 42 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 42 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Conflicts of Interest and Independence Through this programme ongoing training is available to NEDs to Directors are required to avoid situations where they have, or could meet their individual needs.
We also provide regular briefings to all have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may Directors on matters such as legislation and regulation changes and conflict, with the Companys interests.
In accordance with the corporate governance developments.
Members of our Audit and Companies Act 2006 the Act, our Articles of Association allow Remuneration Committees also received briefings from PwC and the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise New Bridge Street respectively.
No specific training needs were and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
Directors are required to give notice of any potential situational and or The Board and its Committees are supplied with full and timely transactional conflicts, which are considered at the following Board information, including detailed financial information, to enable them meeting and, if appropriate, situational conflicts are authorised.
We to discharge their responsibilities.
do not allow any Director to participate in such considerations or to The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, vote regarding their own conflicts.
through the Chairman, on matters of corporate governance.
The Board has considered and authorised a number of situations In addition, all Directors have access to the advice of the Company all of which relate to the holding of external directorships and have Secretary and, where appropriate, the services of other employees been entered in our Conflicts Register.
No actual conflicts have for all governance and regulatory matters.
The Board considers that these procedures Independent professional advice is available to Directors, in operate effectively.
appropriate circumstances, at the Companys expense.
As part of our annual review process, during the Board meeting Performance Evaluation in September 2015 we reviewed and reconsidered all situations To enhance the effectiveness of the Board, during the year it entered in the Conflicts Register and the Board is satisfied that undertook a review of its performance, that of its Committees the independence of those Directors who have external board and of individual Directors.
appointments has not been compromised.
At this meeting, and taking into account the annual Board performance evaluation This review considered the overall functioning of the Board and its discussed below, the Board concluded that all our NEDs continue Committees, the balance and range of Directors skills, diversity, to contribute effectively and constructively to Board debate, succession and how the Board works as a unit.
demonstrate commitment to their role, challenge objectively and As part of the evaluation, the Chairman held meetings with the question management robustly and at all times have the best NEDs to consider, amongst other things, the performance of the interests of our shareholders in mind.
We confirm, therefore, that, with the exception of our Chairman The Senior Independent Director also held separate meetings with who met the independence criteria of the Code on appointment, the NEDs and the Board, both without the Chairman present, to our NEDs remained independent throughout the year as defined consider the performance of the Chairman.
The feedback obtained was collated into a report which was External Appointments presented to the Board at its September 2015 meeting and used NEDs, including the Chairman, may serve on a number of other as the basis for one-to-one development discussions between the boards provided they continue to demonstrate the requisite Chairman and each Director.
commitment to discharge effectively their duties.
The Succession and Nominations Committee reviews the extent of the NEDs other The evaluation showed that the Board and its Committees continue interests throughout the year.
The Board is satisfied that each of to operate effectively and neither significant areas for concern nor any the NEDs commits sufficient time to their duties in relation to the requirement to provide extra training for our Directors were identified.
Each of the NEDs has confirmed they have sufficient Consequently, the Board and its Committees are satisfied they are time to fulfil their obligations to the Company.
The evaluation confirmed that all our Directors have sufficient time, knowledge and commitment to The Board is supportive of Executive Directors and members of contribute effectively to our Board and its Committees and that they the OPEX accepting non-executive directorships of other companies remain appropriately constituted.
in order to widen their experience and knowledge for the benefit of the Company.
Accordingly, subject to the agreement of the Board, Areas identified for further consideration were potentially increasing Executive Directors and members of the OPEX are permitted to the number of NEDs on the Board, increasing the NEDs accept one external non-executive board appointment and to retain understanding of the Groups priorities within its divisions and any fees received from such appointment.
ensuring the Board has adequate time to consider appropriately all matters requiring its attention.
Information and Training Following their appointment to the Board, Directors are briefed on the We have addressed the issues identified in the 2014 Board legal and other duties they owe to the Company.
Tailored induction evaluation including enhancing our NEDucation programme programmes are arranged which include industry-specific training, as outlined above and on page 35. visits to the Groups businesses and meetings with senior Insurance and Indemnities management.
They are also briefed on internal controls at both head We have purchased and maintain appropriate insurance cover in office and business unit level and provided with information on respect of directors and officers liabilities.
The Company has also relevant Company policies and governance related matters.
entered into qualifying third party indemnity arrangements for the Through its NEDucation programme the Company is also benefit of all its Directors in a form and scope which comply with committed to the continuing development of its NEDs in order that the requirements of the Act.
These indemnities were in force they may build on their expertise and develop their understanding of throughout the year and up to the date of this Annual Report.
the business and the markets in which we operate.
43 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 43 DIRECTORS REPORT continued Dialogue with our Investors Geographical Analysis of Shareholders Shareholder Composition as at 30 September 2015 as at 30 September 2015 UK 56% Institutional 91% USA 31% Non-institutional 4% Rest of Europe 11% Retail 2% Rest of the World 2% Employees 1% Miscellaneous 2% We aim to provide balanced, clear and transparent communications At the AGM our Chairman and Chief Executive give presentations which allow shareholders to understand how we see our prospects on our performance and current business activities and all Directors and the market environments in which we operate.
make themselves available to meet shareholders after the conclusion of the formal business of the AGM.
We maintain an active engagement with our key financial audiences, including institutional shareholders and sell side analysts as well To ensure compliance with the Code, at all general meetings as potential shareholders.
During the year we made regular separate resolutions are proposed on each subject and all presentations to, and had meetings with, institutional investors in resolutions are put to a poll.
At the AGM the number of proxy votes the UK, Europe, Canada and the USA to communicate progress for, against and abstentions for each resolution are provided.
Votes towards achieving our sales growth strategy and to answer received at the AGM are added to the proxy votes and the final questions.
Throughout the year our senior management team results published through a Regulatory Information Service, on presented at industry conferences organised by investor bodies and our website and via OTCQX.
investment banks for their institutional investor bases.
Our Investor At our 2015 AGM and the General Meeting to consider the Relations team managed the interaction with these audiences and acquisition of certain USA cigarette and e-cigarette brands and provided additional regular presentations during the year.
other assets we received votes representing approximately 79 per The primary means of communication with the majority of our cent of our issued share capital excluding shares held in treasury shareholders is via our Annual Report and Accounts, Half-Year at the date of the meetings.
Report and website on which we publish Interim Management Our next AGM will be held on Wednesday 3 February 2016, full Statements.
These were supported by a combination of details of which are contained in the Notice of Meeting available presentations, conference calls, one-to-one meetings and on our website and, where applicable, posted with this Report.
NEDs, including our Senior Independent Director, were available throughout the year to meet with major shareholders if requested and are kept up-to-date with investor opinion including via our annual survey of investor opinions.
We offer our shareholders the choice of submitting proxy votes, including abstentions, either electronically or in paper format and ensure our Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of the AGM are made available at least 20 working days prior to the meeting to allow shareholders time to consider them fully before submitting their proxy votes.
44 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 44 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS We have not received notification that any other person holds Other Information Introduction 3 per cent or more of our shares.
One of the Boards primary responsibilities is to ensure the Company The share interests of the Directors, their families and any connected is run in the best long-term interests of its shareholders and wider persons are shown on page 60.
Other than as disclosed on page 53, stakeholders.
We believe this can only be achieved if the activities there are no agreements between the Company and its Directors of the Group are supported by appropriate governance processes or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or applied across the Group.
These processes are illustrated below and in the individual Information concerning employees and their remuneration is Committee reports.
given in note 6 to the Financial Statements and in the Directors In accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 the Act the Remuneration Report.
following items have been included in other sections of this Annual Report: Financial Results and Dividends a fair review of the business, as required by the Act, is included We include a review of our operational and financial performance, in the Strategic Report.
The information in our Governance Report current position and future developments in our Strategic Report: is included in this Directors Report by reference: Strategy, Risks, Performance and Governance sections.
future developments in the business are included in the Chief Executives Review: The profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for the financial year was 1,691 million, as shown in our consolidated information relating to our people is included in the Rewarding income statement.
Note 3 to the Financial Statements gives Workplace section: an analysis of revenue and operating profit.
our principal risks as detailed on page 27 to 30: An analysis of net assets is provided in the Consolidated Balance the Directors of the Company during the financial year are listed Sheet and the related notes to the Financial Statements.
We moved to quarterly dividend payments with effect from financial year 2015.
The first and second dividends for financial year 2015 Share Capital were paid on 30 June 2015 and 30 September 2015 respectively.
The third dividend will be paid on 31 December 2015 and, subject Details of our share capital are shown in note 24 to the Financial to AGM approval, the final dividend will be paid on 31 March 2016 Statements.
All shares other than those held in treasury are freely to our shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of transferable and rank pari passu for voting and dividend rights.
The associated ex-dividend date At our AGM on 28 January 2015 shareholder authority for the will be 4 February 2016. buyback of up to 95,709,000 shares was obtained.
The Directors have declared and proposed dividends as follows: As at 30 September 2015 we held 78,909,137 shares in treasury, million 2015 2014 which represented 7.62 per cent of issued share capital and had an aggregate nominal value of 7,890,914.
Ordinary Shares Interim paid June 2015, We have not cancelled these shares but hold them in a treasury 21.4p per share 204 shares reserve within our profit and loss account reserve and they Interim paid August 2014, represent a deduction from equity shareholders funds.
38.8p per share 370 At 30 September 2015 we had been notified of the following interests Interim paid September 2015, in 3 per cent or more of our shares.
21.4p per share 204 Number of Percentage Proposed interim December 2015, ordinary shares of issued 49.1p per share 468 millions share capital Final paid February 2015, 2 BlackRock Inc 53 5.59 89.3p per share 851 1 Invesco Limited 47 4.94 Proposed final March 2016, Morgan Stanley Investment 49.1p per share 468 1 Management Limited 42 4.44 Total ordinary dividends, 2 Franklin Resources Inc 41 4.30 141.0p per share 2014: 128.1p 1,344 1,221 2 Capital Group Companies Inc 39 4.03 At 30 November 2015 we had been notified of the following interests in 3 per cent or more of our shares.
Number of Percentage ordinary shares of issued millions share capital 2 BlackRock Inc 53 5.59 2 Capital Group Companies Inc 48 5.01 1 Invesco Limited 47 4.94 Morgan Stanley Investment 1 Management Limited 42 4.44 2 Franklin Resources Inc 41 4.30 1 Direct holding.
45 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 45 DIRECTORS REPORT continued The ten credit agreements are: Relations With Other a credit facilities agreement dated 15 July 2014 under which Stakeholders certain banks and financial institutions make available to Imperial Charitable and Political Donations Tobacco Finance PLC and Imperial Tobacco Enterprise Finance As part of our responsible approach and commitment to reinvesting in Limited: a committed acquisition credit facilities across three society, we continued to support the communities in which we operate tranches of $4,100 million, $1,500 million and $1,500 million, by allocating 2.55 million 2014: 3.28 million to partnership and for a maximum period of up to three years, four years and six community investments, in addition to in-kind activities including years respectively: b committed credit facilities of 1,000 million management time, volunteering, gifts in-kind and localised activities.
for a period of up to three years: and c committed credit facilities This amount was less than in 2014 as some partner payment in two tranches of 2,835 million and 500 million for a period commitments have been scheduled for later in the calendar year, of five years.
The $4,100 million three-year tranche of the after the end of our financial year.
committed acquisition credit facilities was subsequently repaid in full in July 2015, while the $1,500 million five-year tranche has Although difficult to quantify in monetary terms, our in-kind activities been partially repaid such that this tranche has now reduced to have increased in 2015 including the launch of our first global $450 million as at 30 September 2015: and volunteering initiative, which achieved 50,000 hours of employees time in support of charitable activities.
eight deeds of counter-indemnity each dated 3 June 2014 made on substantially the same terms under which certain insurance Through the UK Charities Aid Foundation we apportioned companies and financial institutions each make available to 1.7 million to registered charities, supporting the Eliminating Child Imperial Tobacco Limited a surety bond, in each case issued Labour in Tobacco Growing Foundation, our Altadis Foundation on a standalone basis but in aggregate forming an amount and a small number of UK charities.
of 400 million, until 3 December 2019: and We also apportioned 0.7 million to our leaf sustainability a credit facility agreement dated 9 June 2015 in which Bank partnerships which seek to help rural tobacco growing communities, of America Merrill Lynch Limited makes available to Imperial predominantly in sub-Saharan Africa.
Tobacco Finance PLC and Imperial Tobacco Enterprise Finance Limited a committed credit facility of $300 million for a maximum More detailed information on our approach to supporting community period of up to five years.
livelihoods can be found on our website www.
In the event that any of the listed credit facility agreements are subject to any such repayment and cancellation, we would expect All charitable donations and partnership investments are subject to the Group to replace these agreements with similar arrangements in the requirements of our Code of Conduct.
order to satisfy its existing funding commitments, ongoing working No political donations were made to EU political parties, capital and similar requirements, as well as its long-term and organisations or candidates 2014: Nil.
This approach is aligned strategic plans.
with our Group Policy and Code of Conduct.
Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC the Issuer has issued bonds under Pension Fund a Euro Medium Term Notes EMTN Debt Issuance Programme Our main pension fund, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, is not as noted below.
The Company acted as guarantor.
controlled by the Board but by a trustee company, the board of The final terms of this series of notes contain change of control which consists of five directors nominated by the Company, one provisions under which the holder of each note will, subject to any director nominated by employee members and two nominated by earlier exercise by the Issuer of a tax call, have the option to require current and deferred pensioners.
This trustee company looks after the Issuer to redeem or, at the Issuers option, purchase that note the assets of the pension fund, which are held separately from those at its nominal value if: a any person, or persons acting in concert of the Group and are managed by independent fund managers.
or on behalf of any such person s becomes interested in: i more The pension fund assets can only be used in accordance with the than 50 per cent of the issued or allotted ordinary share capital of funds rules and for no other purpose.
the Company: or ii such number of shares in the capital of the Further details are contained in our Remuneration Report.
Company carrying more than 50 per cent of the voting rights Articles of Association normally exercisable at a general meeting of the Company: and b The Companys Articles of Association do not contain any as a result of the change of control, there is either: i a reduction to entrenchment provisions and, therefore, may be altered or added a non-investment grade rating or withdrawal of the investment grade to or completely new articles may be adopted by special resolution rating of the notes which is not raised again, reinstated to or replaced subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. by an investment grade rating during the change of control period specified in the final terms: or ii to the extent that the notes are not Significant Agreements That Take Effect, Alter or Terminate on rated at the time of the change of control, the Issuer fails to obtain Change of Control an investment grade credit rating of the notes within the change of The agreements summarised below are those which we consider to control period as a result of the change of control.
be significant to the Group as a whole and which contain provisions giving the other party a specific right to terminate them if we are The bonds issued in such manner are as follows: subject to a change of control following a takeover bid.
15 September 2008 600,000,000 8.125 per cent The Group has ten credit facility agreements that provide that, unless guaranteed notes due 2024: the lenders otherwise agree, if any person or group of associated 17 February 2009 1,000,000,000 9 per cent guaranteed persons acquires the right to exercise more than 50 per cent of the notes due 2022: votes at a general meeting of the Company, the respective borrowers 17 February 2009 1,500,000,000 8.375 per cent guaranteed must repay any outstanding utilisation made by them under the notes due 2016: respective facility agreement and the total commitments under that facility agreement will be cancelled.
24 June 2009 500,000,000 7.75 per cent guaranteed notes due 2019: 5 July 2011 850,000,000 4.5 per cent guaranteed notes due 2018: 46 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 46 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 26 September 2011 500,000,000 5.5 per cent guaranteed notes Update on Tobacco-Related Litigation due 2026: Ireland In the Republic of Ireland, the number of tobacco-related claims has 1 December 2011 750,000,000 5 per cent guaranteed notes fallen to only five.
In four of these cases, the claimants are deceased due 2019: and their solicitors have been unsuccessful in their efforts to contact 28 February 2014 1,000,000,000 2.25 per cent guaranteed their families.
The fifth case has been inactive since 2003 and can be notes due 2021: assumed to have been abandoned.
If any of these claims reactivate, it is very likely that they would be struck out on grounds of delay.
28 February 2014 650,000,000 3.375 per cent guaranteed notes due 2026: and Italy We are currently facing two claims in Italy.
The first is against Logista, 28 February 2014 500,000,000 4.875 per cent guaranteed notes which is the subject of a challenge on grounds of jurisdiction and due 2032. the admission of evidence.
This challenge was heard in 2006 but Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC has also issued bonds in the judgement is still awaited.
United States of America under the provisions of Section 144a and Regulation S respectively of the US Securities Act 1933.
The second claim has been brought in the Court of Messina by The Company acted as guarantor.
two individuals claiming 800,000 in total.
Two procedural hearings took place on 17 September 2014 and The final terms of this series of notes contain change of control 24 June 2015 respectively.
The next hearing has been scheduled provisions under which the holder of each note will, subject to any for 13 November 2015. earlier exercise by the Issuer of a tax call, have the option to require the Issuer to redeem or, at the Issuers option, purchase that note Morocco at 101 per cent of its nominal value if: a i any person as such term Our Moroccan subsidiary, Socit Marocaine des Tabacs SMT, is used in the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Exchange is facing a claim in the Casablanca Court brought by the heirs of Act becomes the beneficial owner of more than 50 per cent of the a deceased individual.
The total amount of compensation sought Companys voting stock: or ii there is a transfer other than by is not yet known.
The first substantive hearing is scheduled for merger, consolidation or amalgamation of all or substantially all of 3 November 2015. the Companys assets and those of its subsidiaries to any person To date, no action has been successful or settled in favour of any as such term is used in the Exchange Act : or iii a majority of the claimant in any tobacco-related litigation against Imperial Tobacco members of the Companys Board of Directors is not continuing in or any of its subsidiaries.
Imperial Tobacco has been advised by its such capacity: and b as a result of the change of control, there is lawyers that it has meritorious defences to the legal proceedings set either: i a reduction to a non-investment grade rating or withdrawal out above.
We will continue vigorously to contest all such litigation of the investment grade rating of the notes which is not raised again, against us.
reinstated to or replaced by an investment grade rating during the change of control period specified in the final terms: or ii to the extent that the notes are not rated at the time of the change of Other Information control, the Issuer fails to obtain an investment grade credit rating Listing Rules of the notes within the change of control period as a result of the change of control.
4R, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R can be found on the pages set out below: The bonds issued in such manner are as follows: Section Information Page 11 February 2013 $1,250,000,000 2.05 per cent guaranteed notes due 2018: 1 Interest capitalised Not applicable 2 Publication of unaudited Not applicable 11 February 2013 $1,000,000,000 3.50 per cent guaranteed financial information notes due 2023: 4 Details of long-term 51, 57, 58, 21 July 2015 $500,000,000 2.05 per cent guaranteed notes incentive schemes 63 and 64 due 2018: 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director Not applicable 21 July 2015 $1,250,000,000 2.95 per cent guaranteed notes 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director Not applicable due 2020: 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable 21 July 2015 $1,250,000,000 3.75 per cent guaranteed notes 8 Non pre-emptive issue by a major Not applicable due 2022: and subsidiary undertakings 21 July 2015 $1,500,000,000 4.25 per cent guaranteed notes 9 Listed subsidiary Not applicable due 2025.
10 Contracts of significance 46 and 47 11 Provision of services by a controlling Not applicable shareholder 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends See below 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends See below 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable In respect of LR 9.8.
4R 12 and 13 the trustee of the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Employee and Executive Benefit Trust and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Benefit Trust agrees to waive dividends payable on the Groups shares it holds for satisfying awards under various Imperial Tobacco Group PLC share plans.
In accordance with Section 726 of the Act no dividends can be paid to the Company in respect of the shares it holds in treasury.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 47 DIRECTORS REPORT continued The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Statement of Directors records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Responsibilities transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group and the parent Remuneration Report comply with the Act and, as regards the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the elected to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
the European Union, and the parent Company financial statements The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of in accordance with United Kingdom GAAP United Kingdom the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing Accounting Standards and Applicable Law.
Under company law, the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they from legislation in other jurisdictions.
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the parent Company and of the profit or loss of Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, pages 32 and 33, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: the Directors are required to: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of and prudent: the Group: and state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report include a fair review applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject of the development and performance of the business and the to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group position of the Group, together with a description of the principal and parent Company financial statements respectively: and risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Strategic Report and the Directors Report were approved prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis and signed by order of the Board.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
John Downing 3 November 2015 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales No: 3236483 48 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 48 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015
