STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Committee membership Meetings attended John Langston Chair 4 4 Alison Cooper 4 4 Nigel Northridge appointed October 2015 0 1 Nigel Stein appointed October 2015 0 1 Nigel Northridge and Nigel Stein were unable to attend the Audit Committee meeting in November due to prior commitments in place before their appointment to the Committee in October.
The role of the Audit Committee It is the role of the Audit Committee to ensure the integrity of the financial reporting and audit processes, to ensure sound internal control and risk management JOHN LANGSTON systems are in place, to review the Groups whistleblowing Chair of the Audit Committee procedures and to ensure an appropriate relationship with the external auditor.
The terms of reference setting out the authority and responsibilities of the Committee can be found on the website at www.
Dear Shareholder Composition of the Audit Committee During the year, there have been changes to the Committee The Committee members are all independent Non-Executive membership and, following the departure of Simon Borrows Directors.
The Board considers John Langston, Nigel Stein and Vicky Bindra, I am pleased to report that Nigel Northridge and Alison Cooper to have recent and relevant financial and Nigel Stein have become members of the Committee.
The biographies can be found on pages 50 to 51.
Their biographies can be found on pages 50 to 51.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial officer In addition to the routine business, as detailed in the following and Group Audit Director also attend the Committee pages, the Committee also continued its review of the meetings, along with the external auditor.
Other senior Minimum Controls Framework MCF, which was established executives, such as the Group Financial Controller and to raise and continuously improve controls on the integrity Group Tax Director, attend during the year to present to of the financial statements.
The Committee conducted a the Committee.
detailed review of the implementation of the new framework in each market including detailed reviews of findings of the Financial reporting Group Internal Audit team where work was based on the During the year, the Committee reviewed the final and new framework.
Further details are given on page 58. interim results and considered the key audit risks, accounting treatment and judgements identied during the year end Following the publication of FRS 100, Application of Financial audit.
The Committee discussed with management how the Reporting Requirements by the Financial Reporting Council, accounting policies and judgements had been applied and the financial statements of the parent company, Inchcape considered the outcomes before recommending approval plc, for the period ended 31 December 2015 have been of the results by the Board.
In addition to the significant issues prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard given on pages 58 to 59, the Committee also considered the 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
following matters for the year ended 31 December 2015: The Committee also reviewed the cyber security recognition of deferred tax assets relating to Russia arrangements and will continue to monitor and assess the see note 8 on page 112 project during the design and implementation phases to ensure that it is appropriate for the Groups requirements.
development in the ongoing Franked Investment Income Group Litigation Order see note 29 on page 136 Key activities in 2015 Further information on financial and business reporting Review of external financial reporting and the preparation of the consolidated accounts is given Consideration of the effectiveness of the external audit on pages 55 to 56. Review of the scope of the Audit Plan Review of the auditor fees Review of risk management and internal control Assessment of the cyber security plan inchcape.
com 57 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED significant issues The following issues were identied by the Committee as being significant in the context of the financial statements or as matters of signicance to the Group and were debated by the Committee during the year.
Area of focus Committee response Manufacturers bonus Actions taken in relation to the issue Management prepared a detailed review of the total amount of manufacturers bonuses received during the full year 2014, the amount accrued as earned but not yet paid at 31 December 2014 and the amount subsequently received during the first quarter of 2015.
A similar review was prepared for bonuses paid by Inchcape Distribution companies to third party retail networks.
In both cases, it was demonstrated that the amount accrued at 31 December 2014 was materially received or paid within the first quarter of 2015.
Conclusions reached by the Committee The Committee concluded that the bonus accruals booked in the 2014 Accounts were objective and accurate and that the amounts were materially received during the first quarter of 2015.
On this basis, and given that there have been no material changes to bonus accounting policies, the Committee concluded that it was satisfied with the 2015 manufacturers bonus accruals included within these accounts.
Rationale for the Committees conclusion The majority of bonus payments are quarterly with limited annual bonuses in place.
Typically, incentives are paid quarterly based on the delivery of qualifying conditions such as customer metrics or brand presentation, and the timing of accruals follows the mechanics of earning the bonus payments once we have reasonable confidence of delivery.
Where annual bonuses exist, they are mainly non-judgemental and volume-related in nature.
Impairment of goodwill Actions taken in relation to the issue see note 11 to the Management prepared a detailed impairment review of the goodwill in the Group for both the half and full year financial statements accounts with specic focus on the business in Russia.
The Committee challenged the methodology and sensitivity on page 115 analysis used by management.
The Committee also considered the independent review by the external auditor.
Conclusions reached by the Committee The Committee concluded that the impairment recommended by management was appropriate.
The Committee concluded that it was appropriate to take a 49.5m non-cash exceptional impairment to write off the full value of goodwill in our Russian business.
As a result, the Committee concluded that the goodwill carrying amounts shown in note 11 on pages 115 to 116 of the financial statements were appropriate and it approved the disclosures.
Rationale for the Committees conclusion Given the macro-economic uncertainty in Russia, and despite delivering share gain and improved vehicle margins, the Committee concluded that the slower than anticipated market recovery means that the estimated recoverable value in Russia at year end no longer supported the goodwill associated with the Russian business.
Pension see note 5 to Actions taken in relation to the issue the financial statements Management, with advice from its actuaries, has updated the year end pension valuations to 31 December.
During on page 105 the year, the trustees of the TKM pension scheme concluded a transaction with Aviva whereby the assets of the scheme were invested in a bulk purchase annuity contract that matched the liabilities of the scheme the TKM transaction.
The Committee reviewed the impact of the changes to assumptions and the buy in transaction on the financial statements at 31 December 2015.
Conclusions reached by the Committee The Committee concluded that the valuation exercise undertaken by management was appropriate.
The Committee noted the implications of the TKM transaction in terms of full year investment loss.
As a result, the Committee concluded that the pension valuations and underlying calculations shown in note 5 on page 106 of the financial statements were appropriate and it approved the disclosures.
Rationale for the Committees conclusion The Committee reviewed the assumptions used by management and considers them to be reasonable.
In addition, the external auditor has agreed with managements treatment of the TKM transaction in the financial accounts.
Minimum Control Actions taken in relation to the issue Framework During 2013 14, the Company developed the Minimum Control Framework MCF to raise and continuously improve our controls on the integrity of the financial statements and incorporate internal and external best practice.
The first full year of audit against these new higher standards was 2015.
The Committee conducted a detailed review of the implementation of the new framework in each market including detailed reviews of the findings of Group Internal Audit where work was based on the new framework.
The Committee also reviewed in detail the plan and progress against the conguration and automation of specic MCF controls in the iPOWER systems.
Conclusions reached by the Committee The Committee concluded that the framework is appropriate for the Group and will provide a consistently high and continuously improving control environment.
Rationale for the Committees conclusion The Committee reviewed examples of the new framework in action across a number of complex markets and the action plans that have been developed to drive further progress against the new standards.
58 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Historical reporting issues Actions taken in relation to the issue in Chile Whilst performing detailed procedures to prepare for the implementation of the global iPOWER system in Chile, management discovered some areas of inconsistency in the local accounting system dating back a number of years.
Management initiated rectification activity to both reconcile historic balances and to put in place processes and controls to prevent any recurrences of issues during the period until iPOWER is fully implemented.
Conclusions reached by the Committee The Committee concluded that the corrections to historic account balances proposed by management were appropriate and that these required an immaterial charge to be made against operating expenses in the 2015 accounts.
In addition, the Committee agreed that the structural process and system improvements proposed by management were appropriate and will be subject to ongoing review by the Committee.
Rationale for the Committees conclusion The Committee reviewed the status and outcomes of the rectification work three times during the year, receiving a detailed account of the issues encountered and the rectification proposed.
Risk management and internal control narrative feedback on how the service can be improved.
The results of the survey are presented to the Audit Committee at The Group Audit Director attends every Committee meeting to the May meeting, with a more detailed assessment on how provide an update on the Groups risk management systems PwC intends to improve on the score provided in the Audit and internal controls.
The Committee reviews any identied Plan, which is presented to the Committee in November control gaps, monitors progress against mitigation plans each year.
and assesses the soundness of the control environment.
The results for the 2014 survey indicated that management See page 56 of the Corporate Governance Report for further remain happy with PwCs knowledge of the business and the information on the main features of the Groups internal challenges it faces and also recognised the PwC teams hard control and risk management systems.
The principal risks work, professionalism and diligence.
There were a few areas facing the Company and the statement on viability is given highlighted for improvement and, as a result, PwC and on pages 40 to 43.
The significant issues considered by the management agreed that the 2015 audit can be improved Committee are given in this section of the Annual Report.
by PwC assessing and testing certain items ahead of the Internal Audit year end reporting period.
PwC also outlined the professional development programme applicable to the partners The Group Internal Audit Plan the Plan is presented to the and employees engaged in the audit: have justied key Committee for its review and approval.
The Plan sets out the judgements taken during the course of the audit: and audit approach for the year, the allocation of resources and confirmed that the audit complies with their internal the audits to be undertaken, and covers a wide range of independent review procedures.
The Committee, after due operational, financial and IT processes.
Status updates consideration, agreed that the auditor remained effective.
and the results of the audits are presented to the Committee throughout the year by the Group Audit Director.
Auditor independence The Committee is also able to meet with the Group Audit During the year, the Committee satisfied itself that the auditor Director without the presence of the Executive Directors remained independent.
The review included consideration to discuss any issues.
of PwCs conrmation that it remained independent and objective within the context of applicable professional External audit standards, the rotation of the lead audit partner in line During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved with ethical standards and assessment of PwCs ongoing PwCs audit plan to ensure that it was consistent with the compliance with the Groups policies on employment of scope of the audit engagement and commitments made former PwC employees and the use of PwC for non-audit were adhered to.
The Committee discussed the risk areas services.
The current audit partner has been in place for identied by PwC that are most likely to give rise to a material one year.
financial reporting error or those that are perceived to be of a higher risk and requiring audit emphasis including those set Audit tender out in PwCs Report on pages 140 to 144.
The Committee also The Committee agreed to retain PwC as its auditor in 2015 to considered the audit scope and materiality and the level of avoid disruption during the Group Chief Executives first year non-audit fees.
During the year, the Committee debated whether to put the audit to tender in 2016, but agreed that in light of the The Committee considers the reappointment of the external change of Chief Financial officer and, given the Committees auditor and makes its recommendation to the Board for continued satisfaction with the quality and effectiveness of approval by shareholders and the AGM.
The Committee the PwC audit, that it would be prudent to recommend to assesses the effectiveness and independence of the auditor shareholders that PwC be reappointed for a further year.
on an ongoing basis and further details are given below.
The Committee is aware of the relevant EU and UK regulation Auditor effectiveness which requires that the audit must be put out to tender at The review of the effectiveness of PwC is based on least every 10 years and rotated at least every 20 years.
PwC consideration of the results of PwCs client satisfaction has been the Groups auditor for over 20 years and, in light survey.
Participants include senior finance personnel in the of the regulatory requirements, the Committee has agreed Groups largest markets together with Group Finance, Tax and that it will tender the audit no later than for the audit of the Company Secretariat.
The client satisfaction survey consists of December 2020 year end, to align with the maximum a two-page questionnaire in which respondents are asked to potential tenure of the current external audit partner.
answer a number of questions about PwCs service and give inchcape.
com 59 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT Non-audit services The Groups policy for non-services is designed to ensure that the external auditors objectivity is not compromised by earning a disproportionate level of fees for non-audit services or by performing work that, by its nature, may compromise the auditors independence.
The current policy is to maintain a ratio of 1:0.5 audit to non-audit fees and is reviewed twice a year by the Committee to ensure that it is being adhered to.
The Committee is also responsible for authorising the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
Non-audit services supplied by PwC include advice on: Tax compliance Accounting advice KEN HANNA Cyber security Chair of the Nominations Committee The Committee considers the non-audit services on an ongoing basis and concluded that, for these services, using professional advisors who have a deep understanding of the Groups business is a benefit to the Company.
Other Dear Shareholder consultants are used for services where it is considered that As stated in last years Report, Stefan Bomhard joined the a conict of interest could exist or where a particular area Board in April 2015.
The recruitment process started in 2014 of expertise is required by the Group.
A breakdown of the and was nalised at the beginning of the year when the fees paid for non-audit services can be found in note 3 Committee recommended his appointment to the Board on page 103. for approval.
Under the EU audit regulations noted on page 59, the Group is In 2015, both Simon Borrows and Vicky Bindra stepped down aware that certain services will be prohibited.
Therefore, for the as Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The Committee relevant commencement date for the Group 1 January 2017, recommended the appointment of Nigel Stein to the Board other rms will be used to provide tax services.
Nigel is currently Chief Executive Whistleblowing of GKN plc and he brings a wealth of B2B experience to the We recognise that leveraging the knowledge of our people Boards deliberations, which will help support the is the most effective way to detect fraudulent activity within achievements of the Groups strategic objectives.
During 2015, the iPOM Committee implemented biography can be found on page 51.
Throughout the an externally hosted, condential, whistleblowing solution to recruitment process of Nigel Stein, the Committee supplement and support the existing internal reporting and considered diversity when selecting suitable candidates.
Operating as an uninterrupted service, Richard Howes will join as Chief Financial officer on the InCondence compliance and ethics reporting solution 11 April 2016 replacing John McConnell who left the allows both hotline and web reporting capabilities in multiple Group on 29 February 2016. languages, integrated with case management software to support efficient and effective investigation, remediation In addition to the appointments to the Board, the Committee and reporting.
also approved several changes to the Committees.
Coline McConville will become Remuneration Committee Chair from 1 January 2016, Till Vestring become Chair of the CR Committee on 8 October 2015 and Nigel Northridge joined the Audit Committee from 8 October 2015.
Nigel Northridge will remain a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Key activities in 2015 JOHN LANGSTON Appointment of Stefan Bomhard Chair of the Audit Committee Appointment of Nigel Stein Recruitment process for Chief Financial officer Review and approve Committee membership Composition of the Board The Board consists of the Chairman, two Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
All Non-Executive Directors are considered independent in accordance with the Code.
In order to ensure that the composition of the Board remains appropriate, the Nominations Committee requires the Directors to complete a skills assessment on an annual basis.
The results of this assessment are used as the basis for determining gaps in skills and experience that may affect the ability to deliver the Groups strategic objectives.
60 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Committee membership The role of the Nominations Committee Meetings attended The Nominations Committee plays a vital role within the Ken Hanna Chair 2 2 context of the Board as it is responsible for the selection of Alison Cooper 1 2 strong candidates to ll both executive and non-executive John Langston 2 2 roles.
The Committee must keep the skills and experience of the Board under review to ensure that the right balance Coline McConville 2 2 is in place for the business to be run effectively.
The Nigel Northridge 2 2 Nominations Committee ensures the right people are Nigel Stein joined October 2015 0 0 appointed, the Non-Executive Directors are independent Till Vestring 2 2 and the Directors have sufficient time to carry out their Nigel Steins appointment took effect after the Nominations duties effectively.
The terms of reference setting out the authority and responsibilities of the Nominations Committee can be found on the website www.
Appointments to the Board Commitment Succession planning for the Board and Executive Directors is It is important to ensure that the Directors have sufficient a continual process, which is reviewed and evaluated during time to carry out their duties effectively.
The time commitment the year to ensure that the skills and experiences required to required by Non-Executive Directors is set out in their Letter of enable the Group to meet its strategic objectives are planned Appointment and is reviewed annually by the Nominations in advance to ensure a smooth transition.
Committee to ensure that it remains appropriate.
When vacancies arise it is the role of the Committee to Multiple board appointments prepare an appropriate description of the role and the The Committee reviewed its policy on multiple board capabilities required.
The Committee had identied the areas appointments and confirmed that the Directors had needed to broaden the skills and experience on the Board complied with the policy during the year.
and used this as a basis for evaluating potential candidates.
The Committee also has responsibility to ensure that when Election or re-election at the AGM lling vacancies there is integrity in the appointment process.
Nigel Stein and Richard Howes will stand for election and all other Directors will stand for re-election at the AGM.
Egon Zhender was appointed to assist with the search for The Committee believes that all Directors demonstrate a Non-Executive Director during the year and prepared a commitment to their roles, continue to discharge their list of suitable candidates against the skill set required by the duties effectively and make an important and valuable Group.
The consultants are also required to include a diverse contribution to the Company.
selection of candidates in line with the Groups diversity policy.
Diversity policy The Committee met with suitable candidates, some of whom met with other Board members as part of the The Committee recognises the benets of having a diverse interview process, and after due consideration the Board and sees increasing diversity at Board level as Committee recommended the appointment of an essential element in delivering the Groups strategic Nigel Stein to the Board for approval.
The Company believes that a truly diverse Board will include and make good use of differences in skills, Egon Zehnder does not have any other connection with regional and industry experience as well as background, the Company.
These differences will be considered in John McConnell announced his intention to leave the determining optimum composition of the Board and Group in October 2015 and the search for a replacement where possible should be balanced appropriately.
Spencer Stuart was appointed to assist with appointments are made on merit and in the context of the the recruitment and selection process and does not have skills and experience needed for the Board to be effective.
any other connection with the Group.
The Committee reviewed the shortlist and identied suitable candidates.
Following an interview process and after due consideration, the Committee recommended the appointment of Richard Howes to the Board for approval.
Independence The Committee reviewed the independence of the NonKEN HANNA Executive Directors in accordance with the Code and agreed to recommend to the Board that all Non-Executive Directors Chair of the Nominations Committee are considered independent.
com 61 CR COMMITTEE REPORT Committee membership Meetings attended Till Vestring Chair appointed October 2015 1 1 Stefan Bomhard 1 1 Alison Clarke 1 1 Ken Hanna 2 2 Coline McConville 2 2 The role of the CR Committee The CR Committee is responsible for developing a CR strategy which underpins the Groups business operations, supports its values and encourages commitment to our colleagues, our OEM partners, our customers the TILL VESTRING communities in which we operate and our environment.
Chair of the CR Committee The terms of reference setting out the authority and responsibilities of the CR Committee can be found on the website www.
We have continued to collect and monitor our CO 2 Dear Shareholder data during the year.
During the year, the Committee membership changed There is still work to be done in this area but we are making considerably with a new Chief Executive, a new Chief Human progress.
Our CO usage is an important area of focus within 2 Resources officer and, following the resignation of Vicky the Group and we continue to monitor new technologies Bindra, I became Chairman of the Committee in October.
and initiatives to see where we can adopt best practices within our businesses.
Our greenhouse gas emissions data As a result of fresh perspective from the new members, for the year ended 31 December 2015 is given on page 47 we have decided to take the opportunity to refresh the of the CR Report.
Groups CR strategy and policies and have commenced this work in 2016.
I hope that you nd the report informative and I am looking forward to sharing the progress in our CR journey with you The core areas of CR, people, OEM partners, customers, in next years Annual Report.
communities and the environment will remain but we will rethink how our CR activities can support our strategic objectives and how we can leverage our global capabilities and scale to make a difference to all our stakeholders.
The CR Report on pages 44 to 47 provides an overview of CR activities in 2015 and we have used case studies to TILL VESTRING highlight some of the remarkable achievements by colleagues during the year.
Chair of the CR Committee The case studies include: the Care Saipan Fund, set up by our business Atkins Kroll after Typhoon Soudelour, details on page 46: the Big Issue challenge taken on by Inchcape Australia senior management, details on page 47: and the apprentice programme in Hong Kong which benets our people, our communities and our OEM partners.
62 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015
