OUR VALUE CHAIN CONTINUED NEW AND USED CAR RETAILING A TRUSTED RETAILER We know that buying a vehicle, New or Used, is a huge decision.
We aim to build our customers trust over the long term over many purchases, simply by making sure we never give them even the slightest reason to consider goingelsewhere.
Peter Eaton, Franchise Director Jaguar Land Rover, Inchcape UK Vehicle sales An exceptional retail experience UK BMW Reading Customers look for more than a transaction whenever they choose During 2015 we to engage with us and we are driven by our desire to deliver the worked closely very best buying and ownership experience across New and Used with our OEM cars on behalf of our OEM partners.
This is only possible when we partner BMW to build a relationship based on trust.
invest in a new Major structural changes are transforming the automotive retail state-of the-art environment and customers have now made much of their buying retail facility, decision before they set foot in the retail centre.
While we actively Cooper engage with customers in this pre-purchase digital phase, we Reading.
also recognise that the retail centre visit itself remains a critical Ofcially opened in September 2015, and moment of truth.
Indeed, with fewer visits now being made to now the biggest BMW and MINI Centre the retail centre by individual customers before they make the in the UK, the new site is spread over final buying decision, arguably it makes the retail centre three storeys dedicated to amplifying experience even more important.
the BMW brand proposition and providing Our rigorous retail standards underpin our commitment to exceptional levels of customer service.
delivering consistently superior customer service at every stage.
It also protects the pricing power of our brands, helps us to grow market share for our OEM partners and creates a loyal customer base for our Aftersales businesses.
14 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Joining the data dots to improve Customer engagement and retention customer contact strategy in the UK Our existing customers provide us and our OEM partners with During 2015 endless opportunities for more business over the long term.
we reviewed Increasingly, data is at the heart of our engagement strategies, our customer nding out all we can both through conversation and formal contact strategy research about our customers such that we can serve them in the UK with an individual and personalised experience.
to ensure it was aligned with our Knowing how to nd, rene, understand and leverage data is customers fundamental to customer lifecycle management.
We strive to be expectations.
at the forefront of non-intrusive data usage at many points of the customer interface face-to-face in the showroom, via social media, We conducted focus groups, gathered SMS and email, on our websites and through our increasingly insights and used data from experience sophisticated contact centres, to gain a complete overview of each surveys to inform our strategy and identify customer regardless of which channels and contact points they have what is most important for our customers.
From this valuable research we were able to create timely and relevant communications Vehicle finance and insurance tailored to preferred contact methods, always working closely with our OEM Our global scale and reach give us the purchasing power to partners to ensure that they were engaged negotiate special terms with financial institutions.
In addition, we in the process.
benefit from our OEM partners close relationships with banks and insurers, which we too can leverage on our customers behalf.
We have seen improvements in customer feedback since this review As a result, we are able to offer our customers highly competitive and are continuing to rene our finance rates, giving us a clear source of competitive advantage.
strategy to consistently improve The ability to provide a competitive credit or insurance package the customer experience.
can make all the difference to a customers vehiclepurchasing experience and decision.
