DIRECTORS REPORT brought by the Company, judgment is given against the Board of Directors Director.
The indemnity has been in force for the financial The Directors of the Company who were in ofce during year ended 31 December 2015 and until the date of the year were: approval of this Report.
Vicky Bindra left October 2015 Stefan Bomhard joined April 2015 Share capital Simon Borrows left May 2015 As at 31 December 2015, the Companys issued share Alison Cooper capital of 43,681,009 comprised 436,810,096 ordinary Ken Hanna shares of 10.0p.
Andr Lacriox left March 2015 Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the John McConnell Companys Report and Accounts, to attend and speak Coline McConville at General Meetings and to appoint proxies and exercise Nigel Northridge voting rights.
The shares do not carry any special rights with Nigel Stein joined October 2015 regard to control of the Company.
The rights are set out in Till Vestring the Articles of Association of the Company.
In accordance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors will stand for election or re-election at the Restrictions of transfer of securities Annual General Meeting AGM on 26 May 2016, apart from There are no restrictions or limitations on the holding of John McConnell who left the Group on 29 February 2016. ordinary shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
There are no known arrangements under Directors Report which financial rights are held by a person other than the The Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 holder of the shares.
Shares acquired through the Company comprises pages 78 to 80 of this report together with sections share schemes rank pari passu with the shares in issue and incorporated by reference.
Some matters normally included have no special rights.
in the Directors Report are included in the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 47 including future business development Authority to purchase shares and risk management.
Details on the breakdown of gender At the Companys AGM on 21 May 2015, the Company was for the Directors, senior managers and employees of the authorised to make market purchases of up to 44,495,012 Company required to be given in the Strategic Report under ordinary shares representing approximately 10.0% of its the Companies Act 2006 are given on page 80 of this report.
Results and dividends In the year ended 31 December 2015, the Company purchased, for cancellation, 11,931,693 ordinary shares The Groups audited consolidated financial statements for of 10.0p each at a cost of 91.4m, representing 2.73% the year ended 31 December 2015 are shown on pages of the issued share capital at that date.
The Board recommends a final ordinary dividend of 14.1p per ordinary share.
Interests in voting rights If approved at the 2016 AGM, the final ordinary dividend During the year, the Company had been notied of the will be paid on 24 June 2016 to shareholders registered in following interests pursuant to the Financial Conduct the books of the Company at the close of business on Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Together with the interim dividend of 6.8p per below was correct at the date of notication.
It should be ordinary share paid on 4 September 2015, this makes a total noted that these holdings are likely to have changed since ordinary dividend for the year of 20.9p per ordinary share notied to the Company.
However, further notication of any 2014 20.1p.
change is not required until the next threshold is crossed.
Percentage Auditor and disclosure of information to Shareholder Number of shares notied the auditor Standard Life Investments 30,894,409 7.3% So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit Aberdeen Asset Management 26,442,380 5.9% information of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
Schroders Plc 20,157,836 4.4% The Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to Capital Group Companies Inc 12,775,830 2.9% have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware Source TR-1 notications.
These are updated on the Companys of any relevant audit information and to establish that the website.
Companys auditor is aware of that information.
There have been no notications between 31 December 2015 and 14 March 2016.
Directors indemnity A qualifying third party indemnity QTPI, as permitted by Employee benefit trust the Companys Articles of Association and sections 232 The Executive Directors of the Company, together with and 234 of the Companies Act 2006, has been granted other employees of the Group, are potential beneciaries by the Company to each of the Directors of the Company.
of the Inchcape Employee Trust the Trust and, as such, Under the provisions of the QTPI the Company undertakes are deemed to be interested in any ordinary shares held to indemnify each Director against liability to third parties by the Trust.
excluding criminal and regulatory penalties and to pay Directors costs as incurred, provided that they are reimbursed At 31 December 2015, the Trusts shareholding totalled 631,253 to the Company if the Director is found guilty or, in an action ordinary shares.
Between 1 January 2016 and 14 March 2016 78 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the Trust transferred 107,957 ordinary shares to satisfy the Each of the Directors who were in ofce at the date of this exercise of awards under employee share plans.
report whose names and responsibilities are listed on pages 50 to 51, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: In respect of LR 9.8.
4R 12 and 13, the trustee of the Trust agrees to waive dividends payable on the shares it holds the Group financial statements, which have been prepared for satisfying awards under the various share plans.
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and Directors interests profit of the Group: and the Operating Review contained on pages 28 to 37 The table showing the beneficial interests, other than includes a fair review of the development and performance share options, including family interests, in the ordinary of the business and the position of the Group, together with shares of the Company of the persons who were Directors a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that at 31 December 2015 is shown in the Directors Report on it faces.
The Board has reviewed the content of the Annual Report and There have been no changes to the number of shares held Accounts and considers when taken as a whole that it is fair, by Directors between 31 December 2015 and 14 March 2016. balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Directors responsibilities performance and position, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Report on Remuneration and the Going concern financial statements in accordance with applicable law Having assessed the principal risks and the other matters and regulations.
discussed in connection with the viability statement on page Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 43, the Directors consider it appropriate to adopt the going statements for each financial year.
Under that law the concern basis of accounting in the financial statements.
Directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Articles of Association IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and the parent The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed Company financial statements in accordance with by the Companys Articles of Association, the 2014 UK applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the The Directors have authority to issue and allot ordinary financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give shares pursuant to article 9 of the Articles of Association and a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the shareholder authority is requested at each AGM.
The Directors Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
have authority to make market purchases for ordinary shares In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are and this authority is also renewed annually at the AGM.
required to: The Articles of Association may be amended by a select suitable accounting policies and then apply special resolution of the shareholders.
Subject to the them consistently: Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions given make judgements and accounting estimates that are by special resolution, the business of the Company shall reasonable and prudent: be managed by the Directors who may exercise all the state whether IFRS, as adopted by the European Union powers of the Company.
and applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards, have been followed, subject to any material departures Conicts of interest disclosed and explained in the Group and parent The Articles of Association permit the Board to authorise any Company financial statements respectively: and matter which would otherwise involve a Director breaching prepare the financial statements on the going concern his duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid conicts of basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the interest.
When authorising a conict of interest the Board must Company will continue in business.
do so without the conicting Director counting as part of the quorum.
In the event that the Board considers it appropriate, The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate the conicted Director may be permitted to participate in the accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain debate, but will be permitted neither to vote nor count in the the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable quorum when the decision is being agreed.
The Directors are accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company aware that it is their responsibility to inform the Board of any and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial potential conicts as soon as possible and procedures are statements and the Directors Report on Remuneration in place to facilitate disclosure.
comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Change of control They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking The Company is not party to any significant agreements reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
However, for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
certain of the Groups third party funding arrangements Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation would terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
com 79 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Groups relationships with its OEM partners are managed Principal financial risk factors at Group level, but the relevant contracts are entered into at These risks are shown on pages 40 and 43. a local level with day-to-day management being led by each operating business.
Certain of the contracts may terminate Events after the reporting period on a change of control of the local contracting company.
In the period from 1 January 2016 to 14 March 2016, The Company does not have agreements with any Director the Company purchased, for cancellation, a further or employee providing compensation for loss of ofce or 4,541,107 ordinary shares of 10.0p each at a cost of employment that occurs because of a takeover bid, except 32.0m including costs.
The Company is committed to for provisions in the rules of the Companys share schemes completing the share buy back programme by 30 June 2016. which may result in options or awards granted to employees to vest on a takeover.
Other information Listing rules For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4 R, the information required to Transactions with Directors be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R can be found on the pages set No transaction, arrangement or agreement, other than out below: remuneration, required to be disclosed in terms of the Section Information Page Companies Act 2006 and IAS 24, Related Parties was 1 Interest capitalised Not material outstanding at 31 December 2015, or was entered into to the Group during the year for any Director and or connected person 2 Publication of unaudited financial 76 TSR Graph 2014 none.
information 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes 73-75 Greenhouse gas emissions 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director Not applicable The information required under Schedule 7 of the Large 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director Not applicable and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable and Reports Regulations 2008 in respect of greenhouse gas emissions is given in the Environment section of the 8 Non pre-emptive issue by a major Not applicable subsidiary undertaking Corporate Responsibility Report on page 47.
9 Parent participation in a placing by a Not applicable listed subsidiary Employees 10 Contracts of signicance Not applicable The Company is committed to a policy of treating all its 11 Provision of services by a controlling Not applicable colleagues and job applicants equally.
We are committed to shareholder the employment of people with disabilities and will interview 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends 79 those candidates who meet the minimum selection criteria.
13 Shareholder waiver of future dividends 79 We provide training and career development for our 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable employees, tailored where appropriate to their specic needs, to ensure they achieve their potential.
If an individual Corporate governance statement becomes disabled while in our employment, we will do our best to ensure continued development in their role, The statement of compliance with the 2014 UK Corporate including consulting them about their requirements, making Governance Code and the information required under DTR7 appropriate adjustments and providing suitable alternative is given in the Corporate Governance Report on page 52. positions.
Annual General Meeting Employee involvement The AGM will be held at 11.00 a. m. on Thursday, 26 May 2016 The information required under Schedule 7 of the Large at Deutsche Bank AG, Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts Street.
The notice convening the meeting and Reports Regulations 2008 in respect of employee and the resolutions to be put to the meeting, together with the involvement is given in the People section of the explanatory notes, are given in the Circular to all shareholders.
Corporate Responsibility Report on page 44.
The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in ofce.
A resolution to reappoint Gender diversity them as auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
The breakdown showing the number of female and male employees who were i Directors of the Company ii The Directors Report and the Strategic Report were approved senior managers and iii employees of the Company as at by the Board and have been signed by the Company 31 December 2015: Secretary on its behalf.
Male Female Total Board 7 77.8% 2 22.2% 9 Senior management 76 88.4% 10 11.6% 86 All employees 10,779 73.4% 3,912 26.6% 14,691 TAMSIN WATERHOUSE Group Company Secretary Financial instruments The information required under Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 in respect of financial instruments is given in note 23 to the financial statements on pages 126 to 132.
80 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 82 Consolidated income statement 83 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 84 Consolidated statement of financial position 85 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 86 Consolidated statement of cash ows 87 Accounting policies 94 Notes to the financial statements 139 Five year record 140 Report of the auditors Group 145 Company statement of financial position 146 Company statement of changes in equity 147 Accounting policies 149 Notes to the financial statements 158 Report of the auditors Company Other information 160 Shareholder information inchcape.
