OUR VALUE CHAIN CONTINUED BRAND MANAGEMENT A TRUSTED CUSTODIAN We go to enormous lengths to create strong brand equity for our OEM partner, Toyota, by translating brand values into visible customer benets.
We constantly educate and support our third party dealer network, in accordance with our customer focused philosophy to enable them to deliver a stand-out customer experience and grow market share.
Eleanna Vitta, Marketing Director left, and Eirini Flouda, e-Business Manager, Toyota Hellas A winning relationship for Toyota, Greece Our Distribution model At every stage of the Under Inchcapes Distribution model, we are trusted to take relationship, our work for on complete responsibility for our OEM partners sales and Toyota in Greece involves marketing operations in a particular country, providing them ensuring that the end with an end-to-end route to market solution.
customer is the focus of everything we do.
For this Appoint and manage the dealer network reason, we tightly control all This includes the appointment and management of the marketing communications, dealer network to complement our own retail centres.
including digital and online We work with dealers that are a best t for our OEM partner activities, to ensure that the brands, and manage and train the network to ensure the customer truly understands the quality, caring and highest standards of customer service across the entire trustworthy ethos behind the Toyota brand.
This extends to the showroom and the Aftersales arena, where we ensure that our people have all the knowledge including of competitor models that is required to be able to support customer needs.
We train all customer-facing staff throughout the retail network precisely how to talk to customers on behalf of Toyota.
The power of the Toyota brand built steadily throughout the years on the notions of , Innovative Technologies and Value for Money, ensures our leading performance, despite the fact that some competitor brands may have a perceived price advantage.
12 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS National marketing campaigns National marketing and price positioning The automotive sector contains some of the most prestigious Finland consumer brands in the world.
As exclusive Distributor, we In Finland, where we are the have earned the trust of our OEM partners to be their brand Distributor for Jaguar Land Rover, custodian in our markets.
for the launch of the new Jaguar XE, we undertook a highly We scrupulously project our OEM partners brand values targeted digital direct marketing and personality in all our national marketing campaigns programme along with social and communications, using our own market insight to rene media, print and web campaign messaging and pricing strategies, and maximise the potential and events aimed at owners of market opportunity.
Our local From print and TV campaigns to a highly responsive digital marketing team were specic on the demographic prole and social media presence, Inchcape manages every to target, for whom they additionally identied that personal aspect of the customer interface on behalf of the OEM.
recognition along with product image and design were highly important.
The programme successfully captured 90% of sales from competitor brands.
Hong Kong In Hong Kong, we created a campaign for the Toyota Noah, a small people carrier.
Our objective was to create resonance with our target audience fathers by riding on the emotional transition from a single man to family man and by recognising their unconditional love and support for their family.
Our local marketing team set out to project a new image of a family man that can be cool with a Noah by creating a viral video Salute to Dad and reinforcing the emotional benets of the model.
1 best-selling passenger car model in Hong Kong in 2015. inchcape.
