OUR VALUE CHAIN CONTINUED PRODUCT PLANNING AND LOGISTICS TRUSTED KNOWLEDGE It is very rewarding to see our OEM partner Fuji Heavy Industries relying on our local market knowledge and expertise to develop Subaru products that are entirely appropriate for our local market its a real partnership that only works because they trust us.
Nick Senior, Managing Director, Inchcape Subaru Australia Product specication Supporting a pan-European Hybrid strategy Inchcape plays a unique role at this stage in the automotive Supporting value chain.
Far from being solely involved in physical Toyotas Distribution and Retail, we work with our OEM partners, pan-European like Fuji Heavy Industries, sometimes years before a model is Hybrid strategy launched, providing essential insight to ensure that the right and our own product is delivered to market at the right time.
Our presence commitment in 26 countries gives our partners the local expertise to target to enhancing and rene models and special editions to meet tailored the customer needs, tastes and trends.
experience, Planning becomes increasingly precise as the process we developed progresses.
In Greece, for example, where we handle a unique special edition in Greece with Distribution for Toyota and Lexus, a tentative pricing Toyota.
The Yaris Hybrid Black and Red proposal is challenged and perfected via in-depth contributed strongly to signicantly customer and competitor research before a final price improved market share throughout is negotiated and agreed.
2015, despite the challenging economic environment.
These processes transfer trustworthy local knowledge and insight to our OEM partners to generate a competitive advantage and grow market share.
10 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Performance data to drive Import and logistics response times Right across the world, Inchcape works closely with OEM As well as partners to ensure a seamless, end-to-end vehicle preparation managing all and delivery process that ensures the right car reaches the port-to-outlet right outlet at the right time to meet manufacturer, dealer logistics for and end-customer requirements.
vehicles and In the markets where we operate this Distribution model, parts, our we completely remove the burden of logistics from the specialist OEM, so that each party can benefit from focusing on AutoNexus its core strengths.
division in Australia also facilitates the build of limited editions in local t. In addition, we provide OEM partners with full transparency and access to performance data that enables them to respond decisively and accurately to changing market conditions and consumer trends.
