BOARD OF DIRECTORS DRIVEN BY TRUST Standing, left to right Till Vestring, Nigel Northridge, John McConnell, Alison Cooper, Nigel Stein, John Langston Seated, left to right Stefan Bomhard, Ken Hanna, Coline McConville Biographies on page 50 48 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BOARD OF DIRECTORS DRIVEN BY TRUST inchcape.
com 49 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 Ken Hanna 3 John McConnell 5 John Langston Chairman Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Appointment to Board: Appointment to Board: Appointment to Board: September 2001 October 2009 August 2013 Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Prior to becoming Chairman, Ken was John was appointed as Group John was formerly Finance Director of an Executive Director and Chief Finance Director in October 2009, Smiths Group plc, having Financial officer of Cadbury plc.
having worked with the Group since been a member of the Board since Hewas previously a Partner of 1999.
John held a number of senior Compass Partners International and as Chief Financial officer before commercial positions at Smiths Group Group Finance Director and Chief moving to the role of Chief Executive including Group Managing Director Executive ofDalgety plc.
He has officer of Australasia.
of the Speciality Engineering division previous experience with Guinness plc and the Detection and Sealing Other appointments: now Diageo plc, Avis Europe and Solutions divisions.
Non-Executive Director of UBM plc Black & Decker.
Other appointments: 4 Alison Cooper Other appointments: Chairman of Aggreko plc Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Rexam PLC.
Other past appointments: Appointment to Board: Non-Executive Director and Chairman July 2009 Committee membership: of the Audit Committee of Tesco plc Chair of the Audit Committee Skills and experience: and member of the Committee membership: Alison is Chief Executive of Imperial Nominations Committee.
Chair of the Nominations Committee Brands PLC.
and a member of the Remuneration Alison joined Imperial Tobacco in 1999 6 Coline McConville and CR Committees.
and through a number of senior roles Non-Executive Director has contributed signicantly to the 2 Stefan Bomhard Appointment to Board: international expansion.
She was Group Chief Executive appointed as Chief Executive in May June 2014 2010 and since her appointment she Appointment to Board: Skills and experience: has led the development and April 2015 Coline spent 10 years with Clear implementation of Imperial Tobaccos Channel International Limited Skills and experience: sustainable growth strategy.
where she was Chief Executive officer Before joining Inchcape, Stefan was Alison is a Chartered Accountant Europe, from 2003 to 2006, having President of Bacardi Limiteds European andwas previously with previously been Group Development region and was also responsible for  LLP.
Director and Chief Operating officer.
Bacardis Global commercial Coline began her career in Committee membership: organisation and Global Travel Retail.
management consultancy, working Member of the Audit andNominations He served as Chief Commercial officer with both McKinsey & Co and Committees.
of Cadbury plc, Chief Operating officer LEKPartnership.
of Foodsolutions, Europe, a division of Other appointments: Unilever plc, together with general management, retail and franchise Non-Executive Director of UTV Media, experience at Diageo, Burger King Fevertree Drinks plc, Travis Perkins plc and Procter & Gamble.
and a supervisory board member of TUI AG.
Other past appointments: Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee of TUI Travel plc and Non-Executive Director of Wembley Stadium, Shed Media plc and HBOS plc.
Committee membership: Chair of the Remuneration Committee from January 2016 and a member of the CR and .
50 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7 Nigel Northridge 9 Till Vestring Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Appointment to Board: Appointment to Board: July 2009 September 2011 Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Nigel spent 32 years with Gallaher Till is Senior Partner of Bain & Group plc in sales and marketing CompanySouth East Asia.
Till has a roles before becoming the Group Chief 25year career at Bain & Company of Executive in 2000. which the last 20 were spent in Asia with postings in Sydney, Hong Kong, Other appointments: Tokyo and Singapore.
Chairman of Debenhams plc and He has served as head of Bains Hogg Robinson plc.
Automotive & Industrial Practice in Nigel will step down as Chairman of Asia, Managing Partner for South Debenhams plc in April 2016.
East Asia, as well as on Bains  & Other past appointments: Compensation Committee.
Chairman of Paddy Power plc and He has extensive experience advising Non-Executive Director of Aer Lingus plc, multinationals on growth strategy Thomas Cook plc and Agrekko plc across Asia as well as advising leading Committee membership: Asian companies on strategy, M&A and organisation.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee until December 2015 and a member of Other appointments: the Audit and Nominations Committee.
Non-Executive Director of Keppel Corporation 8 Nigel Stein Non-Executive Director Committee membership: Chair of the CR Committee and a Appointment to Board: member of the Remuneration October 2015 and Nominations Committees.
Skills and experience: Nigel was appointed Chief Executive of GKN plc in January 2012 and has previously held a range of commercial, general management and finance roles at GKN, including Group Finance Director and Chief Executive Automotive.
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Other appointments: Chairman of the UK Automotive Council.
Other past appointments: Non-Executive Director of Wolseley plc.
Committee membership: Member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
