INSIGHT AND EXPERTISE ACROSS THE AUTOMOTIVE VALUE CHAIN OUR V ALUE CHAIN We operate across every link of the post-factory automotive value chain for our OEM partners, providing a highly efficient, customer-focused route to market that delivers shared rewards at every stage.
PRODUCT PLANNING AND LOGISTICS BRAND MANAGEMENT Our in-depth knowledge of local markets, Under our Distribution model, we take on customer preferences and trends total responsibility for our OEM partners enables our OEM partners to benefit brands, marketing and sales operations in from our insights and understanding our local markets we handle every aspect throughout the entire planning process.
of the customer interface from appointing and managing the dealer network to advertising and social media management.
Page 10 Page 12 Product specication Appoint and manage the dealer network We work closely with our OEM partners for several Where we operate as a Distributor, we select and years before a new model is launched, providing appoint an independent dealer network that has clarity throughout the planning process as our view the best t with our partners brands: training and of market pricing, local t requirements and sales managing them to meet the demanding standards volumes gains precision.
Further, we typically own and operate 15-20% of the network ourselves.
Import and logistics National marketing and price positioning Our global oversight of distribution by land or sea, allied with comprehensive local port or border-toWe are scrupulous in projecting our partners brand showroom capabilities, removes all logistical values and personality in all local marketing and burdens from our partners.
communications support, rening messages where necessary to maximise positive impact in specic markets.
Our approach to price positioning is based on in-depth knowledge of market trends and competitor pricing.
8 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NEW AND USED CAR RETAILING AFTERSALES The Inchcape approach to retailing Our commitment is to never undertake revolves around creating and managing service work without our customers customer life-cycles.
This, together with our engagement, through digital and physical investment in state-of-the-art facilities channels, we seek to create long-term and expertise of our highly trained ongoing relationships involving multiple technicians, ensures we become New and Used car sales.
the first choice for Aftersales care.
Page 14 Page 16 Vehicle sales Servicing We aim to provide the best New and Used car Our ultimate focus is on getting it right first time, buying experience in our retail centres across the every time from the quality of a routine service world.
Our people have a depth of expertise and to xing a problem, this is the most certain way a wealth of product knowledge to ensure we can of retaining our customers and best representing deliver on this aim.
Customer engagement and retention Parts After initial customer engagement, we aim Our strong OEM relationships and specialist to deepen relationships via a wide range of wholesale capabilities make Inchcape the sophisticated retail techniques including tailored preferred provider of high-quality, genuine social media campaigns, loyalty strategies, rapid parts and accessories.
web response, opportunities with afnity partners and more.
Vehicle finance and insurance Close relationships with financial services businesses across the world mean we can provide customers with attractive, transparent means of vehicle nancing.
