OUR VALUE CHAIN CONTINUED AFTERSALES SERVICING AND PARTS TRUSTED EXPERTS Getting a service or repair right first time is just the starting point we just love going that extra step to try to make customers actually look forward to bringing their car in for a service.
Thong Chee Wah, Technician, Borneo Motors Toyota Servicing and parts Typically, the industry experiences a high proportion of Aftersales is a key defensive revenue stream for the Group Aftersales customers leaving franchised centres once the and drives approximately half of the Groups profits.
Our approach is to concentrate margins in this area are very attractive, which makes territories additional marketing resource on customer retention, where we have built market share over a number of years highlighting the tangible value of our state-of-the-art onsite particularly profitable for us.
In Hong Kong, for example, equipment, live links to manufacturer diagnosis and resolution around one third of the existing vehicles on the road are systems, and the top level of training our operatives receive brands we distribute, amounting to close to 244,000 units.
directly from our OEM brand partners.
In our Singapore This illustrates how a ourishing Aftersales business enables business for example, this approach has resulted in a even relatively small markets to deliver large profits for us.
significant increase in the number of customers who make us Our focus is on customer contact and retention programmes, responsible for their vehicle servicing for six years and more.
both up to and beyond warranty expiry.
Rigorous, customerWe also leverage our industry-leading service standards, centric sales processes are in place alongside the daily based on our complete transparency with customers, capture of customer metrics including service and repair which ensures we undertake no work without their prior bookings, hours sold and workshop productivity.
In this way, we build trust and demonstrate that there is no better place to go than an Inchcape service centre throughout the entire life of a vehicle.
16 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Audi Division in the UK works to deliver world-class Toyota ME Programme Aftersales experience in Singapore The Inchcape Audi Division has been Toyota ME, which working in close partnership with our stands for My OEM partner to train our Service teams Experience, is to deliver an outstanding Aftersales ourunique online experience for our customers.
experiential loyalty rewards programme We work with Audi on their Aftersales which allows customers accreditation programme, which is to earn ToyotaME designed to provide a high level of points for every dollar competency amongst Audi teams and spent at one of our deliver a high level of customer service.
authorised Toyota Service and Bodycare Centres.
Our Service teams have also been trained to make high quality These points can be redeemed in various ways, videos for our Aftersales customers using the Audi Cam service, fromofcial merchandise to a 24-hour drive which has been designed to make it easier for customers to see away experience.
what work is required for their car and hear this directly from our The programme has helped to forge lasting specialist, trained technician who has carried out the work.
We relationships with customers built around the receive highly positive feedback on this service from many of deliveryof a truly personalised service which our customers.
takes the stress out of the post-sale and servicing process.
Our customers feel valued as part of a programme which rewards them based on criteria going beyond simply a transactional relationship, bringing enhanced engagement and an improved customerretention rate.
