BOARD AND GOVERNANCE Board of Directors The Board consists of the Non-executive Chairman, four independent Non-executive Directors, two non-independent Non-executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
All Directors served throughout the year ended 31 March 2015 and remain in office as at the date of this report.
For further details regarding our Directors please refer to www.
com about-us corporate-governance leadership board-of-directors Ian is responsible for leadership of the First appointed to the Board Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
1 November 2013 He was CEO of SSE plc for over 10 years until 2013, having previously Board committee membership been its Finance Director.
Nomination Chairman and Remuneration He has held a number of roles on industry bodies including the Energy Key appointments Research Partnership and Ofgems Non-executive Chairman Sustainable Development Advisory John Wood Group PLC Group.
He has also chaired the UK Non-executive Director Aggreko plc Business Council for Sustainable Ian Marchant, ACA Chairman Scotlands 2020 Energy and the UK governments Non-executive Chairman Climate Group Engineering Construction Forum.
President UKs Energy Institute Chairman Maggies Cancer Caring Centres Eric was appointed Group CEO in First appointed to the Board 2009, having been involved with 2 October 2013 Infinis since January 2008 when he was seconded into the business from Board committee membership Terra Firma Capital Partners Limited None which he joined in 2007.
Key appointments Previously, he held executive positions None with Sirva and Brakes, two portfolio companies owned by Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, a US private equity firm.
He was an Investment Director Eric Machiels, MBA at UBS Capital from 1999 to 2002.
Chief Executive Officer Gordon joined Infinis as CFO in March First appointed to the Board 2012, having held a number of senior 2 October 2013 positions in the UK electricity sector.
Most recently he was Finance Director Board committee membership of EDF Energys upstream and None downstream businesses in the UK.
Key appointments As Finance Director of Drax Group plc, Trustee and Treasurer he led the companys restructuring The Scout Association and listing on the London Stock Exchange in 2005 and continued in that role until 2008.
Gordon Boyd, FCMA Chief Financial Officer 40 04 Board and governance Infinis Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Chris holds a number of nonFirst appointed to the Board executive positions and provides 1 November 2013 support and counsel to the Board and to the Chairman in particular.
Board committee membership He is also available as a point of Audit, Nomination and contact for shareholders if required.
Remuneration Chairman Chris was a founder of WSP Group Key appointments plc, and led it through an IPO in 1987.
Non-executive Chairman of: As CEO until 2012, he developed WSP Global Inc. WSP to become a global business.
Ashtead Group plc In 2012 WSP merged with GENIVAR Chris Cole, CEng Tracsis plc and Chris is now the Non-executive Senior Independent Chairman of WSP Global Inc. Applus Services, S. A. Non-executive Director Redcentric plc Alans experience in managing First appointed to the Board transmission and distribution 1 November 2013 networks, corporate strategy, regulation and planning, means that Board committee membership he has a wealth of energy sector Audit, Nomination knowledge and skills that he brings and Remuneration to the Board.
Key appointments He has held a number of senior Chairman Viking Energy positions with Scottish Power plc.
Shetland LLP Until 2009 he was Managing Director Non-executive Director of SP Energy Networks, having Alan Bryce, FIET Scottish Water previously been Managing Director of Independent Non-executive Director Scottish Powers generation business.
With nearly 40 years of experience First appointed to the Board in industry and commerce, Rays 1 November 2013 knowledge and insight into a wide range of sectors provides valuable Board committee membership counsel to the Board.
He has held a Audit Chairman, Nomination number of senior finance roles.
and Remuneration Ray was Chief Executive of The British Key appointments United Provident Association Limited Non-executive Director Saga plc Bupa until 2012, having served as Non-executive Director Rothesay its Group Finance Director from 2001 Life Limited until 2008.
He chairs the audit and Ray King, FCA risk committees of Saga plc, the audit Reporting Panel Member Independent Non-executive Director committee of Rothesay Life Limited Competition and Markets Authority and between 2004 and 2009 served Audit and Assurance Council as an Independent Non-executive member Financial Reporting Director of Friends Provident plc.
Council 41 BOARD AND GOVERNANCE Board of Directors continued Sallys extensive experience of First appointed to the Board corporates and policy makers is of 27 March 2014 significant value to the Board.
She is a Member of the House of Lords and Board committee membership has a wealth of knowledge of a broad Audit, Nomination range of organisations and sectors and Remuneration which she brings to the Board.
Key appointments Sally was Political Secretary to the Non-executive Director Prime Minister from 1997 to 2001.
DixonsCarphone plc She has held office as Minister for Member of the advisory committee Women and Equalities, and has Baroness Sally Morgan, MA of Virgin Group Holdings Ltd. had a range of board and advisory Independent Non-executive Director Trustee, Board member or adviser roles including serving on the Board to a number of charities, especially of the Olympic Delivery Authority in the educational field.
Sally currently serves as an Independent Non-executive Director of Copthorn Holdings Limited.
Having been involved with the First appointed to the Board business since 2007, and with wide 1 November 2013 experience in many other sectors, Mike is well placed to make a key Board committee membership contribution to the Board on behalf None of Terra Firma Capital Partners Limited TFCPL.
Key appointments Managing Director Mike has been with TFCPL since 2000 Terra Firma Capital Partners Limited and held senior roles in many of its businesses.
Before joining TFCPL he was Group CEO of Stagecoach Mike Kinski, MBA Holdings plc and, prior to that, CEO Non-executive Director of Power Distribution and Water Operations for Scottish Power plc.
Radus focus on energy and First appointed to the Board infrastructure investments at 7 February 2014 Terra Firma and previous energy and investment banking experience is a Board committee membership valuable asset to the Board.
He has None been closely involved with Infinis since 2012.
Key appointments Director Terra Firma Before joining TFCPL, Radu was Capital Partners Limited with Centrica plc where he held power business development and mergers & acquisitions roles.
He Radu Gruescu started his career as an investment Non-executive Director banker focusing on the natural resources sector.
