CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Case study: Lancaster Centre of Excellence Our Lancaster Centre of Excellence, In March 2014 members of the At Infinis, we continue to where we aim to provide a worldInstitution of Diesel and Gas Turbine invest in our people and class training facility whilst rebuilding Engineers IDGTE, the body which our business.
LFG engines of the highest calibre, accredits those of our engine provides a good example of both of technicians who have successfully these investments in action.
completed the Infinis training matrix with a Tech.
certification, visited Here, the Manager of the Centre of the venue, together with second year Excellence, Stewart Wilson, explains engineering students from Salford how the work of his team contributes University.
The feedback received to our people and performance: from the Deputy President of the IDGTE suggests we are moving in the December 2014 marked the right direction: A great demonstration completion of the third full year of that leading by example does work!
operation of the Centre of Excellence.
We are continually looking for ways of Over those three years more than improving what we do, so that we can 300 delegates have benefited from a either deliver a better service or do wide variety of training development what we do more efficiently, and have programmes, and over 150 engines taken a Kaizen culture into the heart have received a major overhaul at the of how we operate.
As part of our commitment to that The engineering and training Kaizen continuous improvement staff at the Centre have a combined ethos, a series of cost reduction experience of over 250 years in the and efficiency improvement initiatives LFG industry and this provides the have been driven by my team here in platform for what we do here.
For example, an area of events delivered have ranged in the Centre has been developed for complexity from basic IT, to in-depth the refurbishment and re-use of engine repair and maintenance, equipment previously discarded, such and optimisation of engine set-up as cylinder heads, connecting rods, and diagnostic capability.
exhaust manifolds and liners, which we can now refurbish in-house in order that their lifetime effectiveness can be extended.
To date this programme has delivered cost savings of over 1 million.
We are now looking at other opportunities to improve what we do, and have commenced work on water pumps amongst other areas.
We are committed to the ethos of high quality refurbishment and are focused on making this an area of continued innovation and success.
We believe this focus will continue to provide demonstrable financial benefit to the business.
38 04 Board and governance Infinis Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2015 04 Board and governance Committed to strong stewardship 39
