STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTMENT CASE WHY INVEST?
Informa offers investors exposure to the burgeoning Knowledge and Information Economy.
The Group believes it has a growth opportunity in this market and can deliver attractive and sustainable returns over the long term, due to the strength of its Brands in niche markets, its growing international presence and its attractive financial characteristics.
Informa has a track record of consistent dividends funded by strong and visible cash flows.
STRONG GROWING ATTRACTIVE SPECIALIST INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL BRANDS MARKETS CHARACTERISTICS The Knowledge and Information Economy Informa has a stable and flexible financial Informa has strong, well-established isgrowing at around 4% per annum operating model.
Brandsthat operate in niche markets according toOutsell.
andcommunities by providing specialist There is a high level of visibility and predictability information and services.
News and information are proliferating globally, on revenue streams.
More than half of revenue and this trend has placed increased is recurring or booked in advance, including In Pharma & Healthcare for instance, one importance on specialist, actionable insight subscriptions and advance bookings for ofInformas products provides specialist and intelligence from which trends and Exhibitions and events.
intelligence on worldwide pharmaceutical conclusions can be drawn.
In Construction, Informa Informas Divisions have attractive margins and whether professional or academic, have produces the premier global event high levels of cash conversion.
This generates become more segmented and increasingly dedicated to the Commercial Concrete strong free cash flow, providing the Group with global at the same time.
For researchers the flexibility to invest back into the business value platforms that enable them to connect andacademics in Materials Science, a key and producing attractive returns.
and network with like-minded professionals specialist publication is The Philosophical and gain knowledge.
At the same time, Informa has a track record of Magazine, first printed in 1798. delivering a consistent dividend to Shareholders.
Informa has offices in over 20 countries The highly specialist nature of Informas The Group committed to increasing the annual andsells its products and services into products, the value of its Brands and Dividend Per Share by aminimum of 2% a year manymore.
Expanding this presence to itslong-term relationships with key for the period of the Growth Acceleration Plan.
In meet customer needs and capture growth communities act as barriers to entry, giving 2015, the total Dividend Per Share was increased opportunities remains a priority for the Group.
the Group defensible market positions.
by 4.1% and the minimum commitment for the duration of the Plan was also increased to 4%.
Read more on pages 32-53 Read more on pages 13-16 Divisional performance market trends See more on pages 54-60 Financial review 30 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
