MARKET TRENDS: DOING BUSINESS AT THE TIPPING POINT Informa operates within the Knowledge and Information Economy, a burgeoning sector that is global in nature and fast moving.
To provide an independent understanding of this market and a perspective on external trends that could affect the Companys continued progress and performance, Outsell, Inc. a leading research and advisory firm focused on media, information and technology, highlights the tipping points it believes will impact the sector in 2016.
Underlying growth Publishers are in the industry ebbs and flows with the economy in recent years in low now software single digits mirroring GDP and the budgets of the customers it serves.
companies There is rapid expansion in techfuelled areas such as analytics, and a too, building legion of new entrants and would-be disrupters.
A constant cycle of growth platforms and through mergers and acquisitions applications adds fuel, with the newcomers providing the engine for innovation DOING to make and boosting growth for large acquirers.
In many sectors a handful BUSINESS AT information of companies dominate, the middle is hollow, and a long tail wags.
THE TIPPING intelligent and Against this backdrop several actionable.
POINT important market trends are unfolding: now software companies too, building CONVERGENCE platforms and applications to make Outsell, Inc.
Co-founder information intelligent and actionable.
& CEO Anthea Stratigos The most powerful of these platforms are built to open standards with The information industry is an array In the new networked digital economy, connectors and application program of segments with revenues totalling everyone is a publisher and part interfaces or APIs.
They become almost $800bn, including news, of a global conversation.
Todays ecosystems hosting content and market research, business media, data information solutions providers services not just from the company services, events, scholarly publishing, operate in a complex environment itself, but from clients and third parties financial and risk information, training where categories are blurred and even from their competitors.
Add in gaming, music traditional boundaries fluid.
The same time, technology firms are in and entertainment and it serves a convergence between content, the business of content: not just broad set of needs around the world.
commerce, community and the hosting it, but actively seeking out And all of its contours are undergoing tools that support them requires data partnerships and acquisitions to profound structural change, a result businesses not to remain trapped make their workflow environment the of technologys ongoing and in just one category.
Publishers are destination of choice.
14 FOCUSED SCALE As the industry has converged in this networked world, size really matters.
The power of any network increases exponentially with the number of members.
So the biggest online communities, search engines, and e-commerce markets scoop up most of the available profits.
And only a small number of information platforms can achieve the scale to support and sustain the investments required to compete effectively.
Recent years have seen aggressive portfolio management across the information industry by the largest companies, buying and selling assets to drive what we call focused scale: being among the clear leaders in a specific sector rather than a small power in the cloud, a benign funding or medium-sized player in multiple environment, a data universe of open markets.
Diversification without APIs, and the gig economy of talent scale is not a winning proposition.
This is the research and Achieving that kind of focus requires development engine of the industry, ruthless scrutiny of assets.
Even high coming up with new forms, new performing operations may have to content and new ways of doing go in order to liberate capital and businesses, informed by the primacy resources for activities that can of mobile consumption and social contribute to securing market sharing and collaboration.
to market quickly with lower costs and no traditional transformational journeys, using agile development to NEW test, learn and pivot.
They take market share with products not even in beta, FORMS OF discovered by curious users rather than sold to an enterprise buyer.
COMPETITION Information businesses are also increasingly competing with some of their own clients.
Publishers of legal The other consequence of information buy legal process convergence is multi-dimensional outsourcing companies and services competition.
The long tail is wagging offering practical self-help tools to furiously, invigorated by the optimism lawyers.
Meanwhile law firms start and healthy innocence of start-ups positioning unprofitable low level legal unburdened by legacy models work as information services, of what an information business looks delivering commoditised legal content like.
Technology rather than content is to their own corporate clients via often their starting point, solving new online platforms.
We have become customer problems or attacking old accustomed to co-opetition, where problems in new ways.
competitors become frenemies and partner in some areas.
Now we are Start-ups have cheap access to entering a phase where customers unimagined computing and storage become rivals: call it custompetition?
15 Enterprises of all kinds now emit and CHANGING Our research collect data as part of their digital existence and see information and consistently EXPECTATIONS data services as part of their longterm competitive differentiation.
shows that the A whole new class of acquirer, prepared to pay great multiples, is more our world emerging for young, tech-infused Above all, the demands of clients and companies.
An agrochemical goes digital, the users are evolving rapidly.
A generation company buys a business selling weaned on the abundance and the more important precise and detailed data to farmers freedom of modern consumer digital about climate and other conditions riches is bringing those expectations face-to-face affecting crop yields: a software giant to the workplace.
They want the buys the worlds leading weather business environment to be just as open.
To succeed, information businesses becomes.
need to serve users on any device, In the big data world, no single at any time.
They have to facilitate company can possibly house or sharing and collaboration.
They must control everything its analytics welcome users contributing new engines might need and the field in content to their platforms and allow all sectors is ripe with activity as them to apply their tools of choice to machines interact in the new era.
bring insights to the data.
They have But it is essential for companies in the to look outward, harnessing new ideas industry to have a data and analytics and innovation from all sides.
They strategy and the platforms to deliver it need to adapt to the new ways human in order to secure market leadership.
beings interact with machines, how machines communicate with each SOURCE: IBM other, and how computers start to learn and reason like humans.
GOLD FACE Those who master convergence, embrace data, achieve focused scale, IN THE TO deal with new competition, and keep DATA FACE up with ever faster cycles of innovation and changing expectations, will be the ones to succeed in an information industry at the tipping point.
In this new information era, words still Our research consistently shows This article is contributed by Outsell, have their place.
But rich seams of gold that the more our world goes digital, Inc.
Co-founder & CEO Anthea are now in the data.
The world is the more important face-to-face Stratigos and represents the view creating 2.5 exabytes of data each day : interaction becomes.
Trade shows, of Outsell, Inc. which is solely from photos and video uploaded to conferences, training: events small responsible for its contents.
social media posts, purchase transaction and large that bring professionals A standalone version of this article can records, mobile phone data, countless together still matter and are highly be downloaded at www.
sensors on machinery of all kinds, and valued.
Companies pay for their myriad other sources.
We need 2.5 people to attend, they sponsor million new high spec home computers events, and more than ever they to store the data from the internet of are spending on staging their own humans and things.
events as a key way to reach customers and prospects and Increasingly powerful analytics provide strong Brand experiences.
software is the essential equipment for In the world of professional training, goldminers in the age of big data.
It is in-person courses remain no longer sufficient simply to use such stubbornly popular.
tools to describe what the data might be saying.
Even predictive analytics, Digital communities and online making probability-driven forecasts learning now offer the possibility about what may happen in the future of bridging the physical and the is giving way to prescriptive analytics virtual into a 365-day experience.
recommendations about what The acceleration of virtual reality possible actions to take based on the technology points to further data and the context.
This is the new transformation, extending and frontier and where successful complementing face-to-face companies will live.
engagement but without replacing it.
16 18 Business model and strategy HOW 20 Risk management and viability statement INFORMA 22 Principal risks and uncertainties OPERATES 26 Key performance indicators 28 An overview of the Groups business Sustainability at Informa model and strategy, the way risk is 30 managed and Informas principal Investment case sustainability interests.
