STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT nforma PLC is a public company limited by shares, DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INTERESTS incorporated in England and Wales, has a premium The names, roles, skills and experience of Directors of the listing on the London Stock Exchange, and is the Company as at the date of this report are set out on pages I holding company of the Informa Group of companies.
Geoff Cooper served as a Non-Executive Director The Directors present their Annual Report and Financial andChairman of the Remuneration Committee until he stepped Statements on the affairs of Informa PLC and its subsidiaries down on 30 March 2015.
Stephen Davidson and David Flaschen together, the Group, together with the Consolidated Financial were appointed as Non-Executive Directors with effect from Statements and Auditors Report, for the year ended 1September 2015 and will seek election at the AGM on 19 May 31December 2015.
Stephen Davidson was appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 September 2015 and David This Directors Report forms part of the Strategic Report of the Flaschen as a Member of the Audit Committee on 1 October Company as required by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic 2015.
All other Directors served on the Board throughout the Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, which can be financial year and will seek re-election at the AGM on 19 May found on pages 2 to 60.
The Strategic Report also forms the 2016, except for John Davis who will step down after serving management report for the purposes of the UK Financial Conduct 10years on the Board.
Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR 4.1.
The remuneration and share interests of the Directors who held The Strategic Report describes the strategy, business model, office as at 31 December 2015 are set out in the Remuneration theCompanys performance during the year, principal risk factors Report on pages 80 to 90.
Details of the contracts of the and corporate responsibility activities.
As a whole the Annual Executive and Non-Executive Directors with the Company can Report and Financial Statements provides information about the befound on page 89.
There are no agreements in place between Groups businesses, its financial performance during the year the Company and its Directors andemployees providing for and likely future developments.
compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs CORPORATE GOVERNANCE because of a takeover bid.
Further information on payments to A report on the Companys compliance with the provisions of the Directors can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages UK Corporate Governance Code as published in September 2014 80to 90.
No Director was materially interested in any contract is set out on page 65, and forms part of this report by reference.
The notice concerning forward-looking statements is set out on page 175.
References to the Company may also include references DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES Indemnities are in force with each Director and more information to the Group.
on these can be found on page 72.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The AGM will be held on 19 May 2016, at TheConrad London St.
APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS The rules for appointment and replacement of the Directors are James Hotel, 2228 Broadway, London SW1H 0BH, at 9.00 am.
The notice is being dispatched as a separate document to all set out in the Articles.
Directors can be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
The Company can remove Shareholders and is also available at www.
The notice sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM and a Director from office, including by passing an ordinary resolution or by notice being given by all the other Directors.
an explanation of each resolution.
POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS DIVIDENDS The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles and provide that the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company, 13.55p per Ordinary Share.
Subject to Shareholders approval atthe 2016 AGM, the final dividend is expected to be paid on including to borrow money up to an aggregate of three times the adjusted capital and reserves.
The Company may by ordinary 26May 2016 to Ordinary Shareholders registered as at the close of business on 29 April 2016.
Together with the interim dividend resolution authorise the Board to issue shares, and increase, consolidate, sub-divide and cancel shares in accordance with of 6.55p per Ordinary Share paid on 11 September 2015, this makes a total for the year of 20.1p per Ordinary Share 2014: itsArticles and English law.
Shareholders may elect to receive shares instead of cash from their dividend allocation through the Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
More information on joining the DRIP can be found in the Shareholder Information section on page 176.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED CHANGES TO THE COMPANYS ARTICLES Share capital The Company may only amend its Articles by special resolution As at 31 December 2015, the Companys issued share capital passed at a general meeting GM.
comprised 648,941,249 Ordinary Shares with a nominal value of 0.1p each.
The Companys share capital was restructured in 2014 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS as detailed in Note 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company is required to disclose the Groups greenhouse Rights and obligations attaching to shares gas GHG emissions as required by the Companies Act 2006 The rights attaching to the Companys Ordinary Shares, being Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013. theonly share class of the Company, are set out in the Articles, Details of the Groups GHG emissions are contained in the which can be found at www.
Subject to relevant Sustainability section of the Strategic Report which can be legislation, any share may be issued with or have attached to it foundon pages 28 and 29 and form part of the Directors such preferred, deferred or other special rights and restrictions Reportdisclosures.
asthe Company may by special resolution decide or, if no such POLITICAL DONATIONS resolution is in effect, or so far as the resolution does not make The Group made no political donations during the year.
specific provision, as the Board may decide.
No such resolution is currently in effect.
Subject to the recommendation of the FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Board, holders of Ordinary Shares may receive a dividend.
In relation to the use of financial instruments by the Group, a On liquidation, holders of Ordinary Shares may share in the review is included within Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial assets ofthe Company.
Holders of Ordinary Shares are also Statements.
Financial risk management objectives and policies entitled to receive the Companys Annual Report and Financial including a description of when hedge accounting has been Statements and, subject to certain thresholds being met, may applied and the Groups exposure to capital risk management, requisition the Board to convene a GM or the proposal of market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk are explained in Note 28 resolutions at AGMs.
None of the Ordinary Shares carry any to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
special rights with regard to control of the Company.
OVERSEAS BRANCHES Voting rights The Company operates branches in Australia, Singapore, Holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to attend and speak at Switzerland, the UAE and the USA.
GMs of the Company and to appoint one or more proxies or, if the holder of shares is a corporation, a corporate representative.
SHARE INFORMATION On a show of hands, each holder of Ordinary Shares who being Substantial shareholdings an individual is present in person or being a corporation is As at 31 December 2015, the Company had received notice present by a duly appointed corporate representative, not being inaccordance with the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules himself herself a member, shall have one vote and on a poll, DTR 5, of the following notifiable interests in the Companys every holder of Ordinary Shares present in person or by proxy issued share capital.
The information provided below was correct shall have one vote for every share of which he she is the holder.
at the date of notification to the Company and it should be noted Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions that the holdings are likely to have changed since the Company must be received not later than 48 hours before a GM.
of Ordinary Shares can lose the entitlement to vote at GMs where that holder has been served with a disclosure notice and has As at As at 31 December 2015 14 March 2016 failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests held in those shares.
Except as set out above and as Number Percentage Number Percentage permitted under applicable statutes, there are no limitations on of shares held of shares held voting rights of holders of a given percentage, number of votes Lazard Asset ordeadlines for exercising voting rights.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Restrictions on transfer of securities intheCompany CHANGE OF CONTROL There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a Company except that: party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid nor any agreements between the Company the Directors may from time to time refuse to register a transfer and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided it meets of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid the requirements given under the Articles: except for the Groups private placement loan notes and facilities transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using described in Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of anuncertificated share in accordance with the regulations EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT governing the operation of CREST: Informa has a continuous and proactive programme of internal legal and regulatory restrictions may be put in place from time communications and employee engagement activities, designed to time, for example insider trading laws: to encourage and foster a creative and discursive working in accordance with the Listing Rules of the FCA the Directors environment throughout the Group.
Colleagues are kept informed and certain employees of the Company require approval to on matters affecting them by their respective Divisions and by deal in the Companys shares: theGroup by various digital, physical and in-person channels, where a Shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the including emails, newsletters and brochures, Intranet videos, Companys certificated shares has been served with a articles and documentation, conference calls and webinars, disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company andmeetings and Town Halls.
with information concerning interests in those shares: or Employees are provided with regular updates on the Companys the Directors may decide to suspend the registration of performance.
They are invited to view half-yearly and full year transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of results presentations.
Furthermore an adapted version of Shareholders.
The Directors cannot suspend the registration half-yearly and full year results presentations is created and oftransfers of any uncertificated shares without obtaining delivered to employees by the Group Chief Executive, with a Q&A consent from CREST.
facility giving every colleague the opportunity to ask questions There are no agreements between holders of Ordinary Shares directly and feedback.
that are known to the Company which may result in restrictions The Group actively seeks feedback from colleagues and will on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
be running a global employee engagement survey in 2016.
It Shares held on trust continues to participate in the UK Top Employers ranking and has Shares are from time to time held by a Trustee in order to satisfy been accredited a Top Employer for 2016.
The ranking involves entitlements of employees to shares under the Groups share questioning on many factors, including links to employee schemes.
Usually the shares held on trust are no more than consultation and engagement.
sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Groups share schemes ShareMatch, a global Share Incentive Plan, is offered to the for one year.
The shares held by these trusts do not have any majority of staff.
Eligible employees in the UK, the US, the UAE, special rights with regard to control of the Company.
While these Australia, Germany, the Netherlands, Singapore and Sweden shares are held on trust their rights are not exercisable directly are invited to purchase shares in the Company up to an annual bythe relevant employees.
The current arrangements concerning maximum value of 1,800.
Further information on ShareMatch these trusts and their shareholdings are set out on page 89. can be found in the Remuneration Report on page 85.
The Purchase of own shares intention of this scheme is to increase employee engagement At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under a and align employees interests with those of the Company and Shareholders resolution passed on 22 May 2015, to purchase Shareholders by increasing employee ownership of the through the market up to 10% of the Companys issued Ordinary Companys shares.
To support this aim, materials describing Shares.
This authority expires at the conclusion of the AGM of the scheme have been reformulated and refreshed for re-launch theCompany to be held on 19 May 2016. in 2016.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES The Groups net debt and banking covenants are discussed Informa believes in equality of opportunity and all recruitment and inthe Financial Review on pages 54 to 60 and the exposure promotion opportunities are based solely on merit.
No individual toliquidity risk is discussed in Note 28 to the Consolidated employee or potential employee will receive less favourable Financial Statements.
treatment on the grounds of age, gender, sexual orientation, The Group sensitises its projections to reflect possible changes in disability, colour, race, religion, nationality or ethnicity.
trading performance and cash conversions, taking into account The Companys equal opportunity policy and commitment to its substantial deferred revenues 385.7m at 31 December diversity not only covers recruitment and promotion but also 2015.
In making its statement on viability on page 21 the training and development opportunities.
The policy also acts Directors describe the process they have undertaken to sensitise as a guide to all staff and management on acceptable behaviour its forward projections to reflect plausible adverse scenarios at work standards.
which could arise as a consequence of the most financially material of the Groups principal risks crystallising.
The In situations where an individual employees circumstances projections support the view that for the period up to 30 June change, it is the Companys policy to do everything reasonably 2017 the Group is expected to be able to operate within the level possible to ensure that a successful return to work is facilitated, of its current financing and meet its covenant requirements for be it in the same job or a different role.
aperiod of one year from the date of the signing of the Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
AUDITOR Each person who is a Director at the date of approval of this After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable Annual Report and Financial Statements confirms that: expectation that there are no material uncertainties that may castsignificant doubt about the Companys ability to continue so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit asa going concern.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have Financial Statements.
taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware ofany relevant audit information and to establish that the Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Companys auditor is aware of that information.
RUPERT HOPLEY Deloitte LLP has expressed willingness to continue in office as COMPANY SECRETARY auditor and a resolution to reappoint Deloitte will be proposed 10 February 2016 atthe forthcoming AGM.
GOING CONCERN BASIS Each of the persons who is a Director noted on pages 62 and 63 at the date of approval of this Annual Report and Financial Statements confirms that the Groups business activities, together with the principal risk factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans Statement and Strategic Report on pages 6 to 53.
As set out on pages 22 to 25 a number of principal risk factors could potentially affect the Groups results and financial position.
In particular the current economic climate creates uncertainties over the level of demand for the Groups products and services.
The Group adopts extensive budgeting and forecasting processes for its trading results and cash flows and updates these forecasts to reflect current trading on a regular basis.
94 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
