STRATEGIC REPORT GLOBAL SUPPORT STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GLOBAL SUPPORT: THE TEAM BEHIND THE TEAMS KEY LOCATIONS TEAMS WITHIN GLOBAL Tax& Treasury, Technology and UK, US, Singapore SUPPORT: Intellectual Property.
The three largest Strategy & Business Planning locations for Global Support are the Talent & Transformation UK, the US and Singapore.
Finance, Tax & Treasury The Division provides business Technology services that support the Groups four Communications Operating Divisions, enabling them to Legal, Risk & Compliance focus on implementing their commercial Company Secretary plans.
It also supports the Group entity, Intellectual Property providing essential services to help Mergers & Acquisitions Informa function effectively and fulfil its Growth Acceleration Plan Project ambitions to return all parts of the Management Office business to sustainable growth.
These include Group-wide leadership, planning GLOBAL SUPPORT IN 2015 and investment decisions, and risk Global Support is Informas fifth management principles and procedures.
It is the team behind the teams, In 2015, the focus within Global comprising a central group of experts in Support was to strengthen capabilities specialist functions including Finance, and infrastructure in key areas, ensuring itcould effectively support the growth andprogress being pursued by the four Operating Divisions.
Global Support established an Operating Executive Team to monitor and improve the Divisions engagement with other parts of the Group, with the aim of creating a consistent approach to how its various business services are provided.
Several functions were expanded over theyear, notably Risk Management and Business Planning.
This has created a more disciplined approach to monitoring and reporting on risk described on page 20.
The investment in Business Planning is part ofa programme to embed more detailed long-term planning within the Divisions and provide greater support and oversight centrally.
The Groups Treasury Team, which aims to reduce risk and optimise Informas Balance Sheet through efficient funding and effective cash management, relocated from the Netherlands to London.
This change enables the team to work more closely with other Global Support functions, particularly the central Finance Team, and to attract experienced Treasury professionals more easily.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GLOBAL SUPPORT CONTINUED Several Global Support initiatives 2014, Global Supports Communications offunding for the Investment Programme.
commenced in 2015 designed to improve Team completed a relaunch of the Informa This team will continue to report, monitor Informas operational effectiveness.
Informas visual identity and control the overall programme included the standardisation of employee and assets such as the informa.
data, which will provide greater insight into website were updated to create a more The central Talent & Transformation Informas international workforce, improve distinctive, modern and consistent team retains responsibility for identifying the ability to manage talent proactively representation of the Company, making and investing in existing and new and make on-boarding new employees it easier for Shareholders and other employees, to ensure Informa has following business acquisitions a stakeholders to understand its purpose theskillsand capabilities it needs as it smoother process.
movesthrough the 20142017 Growth In 2014, the Global Support Shared Acceleration Plan.
This includes overseeing Service Centres were consolidated into PRIORITIES AND PROSPECTS the 2016 intake of the Informa Graduate three regional hubs to increase operational FOR 2016 Fellowship Scheme as described overleaf.
This process of centralisation In 2016, Global Support will continue Other priorities for Global Support continued in 2015.
The Division is to focus on providing effective professional areto ensure Informa meets all its legal implementing a simplified and updated services to enable each part of Informa obligations and follows best practice in finance system that can adequately tomeet its financial and operational areas such as information security, support the growth of the Operating objectives.
Global Divisions and provide better data and Within Global Support, there Supports dedicated teams continue to be information for financial decision making.
remains a small Project Management responsible for protecting Informas assets Following the introduction of the Office that oversees the Growth and intellectual property, and managing the Groups new operating model and the Acceleration Plan.
Its main focus is on Companys Brand and reputation.
launch of the Growth Acceleration Plan in controlling and managing the release 50 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS TALENT WE ARE INFORMA CLAIRE CARPENTER Business Architect Global Support London, UK Ive worked for Informa for nearly 10 years, across many different projects in HR and IT.
As a Business Enterprise Architect I now look at the link between business strategy and technology, analysing and advising on how technology can be aligned to enable the Groups growth objectives.
A highlight of 2015 was working on the Growth Acceleration Plan.
Im part of the central group of specialists that assesses each project at every major stage before funding is given.
My role is to understand what project teams are trying to achieve and ensure they have fully considered their technology needs and impacts, from planning and process changes to platform choices.
Its been fascinating to be part of a major strategic initiative for the Group, and being chosen to work alongside different teams and consultants has expanded my skills and network.
Being part of Global Support means providing services and support to all four Operating Divisions.
Its a privileged position because you get insight into the whole Company, which brings a real breadth of experience, and everyone is open to collaborating.
Its a diverse business were in many different locations and end markets with a variety of products and thats what makes the day-to-day both challenging and interesting.
Its a diverse business, and thats what makes the day-to-day both challenging and interesting.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
