STRATEGIC REPORT THE INFORMA GRADUATE FELLOWSHIP SCHEME ATTRACTING TALENT TO THE GROUP Informa launched a broad, international two-year programme for recent graduates as part of its focus on attracting talent to the Group and developing the skills of its colleagues.
OUR GRADUATES LEFT TO RIGHT SARAH WEIR SAMAN GHARATCHORLOU GABRIELLA JEAKINS DAVID SMITH AMELIA EVANGELOU REBECCA PROCTOR GABRIEL MACSWEENEY 52 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 015 was the inaugural year and hiring talent at a graduate level getinvolved.
This early success has been of the Informa Graduate hasbecome one of our focal points.
very encouraging, andwere already Fellowship Scheme, a TheScheme is all about bringing new searching for our 2016 intake at careers 2 two-year programme thinking and energy to the company.
fairs around the UK and through social designedto attract high Whilst Informas Divisions recruit media, she added.
achieving graduates to the Group manystarter-level positions, the Graduate The Fellows completed their first and give them abroad base of skills, Fellowship Scheme was designed to give three-month placement in 2015, and knowledge and experience from successful candidates the opportunity willundertake a further three UK-based whichto develop a rewarding long-term toexplore many different areas of placements in different Informa divisions career at Informa.
theCompany, both in the UK and in2016 before spending six months in an The graduates, or Fellows as they are internationally, whilst being mentored office outside of Europe.
They have the known, became Informas first intake in bysenior Informa managers.
chance to transition to a permanent role September 2015.
Tom Moloney, Director Meshall Sen, Graduate Recruitment atthe end of the two-year period.
of Talent & Transformation and member and Training Manager, explained: We One of the 2015 Fellows, Sarah Weir, ofthe Executive Management Team, wanted to design a programme that said: It was Informas focus on knowledge described the genesis of the Scheme.
wasflexible, so it could be tailored to and research, and all the ways information The new operating structure Informa eachgraduates interests, but also create can be disseminated, that first attracted introduced in 2014 really enabled us to astructure we could refine and repeat meto the Company.
Ive already learnt launch the scheme, Tom said.
alot about the business from getting central resource within the Global Support So far everyone has responded involved in digital content initiatives and Division dedicated to cross-Company brilliantly.
The Fellows have been from simplyworking with colleagues.
Weve spent time enthusiastic and have actively Everyone has been very welcoming identifying specific areas in which Informa contributedto a range of live projects, andIfeel Im developing my skills and needed to build capabilities and increase andcolleagues have valued their contributing tothe Company at the skills to support the Companys growth, willingness to take responsibility and sametime.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
