BOARD AND GOVERNANCE Directors report Financial risk management The Company has entered into a The Directors present their Details of financial instruments Relationship Agreement with Monterey report and the audited and the Groups approach to capital Capital II S. r. l. in accordance with consolidated financial management and financial risk are LR 9.2.
2AR 2 a the Relationship statements for the year provided in note 20 to the accounts.
Agreement, which ensures the ended 31 March 2015.
Company is capable of carrying Directors on its business independently of The names, roles and biographical the Principal Shareholder.
The information of the Directors of the Relationship Agreement may Strategic report Company, all of whom served terminate if the counterparty and The Companies Act 2006 requires throughout the year ended 31 March its concert parties cease to hold a us to present a fair, balanced and 2015 and remain in office as at the Controlling Interest in the Company.
understandable perspective of the date of this report, are set out on In respect of the Relationship Companys business during the year pages 40 to 42.
Agreement the Board confirms that ended 31 March 2015 and of the during the year ended 31 March 2015: position of the Group at the end of Results and dividends the financial period, together with a The results for the year ended f the Company has complied with description of the principal risks and 31 March 2015 are set out on page 16. the independence provisions: uncertainties facing the Company.
The Directors propose a final dividend The Strategic report can be found of 12.2p per share which, together with f so far as the Company is aware, the on pages 4 to 38. the interim dividend of 6.1 pence per independence provisions have been share paid on 11 December 2014, complied with by Monterey Capital Corporate governance report would give a total dividend of II S. r. l. and its associates: and The Disclosure and Transparency 18.3 pence per share for the year.
Rules DTR require certain f so far as the Company is aware, Subject to approval at the annual information to be included in a the procurement obligation has general meeting, the final dividend corporate governance statement in been complied with by Monterey will be paid on 7 August 2015 to the Directors report.
Information Capital II S. r. l. shareholders on the register at that fulfils the requirements of the 6.00 pm.
on 10 July 2015. corporate governance statement Other significant agreements can be found in the corporate The Groups facilities and high yield Employees governance report on pages 44 bond indenture, details of which can Details of the Companys policies to 48 and is incorporated into the be found in notes 16 and 20 to the on employment, training, career Directors report by reference.
accounts, contain provisions which development and promotion of may require prepayment of such disabled persons, and a statement on Management report indebtedness in the event of a employee involvement in the financial For the purposes of compliance with change of control of the Company.
year, are set out on pages 35 to 37.
8R the required content of the management The Group is party to a number Political donations report can be found in the Strategic of operational agreements for the No political donations were made report and this Directors report, management of gas at specific landfill during the year year ended 31 March including the sections of the annual sites, none of which are considered 2014: nil.
individually to be significant, but Significant agreements which may be terminated in the Going concern The following significant agreements event of a change of control of Having made enquiries, the Directors to which the Company is a party the Company without the consent consider that the Company and its take effect, alter or terminate upon of the counterparties subject to subsidiaries have adequate resources a change of control of the Company applicable restrictions on the to continue in operation for the following a takeover bid: withholding thereof.
foreseeable future, and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the Monterey Capital II S. r. l. The Companys employee share going concern basis in preparing the Relationship Agreement schemes include provisions that relate consolidated and individual financial Terra Firma Investments GP 2 to a change of control.
Outstanding statements of the Company.
The Limited, acting as the general partner options and awards, details of which Directors consider that a robust going of the six limited partnerships which are set out in note 22 of the accounts, concern assessment process was constitute the Terra Firma Capital would normally vest on a change undertaken and the results were Partners II Fund, Terra Firma Capital of control, subject to the satisfaction discussed and challenged by the Partners II L. P. H. and TFCP II Co of any performance conditions or Audit Committee.
Investment 1 L. P. Terra Firma, has restrictions that might apply at the ability to exercise a controlling that time.
influence through the holding of shares in Monterey Capital II S. r. l. which is the Principal Shareholder of the Company, holding 68.6% of the share capital.
66 04 Board and governance Infinis Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Compensation for loss of office The Company maintains, at its expense, A resolution is to be proposed at There are no agreements between the a Directors and Officers liability the annual general meeting for the Group and its Directors or employees insurance policy to provide cover, in re-appointment of KPMG LLP as providing for compensation for loss certain circumstances, against legal auditor together with a further of office or employment that occurs action for the benefit of Group resolution authorising the Directors to because of a takeover bid.
This insurance does not provide cover Directors indemnities Disclosure of information to auditor where the Director or officer has Each Director has the benefit of a Each of the Directors who held acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
deed of indemnity from the Company office at the date of approval of this under which the Company will Annual general meeting Directors report confirms that, so far indemnify them, subject to the terms The annual general meeting of as each Director is aware, there is no of the deed of indemnity, in respect the Company will be held in Seminar relevant audit information of which of claims made and liabilities incurred rooms 2 & 3, the Northampton Marriott the Companys auditor is unaware and by them in the performance of their Hotel, Eagle Drive, Northampton each Director has taken all the steps duties.
These indemnities were in NN4 7HW on Thursday, 16 July 2015 that they ought to have taken as a force during the financial year and at 2.00 pm.
Director to make themselves aware of remain in force at the date of this any relevant audit information and to Auditor report.
These are qualifying third establish that the Companys auditor The auditor, KPMG LLP, has indicated party indemnity provisions as is aware of that information.
its willingness to continue in office.
defined in the Companies Act 2006.
Other information Other information relevant to the Directors report can be found in the following sections of the annual report: Information Page s Location in annual report Names and roles of Directors 40-42 Board of Directors Amendment of Articles of Association 101 Additional information for shareholders Articles of Association Directors appointment, replacement and powers 103 Additional information for shareholders Directors interests 65 Remuneration report Financial risk management 91 Note 20 and the significant accounting policies sections 1 Future developments 12-13 Strategic report Greenhouse gas emissions 32 Corporate and social responsibility report Major shareholdings 101 Additional information for shareholders Major shareholdings Capitalised interest 86 Note 12 Movements in share capital 90 Note 19 Post balance sheet events 96 Note 25 Activities of the Company and its principal 98-99 Note 26 subsidiary undertakings in the course of the year Purchase of own shares 104 Additional information for shareholders Authority to purchase own shares Related party transactions 95-96, 100 Notes 23,32 Share capital structure, voting, 101-102 Additional information for shareholders restrictions and other rights 1 The Board has taken advantage of section 414C 11 of the Companies Act 2006 to include disclosures in the Strategic report on these items The Directors report of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2015 comprises these pages and the sections of the annual report referred to under the corporate governance report and other information above which are incorporated into the Directors report by reference.
The Directors report was approved by the Board on 28 May 2015.
By order of the Board Graham Bisset Company Secretary 67
