STRATEGIC REPORT GLOBAL EXHIBITIONS STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GLOBAL EXHIBITIONS: INTERNATIONAL PLATFORMS FOR TRADE AND COMMERCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE The Virgo and Hanley Wood Exhibitions DIVISIONAL REVENUE 262.5m revenue 2014: 200.2m acquisitions completed in 2014 performed BY TYPE 98.0m adjusted operating profit well during Informas first full year of Attendees 13% 2014:67.3m ownership.
Construction & Real Estate Exhibitors 75% 10.5% organic growth 2014: 18.9% events were particularly strong Sponsorship 9% 22% contribution to Informa and reported profits comfortably ahead Advertising 3% Grouprevenue of plan.
Good progress was made on integrating the businesses, with backGLOBAL EXHIBITIONS IN 2015 office functions successfully incorporated Global Exhibitions organises into the Groups Shared Services Centres transaction-oriented Exhibitions that and early synergies realised in areas such enable specialist communities to meet as Exhibitions services.
face to face, develop relationships and The year also marked a transition conduct business.
It is a global business, ofleadership.
Divisional CEO Will Morris 262.5m running events in all major regions, with retired in September 2015 and was a growing presence in the worlds largest replaced by Charlie McCurdy, an Exhibitions market, the US.
experienced events and business-toThe Divisions strategy for 2015 was business media executive and Chairman to continue to internationalise its portfolio of the US Society of Independent Show of events, strengthen its position in key Organizers.
Charlie will look to build on verticals and maintain its strong recent thestrong business inherited from Will, operating performance.
Global further strengthening its position in vertical DIVISIONAL REVENUE Exhibitions reported organic revenue markets internationally and leveraging BY GEOGRAPHY growth of 10.5% in 2015, a rate that was its digital and data capabilities.
UK 2% comfortably ahead of growth within the North America 38% wider Exhibitions market.
This performance Rest of World 50% was despite the absence of the two major Continental Europe 10% non-annual events that took place in 2014, Ipex and Formobile.
It also focused on integrating the two larger acquisitions made in 2014, Virgo and Hanley Wood Exhibitions, and pursuing further targeted, accretive portfolio additions.
Businesses added to the portfolio in 2015 included Dwell on 262.5m Design, which complements shows already in the Divisions US Construction &Real Estate vertical, and FIME, a medical trade show based in Miami with a similar proposition to Arab Health in Dubai but for the Americas.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GLOBAL EXHIBITIONS CONTINUED NOTABLE MARKET TRENDS estimates they make up 79% of total Nutrition, the Division has the potential The worldwide Exhibitions market industry revenue and they are todevelop powerful and globally is sizeable and growing attractively.
increasingly making decisions based recognised Brands.
Consultants AMR International estimate onmore granular data about attendees.
The second initiative is to use digital that the industry was worth $29bn in Organisers with the marketing technology and data services to deepen customer 2014, and forecast it will grow at an toenable this can provide additional value engagement and help inform and connect annualised rate of 4.5% between 2014 and generate supplementary income.
The Division is and 2019, albeit with regional variations.
For the leading, Branded Exhibitions strengthening its capabilities in this area The Exhibitions market remains inan industry, a significant amount of through the Growth Acceleration Plan.
The fragmented, comprising international exhibitor re-booking can take place onsite, combination of a global vertical Brand and for-profit Exhibition organisers, local and a year in advance of the next show.
This a strong, complementary digital offering regional event organisers, not-for-profit provides organisers with strong, visible has the potential to generate incremental companies, government-backed revenue streams and a high degree revenue and extend the Divisions position organisations and industry associations of predictability.
from Exhibition organiser to market maker ortrade bodies.
This creates within key industries.
 for PRIORITIES AND PROSPECTS Pursuing targeted acquisitions in a expansionthrough acquisitions FOR 2016 disciplined manner continues to be part andpartnerships with societies The opportunity for the Global of the Divisions strategy.
Exhibitions Division in 2016 is to move on businesses that expand the Groups When competing against established from being a strong and high performing presence in key territories such as North events, the barriers to entry for new Exhibitions organiser to a best-in-class America and strengthen its position in Exhibition organisers are high, and international Exhibitions business.
companies that run established, leading built and acquired a global portfolio of The Divisions expansion has created events within a particular vertical or region leading Brands, the Division has the abetter balanced Exhibitions portfolio.
typically have strong defensible positions.
potential to further expand in the Americas, Divisional revenue is now broadly split The Exhibitions market has been a benefit from scale in procurement and between 40% North America, 30% Middle beneficiary of global digitisation because focus more strongly ondata management East and 30% other regions.
This the value of face-to-face interaction with under Charlie McCurdys leadership.
international breadth, combined with the customers has increased.
For many Two initiatives are intrinsic to the Divisions strong Brands, helps it operate specialist communities, particularly Divisions progress.
It already has an successfully and deliver a strong international industries with large supply attractive international portfolio of leading performance during periods of weak chains, making connections face to face Brands, and in the first instance, even market-specific economic data.
In 2016 is intrinsic to their commercial success.
greater emphasis will be placed on slowing economic growth in Brazil and Digital technology has created additional developing true global positions in vertical China creates potential short-term opportunities for engaging with customers markets.
By internationalising further and headwinds for the Divisions local operations, away from the show floor, year-round.
deepening cross-border links with although the Exhibitions market as a whole Exhibitors are by the far the largest industries such as Construction & Real benefits from advance bookings.
source of revenue at Exhibitions AMR estate, Life Sciences and Health & 42 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS TALENT WE ARE INFORMA DANA TEAGUE Vice President Global Exhibitions Dallas, Texas, USA 2015 was one of the busiest years of my career.
I joined Hanley Wood in 2000 to manage several trade Exhibitions including Surfaces, North Americas leading event for the flooring industry.
Hanley Wood was acquired by Informa in 2014, and 2015 was our first full year as part of the Global Exhibitions Division.
Ive found the Group to be very agile.
Theres a strong growth agenda and a global reach that has created opportunities for me and the events portfolio.
Over the year my role enlarged and became more international.
As well as managing the International Surface Event, I took on Dwell on Design, the largest design trade show in the US and designjunction, a leading UK design event.
We see potential to extend these Brands globally through strategic partnerships, and Im proud to have negotiated a multi-year partnership between Dwell on Design and the European furnishing and interiors show imm cologne that will kick-start this process.
Our US and European teams are increasingly co-ordinating to enhance how we promote our range of design and architecture events and help exhibitors reach their target markets.
Outside of the office, Im also involved with the Society of Independent Show Organizers and the International Association of Exhibitions and Events.
Its an enjoyable industry to work in: fun, dynamic and exciting.
43 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT KNOWLEDGE & NETWORKING STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS KNOWLEDGE & NETWORKING: COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND LEARNING PLATFORMS DIVISIONAL REVENUE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE to a local conference operator.
This 225.5m revenue 2014: 246.2m outcome creates efficiencies and partners BY TYPE 39.6m adjusted operating profit the Division with a connected local player Attendees 54% 2014:41.5m that can leverage its strong content Exhibitors 19% -4.2% organic growth 2014: -3.2% and Brands in what remains a very Sponsorship 24% 18% contribution to Informa challenging market.
Advertising 3% Grouprevenue With these actions, the Division is now focused on three major operating centres KNOWLEDGE & NETWORKING the UK, the US and Dubai supported IN 2015 by several regional offices, and is more The Knowledge & Networking Division concentrated on three vertical markets, connects communities by creating and Global Finance, Life Sciences and sharing insights and learning.
Internal 225.5m face and online events, and its digital reorganisation during 2015 has also services, help professionals build their created a simpler, more coherent knowledge and network with peers.
operating structure, geared towards Knowledge & Networking was the customer.
These changes were created in 2014 through the introduction introduced gradually through the year of the Groups new operating model, to avoid disruption to major events.
which separated Informas events The Divisions performance improved businesses between those predominantly towards the end of 2015, with positive focused on Exhibitions and commercial organic revenue growth in the fourth DIVISIONAL REVENUE transactions, and those based on quarter.
Highlights included the growth BY GEOGRAPHY knowledge sharing and networking.
ofdelegate numbers at the BIO-Europe UK 19% 2015 was a year of repositioning Spring conference and the successful North America 17% and transition for the Division.
Its new launch of the Internet of Things event in Continental Europe 38% Management Team launched a strategy California, which demonstrated the value Rest of World 26% to streamline the business and increase of timely and compelling digital and its focus on the regions and sectors where face-to-face content, delivered to a it has strong Brands plus an opportunity targeted audience in a growing market.
to build leading positions as a knowledge provider for niche communities.
This led to the sale of operations inSweden and Denmark and two businesses in the Netherlands, all of 225.5m whichoperate smaller, local language conferences with less potential for international expansion.
More recently, theDivision sold a majority stake in Adam Smith, its Russian conferences business, 45 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT KNOWLEDGE & NETWORKING CONTINUED PRIORITIES AND PROSPECTS FOR 2016 Following the repositioning of the businessin 2015, the Knowledge & Networking Division enters 2016 more streamlined, with much greater focus andoperational direction.
The target for 2016 is to return the Division to at least flat organic revenue performance, allowing for the Divisions ongoing exposure to the Energy & Resource sector, a market that is likely to remain as challenging in 2016 as it was in 2015.
Within the Division, the development of content has been separated from the commercial function.
A Chief Product Officer has been appointed, with responsibility for ensuring digital and face-to-face products and services provide valuable, cutting-edge content community within an industry.
People and experiences by engaging with return to such events every year to learn customers and adapting to their needs.
about the latest developments and Aseparate Delivery function is responsible network with peers, and associate for developing commercial relationships themselves with the Brand through in a more structured and co-ordinated sponsorship and speaker engagements.
These changes are symptomatic Increasingly, they also engage with the of the Divisions more focused, Brand online to find additional content.
As with all events, success can be Through the Growth Acceleration impacted by industry and market-specific Plan, further investment will be made economic conditions.
In 2015 for instance, NOTABLE MARKET TRENDS inKnowledge & Networkings falling oil prices led to huge volatility in The global market for knowledge-based transformation programme.
A major focus Energy & Resource markets, affecting events is large and competitive, with is on developing its digital capabilities, theprofitability of companies operating barriers to entry relatively low.
The internet which are increasingly important not just inthe sector and the economic growth of and social media networks have made for marketing and transactions but as a countries heavily exposed to the industry, it easier to identify and market to way to engage customers and promote such as Russia.
This affected all events communities of professionals.
At the same learning before, after and at the event.
By focused on the sector, as companies time, the internet has provided a flexible creating interactive, Branded, content-rich cutback on discretionary expenditure.
distribution channel for some content that online community platforms, the Division Exposure to Russia and the Energy & was previously exclusive to specialist can connect audiences year-round.
Resource market is now a relatively small conferences, and created a platform for As part of the restructuring within part of Knowledge & Networking at professional audiences to connect with Knowledge & Networking, its bespoke around 7% of revenue, but was still a peers.
These factors have put pressure training and learning operations have been significant drag on performance in the year.
on the traditional spot conference model consolidated into a single business named Face-to-face events are also affected and put the onus on organisers to Professional Development and Learning.
by any incidents or epidemics that prevent maximise engagement and the onsite In 2016, it will launch its own strategy for people travelling or impact the location customer experience.
growth, as it seeks to tap into increased where events are due to take place.
The perceived value of face-to-face demand for professional skills training Sponsorship and speaker arrangements media continues to rise, supporting the and accreditation.
are secured in advance but a significant case for the most successful events.
proportion of delegate bookings are In a world of increasing digitisation, the confirmed close to the date of the opportunity for face-to-face interaction event.
Even if an event takes place and with professional customers and peers attendance is low, the delegate experience has decreased, and platforms that provide can be poor, impacting perception for the this connection and increase learning and future.
In this situation, typically events are understanding remain powerful.
Such postponed and rescheduled to later in the events typically have strong, well-known year, although this is not always possible.
Brands and are synonymous with a niche 46 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS TALENT WE ARE INFORMA JULIAN KIRBY Group Portfolio Director for Global Finance Knowledge & Networking London, UK I oversee a portfolio of over 40 events targeting specific communities within Global Finance.
We are constantly refreshing our events to cater to customer needs, and part of my role is to understand the trends impacting clients and devise solutions to help them create value.
One of my 2015 highlights was getting positive feedback from very discerning Chief Risk Officers on the interactive labs at our RiskMinds International Conference.
And at our flagship FundForum and SuperReturn events, we introduced a popular new Live service, capturing and distributing realtime data and commentary from the events.
This original digital content met the demands of attendees and sponsors whilst also being commercially successful.
I started out as a conference producer, and Informa has given me both the freedom and support to grow professionally and develop my career.
I find the leadership hugely motivational: you feel as though you can contribute and help shape the Companys path.
Im very excited about the opportunities ahead in 2016.
The new operating structure in Knowledge & Networking will enable us to develop our products further and better engage with customers.
Fintech is a particularly interesting sub-sector.
Its been a topic at larger conferences, and we intend to build this capability out into standalone learning and networking events.
Informa has given me the freedom and support to develop my career.
47 w ww ww w.. i in nf for orm ma a.. c com om INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
