PERFORMANCE AND RISK Case study: Stewartby re-engine project Here the project manager of a generating 2.8 MW of electricity.
In the As a market leader in re-engine project at Stewartby latter years of their life at Infinis these converting LFG to power plant, Alan King, provides generating sets had, due to their age, electricity, we continually an example of how we achieve this: become less efficient, less reliable and seek ways of improving our increasingly difficult to maintain, with In early 2014 we completed a major operational performance.
obsolete spare parts being a major redevelopment of the LFG power headache to source.
In 2012 one of the station at Stewartby, replacing engines failed permanently and this ageing Ruston engines with modern was our trigger to launch the project.
Caterpillar engines which were redeployed from within our fleet.
As with the overwhelming majority of We have benefited from this change our sites, future electricity generation throughout 2015. at Stewartby is grandfathered to receive a valuable one ROC per MWh, The Stewartby power plant had providing us with a sound basis for originally been developed in 1996 97 forecasting the value of the electricity as one of the pioneering sites in the we expect to produce.
We scrutinised LFG industry, using four Ruston the gas forecasts for the site and RK270 engines, each capable of 22 02 Performance and risk Infinis Ener Infinis Energy plc Annual r gy plc Annual report and ac eport and acc counts 20 ounts 2015 15 calculated that a capital investment The key challenge in executing possible were fabricated off-site to replace the four Rustons with these improvements was to minimise ahead of time.
After each engine eight Caterpillar engines made good the impact to generation, through installation, we constantly reviewed business sense.
careful planning of the tasks.
This processes with our contractors to required excellence from the Infinis see where time could be saved.
The Caterpillar engines have team, partnership with our key generating capacities of just over The project has transformed contractors and close liaison with 1 MW each.
As Ive already mentioned, Stewartby from an ageing power the site operator, the Environment we sourced them from our existing station to a modern installation, Agency and the local council fleet, removing them from sites where benefiting our customers planning department.
the available gas resource meant through more reliable power they were no longer required.
Our From the moment each Ruston was generation, improving our control ability to recycle from within our fleet switched off, our project team acted in maintaining environmental significantly enhanced the economics swiftly to remove redundant plant, compliance and increasing of the project.
In addition we carry out the mechanical and the sites electricity production.
redeployed a modern gas process electrical installation and overhaul plant and flares to improve both and commission the replacement reliability and controllability.
