04 Board and governance Infinis Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Executive management team The Infinis Executive Management Team who served during the year consisted of Eric Machiels, Gordon Boyd, Stewart Gibbins, Paul Gregson, Steven Hardman and Simon Heyes.
Eric Machiels and Gordon Boyds resums can be found on page 40.
Stewart retired from his role as formative to his development and Operations Director of Infinis on we are grateful to him for his tireless 30 April 2015.
He was appointed efforts to introduce operational to the role when the Company excellence within Infinis Operations.
demerged from the Waste Recycling Stewart is succeeded by Shane Group in 2006 and has been in Pickering who was formerly Director the power generation sector for of Operations Engineering Europe over 15 years.
His senior management experience with Marconi, British Coal, Babcock Group and Rolls-Royce, were Stewart Gibbins, HND Operations Director Paul was appointed Human Resources Following a period in a senior HR Director in 2010, having held the role with GE Capital UK, Paul joined position of Head of Human Resources Saint-Gobain Building Distribution in since 2006.
2000, where he occupied a role as Head of Human Resources for the Paul qualified as a member of the Jewson group until joining Infinis.
Chartered Institute of Personnel & Development in 1988 whilst employed at the Central Electricity Generating Board.
Paul Gregson, MCIPD Human Resources Director Steven leads the Groups commercial, A qualified solicitor, Stevens early legal, acquisition and other business career was as a corporate lawyer in development activities.
the City of London before taking up an in-house legal role with Hanson plc He joined Infinis in 2008 from the where he oversaw the divestment of Waste Recycling Group, which was Hansons waste business to the Waste also a former Terra Firma owned Recycling Group.
company, where he was Group Legal Director.
Steven Hardman, BA Hons Commercial Director Simon leads the teams developing onshore wind farms, including and constructing wind energy involvement in the development projects.
He joined Infinis in 2010 and and construction of Clyde, Griffin, joined the Executive Management Gordonbush and the Viking Energy Team in June 2013.
Previously, Simon spent 13 years in a number of roles with SSE plc, culminating with the position of General Manager for SSE Renewables in Great Britain.
In this role, he led the team responsible for obtaining Simon Heyes, MIMechE consent for and constructing major Wind Development & Construction Director 43
