STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE: SPECIALIST INSIGHT AND INTELLIGENCE DIVISIONAL REVENUE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE The Division made good operational 276.8m revenue 2014: 281.7m progress with this plan in 2015.
The BY TYPE 63.2m adjusted operating profit reorganisation of the sales operation and Subscription 89% 2014:75.2m an increased customer focus led to a Unit sales 8% -1.9% organic growth 2014: -8.5% steady improvement in retention rates Advertising 3% 23% contribution to Informa and the sales pipeline.
This resulted in Grouprevenue animproving quarter by quarter revenue trend and culminated in a return to BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE IN 2015 positive organic growth in the fourth Business Intelligence provides quarter of 2015. data-driven intelligence and insight to Management took steps to streamline businesses and professionals in specialist the business in 2015, further increasing 276.8m niche communities around the world, the focus on its five priority verticals where enabling customers to make decisions it has strong Brands, proprietary data better and quicker.
This led to It owns leading Brands in these the sale of its portfolio of Consumer niches, from Citeline and Scrip in Pharma Information businesse s for 25m in & Healthcare to Lloyds List in Maritime July, a collection of mass-forecasting and Ovum in Telecoms, Media & information products in a widely defined, Technology.
Over 85% of revenue is highly competitive vertical.
derived from subscription products, the Business Intelligence also began DIVISIONAL REVENUE vast majority of which are delivered the process of investing in its product BY GEOGRAPHY digitally.
It generates the remainder of its capabilities and delivery platforms.
Each UK 15% income from one-off data sales, bespoke vertical now has a detailed product North America 52% consulting projects and a small amount development roadmap.
While these Continental Europe 17% of advertising.
initiatives will start to deliver benefits only Rest of World 16% Following a number of years of towards the end of 2016, when combined declining organic revenue, a new with a refocused and reinvigorated sales Divisional Leadership Team was operation they are critical to achieving appointed in the second half of 2014. consistent levels of organic growth In 2015, the team started to implement acrossthe business.
a programme of change designed to reverse this trend.
This included reorienting the business towards five 276.8m key verticals Agribusiness, Pharma, Maritime, Finance, and Telecoms, Media &Technology as well as refocusing on subscription renewals and customer management and investing in product and technology capabilities.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE CONTINUED Capital investment has been matched those that enable predictive and even In the medium term, the Division believes it by an investment in talent, including prescriptive decision making about can build a strong position in the specialist the appointment of a Chief Technology future events.
business intelligence market, with the Officer, experienced leaders for each Informas Business Intelligence potential to deliver consistent organic vertical and a Head of Client Services, Division focuses on the attractive growth of between 3% and 5%.
underlining the increased focus andincreasingly valuable market for In 2016, the continued focus on on customers.
In common with subscription renewals and customer Informas other three Operating Divisions, management will be complemented by NOTABLE MARKET TRENDS it operates in niche markets, with a further targeted investment in products Business Intelligence operates in a narrow and deep focus on specialist and technology through the Growth fast moving area of the Knowledge and areas where it is often the definitive Acceleration Plan, building further Information Economy, and the global source of granular data and intelligence.
capability in marketing automation, market for specialist business information Such strong market positions within insight and analytics and intelligent that helps customers make faster and niches give the Division strong potential product platforms.
better decisions is attractive and growing.
Since the launch of the Growth Analysts Outsell, Inc. estimate that the For example, within the Pharma Acceleration Plan, no acquisition capital total market for business-to-business vertical, the Divisions largest product has been committed to the Business media, in which the Division operates, collection is within Citeline.
Citeline Intelligence Division and efforts have stands at $31.8bn and is growing at provides data and intelligence on instead focused on restructuring and a rate of 4% a year.
clinical trials and drug development refocusing the business.
As the Division Information continues to proliferate, pipelines, a must-have resource for builds capability and capacity and with increasing volumes of data and certain professionals within major progressively returns to positive organic news available online and through pharmaceutical companies, academic growth, the Group will more actively scan social media, often free at the point of institutions, government agencies and the market for attractive opportunities.
This has put pressure on consultancies worldwide.
These would include businesses that add the value of basic information and news, The market for specialist business a capability to the Division or strengthen but also made it more difficult to obtain information is increasingly international its position in a key vertical or related area.
specialist information, identify trends butthe US remains by far the largest Building presence in the US remains a anddraw conclusions.
Correspondingly it is focus, a market that is estimated by This trend has led to increasing whereBusiness Intelligence derives Outsell, Inc. to account for up to 75% of demand for specialist data, trusted themajority of its revenue.
the global market for specialist business sources of market intelligence and information, compared with approximatelly analysis that can parse the volume of PRIORITIES AND PROSPECTS 50% of current revenue in the Division.
Increasingly, FOR 2016 businesses are looking for market The Divisions immediate priority is to insight and intelligence that directly maintain the momentum created in 2015 informs commercial decisions and and further improve subscription renewals, validates investments, giving them new customer wins and annualised a competitive advantage.
The vast majority of this market Having reported positive organic comprises digital rather than print growth in the fourth quarter of 2015 and products, and digital formats are being arobust performance in the important developed and used in increasingly November to January renewal season, sophisticated ways.
Among the most theGroups expectations for Business valuable products to customers are those Intelligence in 2016 have increased, where data and intelligence can be and the Divisions objective is now to directly integrated and embedded into target positive organic revenue growth their workflow and working practices, and across the year.
38 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS TALENT WE ARE INFORMA STACEY FONG Sagient Content Manager Business Intelligence San Diego, California, USA I joined Informa in 2012 by way of its acquisition of Sagient, a provider of intelligence on pharmaceuticals and medical devices.
My career began years earlier when Sagient was a small independent company.
I was initially responsible for data research and content creation for BioMedTracker, progressing to work on content planning, consulting projects and eventually team management.
Beginning in Content gave me an understanding of our products, the industry and client needs: a solid foundation as I advanced in my career.
Since being integrated into Business Intelligences Pharma vertical, my role has developed and Ive taken on new responsibilities.
In the last year, Ive been given two new products to oversee Medtrack and MedDeviceTracker and I focus increasingly on strategic planning and operations.
Part of my role is also to grow and develop staff, and its been rewarding to see individuals achieve their goals.
I also serve as a bridge, building connections between my team, other Informa colleagues and our clients.
Much of the success weve experienced is due to our attentive customer service and philosophy of working closely with clients to create products they need.
Year-on-year clients give us consistently high customer satisfaction scores.
It validates the work we do and creates a sense of pride in what we deliver.
