03 CSR Infinis Ener Infinis Energy plc Annual r gy plc Annual report and ac eport and acc counts 20 ounts 2015 15 Case study: AChruach wind farm project AChruach forms part of the At 80m tall, the wind turbine towers Infinis is currently Groups target to add 130 MW are too big to transport in a single constructing AChruach 150 MW of additional onshore wind section and therefore each tower will wind farm and expects to capacity by 2017.
Here, David Finnon be delivered in three smaller sections, commence operations at our Head of Wind Construction, together with a nacelle, hub and three the 43 MW site in early 2016. explains the challenge and how Infinis blades.
Whilst being the lightest load are progressing with delivery: at a little over 14 tonnes each, the blades pose a particular challenge due AChruach Wind Farm will be situated to their overall length.
The longest in the Argyll Hills behind the town of blade will be just under 50m, the Lochgilphead, which is located on length of an Olympic swimming pool.
the banks of Loch Fyne, one of Scotlands largest sea lochs.
Nestled The route to site traverses the A83 in the hillside some 10km off the from Campbeltown to Lochgilphead beaten track you would hardly know and there are two tight bends where it was there.
the clearance to manoeuvre is down to just 50mm two inches in old Planning for the wind farm first money.
However, we have started over eight years ago and it recognised this risk in our planning was eventually given the go-ahead and are therefore confident that our in its current form in May 2013.
The skilled transportation contractors intervening period between then will take this in their stride.
and now has been a flurry of activity, from agreeing the grid connection to By the time the turbines arrive we will securing project funding.
We achieved have built approximately 8km of new financial close of the project in site roads, widened and strengthened November 2014 meaning that the 14km of access road from the main projects funding is now secured.
road, up through the Argyll Hills, to We are working closely with key the site, built or strengthened three external stakeholders such as Forestry bridges and built 4km of overhead Commission Scotland, SEPA and line.
We will use over 8,500 tonnes of Argyll and Bute Council to ensure concrete together with excavating and that we deliver the wind farm in a safe using over 250,000 tonnes of rock and responsible manner taking into won from the site.
At the height of account our surrounding environment construction we will have over 100 and our place in the community.
Following the appointment of our A specialist crane will be deployed to Balance of Plant Contractor, RJ lift all of the wind farm components McLeod, construction commenced into place.
With an operating height of in November 2014.
Since then, works over 90 metres and the ability to lift have steadily progressed to deliver over 85 tonnes there are not many roads, a bridge and borrow pits from of these cranes available in Europe.
which the natural rock found on site is Careful co-ordination is needed to used in the construction of the wind ensure the crane and turbines arrive farm.
The power station will have on site at the same time.
21 turbines supplied by Senvion, a The grid connection is being built by leading turbine manufacturer.
The Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission turbines will have a total capacity of Limited under a contract with National just over 43 MW and will be connected Grid, and is due to go live in October to the electricity transmission network 2015.
This means that the site should which is around 4km from the site.
start to produce electricity in Winter Turbine towers, blades, hubs and 2015 with full operational capacity nacelles will start to be delivered in scheduled for Spring 2016.
June 2015 and will come by sea from When fully operational AChruach all over Europe to converge in should generate enough power for Campbeltown.
Final delivery to site over 25,500 homes and will contribute will be by road from Campbeltown around 150,000 per year rising with which is approximately 50 miles to the inflation into a local community fund south of the site, at the south east set up to benefit communities corner of the Mull of Kintyre.
