STRATEGIC REPORT ACADEMIC PUBLISHING STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS ACADEMIC PUBLISHING: HIGH QUALITY SPECIALIST CONTENT AND KNOWLEDGE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE In 2015, the Division reported consistent DIVISIONAL REVENUE 447.4m revenue 2014: 408.9m growth in revenue and profit, with BY TYPE 164.8m adjusted operating profit revenues of 447.4m and organic revenue Subscriptio n 48% 2014:150.0m growth of 1.6%.
In line with one ofthe Unit sales 52% 1.6% organic revenue growth Divisions key goals, performance 2014:3.0% remained at or ahead of the wider 37% contribution to Informa academic market, albeit organic growth Grouprevenue was marginally lower than in 2014 due tosome short-term volatility in book ACADEMIC PUBLISHING IN 2015 purchasing behaviour and softness in Informas Academic Publishing USMedical Books and the wider Division produces high quality, textbookmarket.
447.4m peerreviewed books and journals Revenue remained relatively evenly inspecialist subject areas for upper balanced between Humanities & Social leveluniversity students typically Sciences HSS and Sciences, Technical secondor third year undergraduates & Medical STM content.
Similarly, the andpostgraduates, researchers and mix of subscription revenue and one-off academic institutions worldwide.
copy sales remained broadly constant.
Books and journals are purchased The Division made two notable inprint and digital formats by academic acquisitions during 2015, further libraries, university departments and strengthening its position in key DIVISIONAL REVENUE specialist institutions, by the institution niche subject areas and adding scale BY GEOGRAPHY orthrough consortia arrangements.
to the Groups overall portfolio of UK 12% Theycan also be bought or rented by specialist content.
North America 52% Continential Europe 12% individuals.
Alternatively, some journal The Divisions Books business added Rest of World 24% content is made available free at the point Ashgate Publishing, an independent of use through the open access option, publisher of Social Sciences, Arts and where the author, institution or research Humanities content, which contributed body pays the publisher to publish and over 12,000 high quality titles to the Books make freely available the content.
Academic Publishing is The Divisions Journals business added characterised by a robust financial Maney Publishing, an independent and operating performance, delivering publisher of international HSS and STM 447.4m consistent growth across a well-balanced journals, contributing 170 titles to the portfolio of products.
Both companies were fully integrated into the Divisions existing structure and incorporated into its sales model in time for the 2016 renewal season.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT ACADEMIC PUBLISHING CONTINUED The Academic Publishing Division is demand technology and the Divisions In tandem, the Division will invest in increasingly global, both in sales and highly efficient production model mean building its capabilities to support future theorigination of content.
Over 50% of this can be managed in a practical and growth through the Growth Acceleration revenue came from North America in2015 cost-effective manner.
In 2016 a key focus is on building and sales to emerging markets increased In 2015, ebooks represented 24% of a platform to enable customers to more to represent around 13% ofrevenue.
the Books businesss revenue, about two easily discover content at a granular level, percentage points higher than in 2014. driving usage.
This will also enable greater NOTABLE MARKET TRENDS This is consistent with market trends, customer analytics, providing valuable The global educational market has faced where print versions remain the most insight into changing market trends and some significant changes over the long popular format in education and customer demand.
The launch of a term: as the structure of education academia.
All journals are instead dedicated Research Analytics Team indifferent countries continues to evolve, delivered digitally, reflecting the nature fortheBooks business, mirroring an digital technology becomes more anduse of peer reviewed research and existing service in Journals, underlines prevalent and customer demand for allowing users to perform a granular thevalue the Division puts on long-term innovation and flexibility rises.
search across a discipline or specific relationships with authors and the broader The academic segment of the subject and access content by citation academic community.
market where Informa focuses looks orreference.
The Division is also taking steps to comparatively resilient in the short to Growth in open access content further simplify its operating structure by medium term, and is underpinned by remains a feature of the academic market consolidating operations into a single positive global trends in research volumes and the Division continues to invest in this global business for Books and a single and the number of academics.
This is most evident in Journals and global business for Journals.
This will there is nuance by region and subject area comes from author demand for recognition improve efficiencies and further increase due to differences in research funds, of their research and a desirefor broad customer focus.
library purchasing budgets and student distribution by research funding bodies.
It will continue to invest in developing enrolment trends.
the Cogent OA business and expanding There remains a good opportunity for PRIORITIES AND PROSPECTS the Divisions portfolio of open access growth in developing markets.
Investment FOR 2016 journals, offering further flexibility for in educational infrastructure, including In 2016, Academic Publishing will authors and funders alike.
universities, creates new demand for continue to target organic growth that is access to specialist content and expands inline or ahead of the wider academic the pool of authors wishing to publish their market, underpinned by its leading work in respected global publications.
publishing Brands, strong editorial Informas Academic Publishing relationships, increasingly international Division takes an entirely flexible and reach and growing portfolio of specialist customer-led approach to format.
The Division will continue to look origination and editorial processes are for accretive acquisitions that strengthen digital.
Whether the final product is in a and complement the portfolio and print or digital format is selected by the increase its scale.
The development of print-on- 34 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS TALENT WE ARE INFORMA ENG GUAN ANG Managing Director Taylor & Francis China Beijing, China I chose publishing as a career nearly 20 years ago because Im passionate about information.
Information gives advantage, whatever field you work in.
I feel proud to be part of an industry that expands knowledge and promotes understanding.
At Informa I manage sales and editorial for Books and Journals within the Chinese academic community.
Its a fantastic time to be working in China.
The academic market I feel proud to be part of is rapidly evolving, and theres a thirst for access to content plus a desire from Chinese authors to reach a global audience.
an industry that expands knowledge and promotes In a typical day I might design a subscription and licensing package for a major Chinese university, brainstorm how understanding.
to promote our new digital formats or look for business opportunities for our products in light of external events, such as the interest in Beijings smog cloud.
I also speak at events to explain the long-term partnerships we offer authors and researchers.
Were increasingly well known here: in 2015, the Chinese-language version of our Visible Learning for Teachers book was singled out as the most-wanted book amongst Chinese teachers by China Educational News Web.
Theres a deep focus on people within the Academic Publishing Division.
Everyone works closely together, theres lots of trust and success is recognised.
The relationship I have with my Senior Managers and team is excellent and rewarding.
