32 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 BUSINESS OVERVIEW ENTERPRISE 1 Revenue 2015 saw Inmarsats Enterprise business strengthen its focus on innovation and work with its key markets in anticipation of the forthcoming launch of industry $159.5m 2014: $155.9m specific Global Xpress GX services.
1 2014 revenue adjusted to exclude disposals of energy-related assets in 2014 which delivered revenue of $10.8m in 2014.
Enterprise achieved significant success in early trials of GX, including its deployment following the Nepal earthquake, strengthened its sales channel with five new GX Value Added Resellers and created a team exclusively dedicated to M2M and the Internet of Things.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 33 EBITDA Number of M2M devices Number of IsatPhones $113.1m 326,000 140,000 2014: $102.1m 2014: 292,000 2014: 115,500 Scan the image above using the Inmarsat App to view Enterprise content.
34 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 BUSINESS OVERVIEW CONTINUED Our underlying Enterprise business, adjusted for important role in M2M enablement in specific ENTERPRISE the disposal of our retail energy-related assets, vertical markets, enabling a host of applications continued to grow in 2015 despite the impact of ranging from asset tracking and remote surveillance a strong US dollar and headwinds in the BGAN to Smart Grids and environmental monitoring.
market over the final quarter of the year.
The increase was driven by growth in machine-toThe growth of the M2M business was supported machine M2M and Enterprise FleetBroadband by the sale of our shareholding in SkyWave to our FB revenue.
new partner ORBCOMM which was completed at the beginning of 2015.
As well as adding ORBCOMM Innovation, to both strengthen existing as a powerful and highly innovative VAR for M2M propositions and to open up new opportunities services, as part of this deal, Inmarsat acquired the to provide Inmarsat services to entirely new groups intellectual property in the IsatData Pro IDP of users, was the focus of the business in 2015. technology and the IDP satellite network assets.
Inmarsat commenced work on developing its own Enterprise, in close coordination with our business commercial IDP Gateway in 2015 which we expect partners, drove further innovation around Global to bring to commercial service during 2016.
The Xpress GX focusing on the needs of the most commercialisation of the IDP technology enables demanding customers who required a globally Inmarsat to enhance its portfolio of M2M available, high-reliability managed network.
connectivity services to both existing distribution channels as well as enabling new customers and In anticipation of the commercial launch of GX, vertical markets to build its partner ecosystem.
the Enterprise business spent much of 2015 M2M saw an increase in subscribers of 11.6% and strengthening the distribution channel with four an increase in average revenue per user driven by new GX Value Added Resellers VARs appointed, product mix driving overall revenue up by 13.7%.
serving a number of different market verticals including the energy, aid NGO and media markets.
Despite the global downturn in the energy sector, Also during the year extensive GX field trials took we saw meaningful growth from our energy place around the globe and GX services were business, particularly from FleetBroadband, which deployed commercially by the media in Nepal, continued to demonstrate its relevance to a sector following the devastating April 2015 earthquake.
with the highest needs for reliable communications.
GX has been extensively tested by commercial The growth in FB was in contrast to BGAN revenue partners which will drive accelerated adoption which declined by 6.0% year-on-year.
Early interest in GX has been strong, reflected in part competition from low-cost particularly from customers in the energy, mining solutions but also the downturn in the resources and media sectors.
sector and lower event-driven revenue, particularly in the latter part of the year.
2015 was a year of In 2015 we continued to focus on developing a ongoing innovation for BGAN to adapt and long-term M2M connectivity business.
Under the improve existing services to meet the evolving banner of the Internet of Everywhere the business needs of our users.
Our Enterprise business created a team focused on exploiting the rapidly continued to leverage the well-established BGAN growing M2M and Internet of Things markets.
M2M service to deliver new and enhanced capabilities connectivity allows devices to communicate with to users in the media BGAN HDR, the aid and each other and share information via the internet.
development sector BGAN Link and the Internet Satellite communications play an increasingly of Everywhere BGAN M2M.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 35 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Underlying revenues ie excluding the impact of the sale of our retail energy-related assets in 2014 grew A team was created to focus on by $3.6m 2.3%.
exploiting the rapidly growing M2M and Internet of Things The increase in underlying revenues was driven by strong growth in FB 48.7% and M2M revenues markets.
13.7% and a one-off service upgrade supplied to a major customer in Q3.
These results were offset by IsatPhone handset sales -25.7% and lower ERGON ENERGY USES BGAN M2M BGAN revenues -6.0%.
FOR EFFICIENT GRID MONITORING Despite a challenging year in the global market for AND CONTROL handheld satphones, IsatPhone 2 continues to Enterprise FB revenues grew by 48.7% in 2015, Ergon Energy maintains and manages meet a key need for users around the world.
despite the downturn in the energy sector, mainly the electric distribution network across IsatPhone 2 offers dependable, high-quality voice as a result of increased traffic and tariff changes, Queensland, providing energy for over calls, text and email messaging outside cellular and including a price increase in the fixed-to-mobile 720,000 homes and businesses, across fixed network coverage.
Commercial sales of interconnect termination rates.
some of the most rural parts of Australia, IsatPhone 2 were temporarily impacted by a requiring 160,000km of power lines and manufacturing quality issue with a third-party M2M revenues continued to grow well despite more than a million power poles.
As a result, satphone sales were lower the slow-down in the energy sector as customers Inmarsat BGAN M2M service has given year-over-year though sales returned to normal continued to demand connectivity to drive Ergon Energy access to parts of its levels by the end of the year.
Despite this setback the efficiency.
By the end of the year, the total M2M distribution network that had previously IsatPhone installed base grew over 21.2%, taking the installed base was over 326,000 terminals.
been out of bounds, by providing costnumber of IsatPhone terminals to over 140,000 with effective, remote monitoring and control growth in both prepay and postpay offerings.
IsatPhone revenues were adversely impacted by of the power grid with a constant and a manufacturing problem experienced in Q3, which reliable flow of information.
We are proud of our partnership with the UK Space drove a 25% reduction in handset revenues for the Agency and its Digital Frontiers initiatives.
IsatPhone airtime revenues were unchanged Enterprise business plays a central role in this 32m year-on-year.
International Partnerships Space Programme which seeks to uncover projects where Inmarsats BGAN revenues were down by 6.0% year-on-year, robust satellite communications will be pivotal in mainly driven by fewer events and lower use in the enabling economic growth in areas which lack media and resources sectors than last year.
The year saw the launch of two pilot projects firstly Operating costs decreased by $18.2m -28.2% in partnership with the Equity Bank Group in Kenya compared to 2014, reflecting the disposal of our to bring financial and welfare content access to retail energy-related assets in 2015, higher product remote communities and secondly in Nigeria to margins and lower indirect costs.
provide telemedicine services for pregnant women and new mothers.
Enterprise EBITDA increased by $11.0m 10.8% to $113.1m 2014: $102.1 primarily due to growth in higher margin on-network services.
This also resulted in the Enterprise EBITDA margin increasing to 70.9%, from 61.2% in 2014.
