40 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GOVERNMENT The government market has been challenging.
2015 saw the first signs of a more positive environment as declines slowed.
The position of Inmarsats Government business was strengthened with the start of global GX services.
The US Government was an early adopter of and the first to use the service in all three GX regions.
Six nations US, France, UK, Australia, Germany and Japan have now contracted for GX services.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 41 Revenue EBITDA Number of new countries $286.6m $191.0m 8 2014: $319.9m 2014: $216.4m 2014: 13 Scan the image above using the Inmarsat App to view Government content.
42 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 BUSINESS OVERVIEW CONTINUED Inmarsat saw promising signs in government services have provided cost-effective global GOVERNMENT SATCOM markets as 2015 drew to a close, having mobility to users worldwide who are currently weathered the storms of shrinking and volatile unserved or underserved by military SATCOM.
worldwide government spending in recent years.
Six nations have now contracted for GX services, US and coalition nations reached the lowest levels and many more have the system under evaluation.
of deployed land forces in many years, resulting in historically low MSS revenue early in the year.
Inmarsat has continued to work with its technology However, with increased concerns for global partners to deliver additional innovative GX security as 2015 progressed, we saw slower declines products and services to government users.
Inmarsats focus on These have included the launch of a lower-cost programmes to augment military systems, diversify maritime terminal capable of operating on into new verticals and geographies and launch Inmarsats military and commercial Ka-band innovative, unique products has been key to services as well as on government military Ka-band improving the resilience of our Government satellites: the demonstration of a GX military revenue in this difficult market.
Inmarsats helicopter service capable of delivering super-fast alignment with growth opportunities, specifically, wideband 10Mbps through the rotor blades: and airborne intelligence, surveillance and the launch of a roof-mounted terminal for rapid reconnaissance AISR and special forces deployment and emergency response vehicles.
missions, has established a platform for Furthermore, Inmarsat together with its partners, future growth.
achieved a significant milestone in successfully demonstrating the largest bandwidth Protected In addition to the troop deployments, industry Tactical Waveform test over a satellite to date.
This consolidation has led to increased competitive critical capability will bolster the US Governments intensity and continued downward pressure on ability to offer protected communications using government pricing and margins in 2015.
this, Inmarsats Ku FSS retail VSAT business in the US showed signs of stabilisation with a number of Innovation has also been maintained in the high key programme wins.
Through the year, users have continued to migrate from legacy As the US Governments demand shifted to rapid, Inmarsat-3 services to better value and more highly mobile communication capabilities in efficient Inmarsat-4 services.
Inmarsat has seized support of AISR-driven missions, Inmarsats this opportunity to leverage the resulting release wholesale government revenue shifted in 2015 to of capacity to deliver more dynamic lease-based reflect growing enthusiasm for Global Xpress GX.
These innovations include the L-band Tactical Satellite L-TAC service, which enables Global rollout of GX on the Inmarsat-5 satellites existing secure government radios to extend their has been a strong driver in re-orienting the range many-fold by accessing Inmarsats satellites business towards a return to growth.
US using a simple additional antenna unit.
In 2015, Government customers have been the first the L-TAC service has been extended to include users on each of the three deployed Inmarsat-5 aircraft, and a civilian variant has been launched satellites.
Inmarsats strategy of seamlessly for police and emergency services.
L-TAC augmenting existing fleets of government customers have grown to nine nations, and the spacecraft has enabled existing military SATCOM service has been widely applauded for its terminal users to quickly and easily access life-saving capability.
additional capacity and coverage where needed.
At the same time, our introduction of GX managed STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 43 needs: optimal reliability with ubiquitous global coverage and diversity of assets: availability to transfer high-speed data without degradation: Inmarsat has continued to work compatibility with Milsatcom: and flexibility, which frees commanders from estimating and with its technology partners to pre-ordering bandwidth before missions.
deliver additional innovative FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE GX products and services to Government revenues in the year continued to decrease, falling by $33.3m -10.4% to $286.6m government users.
This decline reflects the L-BAND TACTICAL SATELLITE continued impact of troop withdrawals and the US and allied military forces rely on reduction in government commercial satellite Inmarsats worldwide L-band Tactical expenditure generally.
Government revenues Satellite L-TAC service to augment and In response to governments ever-increasing are to some degree event and project driven, extend their UHF and VHF capabilities, demand for reliable, higher throughput SATCOM, and in 2015, we won a material new short-term allowing them to use existing tactical radios Inmarsat, together with its partners, have launched contract in the US but saw a major reduction in over Inmarsats L-band satellites saving a number of innovative products into this growing the expenditure by one other government.
The money and saving lives.
Examples include the airborne ISR service, combination of all of these factors meant that the necessary to move a satellite with active LAISR, which has been operational in both the rate of decline in government revenues slowed to L-TAC users over 28,000km from its original Americas and EMEA regions: the L-band Advanced 10.4% compared to a decline of 21.7% in 2014. location over Africa to the Indian Ocean Communications Element LACE terminal region, Inmarsat created 120 customised prototype, which demonstrated record-setting In the US, government revenues fell by 12.7% beams and switched their positions on a bi-directional links at 10Mbps from a miniature 2014: 31.7% reflecting one significant short-term daily basis to maintain coverage over critical terminal: and further enhancements to BGAN, contract win, the end of one major contract, the areas for troops.
On the ground, the user which allowed Inmarsat to deliver High Data Rate introduction of GX and encouraging revenue experience was service as usual with no HDR and Low Profile BGAN services.
growth for new L-band products including Assured unexpected interruptions or degradation Access, L-TAC and LAISR.
Outside the US, revenues of service.
In the US Government market, the industry saw declined by 7.1% 2014: 0.7% growth due to the awards for major US Navy and Air Force SATCOM renewal of one major contract in Q1 2015 with a contracts delayed by competitor protest actions: lower value and a different usage profile.
Our we expect the outcome to be known in 2016.
The other non-US markets grew in aggregate, with extension of large framework contracts in Australia, the markets that we have entered more recently Total Government EBITDA in the year fell by France, UK, Canada, Germany and New Zealand eight in 2015 generally providing growth and the $25.4m -11.7% to $191.0m 2014: $216.4m and demonstrate Inmarsats continued competitiveness more established government markets continuing the EBITDA margin of 66.6% remained consistent in the major global defence markets.
Meanwhile, the to see lower expenditure.
with 2014 2014: 67.6% reflecting the issues strategy of increasing diversification into new noted above.
geographies and less volatile non-defence verticals Operating costs in the year fell by $7.9m -7.6% to has continued to succeed.
Wins have ranged from $95.6m 2014: $103.5m mainly reflecting the mix fire-brigade solutions in Australia, border security and volume impact of the reduction in revenue.
in the Middle East, disaster response in China, presidential protection in Africa, government helicopters in Mexico and telemedicine in Brazil.
Inmarsat is staying the course, with unique trusted capabilities well matched to governments evolving
