72 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its The Chairman, Andrew Sukawaty, and Senior Independent Director, Dr Abe shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance are understood and Peled, are available to shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be that it remains accountable to shareholders.
The Board as a whole is raised through the normal channels or if such concerns have not been responsible for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes resolved.
Arrangements can be made to meet with either of them through the place, whilst the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer ensure that Company Secretary.
Other Non-Executive Directors may be asked to the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole.
The participate in investor meetings and have done so.
Board ensures that the Groups strategic plans have been carefully reviewed in terms of their ability to deliver long-term shareholder value.
During 2015, there continued to be ongoing communications through a combination of face-to-face meetings, phone calls and email correspondence In October 2015, the Company held a Capital Markets Day which was attended with many investors regarding remuneration issues.
Before the 2015 AGM, by investors, bankers, and other interested parties.
The presentations covered updates were provided to several significant and influential shareholders the Companys major business opportunities with presentations from each of regarding changes in some elements of Executive Director Remuneration.
Positive feedback as to the content and provision of Further information about these changes is contained in the Annual Statement information was received: a copy of the presentation has been made available from the Remuneration Committee Chairman, in the Remuneration report on on the Companys website.
The Company has undertaken regular investor roadshows in the UK and The Board obtains feedback from its joint corporate brokers, J. P. Morgan overseas and presentations were also made after publication of the 2014 Cazenove and Credit Suisse, on the views of institutional investors on a Preliminary Results in March 2015.
Investor and analyst presentations took non-attributed and attributed basis.
Any concerns of major shareholders place after the full year results and interim results have been announced and would be communicated to the Board by the Executive Directors.
As a matter conference calls took place after the announcement of the first and third of routine, the Board receives regular reports on issues relating to share price quarterly financial results.
There is an ongoing programme of dialogue and and trading activity, and details of movements in institutional investor meetings between the Chairman, Executive Directors and institutional shareholdings.
The Board is also regularly provided with current analyst investors, fund managers and analysts.
At these meetings, a wide range of opinions and forecasts.
relevant issues including strategy, performance, management and governance, are discussed within the constraints of information which has ANNUALGENERALMEETING already been made public.
The Board is aware that institutional shareholders Shareholders are welcome at the Companys AGM where they will have an may be in more regular contact with the Company than other shareholders, but opportunity to meet the Board.
The notice of the AGM is sent to all care is exercised to ensure that any price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Chairmen of the shareholders, institutional and private, at the same time in accordance with the Audit and the Remuneration Committees, together with as many Directors as Financial Conduct Authority requirements.
possible, will attend the 2016 AGM and be available to answer shareholders questions.
Voting on all resolutions at the AGM is on a poll.
The proxy votes This audited 2015 Annual Report will be made available to shareholders and all cast, including details of votes withheld, are disclosed on our website and results are posted on the Companys website, as are presentations made in announced to the UK Listing Authority through a Regulatory Information respect of the full-year results.
Service immediately after the meeting.
Facilities are provided for shareholders to vote electronically either through Electronic Proxy Voting or through CREST.
Details of our results announcements for 2016 are shown below: 5MAY2016 AGM AND Q1 2016 RESULTS 4AUGUST2016 INTERIM RESULTS FOR THE HALF YEAR TO 30 JUNE 2016 3NOVEMBER2016 Q3 2016 RESULTS These dates are provisional and may change.
COM ABOUT-US INVESTOR-RELATIONS SHAREHOLDERSERVICES WWW.
