28 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 BUSINESS OVERVIEW MARITIME Revenue Delivering value and driving innovation were key to Inmarsat Maritimes strategy in 2015.
The business achieved growth across its services portfolio: $593.2m 2014: $595.6m reinforcing its position as Inmarsats largest market sector and leader in global maritime communications.
Inmarsat Maritime delivered a series of strategic initiatives, including the start of its Certified Application Partner programme and a strategic relationship with Rolls-Royce focused on autonomous vessels: in addition to expanding its partner eco-system.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29 EBITDA Number of FleetBroadband installed vessels FleetBroadband revenue $459.4m 41,942 $359.7m 2014: $450.4m 2014: 40,469 2014: $305.9m Scan the image above using the Inmarsat App to view Maritime content.
30 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 BUSINESS OVERVIEW CONTINUED The Maritime business remains Inmarsats largest The strategy of migrating customers away from our MARITIME single market segment, representing approximately legacy services continued to deliver net benefits to 50% of the Companys annual MSS revenues.
Whilst revenue from our legacy Fleet Though revenue was relatively flat in 2015 service declined during the year, FleetBroadband significant progress has been made in setting delivered revenue growth of 18% and by the end of the foundations for a return to growth in 2016. the year, we had seen a subscriber growth of 3.6% to almost 42,000 ships at higher average revenue In 2015 we successfully positioned ourselves as per user.
the industry driver of innovation in maritime communications.
We further expanded the XpressLink is our managed service based on Inmarsat ecosystem, with the addition of new Ku-band and L-band technologies, and is partners including Ericsson and application positioned as a precursor to Fleet Xpress, which is developers and we became a technology partner the name for the maritime Global Xpress Ka-band in the autonomous vessel project with Rolls-Royce.
We accelerated our installation rate over the year, reducing installation lead times by a In addition, we embarked on the Certified Application month, taking the installed base to almost 2,500 Partner CAP programme, as a structured vessels by the year end a mix of XpressLink and approach to driving the development, delivery and legacy VSAT, with a healthy backlog of over six monetisation of premium business applications for months installations by the end of 2015, all the global maritime market.
This CAP programme representing stock for migration to Fleet Xpress.
is focused on Inmarsats Global Xpress broadband satellite network and gateway infrastructure.
As part For the migration itself we have developed a light of this, we are actively engaging with partners to vessel touch hardware platform that enables us to drive operational efficiency planned maintenance, migrate vessels in a more economical way and in a engine monitoring, chart updates, weather routing : shorter timeframe.
The platform will also be capable safety and compliance pollution monitoring, of hosting future versions of our Network Services anti-piracy, telemedicine, remote surveillance : Device software, which will form the heart of our IT and security remote IT support, cyber security, maritime managed service capabilities.
corporate e-mail : and crew welfare internet access, news, sports, movies, TV and radio.
The Maritime business continues to benefit from its focus on innovation and development of new Despite the overall result for the maritime sector, products and services, which has helped to expand 2015 has been a successful year for the two core its leadership position in the maritime market and products in our portfolio, FleetBroadband and open up new revenue opportunities.
Both these products delivered strong growth and together now account for 76% of In 2015 we made an entry into the small vessel revenue.
This growth was driven by a combination market leisure and small fishing vessels with Fleet of an increased number of vessels in billing and One and FleetPhone.
Although this is still early days the consistent execution of our pricing policy: this for Fleet One, we made good early headway with five promoted higher levels of usage through flat fee distribution partners, including KVH, adopting the packages rather than pay as you go services, Fleet One service as part of their portfolio on a so offering increased value to the customer and pooled price basis highlighting their confidence revenue growth to the business.
We also made progress with FleetPhone, with over 10,000 units being activated by the Chinese Fujian fishing fleet during the year.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 During 2015, FleetBroadband continued to grow strongly, rising by $53.8m 17.6% despite slowing markets.
At the end of the year there were 41,942 2015 has been an encouraging active ships with this service, around 4% higher than the installed base of 40,469 ships at the end year for our Maritime business.
The rate of growth of installations We are in a strong position to continued to slow through the year as we completed the transition of legacy Maritime return to growth in 2016. services onto FleetBroadband and this growth starts to reflect more closely intrinsic maritime sector growth dynamics and as negative market EUKOR ADOPTS GX SERVICES pressures increased.
Wholesale ARPU increased by EUKOR Car Carriers, one of the worlds Furthermore, we managed to install the first Fleet 10% to an average of over $700 for the year, largest shipping companies specialising in Media services in the second quarter of the year, mainly reflecting price increases at the start of the transportation of cars and other rolling signing up two distributors for the service and the year.
cargo, selected Global Xpress for its fleet securing Maersk Tankers as the first customer.
of 27 vessels, for connectivity across the Feedback has been positive, and integration into VSAT revenue increased by $10.3m 12.6% driven Indian Ocean region.
With plans to roll-out the Fleet Xpress standard installation set up will by a 20% increase in the installed base to almost full global coverage in 2016, EUKOR believes accelerate the further adoption of this service.
2,500 ships, mainly comprising XpressLink that having Inmarsat on board will help it customers.
VSAT ARPU was little changed over the improve business operations across its Overall, 2015 has been an encouraging year for year.
The net installation run-rate increased steadily global fleet which connects 220 ports: meet the Maritime business with continued growth in over 2015 with the underlying levels of installations its customers needs: optimise operational FleetBroadband and VSAT services and solid and terminations both increasing.
The backlog of efficiency and monitor and improve safety foundations established for the introduction of installation orders continued to rise across the year, and environmental performance.
This positions our Maritime ending the year at over six months of installations.
business well for a return to growth in 2016.
Revenues from Fleet fell by 52.5% FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2014: 18.6% decline.
Revenues from our Maritime revenue in the year decreased by $2.4m other mainly legacy services fell by 20.6% Maritime EBITDA increased by $9.0m 2.0% -0.4% to $593.2m 2014: $595.6m as continued 2014: 10.0% growth.
Together these services and Maritime EBITDA margin increased by 1.8% strong growth in FleetBroadband and VSAT was declined by $66.5m during the year.
These to 77.4% 2014: 75.6% with the impact of slightly more than offset by the much faster decline in Fleet services, which often have a higher third-party lower revenues being more than offset by the and other mainly legacy services.
The merchant component cost and hence lower margin, now favourable cost impact of improved revenue mix maritime industry continues to face severe represent 24% of total Maritime revenues, and lower indirect costs.
commercial headwinds, and this is reflected in compared to 35% at the end of 2014. reduced new ship orders, increasing scrappage of older ships and lay-ups of younger ships especially Maritime costs fell by $11.4m 7.9%, with the in the Oil and Gas segment, impacting on growth in volume driven impact of VSAT cost increases being new installations and accelerating the decline in more than offset by a reduction in indirect costs our legacy services on older vessels.
However, we and the change in mix from lower margin higher continue to defend and grow our market share in cost mainly legacy products towards higher this important sector, through product and service margin lower cost FleetBroadband.
innovation and the delivery of value-added solutions that enable a more efficient smart ship operating environment globally.
