52 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1.
TONYBATES   DateofAppointment: DateofAppointment:June 2014 Non-Executive Chairman January 2015 :Tony was previously the Group CFO of Executive Chairman January 2012 to December 2014 hibu plc previously Yell Group Plc where he played a leading role in the Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer March 2004 to December 2011 multi-billion pound refinancing of the Group and in the delivery of a much lower Chairman December 2003 cost operating model.
Prior to hibu, Tony was Chief Operating Officer of Colt CommitteeMembership:Chairman of the Telecoms Regulatory Committee Group S. A. the pan-European business telecoms operator.
His previous senior and member of the Nominations Committee management experience was mainly with EMI Group Plc, latterly as Group :Andy served as Non-Executive Finance Director.
Tony holds a First Class Honours degree in Management Chairman of Ziggo N. V. until November 2014.
He has previously been President Sciences from the University of Manchester Institute of Science and and Chief Executive Officer of Sprint PCS, a NYSE listed global national wireless Technology.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England carrier and Chief Executive Officer of NTL Limited.
He also held various and Wales.
management positions with US West and AT&T and been a Non-Executive ExternalAppointments:None.
Director on various listed companies.
Andy holds a BBA and MBA respectively from the University of Wisconsin and Minnesota.
SIMONBAX ExternalAppointments:  Executive in Residence for Warburg Pincus.
DateofAppointment:June 2013 Senior Independent Director of Sky Plc.
CommitteeMembership:Chairman of the Remuneration Committee :Simon Bax was, from 2008 to 2013, 2.
RUPERTPEARCE CEO of Encompass Digital Media Inc, which provides technical services to  broadcasters, cable networks and government agencies.
He previously served DateofAppointment: as CFO and Executive Vice President of Pixar Animation and CFO and President Executive Director July 2011 of Studio Operations of Fox Filmed Entertainment.
Simon holds an Honours Chief Executive Officer January 2012 degree in History from Cambridge University and is a chartered accountant.
:Rupert has been Inmarsats Chief ExternalAppointments: Executive Officer since January 2012.
He joined Inmarsat in January 2005 as Chairman of WiSpire Limited.
Group General Counsel and from January 2009, additionally held the position Chairman of Archant Limited.
of Senior Vice President, Inmarsat Enterprises.
Previously, Rupert worked for Director of Archant Employee Benefit Trustee Company Limited.
Atlas Venture, where he was a partner working with the firms European and US Non-Executive Director of SVG Capital Plc.
Before Atlas Venture, he was also a partner at the Director of the British Bobsleigh and Skeleton Association.
international law firm Linklaters, where he spent 13 years specialising in Member of the Gonville and Caius Development Campaign Board.
corporate finance, mergers and acquisitions and private equity transactions.
Member of the Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences.
Rupert received an MA First Class in Modern History from Oxford University Member of the British Academy of Film and Television Arts.
and won the 1995 Fullbright Fellowship in US securities law, studying at the Georgetown Law Center.
He has been a visiting fellow of the Imperial College Business School, London, lecturing on the schools Entrepreneurship programme, and is the co-author of Raising Venture Capital Wiley.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 5.
KATHLEENFLAHERTY   DateofAppointment:June 2005 DateofAppointment:May 2006 CommitteeMembership:Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Telecoms CommitteeMembership:Member of the Remuneration Committee Regulatory Committees :Kathleen served on the Board of a :Sir Bryan is a Chartered Accountant.
number of public companies including Marconi Corporation plc, Telent plc and He served eight years as Director General of Telecommunications head of CMS Energy Corporation.
She was President and Chief Operating Officer of Oftel, and then served as Director General of Fair Trading and Secretary Winstar International.
Her previous career has included senior roles as Chief General of the International Accounting Standards Board.
He was previously Marketing Officer with AT&T and other senior roles with BT and MCI Chairman of the Council of Loughborough University, a Non-Executive Director Communications Inc. Kathleen was a Non-Executive Director of GenTek Inc of Cable and Wireless Communications plc, RM plc and Non-Executive until October 2009 and hibu plc until March 2014.
Kathleen holds a PhD in Chairman of MLL Telecom Limited.
He was knighted in January 1989.
Sir Bryan Industrial Engineering and Management Sciences from Northwestern is an Honorary Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries and holds an MSc Econ University, Illinois.
from the University of London.
ExternalAppointments:A member emeritus of the McCormick Advisory ExternalAppointments: Board and its executive committee of Northwestern University.
Non-Executive Director of Actual Experience plc.
STEPHENDAVIDSON   DateofAppointment:May 2014 DateofAppointment:June 2005 CommitteeMembership:Member of the Remuneration Committee CommitteeMembership:Member of the Audit, Remuneration and :General Kehler retired from the US Air Nominations Committees Force in January 2014 with over 38 years service.
He oversaw a global network :Stephen held various positions in of satellite command and control, communications, missile warning and launch Investment Banking, finally at WestLB Panmure where he was Global Head of facilities, and ensured the combat readiness of Americas intercontinental Media and Telecoms and Vice Chairman of Investment Banking.
From 1993 to ballistic missile force.
Over his career, he served in a variety of important 1998 Stephen was Finance Director, then Chief Executive Officer of Telewest operational and staff assignments, and successfully led large organisations Communications plc.
He was Chairman of the Cable Communications with global responsibilities.
Stephen holds a First Class Honours degree in ExternalAppointments: Mathematics and Statistics from the University of Aberdeen.
Proxy board of directors of BEI Precision Systems and Space Company.
ExternalAppointments: Trustee of the Mitre Corporation.
Non-Executive Chairman of Datatec Ltd.
Member of the Advisory Board for Outreach and Online Education of the Non-Executive Chairman of Actual Experience plc.
Non-Executive Chairman of PRS for Music.
Senior advisor to McKinsey and Company.
Non-Executive Director of Restore Plc.
Special advisor to Northrop Grumman Corporation.
Deputy Chairman of Jaywing Group plc.
54 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED 9.
DRHAMADOUNTOUR   DateofAppointment:May 2009 DateofAppointment:March 2015 CommitteeMembership:Member of the Audit Committee CommitteeMembership:Member of the Nominations and Telecoms :Janice held several senior positions Regulatory Committees both in the US Government and in the private sector.
She was formerly Head of :Hamadoun was Secretary General of Delegation and US Ambassador to the World Radiocommunications the International Telecommunication Union ITU, the specialised agency of Conference, Assistant Secretary for Communications and information at the the United Nations dedicated to information and communication technologies Department of Commerce and Senior Advisor to the Chairman at the Federal from 2007 to 2014.
As such he was a Member of the UN Chief Executive Board Communications Commission in the US.
CEB and served as Chairman of the UN ICT Network.
He was the founding ExternalAppointments: member of the Broadband Commission for Digital Development and served as President of Freedom Technologies Inc. co-vice chair until his retirement from the ITU.
In October 2015 Hamadoun was Non-Executive Director of Orbital ATK.
appointed as Founding Executive Director of SMART Africa Alliance.
He was a Non-Executive Director of CSG Systems, Inc.
Member of the Advisory Board of the International Multilateral Partnership Against Cyber Threats IMPACT until December 2014.
DRABRAHAMPELED distinguished career in the satellite industry.
Hamadoun holds a Masters  Degree in Electrical Engineering from the Telecommunications Institute of DateofAppointment:June 2013 St-Petersburg Russian Federation and a PhD in Electrical Engineering from CommitteeMembership:Chairman of the Nominations Committee the University of Informatics and Telecoms of Moscow Russian Federation.
:In November 2015 Abe was appointed ExternalAppointments: our Senior Independent Director.
Abe was Chief Executive Officer of NDS Group Founding Executive Director of SMART Africa Alliance.
plc from 1995 to 2012, a digital pay-TV technology company, and served as Founder of 7Star Holding.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from 2004 to 2012.
He was Senior Vice President of Cisco from August 2012 to January 2014 and has previous senior 13.
ALISONHORROCKS management experience with IBM and Elron.
Abe has a BSc and MSc in  Electrical Engineering and a PhD in Digital Signal Processing.
In March 2013, DateofAppointment:February 1999 Abe was awarded the Lifetime Achievement Award by Digital TV Europe.
:Alison joined Inmarsat in 1999 and ExternalAppointments: provides corporate governance advice and acts as Company Secretary to the Partner of CyberCloud Ventures.
She is a member of the Executive Management Board Senior advisor on technology businesses to Permira.
and Chairman of the Trustee Company responsible for the Inmarsat UK pension Chairman of TeamViewer GmbH.
Alison is a Fellow of the Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
She was Member of the Operating Committee of Metalogix Inc. Group Company Secretary of International Public Relations plc, a worldwide public relations company, for 11 years prior to joining Inmarsat.
 DateofAppointment:February 2015 CommitteeMembership:Chairman of the Audit Committee BOARDDIVERSITY :Rob served as Chief Financial Officer of VNU N. V. a publicly listed marketing and publishing company now the Nielsen company between 2004 and 2007.
He previously served as the Chief BOARDEXPERIENCE Finance Officer of KLM Royal Dutch Airlines from 2001 until its merger with Air Regulatory Financial management France in 2004, and as Chief Finance Officer of ASM International N. V. a Marketing Developing economies publicly listed manufacturer of electronic components.
Rob is a Certified Public Government Manufacturing Accountant in the United States and in The Netherlands and a member of the Telecommunications Cyber security ACT in the UK.
Technology Customer service management ExternalAppointments: Member of the Supervisory Board of Wavin N. V. Member of the Supervisory Board of Ziggo N. V. Non-Executive Director of Interxion N. V. BOARDCOMPOSITION Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Delta Lloyd N. V. Executive: 2 Male: 10 Non-Executive: 10 Female: 2 BOARDTENURE 0-3Years: 6 4-8Years: 2 9 Years: 4 NATIONALITIES TheNetherlands UK Mali US
