36 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 BUSINESS OVERVIEW AVIATION Revenue 2015 was a year of dramatic developments for Inmarsats Aviation business.
Revenues grew by over 25% and a series of strategic announcements $126.8m 2014: $101.1m highlighted the potential for both the GX Aviation service and the European Aviation Network.
Two leading global airlines, Lufthansa Group and Singapore Airlines, signed as GX Aviation customers, while Deutsche Telekom signed a strategic partnership to help deliver unprecedented passenger connectivity to Europes aviation industry.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 37 EBITDA Number of SwiftBroadband active SIMs SwiftBroadband revenue $103.7m 7,200 $84.6m 2014: $87.2m 2014: 5,400 2014: $58.8m Scan the image above using the Inmarsat App to view Aviation content.
38 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 BUSINESS OVERVIEW CONTINUED Inmarsats Aviation business enjoyed another The strategic partnership with Deutsche Telekom AVIATION strong year in 2015, both financially and will seamlessly combine satellite connectivity from strategically, recording a revenue increase of Inmarsats new S-band satellite with a LTE-based 25.4% for the full year.
Aviations revenue growth ground network to be developed and operated by was driven by both a higher number of connections Deutsche Telekom.
The S-band satellite is currently and a higher Average Revenue Per User ARPU.
being built and is planned to be launched on a The growth was primarily driven by the continuing SpaceX Falcon Heavy vehicle as soon as strength of our SwiftBroadband SB service in practicable after construction is completed.
both the business and general aviation markets The ground network will comprise approximately and air transport: SB revenues now represent 300 LTE sites across Europe, each with a range of two-thirds of total Aviation revenues, with some 80km, which Deutsche Telekom will build and approximately 7,200 active SIMs by the end of manage.
The satellite and ground networks will be the year.
Classic Aero active terminals also grew, integrated such that switching between them will by 9% for the year.
be managed automatically by on-board cabin systems, with no impact on service delivery.
During the year, successful trials of GX Aviation equipment and network capabilities were Deutsche Telekom will take a share of the wholesale conducted, including streaming videos and live airtime revenues generated by the complementary radio, online conference calls, and downloading ground network.
Inmarsat will supply and manage files.
Successful helicopter flights were also the satellite service component of the network, and conducted by Boeing.
These have all validated will lead the marketing and sales of the integrated the ability of GX to deliver high-speed, global, connectivity service to European airlines.
Inmarsat broadband connectivity in the air.
and Deutsche Telekom are aiming to have the EAN ready for full service availability by mid-2017.
We are in advanced stages of negotiation with major airlines around the world to provide Connections and data traffic in the business connectivity solutions for their passengers and aviation market are still growing strongly.
During during 2015 confirmed that Singapore Airlines will the year, Inmarsat started work with Honeywell procure GX from Inmarsats partner SITAONAIR, Aerospace and an antennae development with the first installation scheduled for the second company, Kymeta, to develop a lighter flat panel half of 2016. high-speed Ka-band wireless antenna, suitable to bring higher capacity and speeds to large During 2015, we also signed a 10-year contract commercial aircraft as well as offering standard with Lufthansa to provide high-speed connectivity GX services to much smaller aircraft in the business services on board more than 150 of Lufthansas aviation market.
The agreement also provides a contractual framework to extend Aviation safety services continue to be in the the agreement to other airlines within the wider industry spotlight, with a range of new services Lufthansa Group.
Lufthansa has also committed being trialled in a number of jurisdictions.
During to trial the European Aviation Network EAN when it the year Inmarsat announced that Hawaiian becomes commercially available.
This development, Airlines was the first commercial airline to fly with alongside Inmarsat forming a strategic partnership our SwiftBroadband Safety service on its Boeing with Deutsche Telekom to develop the ground 767-300 fleet.
The first flight took place in June component of EAN, represented two major steps 2015, after the Supplemental Type Certificate for forward for our EAN in 2015. the service was awarded.
SwiftBroadband Safety STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 39 ESAs IRIS programme.
ESAs IRIS programme is part of the European Unions Single European Skies Air Traffic Management Joint Undertaking, which SwiftBroadband Safety will aims to address the 4bn cost resulting from the shortcomings of the current European Air Traffic provide an enhanced version Management system.
of our existing safety service Aviation remains a major growth market, with enabling organisations to receive connectivity into the cockpit and the cabin, in both large commercial aircraft and smaller business jets, and transmit messages faster.
expected to see strong growth over the coming INMARSAT AND LUFTHANSA GROUP years.
Growth in connectivity will be driven by the PARTNERSHIP increasing number of aircraft in the sky, the need Inmarsats 10-year strategic partnership for more capable and sophisticated operational with Lufthansa Group to provide nextwill provide an enhanced version of Inmarsats and safety services in the cockpit, and the generation connectivity services was Classic Aero service, enabling Air Navigation increasing demand from passengers that they formalised in October 2015.
Inmarsat GX Service Providers and Air Traffic Management be online when they are on board an aircraft.
Aviation will power connectivity services organisations to receive and transmit data and on board more than 150 Lufthansa aircraft, messages faster and more efficiently.
The FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE enabling passengers to make the most of SwiftBroadband Safety service is expected to Aviation revenue for the year grew by $25.7m broadband internet access on their own be commercially available from Q2 2016.
25.4% to $126.8m 2014: $101.1m, with SB mobile devices via a wireless network on now accounting for two-thirds of total Aviation board.
Lufthansa will also trial Inmarsats In 2015, we also launched a partnership with revenues in the year.
Aviations revenue growth EAN, which combines an S-band satellite Airservices Australia and other aviation industry was driven by both higher connections and a higher with a complementary LTE ground network stakeholders to trial improved flight tracking ARPU, both in our SB service, in the business and being provided by Deutsche Telekom, services on commercial airlines on flights to and general aviation markets and air transport markets, in 2017. from Australia.
This followed the International Civil and in our legacy Classic Aero service.
Aviation Authority resolution in February 2015, supported by Inmarsat, to adopt a new 15-minute SB revenue growth continued to benefit from the tracking standard for commercial aircraft.
Based impact of the take-or-pay contracts signed with on the results of the trial, Airservices Australia has several key distribution partners in mid-2014.
Operating costs increased by $9.2m -66.2% now adopted the 14-minute reporting requirement These contracts applied pricing discounts to $23.1m 2014: $13.9m due to increased as its standard operating procedure in oceanic retrospectively to the start of 2014 in return for headcount and other costs associated with the airspace.
In addition, other Air Navigation Service minimum revenue commitments in the full years pursuit and delivery of the major growth Providers have commenced evaluations as a result 2014 and 2015. opportunities in cabin connectivity.
We will invest of the successful Australian trial.
further in these areas over the coming years to SB revenue increased by 43.7%, with active SIMs maximise the longer-term opportunities for growth.
Europes ambitious programme to create the growing by 31.9% to c. 7,200.
SB ARPU grew by worlds most advanced and secure air traffic 8.6% to just under $1,100 per month.
Classic Aero Aviation EBITDA increased by $16.5m 18.9% management system also took a step forward in revenue increased by 9.7%, with active SIMs to $103.7m 2014: $87.2m.
However, the EBITDA 2015, with the announcement by Inmarsat and the growing by 8.6% to c. 7,700.
Classic Aero ARPU margin decreased to 81.8% 2014: 86.3% European Space Agency ESA of the successful grew by 0.9% to just over $320 per month.
reflecting the additional costs noted above.
completion of Phase 1 of ESAs IRIS Precursor: the Final Design Review to validate the architecture and system design, and the safety and security of
