STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 55 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015  The Group capitalised $35.3m during the period under review.
The $35.3m of interest capitalised in the period has been treated as fully tax deductible in the UK.
BRANCHES The Group has activities operated through many jurisdictions.
 The Companys ordinary shares of Euro 0.0005 each are listed on the London Stock Exchange LSE: ISAT.
L. Details of the issued share capital of the Company, together with movements in the issued share capital during the year, can be found in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
ALISONHORROCKS  The Company has one class of ordinary share which carries no rights to fixed income.
On a poll, each member is entitled to one vote for each share of Euro 0.0005 held.
All 138,086 ordinary shares held by the Inmarsat Employee The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial Share Ownership Trust carry voting rights.
statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of holding or on the transfer of This report has been prepared in accordance with requirements outlined within shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Companies Act 2006 and forms part of the management report as required Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.
Certain information that fulfils the arrangements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the requirements of the Report of the Directors can be found elsewhere in this transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any special rights of document and is referred to below.
This information is incorporated into the control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Report of the Directors by reference.
GOINGCONCERN Set out below is the relevant information required to be disclosed in the Report The Directors acknowledge the latest guidance on going concern.
Despite the of the Directors in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
current volatility in financial markets and uncertain economic outlook, the Directors believe that the Group has a resilient business model, strong free cash  flow generation and is compliant with all its financial covenants.
In making their As required under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules a statement made by assessment of going concern, the Directors considered the Board-approved the Board regarding the preparation of the financial statements is set out on budget, the rolling forecast, the cash flow forecast and the most recent page 93. five-year long range business plan.
In addition, the Directors considered the maturity profile of existing debt facilities, other liabilities as well as actual and BUSINESSREVIEW,  forecast covenant calculations.
Furthermore, the forecasts and covenant DEVELOPMENTS calculations were stress tested by applying a set of downside scenarios.
The Business reviews are set out on pages 28 to 43 and the Strategic Report is After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the set out in pages 1 to 51 and they are incorporated into this Report by reference.
Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the These sections also provide details of likely future developments within foreseeable future.
Accordingly, Inmarsat continues to adopt the going the Group.
concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
 VIABILITYSTATEMENT Under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7, a requirement exists for certain The viability report containing a broader assessment by the Board of the parts of the Corporate governance report to be outlined in the Report of the Companys ongoing viability is set out on page 51.
This information is laid out in the Corporate governance report on pages 58 to 71.
 The Directors authorities are determined by UK legislation and the Articles of  Association.
At the 2015 AGM, the Directors were authorised by shareholders There were no such events required to be disclosed.
to allot ordinary shares up to agreed limits and to have the ability to make market purchases of ordinary shares.
Shareholders are being requested to RESULTSANDDIVIDENDS renew these authorities at the 2016 AGM.
The results for the year are shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 100.
 Details of the Directors and Officers liability insurance and the indemnities A final dividend of 31.78 cents will be paid on 27 May 2016 to shareholders on provided to the Directors, Company Secretary and certain employees where the share register at the close of business on 13 May 2016. Dividend payments they serve as directors of subsidiaries at the Groups request are provided on are made in Pounds Sterling based on the exchange rate prevailing in the page 62 in the Corporate governance report.
London market four business days prior to payment.
From 6 April 2016 the Dividend Tax Credit will be replaced by a new Dividend Allowance in the form of a 0% tax rate on the first 5,000 of dividend income per year.
Full details of the change and how this may affect your dividend payment in May 2016 will be included in the Annual Report mailing.
56 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 CONTINUED  Details of the employment policies and employee involvement are provided in TOTAL EMISSIONS 2015 the Resources and relationships section of this Report and are also in the tCO e 2 Corporate governance report.
 Details of the long-term incentive schemes can be found on page 92 of the Remuneration report.
Scope 1 1,741 Scope 2 15,810 HEALTHANDSAFETY The Group is committed to maintaining high standards of health and safety for its Scope 3 9,562 employees, customers, visitors, contractors and anyone affected by its business activities.
During 2015, we have continued to work closely with our subsidiary companies to harmonise health and safety best practice.
Rupert Pearce, our CEO, is the Director designated for health and safety matters at Board level.
 We operate in over 50 locations with a combined workforce of approximately 1,700 staff.
Due to our diversity of activities the Company recognises it has EMISSIONS INTENSITY SCOPE 1 and 2 some impacts affecting the local and global environment.
However, it should tCO e million MB 2 be noted that the satellite industry and our own business is low on the scale of carbon generators.
We have provided details of our objectives for how we 39.8 manage our environmental activities on page 27.
The information below summarises the report generated over the year regarding our 27.8 actual performance.
Our environmental impacts include the use of natural resources, the consumption of energy and water, the production of a variety of waste, as well as staff and visitors who travel extensively.
All energy, fuel and waste management activities are controlled by the Business FY2014 FY2015 Environment team which is based in London.
 This section has been prepared in accordance with our regulatory obligation to reporting.
Our Scope 3 emissions have increased significantly, primarily as a report greenhouse gas GHG emissions pursuant to Section 7 of the Companies result of increased business travel associated with two satellite launches that Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013. occurred in 2015, as well as a number of new projects in various locations around the globe.
The table below shows our greenhouse gas emissions for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014: METHODOLOGY We quantify and report our organisational GHG emissions according to ISO 14064-1:2006.
Consumption data has been collated by our energy consultant, Global greenhouse gas emissions tonnes CO e 2015 2014 2 Carbon Credentials, and has been converted into CO equivalent using the UK 2 Combustion of fuel and operation of Government 2015 Conversion Factors for Company Reporting in order to facilities Scope 1 1,741 1,822 calculate emissions from corresponding activity data.
We have also utilised Electricity, heat, steam and cooling certain data used for compliance with the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme and purchased for our own use Scope 2 15,810 16,397 the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS when compiling our GHG disclosure.
TotalScope1and2 17,551 18,219 GHG emissions intensity: tCO e per 2  million megabytes of IP over our BGAN network 27.8 39.8 We consolidate our organisational boundary according to the operational control approach and have adopted a materiality threshold of 10% for GHG Other indirect emissions Scope 3 9,562 3,392 reporting purposes.
As a result, emissions from locations with fewer than 15 staff on-site have been reasonably estimated as immaterial and are thus Emissions from the consumption of electricity outside the UK are reported in tCO 2 rather than tCO e because UK Government emissions factors for overseas electricity 2 excluded from our GHG disclosure.
Emissions for all significant sites have been currently account for carbon dioxide emissions only.
The emissions intensity calculation disclosed, which includes our top five highest consuming locations: Perth is based on a figure of 630.6 million MB of IP.
Australia, London United Kingdom, Burum The Netherlands, Paumalu United States and Palm Bay United States.
Since 2014 our absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions have decreased by 4%.
This The GHG sources that constitute our operational boundary for the 2015 decrease in emissions has occurred despite a large increase in activity over our reporting period are: BGAN network.
Consequently, our emissions intensity has decreased 30% from 39.8 to 27.8 tCO e per million MB of IP over our BGAN network.
2 Scope1:Natural gas combustion within boilers, gas oil combustion within generators, road fuel combustion within vehicles, and fugitive refrigerants We have also chosen to voluntarily disclose a selection of our Scope 3 from air-conditioning equipment.
This year we have expanded the scope of this to include water and Scope2:Purchased electricity consumption for our own use.
waste, in addition to business travel which we had been previously been Scope3:Business travel, water, and waste.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 57   In some cases, missing data has been estimated using either extrapolation of Rules governing Directors appointments are provided on page 66 of the available data from the reporting period or data from 2014 as a proxy.
Furthermore, due to improved emissions calculation processes and the introduction of additional emissions sources we have also restated the DIRECTORSPOWER emissions figures for 2014.
This allows us to make a more accurate comparison Details of Directors powers are provided on pages 60 and 61 of the Corporate of performance between 2014 and 2015. governance report.
IMPROVINGPERFORMANCE  Since establishing our global environmental data programme in 2014 with A full list of the individuals who were Directors of the Company during the Carbon Credentials, we have expanded the scope of this programme: with financial year ended 31 December 2015 is set out below: quarterly reporting of energy consumption and emissions at several sites.
The purpose of this is to continually monitor consumption in order to identify Andrew Sukawaty, Rupert Pearce, Tony Bates, Stephen Davidson, Janice opportunities to improve energy performance.
We have also begun to monitor Obuchowski, Kathleen Flaherty, General C. Robert Kehler Rtd, Sir Bryan additional environmental impacts, such as water and waste, where this data Carsberg, Dr Abe Peled, Robert Ruijter, Simon Bax and Dr Hamadoun Tour.
John Rennocks was a Director for part of 2015.
In 2015 we submitted a response to the CDP Climate Change programme gaining a score of 95 C. Within this disclosure we reported the key business risks Details of each Directors interests in the Companys ordinary shares and share and opportunities that climate change presents to Inmarsat.
awards held are set out in full on page 91.
 Details of the Directors conflicts of interest policy are provided on pages 62.
Details of principal risks and uncertainties are provided on pages 49 to 51.
  The Articles of Association can be amended by special resolution of Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, the shareholders.
including hedging policies and exposure of the entity to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are given in notes 3 and 31 to the consolidated AUDITOR financial statements.
Each of the Directors has confirmed that:  so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which The Group continues to invest in new services and technology necessary to the Companys Auditor is unaware: and support its activities through research and development programmes.
the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make him herself aware of any relevant audit information and to POLITICALDONATIONS establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
During the year, no political donations were made.
It remains the policy of the Company not to make political donations or incur political expenditure.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the However, the Directors recognise that occasions arise where it may be in the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006. best interests of shareholders for the Company to be able, if appropriate, to participate in public debate and opinion-forming on matters which affect its A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditor of the Company and to business.
To avoid inadvertent infringement of the requirements of the authorise the Board of Directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed Companies Act 2006, shareholders are asked annually to give authority at the at the 2016 AGM.
Annual General Meeting for the Company to make political donations and to incur political expenditure.
 The Annual General Meeting will be held on 5 May 2016 at 10.00am at 99 City  Road, London EC1Y 1AX.
The Notice of Meeting which sets out the resolutions As at 3 March 2016, the Company had been notified, in accordance with to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM is enclosed with this Annual Report.
chapter 5 of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following significant interests: By order of the Board ALISONHORROCKSFCIS Percentage of voting rights over Chief Corporate Affairs Officer Shareholder ordinary shares of 0.0005 each and Company Secretary Lansdowne Partners Limited 11.72% 3 March 2016 BlackRock Inc 7.51% Aberdeen Asset Managers 5.00% Jupiter Asset Management Limited 4.82% Artemis Investment Management 3.70% AXA Investment Management 3.39% Voting rights are based on the information we believe is a disclosable interest to the Company, adjusted for the issued share capital as at 3 March 2016.
