Corporate Governance continued Our Executive Committee Keith Barr Angela Brav Chief Commercial officer Chief Executive officer, Europe Appointed to the Executive Committee: Appointed to the Executive Committee: April 2011 Joined the Group: 2000 August 2011 Joined the Group: 1988 Skills and experience: Keith has over 20 years experience in the Skills and experience: Angela has over 25 years experience in the hospitality industry.
He has held senior appointments at IHG, including hospitality industry, including hotel operations, franchise relations Vice President of Sales and Revenue Management: Vice President and technology solutions.
She held various senior roles in IHGs North of Operations: Chief Operating officer, Australia, New Zealand and American and European regions prior to becoming Chief Operating South Pacic: and Managing Director, Greater China.
He became an officer, North America.
She was appointed Chief Executive officer, Executive Committee member in April 2011 and, prior to becoming Europe in August 2011.
Chief Commercial officer, was Chief Executive officer, Greater China Key responsibilities: These include business development and until May 2013.
Keith is currently a member of The Leland C. and Mary performance of all the hotel brands and properties in Europe.
M. Pillsbury Institute for Hospitality Entrepreneurship Advisory Board.
Key responsibilities: These include global sales, marketing and brand functions, to drive consistent brand strategies across all regions and leverage IHGs scale and systems to deliver continued industry outperformance.
Elie Maalouf Kenneth Macpherson Chief Executive officer, The Americas Chief Executive officer, Greater China Appointed to the Executive Committee: Appointed to the Executive Committee: February 2015 Joined the Group: 2015 April 2013 Joined the Group: 2013 Skills and experience: Elie was appointed Chief Executive officer, Skills and experience: Kenneth joined IHG as Chief Executive officer, The Americas at IHG in February 2015, with over 14 years experience Greater China in April 2013.
Prior to joining the Group, he worked for working in a major global franchise business.
He joined the Group Diageo plc for nearly 20 years and held senior management positions, having spent six years as President and Chief Executive officer of including serving as Executive Managing Director of Diageo Greater HMSHost Corporation, a global travel and leisure company, where China.
Kenneth has extensive management experience, with a he was also a member of the board of directors.
Elie brings broad background in sales, marketing strategy, business development experience to IHG spanning development, branding, finance, real and operations.
Kenneth also brings substantial knowledge and estate and operations management, as well as highly relevant food expertise in Chinese and international business operations.
He was most recently a Senior Advisor Key responsibilities: These include business development with McKinsey & Company.
and performance of all the hotel brands and properties Key responsibilities: These include business development in the Greater China region.
and performance of all the hotel brands and properties in The Americas region.
Eric Pearson Jan Smits Executive Vice President Chief Executive officer, and Chief Information officer Asia, Middle East and Africa Appointed to the Executive Committee: Appointed to the Executive Committee: February 2012 Joined the Group: 1997 April 2011 Joined the Group: 2002 Skills and experience: Eric has a background in engineering and Skills and experience: Jan has more than 30 years experience in the technology and started his career at IHG nearly 20 years ago.
He held various senior positions in the Asia and then he has held various senior positions in the eld of emerging Australasia region.
He became Managing Director, Asia Australasia technologies and global e-commerce.
Prior to being appointed in June 2009.
Following the amalgamation of our Middle East and Chief Information officer, Eric most recently held the position Africa region with our Asia Australasia region, he became Chief of Chief Marketing officer for The Americas region.
Executive officer, Asia, Middle East and Africa in April 2011.
Key responsibilities: These include global technology, including Key responsibilities: These include business development IT systems and information management, throughout the Group.
and performance of all the hotel brands and properties in Asia, Middle East and Africa.
58 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Director induction, training and development New Director inductions Ongoing Director training and development All new Directors undergo a comprehensive and formal induction We believe that updating skills and knowledge via ongoing training programme which is tailored to meet their individual needs.
We and development to understand the Groups business and its believe this is crucial in ensuring our Directors have an in-depth operations is of great importance.
At IHG, this is a progressive understanding of the Groups business and our business model, exercise.
The Chairman regularly reviews and agrees any training our principal activities, and our strategy, which is key in enabling and development needs with each Director and the Board is made all Directors to contribute to the Board effectively with their aware of training opportunities.
Additional information is provided knowledge, skills, experience and expertise.
as necessary to enable the Board to keep up to date with, and enhance their knowledge of, the business, and to keep abreast of any The Company Secretary develops an induction programme regulatory and corporate governance developments.
in consultation with each new Director, the Chairman and the Chief Executive officer, and the induction is led by the Chairman Board and Committee meetings are regularly used to keep Directors in accordance with best-practice principles.
formally up to date on developments in the environment in which the business operates, with in-depth discussion and presentations Our inductions provide new Directors with the information necessary provided by senior management on key topical areas as required.
to familiarise them with the Groups governance framework, their duties as Directors, and the Groups business, including Board meetings are intentionally held at IHG hotels in different locations our operations and KPIs, as well as our approach to internal controls to provide first-hand experience of the different brands across our and risk management.
New Directors are also equipped with a full portfolio, to broaden the Boards exposure to the geographical markets understanding of our history, brands, regional structures and in which we operate and to provide opportunities to meet frontline staff the IHG Owners Association.
In 2015, Board members attended meetings held at various IHG hotels in London, including InterContinental London Park Meetings take place with members of the Board and the Executive Lane and Crowne Plaza Kensington, in addition to meetings held at the Committee, senior executives and regional and central management Groups head ofces in Denham, UK and Atlanta, US.
As part of our from various functions across the Group, including but not limited to annual two-day strategy meeting, Board members attended meetings Business Reputation and Responsibility: Human Resources: Corporate at InterContinental Shenzhen and Crowne Plaza Guangzhou City Centre, Affairs: Global Strategy: Global Internal Audit and Group Finance, China, and received a presentation from the General Manager of and the external Auditor.
In addition, Directors have the opportunity HUALUXE Yangjiang City Centre, Vincent Liang.
to visit our global corporate ofces and hotels to provide further insight into our business.
The Company Secretary regularly updates the Board on regulatory and legal matters, or relevant changes, as part of meetings, and Directors are encouraged to visit hotels across our brands, both formally as part of meetings and informally.
Anne Busquets induction Annes induction provided her with an understanding of IHG a reminder of the rules relating to maintaining the and our business to enable her to contribute her knowledge, condentiality of inside information and restrictions in skills and experience effectively to the Board, and a recap of dealing in IHG shares, together with a brieng of the policies her responsibilities as a director of a public limited company.
and procedures IHG has in place to ensure compliance with The key areas included: such rules: information on the Group, its business and the markets in meetings with members of the Board and the Executive which we operate, including the Groups strategy, business Committee, senior management from functions across model and KPIs, key regions and operations, a financial the Group, the external Auditor, our broker and capital overview and financial segmental information, details of the advisers: and Groups principal assets, liabilities and significant contracts, visits to IHG hotels across our brands, touring the hotels and an overview of our brands: and spending time with our General Managers.
our approach to internal controls and our risk As Annes corporate governance exposure at the time of her management strategy: appointment focused on US rules and requirements, her information on the Board, its Committees and IHGs induction also included a face-to-face session with the Company governance processes, with a particular focus on the Audit, Secretary on the key differences in corporate governance Nomination and Corporate Responsibility Committees standards followed by US companies and companies operating in light of her appointment to these Committees: in the UK regulatory environment.
IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 59 Corporate Governance continued Board effectiveness evaluation IHG has always recognised the importance of evaluating the to make other general or specic observations.
The results were performance of the Board as a whole, its main Committees and analysed and the report was presented for discussion at the Boards its Directors, in line with the Code recommendations.
of these evaluations is to create a truly effective Board that is not Internal performance evaluations of Directors were also undertaken, only t for purpose but that adds real value to the Group.
Progress against our 2014 evaluation Director In 2014, we conducted an internal evaluation as detailed in our being appraised Appraiser 2014 Annual Report.
Our progress in 2015 against the actions Chairman Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman and facilitated by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director identied is set out below.
Chief Executive officer Chairman and all Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors Chief Executive officer Our 2015 evaluation process Non-Executive Directors Chairman Our 2015 evaluation was also conducted internally, with support from an independent external facilitator with no connection to IHG.
Each member of the Board was invited to complete an effectiveness Outcome questionnaire, which centred both on the progress against actions The evaluation confirmed that the Board and its Committees were identied in our 2014 Board effectiveness evaluation, and questions operating effectively and that each Director continues to bring relevant on other topics to draw out additional suggestions and comments.
knowledge, diversity of perspective, an ability and willingness to Key areas included Board working processes, the Boards areas of challenge, and a strong commitment to the role.
focus and engagement, and Board dynamics.
It also invited Directors 2014 and 2015 Board effectiveness evaluations 2014 observations Action taken during 2015 2015 observations Recommendations for 2016 Increase the Boards focus on brands.
Deep dives into the strategy for the Holiday Inn, Much improved.
The Board would Provide regular updates on each brand, Holiday Inn Express, InterContinental and still benefit from a regular review setting out plans and key initiatives for Crowne Plaza brands provided.
of the progress of each brand against the year across the globe and by region, its strategy.
Enhance the Boards understanding Presentations on competitors strategies Very clear mapping and assessment.
As a result of the progress made in 2015, of competitors strategy and and offerings provided.
Competitive analysis Enhanced analysis in 2015 has achieved no further enhancements to our current performance.
included in both financial results and greater understanding of relative financial practice are suggested.
Increase the Boards exposure Meetings with the Chief Executive officer for Although the presentations provided Provide regular updates on The Americas to the Groups US business.
The Americas, with a focus on our franchise have been helpful, more frequent focus on in relation to operational delivery, operations and our strategy for the progress our US business and strategy is requested.
performance by brand, and the Kimpton of the EVEN Hotels brand.
There is a concern that there has been integration, as well as a full review at the a lack of progress in relation to the June Board meeting.
n a n a Increase the Boards understanding Provide the Board with industry reports of consumer trends and behaviour.
and consumer trends on a global and a regional basis.
Board meetings The role of the Board members and other senior management present deep dives on each The Board leads the Groups strategic direction and long-term region and function throughout the year.
objectives and monitors Group performance, and risk and internal In addition to the routine financial and operating reports and updates management controls, through effective oversight and review.
that the Board considers, substantial time is also spent considering There are a number of key decisions and matters that are reserved Group strategy, performance and oversight, including a dedicated for the Boards approval and these include matters relating to Group annual strategy meeting, which is a minimum two-day event each year.
business and commercial strategy: significant investment proposals: The Board held eight scheduled meetings during the year, and individual maintenance of oversight and control of the Groups operating and attendance is set out on page 54. sufficient time is provided at the start financial performance: monitoring the Groups overall systems of and end of each meeting for the Chairman to meet privately with the internal controls: risk management and appetite: and governance Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Non-Executive and compliance.
Directors to discuss any matters arising.
As part of general monitoring and oversight of Group performance So that the Board makes the best possible use of its time at meetings, and compliance within the governance framework, certain matters all Directors are provided with detailed brieng papers available are routinely considered and addressed at Board meetings.
Meetings electronically generally at least one week in advance of every meeting begin with an update from the Chairman and Chief Executive officer to ensure that discussions are focused and relevant.
and include finance updates from the Chief Financial officer which include a financial review of the Group.
Executive Committee 60 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Regular Board meetings in 2015 changes affecting our business, our Board and or, its Committees The matters of strategic and operational importance considered across all relevant areas, including corporate reporting, by the Board in 2015 included: governance guidelines and institutional investor reports: progress against the development of our next-generation internal controls and risk management processes including Guest Reservation System: the principal risk review, a risk management effectiveness review the delivery of our asset-light strategy with the sale of and updates on our global insurance programme: InterContinental Hong Kong and InterContinental Paris Le Grand the composition and succession planning of the Board and this year: its Committees, including the appointment of Anne Busquet, the trends that are shaping the industry, including how technology our new Non-Executive Director: is giving guests greater control over their stays as well as offering the 2015 Board performance evaluation, and the action plan them a broader range of lodging providers further information for 2016: and can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 10 and 11 : updates on the deliberations of each of the Board Committees in-depth brand reviews for Holiday Inn, Holiday Inn Express, see the individual Committee Reports on key activities and InterContinental and Crowne Plaza: priorities during 2015. an update on the work being conducted on how The Americas region Investor relations and communications is transforming the way in which we support franchised hotels: and The review and approval of shareholder returns strategies for 2015: the progress made on the careful integration of the Kimpton Hotels a discussion of reports on investor perceptions and shareholder & Restaurants business with IHG to ensure we preserve the relations, and considering analysts reports and media updates: and uniqueness and ethos of the brand and its people.
our share register movements during 2015, share price performance, In addition, the Board reviewed the following routine business matters.
relative share price performance and the investor road show including investor feedback.
Governance Quarterly corporate governance and regulatory updates, including a review of regulatory developments and any upcoming legislative Annual strategy meeting 2015 visiting and the specics of, and recent developments in, the This year, we held our strategy meeting in China, one of our priority Chinese market, including an overview of the key macroeconomic markets, giving the Board the opportunity to see first-hand the gures, trends including technology, and our key international growing Chinese market and the progress we are making in competitors business in Greater China.
While China has experienced some The Board spent time in both Guangzhou and Shenzhen to learn short-term macroeconomic challenges, there is still a growing about Chinese consumers, hospitality players and industry trends.
appetite for domestic and international travel observed in this Together with senior executives in the region, the Board met with region.
This is mainly being driven by an increase in disposable market experts and advisors and visited IHG and competitor hotels.
income, a trend that is set to continue in the future.
More details of this and more key trends affecting our industry can be found Following these meetings, the Board spent time discussing their on pages 10 and 11. observations and the opportunities and challenges that we face in the current market, as well as considering the broader strategic agenda.
The Board members each received a full brieng in advance of the visit to familiarise them with the cities and hotels that they were Board engagement with shareholders The Board takes its responsibility to represent and promote the attendance at key institutional investor conferences: and interests of its shareholders seriously and believes in the importance a programme of one-to-one meetings with major institutional of shareholder engagement.
A formal external review of investor shareholders.
perceptions is presented to the Board on an annual basis and both To enable as many shareholders as possible to access conferences and the Executive Committee and the Board receive regular updates presentations, telephone dial-in facilities are made available in advance on shareholder relations.
and live audio webcasts are made available after presentations, together with associated data and documentation.
These can be found Engagement during the year at www.
com investors under financial library.
Around 25 The Boards engagement with shareholders in 2015 included: sell-side research analysts publish research on the Group: their details meeting shareholders at the AGM: are available at www.
com investors under analysts details.
half-year and full-year formal reporting and telephone conferences after the release of the firstand third-quarter AGM interim management statements: The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders to vote on certain aspects presentations by Richard Solomons and Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson of Group business.
The Board values this as it provides a useful forum to institutional investors, analysts and the media following for one-to-one communication with private shareholders.
At the AGM, results announcements: shareholders receive presentations on the Companys performance a development strategy presentation and hotel tours with major and may ask questions of the Board.
institutional shareholders in New York: seeking feedback via an annual investor perception survey, The 2016 AGM will be held at 11:00am on Friday 6 May 2016.
The facilitated by our capital market advisers: notice convening this meeting will be sent to shareholders and will an investor and media breakfast hosted by the Corporate be available at www.
Responsibility Committee: IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 61
