STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our Board of Directors Patrick Cescau Richard Solomons C Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive officer Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2013 Appointed to the Board: 10 February 2003 Skills and experience: From 2005 to 2008, Patrick was Group Chief Skills and experience: Richard has led the continued growth of IHG, Executive of Unilever Group, having previously been Chairman of including the launch of our two newest brands, HUALUXE Hotels Unilever PLC, Vice-Chairman of Unilever NV and Foods Director, and Resorts and EVEN Hotels, and IHGs acquisition of Kimpton following a progressive career with the company, which began in Hotels & Restaurants.
Before being appointed Chief Executive officer, France in 1973.
Prior to being appointed to the board of Unilever PLC Richard served as Chief Financial officer and Head of Commercial and Unilever NV in 1999, as Finance Director, he was Chairman of a Development.
Richard was integral in shaping and implementing IHGs number of the companys major operating companies and divisions, asset-light strategy, which has helped the business grow signicantly including in the US, Indonesia and Portugal.
He was formerly a Senior since it was formed in 2003, as well as supporting the return of Independent Director and Non-Executive Director of Pearson plc $10.4 billion to shareholders.
In 2008, he served as Interim President and Tesco PLC, and a Director at INSEAD.
Richard is a member of the Industry Real Estate Financing Advisory Council and a Governor of the Aviation Board contribution: Patrick has held board positions for nearly and Travel Industry Group of the World Economic Forum.
15 years in leading global businesses and brings extensive international experience in strategy, brands, consumer products, Board contribution: Richard is responsible for the executive and finance.
As Chairman, Patrick is responsible for leading the management of the Group and ensuring the implementation Board and ensuring it operates in an effective manner, and promoting of Board strategy and policy.
As Chairman of the Other appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of Marks Nomination Committee, he is responsible for reviewing and making and Spencer Group plc.
recommendations on the Groups leadership needs.
Other appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of International Airlines Group, Patrick is also a trustee of The Leverhulme Trust, Patron of the St Jude India Childrens Charity and Member of the TEMASEK European Advisory Panel.
Changes to the Board and Executive Committee Kirk Kinsell Kirk resigned as President, The Americas effective as of 13 February 2015.
Anne Busquet Anne was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of IHG effective as of 1 March 2015.
Anne joined the Audit Committee, Corporate Responsibility Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson Committee and Nomination Committee on Chief Financial officer her appointment.
Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2014 Dale Morrison Dale was appointed to the Remuneration Committee, and resigned from the Corporate Responsibility Committee, on 19 March 2015.
Skills and experience: Paul is a chartered accountant and a fellow Jill McDonald Jill was appointed to the Corporate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
He was previously Chief Responsibility Committee on 19 March 2015.
Financial officer of IHGs Europe and Asia, Middle East and Africa Tracy Robbins Tracy resigned from the Board and her role regions, a position he held since September 2011.
He joined IHG in as Executive Vice President, Human Resources August 2004 and has held a number of senior-level finance positions, on 15 January 2016 due to health reasons.
including Head of Investor Relations, Head of Global Corporate Lori Gaytan Due to Tracys resignation, Lori was appointed Finance and Financial Planning & Tax, and Head of Hotel Development, as interim Executive Vice President, Human Europe.
Paul also acted as Interim Chief Executive officer of the Resources on 15 January 2016.
Europe, Middle East and Africa region prior to the reconguration Jennifer Laing Jennifer will retire from the Board following of our operating regions.
Board contribution: Paul is responsible, together with the Board, Ying Yeh Ying will retire from the Board following for overseeing the financial operations of the Group and setting its the AGM on 6 May 2016. financial strategy.
IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 55 Corporate Governance continued Our Board of Directors continued Dale Morrison Anne Busquet Senior Independent Independent A N R A C N Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 1 June 2011 Appointed to the Board: 1 March 2015 Skills and experience: Dale is a founding partner of TriPointe Capital Skills and experience: Anne began her career at Hilton International Partners, a private equity rm.
Dale was previously President and in Paris, before joining American Express Company in New York, Chief Executive officer of McCain Foods Limited and President and where she held several executive positions and served for 23 years.
Chief Executive officer of Campbell Soup Company.
Anne was also the Chief Executive officer of Local and Media Services at InterActiveCorp, an internet commerce conglomerate.
Board contribution: Dale has over 10 years experience in sales and marketing positions, and over 25 years experience in general Board contribution: Anne brings more than 20 years experience management, having held senior positions in the branded foods in senior positions in multinational companies, predominantly in sector.
Dales role as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director the financial, branded and digital-commerce sectors.
is fundamental to the successful operation of the Board: more Other appointments: Anne is currently the President of AMB Advisors, details are provided on page 66. an independent consulting rm, and Managing Director at Golden Other appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of Seeds LLC, an angel investment company.
She also serves on the International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. and Non-Executive Chairman boards of Pitney Bowes, MTBC and Provista Diagnostics, Inc. and of Youngs Seafood International Holdings Ltd. on the advisory boards of JEGI and SheSpeaks.
Jo Harlow Ian Dyson Independent Independent N R A N R Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 1 September 2014 Appointed to the Board: 1 September 2013 Skills and experience: Ian has held a number of senior executive Skills and experience: Jo most recently held the position of Corporate and finance roles, including Group Finance & Operations Director Vice President of the Phones Business Unit at Microsoft Corporation.
for Marks and Spencer Group plc for five years from 2005 to 2010, She was previously Executive Vice President of Smart Devices at Nokia where he oversaw significant changes in the business.
In addition, Corporation, following a number of senior management roles at Nokia Ian was Chief Executive officer of Punch Taverns plc, Finance Director from 2003.
Prior to that, she held marketing, sales and management for the Rank Group Plc, a leading European gaming business, and roles at Reebok International Limited from 1992 to 2003 and at Procter Group Financial Controller and Finance Director for the hotels division & Gamble Company from 1984 to 1992. of Hilton Group plc.
Board contribution: Jo has over 25 years experience working in various Board contribution: Ian has gained significant experience from senior roles, predominantly in the branded and technology sectors.
working in various senior finance roles, predominantly in the hospitality sector.
Ian became Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 April 2014, and, as such, is responsible for leading the Committee to ensure effective internal controls and risk management systems are in place.
Other appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of Punch Taverns plc, a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of SSP Group plc and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of ASOS plc and Betfair Group plc.
56 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Jennifer Laing Luke Mayhew Independent Independent A N C N Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 25 August 2005 Appointed to the Board: 1 July 2011 Skills and experience: Jennifer was Associate Dean, External Skills and experience: Luke served for 12 years on the board of Relations at London Business School until 2007, and is a fellow of the John Lewis Partnership plc, including as Managing Director of the Marketing Society and of the Institute of Practitioners in Advertising.
Luke also spent five years at British She spent 16 years with Saatchi & Saatchi, where she rose to Airways Plc and seven years at Thomas Cook Group plc in senior Chairman of the London ofce and subsequently Chief Executive positions.
He was also a Non-Executive Director of WHSmith PLC officer and Chairman of Saatchi & Saatchi North America.
Until and Chairman of Pets at Home Group Plc.
May 2014, she was also a Non-Executive Director of Hudson Global.
Board contribution: Luke has over 30 years experience in senior roles Board contribution: Jennifer has over 30 years experience in in the branded sector and was Remuneration Committee Chairman marketing and advertising and is Chairman of the Corporate at Brambles Limited from 2006 to 2014.
As Chairman of the IHG Responsibility Committee, responsible for corporate responsibility Remuneration Committee, he is responsible for setting the objectives and strategy and approach to sustainable development.
Other appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director and Other appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of DFS Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Premier Foods plc.
Furniture Holdings plc, a Director of Tate Enterprises Ltd, and a trustee of BBC Children in Need.
Jill McDonald Ying Yeh Independent Independent A C N C N R Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 1 June 2013 Appointed to the Board: 1 December 2007 Skills and experience: Jill started her career at Colgate-Palmolive Skills and experience: Until 2014, Ying was a member of the board Company, spent 16 years with British Airways Plc and held a number of AB Volvo, Sweden.
She also occupied senior positions at Nalco of senior marketing positions in the UK and overseas.
Jill was previously Company, including Chairman, Greater China Region, and Vice Chief Executive officer UK and President for the North West Europe President.
Previously, she acted as Chairman and Vice President, division for McDonalds, and held a number of other senior roles in North Asia Region at Eastman Kodak, as well as Vice President at the company from 2006. the same company.
Ying acted as a foreign diplomat with the US Foreign Service in Hong Kong and Beijing for 15 years, until 1997.
Board contribution: Jill has nearly 30 years experience working with high-prole international consumer-facing brands at both marketing Board contribution: Ying has over 20 years experience gained from and operational level.
working in senior positions in global organisations across a broad range of sectors.
Other appointments: Currently Chief Executive officer of Halfords Group plc.
Other appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of ABB Ltd and Samsonite International S. A.
The Board is supported by Skills and experience: George is a solicitor and qualied to private the Company Secretary: practice in 1995.
Prior to joining the Group, George spent over 10 years with Imperial Chemical Industries PLC, where he held a number of George Turner key positions including Deputy Company Secretary and Senior Executive Vice President, Legal Counsel.
General Counsel and Company Secretary Appointed to the Executive Committee: Key responsibilities: These include corporate governance, risk January 2009 Joined the Group: 2008 management, insurance, regulatory, internal audit, legal, corporate responsibility, public affairs and hotel standards.
IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 57
