80 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE Directors report TREVOR BRADBURY Company Secretary The directors of Interserve Plc the Company present their The remaining disclosures required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R are not report and the audited consolidated financial statements for the applicable to the Company.
All the information cross-referenced above is hereby SCOPE OF REPORTING incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
For the purposes of compliance with paragraphs 4.1.
5R 2 Disclosure of financial risk management objectives and policies and 4.1.
8R of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules the is made on page 33 of the Strategic Report.
DTRs of the Financial Conduct Authority the FCA, the required content of the management report can be found THE COMPANY in the Strategic Report and this Directors Report including Legal form the sections of the Annual Report and Financial Statements The Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom with incorporated by reference.
Related undertakings are listed on The directors responsibility for the preparation of the pages 164 to 170.
Annual Report and Financial Statements, which forms part Branches of this report, and the statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities, are set out on pages 87, and 90 The Company, through various subsidiaries, has established to 97, respectively, of this Annual Report.
branches in a number of different countries in which the Group operates.
A review of the development of the Group and its future prospects is included in the Chairmans Statement, which is Amendment of the Articles of Association incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
The The Companys constitution, known as the Articles of Groups business model and strategy are summarised in the Association the Articles, is essentially a contract between Strategic Report.
the Company and its shareholders, governing the management of the Company.
A copy of the Articles can be obtained on The DTRs also require certain information to be included in request from the Company Secretary.
Amendments to the a corporate governance statement in the Directors Report.
Articles must be approved by at least 75 per cent of those voting Information that fulfils the requirements of the corporate in person or by proxy at a general meeting of the Company.
governance statement can be found in the Corporate Governance report and the Audit Committee Report, which FINANCIAL RESULTS are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
The Groups Consolidated Income Statement set out on page 98 shows Group profit before taxation of 79.5 million Information required to be disclosed under Listing Rule 9.8.
The detailed results of the Group are can be found in the following locations: given in the financial statements on pages 98 to 146 and further comments on divisional results are given in the Operational Section of LR Review on pages 16 to 27.
4R Topic Location 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes Directors Remuneration There have been no post balance sheet events that require Report disclosure or adjustment in the financial statements.
12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Directors Report 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Directors Report O OV five ER RV VIIE EW W S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT 81 Directors report The directors do not have any interest in any other Group company, DIVIDENDS other than as directors.
No director has, or has had, a material An interim dividend of 7.9p per 10p ordinary share 2014: 7.5p interest, directly or indirectly, at any time during the year under was paid on 23 October 2015.
The directors recommend a review in any contract significant to the Companys business.
final dividend of 16.4p per 10p ordinary share, making a total distribution for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 24.3p per APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS 10p ordinary share 2014: 23.0p.
Subject to approval The Board must comprise of not less than three and no of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM on more than twelve directors.
Directors may be appointed by 10 May 2016, the final dividend will be paid on 20 May 2016 to shareholders by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
shareholders appearing on the register at the close of business on 1 April 2016.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend on Under the Companys Articles, any director appointed by the 31 March 2016.
Board since the last AGM may only hold office until the date of the next AGM, at which time that director must stand for The Companys dividend reinvestment plan continues to be election by shareholders.
Glyn Barker will therefore be standing available to eligible shareholders.
Further details of the plan are for election at the AGM on 10 May 2016. set out in the Shareholder Information section on page 174.
The Articles also require one-third of the directors to retire Capita Trustees Limited, the trustee of the Interserve Employee by rotation at each AGM.
Any director who has not retired Benefit Trust the Trust, has waived its rights to receive by rotation must retire at the third AGM after his or her last dividends on any shares held by the Trust in the name of Capita appointment or re-appointment.
However, in accordance with IRG Trustees Nominees Limited.
It waived its right to receive the Corporate Governance Code, which requires all directors a dividend over 1,570,068 shares held by the Trust in respect of of FTSE 350 companies to be subject to annual re-election by the dividend paid in May 2015 May 2014: 612,479 shares and shareholders, the Board has again decided that all the directors 366,703 shares in respect of the dividend paid in October 2015 save for Lord Blackwell will be subject to election or October 2014: 513,629 shares.
re-election at this years AGM.
DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INTERESTS No person other than a director retiring at a general meeting The following have served as directors during the year: shall, unless recommended by the directors for election, be eligible for election to the office of director unless, not less Lord Blackwell Group Chairman than seven nor more than 21 days beforehand, the Company has Adrian Ringrose Chief Executive been given notice, executed by a shareholder eligible to vote at Russell King Senior Independent Director the meeting, of his intention to propose such person for election 1 Les Cullen together with a notice executed by that person of his willingness Steven Dance to be elected.
Anne Fahy Tim Haywood The Company may, by ordinary resolution, of which special Keith Ludeman notice has been given in accordance with section 312 of the Bruce Melizan Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, remove any director Nick Salmon before the expiration of his period of office and may, by Dougie Sutherland ordinary resolution, appoint another person in his stead.
Non-executive director DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES AND INSURANCE 1 Resigned from the Board on 12 May 2015 As permitted by the Companys Articles, qualifying third-party indemnities have been in place throughout the period under Glyn Barker Group Chairman-Designate was appointed review and remain in force at the date of this report in respect to the Board on 1 January 2016 as a non-executive director.
of liabilities suffered or incurred by each director.
The Company Lord Blackwell will be standing down as Group Chairman on also undertakes to loan such funds to a director as it, in its 29 February 2016 and will be succeeded by Glyn Barker with reasonable discretion, considers appropriate for the director effect from 1 March 2016. to meet expenditure incurred by him in defending any criminal or civil proceeding or in connection with any application under The biographical details of the directors of the Company are section 661 3 or 1157 of the 2006 Act on terms which require given on pages 38 to 40. repayment by the director of amounts so advanced upon The powers of the directors, and their service contracts conviction of final judgment being given against him.
The deeds and terms of appointment, are described in the Corporate of indemnity are available for inspection by shareholders at the Governance report.
The Company also maintains an appropriate level of directors and officers insurance in respect The directors beneficial interests in, and options to acquire, of legal actions against the directors.
Neither the qualifying ordinary shares in the Company, are set out on pages 73 to 77 third-party indemnities nor the insurance provide cover where of the Directors Remuneration Report.
the director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
82 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE Directors report continued On 26 September 2007 the rules of the Interserve Pension On this basis, we are including emissions associated with our Scheme were amended in order to provide the directors of owned and controlled businesses but not the emissions from our Interserve Trustees Limited, the corporate trustee of the associate companies.
GHG emissions from our leased vehicles Interserve Pension Scheme, with a qualifying pension scheme when used on company business are not reported.
Were we indemnity to the extent that insurance has not been taken out to have adopted the operational control approach, the GHG by the trustee to cover its liabilities, or such liabilities cannot emissions associated with the use of those same vehicles for be paid from the proceeds of any insurance taken out by the both private and company business would have been reported.
That qualifying pension scheme indemnity remains in Summary table force at the date of this report and is available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
Global GHG emissions data for 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015, with comparable data for 2014 and 2013, is as follows: In January 2011 an indemnity was given to the trustees of the Douglas Group Compass Pension Plan for any claim, costs, loss, Tonnes CO e 2 damages and expenses which may be made against them or 2015 2014 2013 which they may pay or incur save as a consequence of breach Emissions from: of trust committed knowingly and intentionally or as a result of C ombustion of fuel and 39,107 39,231 36,562 negligence in connection with the administration of the Plan operation of facilities and the winding-up of the Plan.
Two of the trustees were also E lectricity, heat, steam and 17,289 14,294 10,088 directors of one or more Group subsidiary companies.
This Plan cooling purchased for own use was formally wound up on 7 January 2011 but the indemnity Intensity measurement: remains in force.
E missions reported above, In January 2012 an indemnity was given to the trustees of normalised to tonnes CO e 2 the Interserve Retirement Plan against all and any claims, per m revenue 17.63 18.37 21.28 costs, damages and expenses which may be made against them or which they may pay or incur in connection with their We have reported on all of the emissions sources required under administration of the Plan and the winding-up of the Plan other the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report than liabilities arising as a consequence of breach of trust Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated committed knowingly and intentionally.
One of the trustees financial statements.
was also a director of various Group subsidiary companies.
This Plan was formally wound up 31 January 2012 but the indemnity We have used the Environmental Reporting Guidelines: remains in force.
including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance June 2013 issued by DEFRA and the 2014 UK EMPLOYEES Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting The average number of persons, including directors, employed to calculate our emissions based on data gathered from each by the Group and their remuneration, is set out in note 6 to the of our business units.
A breakdown of employee diversity, as required by the 2006 Act, can be viewed on page 26 Additional information relating to the Groups GHG emissions of the Strategic Report.
The Groups statement with regard to and some of the actions being taken to mitigate our impact on its employees, including its disclosure on employee consultation, the environment are set out within the Strategic Report.
equal opportunities and diversity, is set out within the Strategic POLITICAL DONATIONS Report on page 26.
The Group made no political donations and incurred no political GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS expenditure during the year 2014: nil.
It is not the Companys In this section we report on greenhouse gas GHG emissions policy to make cash donations to political parties.
This policy is in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report strictly adhered to and there is no intention to change it.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT A range of approaches can be taken to determine the The Groups exposure to and management of capital, liquidity, boundaries of an organisation for the purposes of GHG reporting credit, interest rate and foreign currency risk are set out within including financial control, operational control or equity the Financial Review section of the Strategic Report on page 33. share.
We report using the financial control approach to define our organisational boundary.
O OV five ER RV VIIE EW W S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT 83 AGM Resolution 18 for the disapplication of pre-emption rights SHARE CAPITAL AND STRUCTURE up to an aggregate nominal value of no more than 10 per cent General of the Companys total issued ordinary share capital.
Further The Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2015 information is set out in the Notice of AGM.
comprised a single class of ordinary shares.
All shares rank equally and are fully paid.
No person holds shares carrying The Principles also request that in any rolling three-year period special rights with regard to control of the Company.
a company does not make non-pre-emptive issues for cash or of equity securities exceeding 7.5 per cent of the companys issued During the year 947,818 shares were issued at par fully paid to share capital without prior consultation with shareholders.
The the nominee account of Capita Trustees Limited as trustee of percentages of shares issued by the Company on a non-prethe Interserve Employee Benefit Trust in order to satisfy the emptive basis in 2015 and in the period 2013 to 2015 pursuant awards granted to participants of the Performance Share Plan to employee share schemes calculated by reference to the 2006 the PSP 2006 in April 2012, which vested in April 2015.
Companys closing issued share capital at 31 December 2015, were 0.9 per cent and 3.8 per cent respectively.
A further 342,042 shares were issued fully paid to participants of the 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme the ESOS at a price Save for issues of shares in respect of various employee share of 359.33p per share.
schemes, the directors have no current plans to make use of the renewed authorities sought by Resolutions 17 and 18 although As a result of the foregoing allotments, the Companys issued they consider their renewal appropriate in order to retain share capital at the end of the year stood at 145,207,477 2014: maximum flexibility to take advantage of business opportunities 143,917,617 ordinary shares of 10p each 14,520,747.70 2014: as they arise.
No further shares have been issued since the year end.
The issued share capital at the date of this report Purchase of own shares therefore stands at 145,207,477 ordinary shares of 10p each The Company has authority under a shareholders resolution 14,520,747.70. passed at the 2015 AGM to repurchase up to 14,425,965 of the Companys ordinary shares in the market.
This authority expires Details of outstanding awards and options over shares in the at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM on 10 May 2016.
Company as at 31 December 2015 are set out in notes 27 and No shares have been repurchased by the Company under the 29 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 137 and authority granted at the 2015 AGM.
Resolution 19 set out in the Notice of AGM will be proposed as Issue of shares a special resolution in order to renew this authority.
Although Section 551 of the 2006 Act provides that the directors may not the directors have no immediate plans to do so, they believe allot shares unless empowered to do so by the shareholders.
it is prudent to seek general authority from shareholders to A resolution giving such authority was passed at the AGM held be able to act if circumstances were to arise in which they on 12 May 2015.
The AGM authorities were only used in 2015 in considered such purchases to be desirable.
This power will relation to the issue of shares pursuant to the satisfaction of only be exercised if and when, in the light of market conditions awards granted to participants of the PSP 2006 and the ESOS, as prevailing at that time, the directors believe that such purchases described above.
would increase expected earnings per share and would be for the benefit of shareholders generally.
In accordance with the Investment Associations Share Capital Management Guidelines, the directors propose Resolution 17 The authority sets the minimum and maximum prices at which set out in the Notice of AGM to renew the authority granted to the shares may be bought and it will be limited to a maximum them at the 2015 AGM to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal of 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital calculated value of one-third of the Companys issued share capital plus a at the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the further one-third i. e. two-thirds in all where the allotment is in Notice of AGM.
Any shares purchased under this authority will connection with a rights issue.
be cancelled unless the directors determine that they are to be held as treasury shares and the number of shares in issue will Under section 561 of the 2006 Act, if the directors wish to be reduced accordingly.
allot unissued shares for cash other than pursuant to an employee share scheme they must first offer them to existing Whilst the Company does not presently hold shares in treasury, shareholders in proportion to their holdings a pre-emptive the Treasury Shares Regulations allow shares purchased by the offer.
In March 2015, the Pre-Emption Group issued a revised Company out of distributable profits to be held as treasury Statement of Principles for the disapplication of pre-emption shares, which may then be cancelled, sold for cash or used rights the Principles.
In addition to the standard annual to meet the Companys obligations under its employee share disapplication of pre-emption rights up to a maximum equal to schemes.
The authority sought by this resolution is intended to five per cent of issued ordinary share capital, the Pre-Emption apply equally to shares to be held by the Company as treasury Group is now supportive of extending the general disapplication shares in accordance with the Treasury Shares Regulations.
authority for an additional five per cent in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment.
In line with the new Principles, the directors are seeking approval at the 2016 84 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE Directors report continued If a person fails to comply with a notice served on him by the SHAREHOLDERS RIGHTS Company under section 793 of the 2006 Act which confers General upon public companies the power to require information to be The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are set out in the supplied in respect of a persons interests in the Companys 2006 Act and the Companys Articles.
shares then the Company may, no sooner than 21 days later, and after warning that person, serve a disenfranchisement A shareholder whose name appears on the register of members notice upon the shareholder.
Unless the information required is may choose whether those shares are evidenced by share given within 14 days, such holder will not be entitled to receive certificates certificated form or held in electronic form notice of any general meeting or attend any such meeting of uncertificated in CREST.
the Company and shall not be entitled to exercise, either personally or by proxy, the votes attaching to such shares in Voting respect of which the disenfranchisement notice has been given Subject to the restrictions set out below, a shareholder is entitled until the information required by the section 793 notice has to attend or appoint another person as his representative a been provided.
proxy to attend and to exercise all or any of his rights to speak, ask questions and vote at any general meeting of the The Company operates a number of employee share schemes.
A shareholder may also appoint more than one proxy, Under some of these arrangements, shares are held by trustees provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights on behalf of employees.
The employees are not entitled to attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
exercise directly any voting or other control rights.
The trustees A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
abstain from voting on these shares.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to a person who As permitted by the Companys Articles and in line with practice has been nominated under section 146 of the 2006 Act to increasingly adopted by UK public companies, voting at the 2016 enjoy information rights a Nominated Person.
He she may, AGM will be conducted by way of a poll rather than a show of however, have a right under an agreement with the registered hands.
Voting by poll is considered to be a more transparent shareholder by whom he she was nominated, to be appointed and equitable method of voting because it includes the votes of or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if all shareholders, including those cast by proxies in advance of a Nominated Person does not have such a right, or does not wish the meeting, rather than just the votes of those shareholders to exercise it, he she may have a right under such an agreement who attend the meeting.
As soon as practicable following to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the the AGM, the results of the poll will be published via a exercise of voting rights.
Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website at www.
In accordance with section 327 of the 2006 Act, in order to be valid, any form of proxy sent by the Company to shareholders General meetings or any proxy registered electronically in relation to any general No business may be transacted at a general meeting unless a meeting must be delivered to the Companys registrars not later quorum is present consisting of not less than two shareholders than 48 hours before the time fixed for holding the meeting or present in person or by proxy or by two duly authorised any adjourned meeting.
In calculating the 48-hour period no representatives of a corporation.
Two proxies of the same account shall be taken of any part of a day that is not a working shareholder or two duly authorised representatives of the same day.
Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in corporation will not constitute a quorum.
respect of the 2016 AGM are set out in the Notice of AGM.
An AGM must be called on at least 21 days clear notice.
All Subject to any rights or restrictions for the time being attached other general meetings are also required to be held on at least to any class or classes of shares and to any other provisions of 21 days clear notice unless the Company offers shareholders the Articles or statutes, on a vote on a resolution at a general an electronic voting facility and a special resolution reducing meeting on a show of hands every shareholder present in the period of notice to not less than 14 days has been passed.
person, every proxy present who has been duly appointed by The directors are proposing Resolution 20 set out in the Notice one or more shareholders entitled to vote on the resolution of AGM to renew the authority obtained at last years AGM to and every authorised representative of a corporation which is a reduce the notice period for general meetings other than AGMs shareholder of the Company entitled to vote on the resolution, to at least 14 days.
It is intended that this shorter notice period shall have one vote.
If a proxy has been duly appointed by more will only be used for non-routine business and where merited in than one shareholder and has been instructed by one or more the interests of shareholders as a whole.
of those shareholders to vote for the resolution and by one or more of those shareholders to vote against it, that proxy shall The business of an AGM is to receive and consider the accounts have one vote for and one vote against the resolution.
On a poll, and balance sheets and the reports of the directors and every shareholder present in person or by proxy shall have one auditors, to elect directors in place of those retiring, to elect vote for every share held.
auditors and fix their remuneration and to declare a dividend.
O OV five ER RV VIIE EW W S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT 85 Providing that notice is given to the Company no later than six Transfer of shares weeks before an AGM or no later than the date on which the There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities notice of an AGM is given, shareholders representing at least five in the Company, or on the size of a shareholders holding, which per cent of the total voting rights of all the shareholders who are both governed by the Articles and prevailing legislation.
In have a right to vote at the AGM or at least 100 shareholders who accordance with the FCAs Listing, Prospectus and DTRs, certain have that right and who hold shares in the Company on which employees are required to seek the approval of the Company to there has been paid up an average sum per shareholder of at deal in its shares.
least 100, may require the Company to include an item in the business to be dealt with at the AGM.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between its shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Dividends securities or on voting rights.
Subject to the provisions of the 2006 Act, the Company may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the Subject to the 2006 Act, the directors may refuse to register shareholders but the amount of the dividend may not exceed any transfer of any share which is not fully paid whether the amount recommended by the directors.
The directors may certificated or uncertificated, provided that the refusal does also pay interim dividends on any class of shares on any dates not prevent dealing in shares in the Company from taking place and in any amounts and in respect of any periods as appear on an open and proper basis.
to the directors to be justified by the distributable profits of The directors may also decline to register the transfer of any the Company.
certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is duly Liquidation stamped if stampable and accompanied by the certificate of the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as If the Company is wound up the liquidator may, with the the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the sanction of a special resolution of the Company, and any other transferor to make the transfer.
sanction required by law, divide amongst the shareholders the whole or any part of the assets of the Company.
He may, Transfers of uncertificated shares must be conducted through for such purposes, set such value as he deems fair upon any CREST and the directors can refuse to register transfers in property to be divided and may determine how such division accordance with the regulations governing the operation shall be carried out as between the shareholders or different of CREST.
The liquidator may also transfer the whole or any part of such assets to trustees to be held in trust All share transfers must be registered as soon as practicable.
for the benefit of the shareholders.
No shareholder can be compelled to accept any shares or other securities which would SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS give him any liability.
As at 31 December 2015 the Company had been notified, pursuant to paragraph 5 of the DTRs, of the following notifiable Modification of rights voting rights in its ordinary share capital: If at any time the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class or Percentage Number of of total Nature of any of such rights may be modified, abrogated, or varied either: 1 Name of holder ordinary shares voting rights holding a w ith the consent of the holders of 75 per cent of the issued Standard Life Investments Holdings 16,982,455 11.7 Direct and indirect Ltd shares of that class: or Henderson Group Plc 7,717,067 5.3 Indirect b w ith the sanction of a special resolution passed at a Old Mutual Plc 7,238,006 5.0 Indirect separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of Mondrian Investment Partners Ltd 7,212,846 5.0 Indirect the class.
1 Calculated according to the number of total voting rights as at The rights attached to any class of shares shall not unless 31 December 2015. otherwise provided by the terms of issue of the shares of that class or by the terms upon which such shares are for the time Between the year end and the date of this report being a date being held be deemed to be modified or varied by the creation not more than one month prior to the date of the AGM Notice, or issue of further shares ranking pari passu therewith.
the Company has been notified that the interests in the voting rights have changed as follows: The Company may by ordinary resolution, convert any paid-up shares into stock, and reconvert any stock into paid-up shares of Standard Life Investments Holdings Ltd decrease to any denomination.
86 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE Directors report continued a s o far as they are each aware, there is no relevant SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS audit information of which the Companys auditors are CHANGE OF CONTROL PROVISIONS unaware: and The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination rights in the event of b t hey have each made such enquiries of their fellow directors a change of control in the Company: and of the Companys auditors and have each taken such other steps as were required by their duty as a director Under the terms of the banking facility agreements detailed of the Company to exercise due care, skill and diligence on page 33 of the Strategic Report, if any person, or group in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit of persons acting in concert, gains control of the Company, information and to establish that the Companys auditors any lender i is no longer obliged to fund any loan, save for are aware of that information.
a rollover loan: and ii may, by not less than 15 days notice, cancel its commitment under the facility and declare its This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in participation in all outstanding loans, together with accrued accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the 2006 Act.
interest and all other amounts payable under the facility, immediately due and repayable.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Under the terms of the Note Purchase Agreement in relation The resolutions to be proposed at the AGM to be held on to the US private placement detailed on page 33 of the 10 May 2016, together with the explanatory notes, appear in Strategic Report, upon a change of control the Company is the separate Notice of AGM accompanying this Annual Report.
required to make an offer to all noteholders to prepay the The Notice is also available on our website at www.
entire unpaid principal amount of the notes, together with interest.
APPROVAL The Groups share schemes also contain provisions relating This report was approved by the Board of Directors on to the vesting and exercising of awards options in the event 24 February 2016 and signed on its behalf by: of a change of control of the Group.
These are set out on page 62 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
AUDITORS Trevor Bradbury Resolutions to re-appoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as the Company Secretary Companys auditors and to authorise the directors to determine 24 February 2016 their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Statement of disclosure of information to auditors The directors in office at the date of approval of this report Interserve House confirm that: Ruscombe Park Twyford Reading Berkshire RG10 9JU CAUTIONARY STATEMENT The Directors Report has been prepared solely for existing members of the Company in compliance with UK company law and the Listing, Prospectus, and DTRs of the FCA.
The Company, the directors and employees accept no responsibility to any other person for anything contained in the Directors Report.
The directors liability for the Directors Report is limited, as provided in the 2006 Act.
The Companys auditors report to the Board whether, in their opinion, the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements, but the Directors Report is not audited.
Statements made in this Directors Report reflect the knowledge and information available at the time of its preparation.
The Directors Report contains forward-looking statements in respect of the Groups operations, performance, prospects and financial condition.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty.
In particular, outcomes often differ from plans or expectations expressed through forward-looking statements, and such differences may be significant.
Assurance cannot be given that any particular expectation will be met.
No responsibility is accepted to update or revise any forward-looking statement, resulting from new information, future events or otherwise.
Liability arising from anything in this Annual Report and Financial Statements shall be governed by English law.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Financial Statements should be construed as a profit forecast.
