38 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE Board of directors 1 NORMAN BLACKWELL ADRIAN RINGROSE 1 3 LORD BLACKWELL Chief Executive Non-Executive Chairman Norman was appointed Chairman of Interserve in January 2006 Adrian has been Chief Executive of Interserve since 2003 having joined the Group as a non-executive director the during which time the Group has developed significantly, from previous September.
A former partner of McKinsey & Company, c15,000 to c80,000 people, with operations in over 20 countries Norman was Head of the Prime Ministers Policy Unit from providing services to governments and a range of commercial 1995 to 1997 and was appointed a life peer in 1997.
He was and industrial clients.
Adrians background is in commercial appointed Chairman of Lloyds Banking Group in April 2014, management and business development.
Prior to leading having served as a non-executive director since June 2012.
Interserve he spent time in the outsourcing and utilities sectors.
He was also Chairman of Lloyds insurance business, Scottish Adrian is a member of the CBI Presidents Committee and was Widows, from September 2012 to June 2014.
Norman has held for four years chairman of the CBIs Public Services Strategy a number of other senior positions in banking and insurance Board until late 2013.
He is also a past President of the Business including Director of Group Development at NatWest and Senior Services Association.
He is a member of the Chartered Institute Independent Director at Standard Life.
Other past business roles of Marketing, a Fellow of the Chartered Management Institute include non-executive directorships at Halma, SEGRO and the and a Fellow of the Institute of Directors.
He is an adviser to the Dixons Group.
He has also served on the boards of OFCOM, the University of Liverpool from where he has a degree in Political Centre for Policy Studies and the Office of Fair Trading.
also chairs the Nomination Committee.
He will retire from the Board on 29 February 2016.
1 2 3 GLYN BARKER TIM HAYWOOD Independent Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Chairman-Designate Glyn was appointed as a non-executive director of Interserve on Tim joined Interserve as Group Finance Director in November 2010 1 January 2016 and will succeed Norman Blackwell as Chairman and was previously Finance Director of St Modwen Properties.
He has extensive experience as a business He is also a non-executive director of Tarsus Group.
Earlier leader and adviser to FTSE 100 companies and their boards on a roles include Group Finance Director at Hagemeyer UK and wide variety of corporate and finance issues.
Glyn is Chairman senior finance director and financial controller positions in of Irwin Mitchell and Transocean Partners LLC, and Deputy Williams Holdings.
Tim is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Chairman of English National Opera.
He is also a non-executive Accountants in England and Wales.
Since 2011 he has also been director of Aviva, Berkeley Group Holdings and Transocean Head of Sustainability, launching Interserves SustainAbilities Ltd. Until December 2011 he was UK Vice Chairman of Plan in March 2013.
He is a member of the sustainability .
He previously held a number of other committee of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England senior positions during his 35-year career at PwC, including UK and Wales and of the Enterprise Leadership Team of Business in Managing Partner, UK Head of Assurance and was a member of the Community.
He also built PwCs private-equity focused Transactions Services business.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 39 1 Member of the Nomination Committee 2 Member of the Audit Committee 3 Member of the Remuneration Committee STEVEN DANCE DOUGIE SUTHERLAND Executive Director Executive Director Steven is Managing Director of RMD Kwikform, the Groups Dougie is Managing Director of Interserves Developments Equipment Services division.
He is the Boards lead director in division and responsible for UK Construction.
He was appointed Health and Safety.
He was appointed to the Board of Interserve in to the Board of Interserve in January 2011.
Steven began his career with Schlumberger in the Interserve in September 2006 from 3i, where he was a partner Middle East in the oilfield sector, after which he completed his in its infrastructure team.
Previously he was a divisional MBA and moved into manufacturing.
He then served 12 years with managing director at Amey and Lend Lease, and also worked for Coats Viyella where he held a variety of general management HM Treasury developing the Private Finance Initiative.
Dougie positions and was based in Germany, Portugal, South America began his career with seven years in the Royal Engineers.
He subsequently worked for four years with an MBA from Cranfield School of Management and a BSc Hons ScottishPower, executing a number of M&A transactions including in Civil Engineering from Edinburgh University.
the disposal of utility subsidiaries in Australia and the UK, and the flotation of Thus.
Most recently he spent three years with ERICO heading divisions supplying the international construction market with couplers, fixing and fastening systems, before joining Interserve in 2004.
Steven is a Chartered Director and holds an MA in Natural Sciences from Oxford University and an MBA from London Business School.
1 2 3 BRUCE MELIZAN ANNE FAHY Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Bruce is Managing Director of Interserves Support Services Anne was appointed as non-executive director of Interserve on division.
He joined Interserve in 2003 and was appointed to 1 January 2013.
Anne is a former Chief Financial Officer of BPs the Board in January 2008.
Bruce has been in the outsourcing Aviation Fuels business.
During her 27 years at BP Anne gained industry for over 20 years and has held a wide variety of roles extensive experience of global business, developing markets, ranging from direct delivery through to sales, marketing and risk management, internal control, compliance and strategy general management.
Previous organisations include Amey, development in BPs aviation, petrochemicals, trading and Mowlem, Schlumberger and TYE Manufacturing both in the retail sectors.
Anne was appointed as a non-executive director UK and globally.
Bruce is a Fellow of the Royal Institute of of SThree on 1 October 2015.
She is a Fellow of the Institute Chartered Surveyors and holds an MBA from Cranfield School of of Chartered Accountants in Ireland having worked at KPMG Management and a BSc in Electrical Engineering from Queens in Ireland and Australia prior to joining BP in 1988.
He is the Chair of the charity, Safer London.
chaired the Audit Committee since May 2013.
40 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE Board of directors continued 1 2 3 1 2 3 RUSSELL KING NICK SALMON Senior Independent Independent Director Non-Executive Director Russell joined Interserve as a non-executive director on Nick was appointed as non-executive director of Interserve on 1 September 2014 and was appointed as Senior Independent 1 August 2014.
He brings a wealth of experience from a number Director on 12 May 2015.
He was appointed as Chairman of of senior roles.
In October 2014 Nick was appointed as a nonSepura in September 2015, having been a non-executive executive director of Elementis and became Senior Independent director since July 2014.
He is also Senior Independent Director Director in December 2014.
He was appointed as non-executive and Remuneration Committee Chairman of both Aggreko and Chairman of South East Water from 1 April 2015.
Nick served Spectris, Chairman of Hummingbird Resources and a senior as the Senior Independent Director of United Utilities Group adviser to Heidrick & Struggles.
Until June 2014 Russell was from 2007 to 2014.
He was Chief Executive of Cookson Group Chairman of GeoProMining.
Between 2007 and late 2009 he from 2004 until the end of 2012 and prior to that an Executive was a non-executive director of Anglo Platinum and Chairman Vice President of Alstom SA and Chief Executive of Babcock of Bergteamet between 2011 and 2012.
Russell held various International Group.
general management roles at ICI, followed by eight years at Anglo American as Executive Vice President of Group Human Resources and Business Development, and from 2009 as Chief Strategy Officer.
1 2 3 KEITH LUDEMAN Independent Non-Executive Director 1 Member of the Nomination Committee Keith was appointed as non-executive director of Interserve 2 Member of the Audit Committee in January 2011.
He is non-executive Chairman of Bristol 3 Water and the Aspin Group, Senior Independent Director at Member of the Remuneration Committee Eversholt Rail Group, a director of European Rail Finance GB and a director trustee of the London Transport Museum.
Keith is also a former non-executive director of Network Rail, Network Rail Infrastructure and Network Rail Consulting.
Keith has many years experience in the rail and bus service industries, including some 15 years with Go-Ahead Group, of which he was Chief Executive for five years and where he was responsible for the negotiation and operation of complex public-service contracts and the management and motivation of large workforces.
His early career included nine years working with Greater Manchester Transport and three years working on transport policy in Hong Kong.
Keith has chaired the Remuneration Committee since July 2014.
