Strategic report Intertek Executive Management Team The day-to-day management of the Group is undertaken by the Intertek Executive Management Team.
ANDRE LACROIX NIMER AL-HAFI IAN GALLOWAY Chief Executive Officer Senior Vice President, Global Executive Vice President, MiddleAppointed to the Intertek Board as Chief Customer Service and ATIC East, Africa and Global Trade Executive Officer in May 2015.
Andr is Operational Excellence Joined Intertek in 2011.
Ian is responsible an experienced Chief Executive with a Joined Intertek in 1995.
Nimer is for the Middle-East, Africa and Global strong track record of delivering longresponsible for the Groups global Trade comprising our business lines of term growth strategies and shareholder customer service agenda and ATIC Government & Trade Services, Cargo & value with global companies across operational excellence as well as Analytical Assessment and Agricultural diverse territories.
Andr was previously sustainability and health & safety Services.
Prior to assuming his current Group Chief Executive of Inchcape plc programmes.
Prior to this, he was role Ian held senior finance and business from 2005 to 2015 and prior to this he President of Interteks US Products group roles within Intertek.
He has previously was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer covering testing, inspection, certification, held international roles in finance of Euro Disney S. C. A.
From 1996 to 2003 consulting and quality assurance services, management with BG Group in the UK, he was the President of Burger King having started with the Company as an Egypt and Tunisia.
Ian is a qualified International, previously part of Diageo.
Andr is currently the Senior Independent Director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and Chairman of Good Restaurants AG.
EDWARD LEIGH ANN-MICHELE BOWLIN TONY GEORGE Chief Financial Officer Chief Information Officer Executive Vice President, Appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Joined Intertek in 2009.
Ann-Michele Human Resources Officer in October 2014.
Joined Intertek is Chief Information Officer and joined Joined Intertek in 2015.
Tony is responsible in March 2013 as the Groups Financial Intertek from Ernst & Young consulting for Human Resources.
Prior to that, Edward spent where she led shared services years experience in HR, General nine years at Dixons Retail plc, where he transformation programmes.
Prior Management and Business Development held several senior financial management to Ernst & Young, Ann-Michele held having held senior leadership positions positions, including Divisional & Corporate leadership and operations roles in in international FMCG, chemicals, Development Finance Director, UK & technology companies, including telecommunications and retail companies Ireland CFO and Group Financial Hotels.
com, and in the manufacturing including Vodafone plc, Starbucks, Controller.
From 1995 to 2004 Edward and services sectors.
Prior to joining held commercial financial leadership roles Intertek, he was Group HR & Business at Procter & Gamble Co. covering the UK Development Director at Inchcape plc.
22 STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT JAN-JORG MULLER-SEILER RAJESH SAIGAL MARK THOMAS Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Group General Counsel Global Resources South & South East Asia Joined Intertek in 2015.
Mark has Joined Intertek in 2008.
Jan-Jrg has Joined Intertek in 2007.
Rajesh has responsibility for Interteks legal, risk and responsibility for Global Resources responsibility for South & South East Asia.
He joined Intertek comprising our business lines of Industry Prior to this he was Regional Managing from Inchcape plc where he was Group Services, Exploration & Production and Director for Interteks South Asia General Counsel.
Prior to this, Mark was Minerals.
Prior to assuming his current operations.
He has over 27 years general in private practice with Slaughter and role, Jan-Jrg was President of Industry management and operational experience May in London, advising on a wide range Services and Country Managing Director with Fortune 500 companies covering of public and private M&A transactions, for Germany, Switzerland and Austria.
consumer durables, industrial products equity and debt financing, and general Before joining Intertek, he worked for and engineering.
Before joining Intertek, corporate law issues.
TV SD Industrie Service GmbH, as a Rajesh was CEO South Asia for GEWISS member of the Board, with responsibility and General Manager at Honeywell.
for their plant engineering and foreign business sectors.
GRAHAM RITCHIE JULIA THOMAS GREGG TIEMANN Executive Vice President, Europe Vice President, Executive Vice President, Americas, Joined Intertek in 2014.
Graham is Corporate Development North Asia and Australasia responsible for Interteks operations in Joined Intertek in 2013.
Julia has Joined Intertek in 1993.
Gregg has Europe, including Russia, and Central responsibility for Interteks acquisition responsibility for the Americas, North Asia.
Prior to assuming his current role, and disposal activities, and oversees Asia and Australasia.
Prior to assuming Graham was Interteks Group Financial Group Marketing.
Before joining Intertek, his current role, Gregg was responsible Controller.
Before joining the Company Julia spent 12 years in investment banking for the Americas and North Asia as well he held senior financial positions at BT with J. P. Morgan Cazenove and Rothschild, as the Consumer Goods and Commercial Group plc and other technology services focusing primarily on mergers and & Electrical divisions, having started as organisations, having started his career acquisitions.
General Manager of the Los Angeles with PwC.
Before joining Intertek, Gregg worked in sales and marketing for the software industry.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 23
