DIRECTORS REPORT Other statutory information In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act These provisions which are deemed to be qualifying third-party 2006 Act and the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Act, DTR of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, the following were in force during the financial year ended 31 December section describes the matters that are required for inclusion in 2015, for the benefit of the Directors and, at the date of this the Directors report and were approved by the Board.
Further report, remain in force in relation to certain losses and liabilities details of matters required to be included in the Directors which they may incur or have incurred in connection with their report that are incorporated by reference into this report duties, powers or office.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS DIRECTORS Other than employment contracts, none of the Directors of the The Directors who held office during the year are set Company had a personal interest in any business transactions out below: of the Company or its subsidiaries.
The terms of the Directors Service Agreements and the Directors interests in the shares Director Position and share awards of the Company, in respect of which Sir David Reid Chairman transactions are notifiable to the Company under Rule 3 of the DTR of the FCA are disclosed in the Remuneration report Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive Officer retired 15 May 2015 on pages 63 and 77.
Andr Lacroix Chief Executive Officer DIRECTORS POWERS appointed 16 May 2015 The Directors are responsible for the strategic management Edward Leigh Chief Financial Officer of the Company and their powers to do so are determined Edward Astle Non-Executive Director by the provisions of the Act and the Companys Articles of Association.
Alan Brown Non-Executive Director Christopher Knight Non-Executive Director DIVIDEND retired 15 May 2015 The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 35.3p Dame Louise Makin Non-Executive Director per ordinary share 2014: 33.1p making a full year dividend Gill Rider Non-Executive Director of 52.3p per ordinary share 2014: 49.1p which will, if appointed 1 July 2015 approved at the AGM, be paid on 3 June 2016 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 20 May 2016.
Michael Wareing Senior Independent Non-Executive Director SHARE CAPITAL Mark Williams Non-Executive Director The issued share capital of the Company and details of the Lena Wilson Non-Executive Director movements in the Companys share capital during the year are shown in note 15 to the financial statements.
The biographies of the Directors at the date of this report are The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends set out on pages 56 and 57. when declared, to receive the Companys Annual Report and ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions Company, to appoint proxies and exercise voting rights.
A relating to the retirement, election and re-election of Directors waiver of dividend exists in respect of 514,938 shares held by but, in accordance with best practice, all continuing Directors the Intertek Group Employee Share Ownership Trust Trust will stand for election or re-election at the Annual General as at 31 December 2015.
Details of the shares purchased by the Meeting AGM.
Trust during the year are outlined within note 15 to the financial statements.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary The Articles of Association set out the internal regulation of the shares in the Company.
Company and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, the appointment or removal of Directors and the conduct of The rights attached to shares in the Company are provided by the Board and general meetings.
Copies are available upon the Articles of Association, which may be amended or replaced request from the Group Company Secretary and are available at by means of a special resolution of the Company in a general the Companys AGM.
Further powers are granted by members meeting.
The Directors powers are conferred on them by UK in general meeting and those currently in place are set out in legislation and by the Companys Articles of Association.
detail within the appropriate section of this report.
No ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES control of the Company and there are no restrictions on voting The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Group to rights except that a shareholder has no right to vote in respect attract and retain the services of the most able and experienced of a share unless all sums due in respect of that share are fully directors by offering competitive terms of engagement, paid.
There are no arrangements known to the Company by including the granting of indemnities on terms consistent with which financial rights carried by any shares in the Company are the applicable statutory provisions.
In accordance with the held by a person other than the holders of the shares, nor are Articles of Association, the Company has executed deed polls there any arrangements between holders of securities that may of indemnity for the benefit of Directors of the Company.
result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights known to the Company.
All issued shares are fully paid.
Shares are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange and may be traded through the CREST system.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS REPORT 85 Directors report Other statutory information continued ALLOTMENT OF SHARES MATERIAL INTERESTS IN SHARES At the AGM held in 2015 the shareholders generally and Up to 23 February 2016, being the latest practicable date unconditionally authorised the Directors to allot relevant before the publication of this report, the following disclosures securities up to approximately two-thirds of the nominal of major holdings of voting rights have been made and have amount of issued share capital.
It is the Directors intention not been amended or withdrawn to the Company pursuant to to seek renewal of this authority in line with guidance issued the requirements of Rule 5 of the DTR of the FCA: by The Investment Association.
The resolution will be set At date of notification out in the Notice of AGM.
Also at the AGM in 2015 the Directors were empowered Number % of voting Shareholder of voting rights rights by the shareholders to allot equity securities, up to 5% of BlackRock, Inc. 11,865,413 7.35 the Companys issued share capital, for cash under section 570 of the Act.
It is intended that this authority be renewed, MFS Investment Management 9,547,182 5.92 up to 10%, at the forthcoming AGM.
This limit has increased Marathon Asset Management LLP 8,024,521 4.97 from the authority given at last years AGM to reflect the Mawer Investment Management Ltd 4,857,399 3.01 Pre-Emption Groups revised Statement of Principles issued in March 2015.
It is the Companys intention that the extra EMPLOYMENT 5% would be used only for the purpose of an acquisition Information about the Groups employees, employment of or a specified capital investment.
disabled persons and employment practices is contained within the Sustainability and CSR report on pages 48 and 49.
PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES Information on employee share schemes appears in note Shareholders also approved the authority for the Company 17 to the financial statements.
to buy back up to 10% of its own ordinary shares by market purchase until the conclusion of the AGM to be held this year.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS GHG The Directors will seek to renew this authority for up to 10% Details regarding the Groups Greenhouse Gas emissions of the Companys issued share capital at the forthcoming AGM.
are given in the Sustainability and CSR report on page 50.
This power will only be exercised if the Directors are satisfied POLITICAL DONATIONS that any purchase will increase the earnings per share of the At the AGM in 2015 shareholders passed a resolution, ordinary share capital in issue after the purchase and on a precautionary basis, to authorise the Company to accordingly, that the purchase is in the interests of make donations to EU political organisations and to incur shareholders.
The Directors will also give careful consideration EU political expenditure as such terms are defined in the Act to gearing levels of the Company and its general financial not exceeding 90,000.
During the year the Group did not position.
Any shares purchased in this way may be held in make any political donations 2014: nil.
It is the Companys treasury which, the Directors believe, will provide the Company policy not, directly or through any subsidiary, to make what with flexibility in the management of its share capital.
Where are commonly regarded as donations to any political party.
treasury shares are used to satisfy share options or awards, they However, at the forthcoming AGM of the Company, will be classed as new issue shares for the purpose of the 10% shareholders approval will again be sought to authorise limit on the number of shares that may be issued over a tenthe Group to make political donations and or incur political year period under our relevant share plan rules.
expenditure as such terms are defined in sections 362 to SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS CHANGE OF CONTROL 379 of the Act.
Further information is contained in the The Company is not a party to significant agreements which Notice of AGM.
take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid apart from a number of credit facilities with banks together with certain senior notes issued by the Company.
The total amount owing under such credit facilities and senior note agreements as at 31 December 2015 is shown in note 14 to the financial statements.
These agreements contain clauses such that, in the event of a change of control, the Company can offer to or must repay all such borrowings together with accrued interest, fees and other sums owing as required by the individual agreements.
The rules of the Companys incentive plans contain clauses relating to a change of control resulting from a takeover and in such an event awards would vest subject to the satisfaction of any associated performance criteria.
86 DIRECTORS REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS REPORT BRANCHES The Company, through various subsidiaries has established branches in a number of different countries in which the business operates.
The list of subsidiaries is available on pages 129 to 132.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Details about the Groups use of financial instruments are outlined in note 14 to the financial statements.
AUDITORS Following the audit tender process, PwC have expressed their willingness to be appointed as auditors of the Company.
Upon the recommendation of the Audit & Risk Committee, resolutions to appoint them as auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with section 485 4 of the Act.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Notice of AGM, to be held on 25 May 2016, is available for download from the Companys website at www.
The Notice details the business to be conducted at the meeting and includes information concerning the deadlines for submitting proxy forms and in relation to voting rights.
STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director of the Company to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS AND COMPLIANCE WITH LISTING RULE LR 9.8.
4 R The Board has prepared a Strategic report pages 4 to 51 which provides an overview of the development and performance of the Companys business during the year ended 31 December 2015 and its position at the end of that year, and which covers likely future developments in the business of the Company and Group.
For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8 R, the required content of the Management Report can be found in the Strategic report and this Directors report pages 52 to 88, including the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by reference.
4C R, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R can be found in the following locations: Topic Location 1.
Amount of interest capitalised Not applicable 2.
Any information required by LR 9.2.
18 R Publication Not applicable of unaudited financial information 3.
Details of long-term incentive schemes Directors Remuneration report pages 63 to 77 4.
Waiver of emoluments by a director Not applicable 5.
Waiver of future emoluments by a director Not applicable 6.
Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable 7.
I nformation required by 6 above for any unlisted major Not applicable subsidiary undertaking of the Company 8.
Company participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable 9.
Any contracts of significance Other statutory information page 86 10.
Any contracts for the provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable 11.
Shareholder waivers of dividends Other statutory information page 85 12.
Shareholder waivers of future dividends Other statutory information page 85 13.
Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 DIRECTORS REPORT 87
