Governance Directors Report Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited consolidated and parent company financial statements for the yearended31December 2015.
The Directors Report required under the Companies Act 2006 comprises this report, the entire Governance section including the Annual Remuneration Report, and the Strategic Report, all of which are incorporated by reference anddeemed to form part of this report.
Articles of Association Unless expressly specified to the contrary, the Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The Articles are available on our website.
com about governance Auditor During the year the Audit Committee considered the performance and audit fees of the external auditor, and the level of non-audit work undertaken.
They recommended to the Board that a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG LLP for a further year as the Companys auditor be proposed to shareholders at the AGM in May 2016.
Change of control No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions and proration for time where appropriate.
Certain of the Groups bonds borrowing facilities have change of control clauses whereby the issuer can require ITV to repay redeem bonds in the event of a change of control.
The Company is not aware of any other significant agreements to which it isparty that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
Directors Appointments: A table showing Directors who served in the year can be found on page 59.
Biographies for Directors currently inoffice can be found on pages 54 and 55.
Directors are appointed for an initial three year period and annually thereafter.
During the year Roger Faxon, Andy Haste, Archie Norman and John Ormerod were re-appointed for a further 12 month period.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, each Director will retire and submit himself or herself for election or re-election at the AGM on 12 May 2016.
Detail on compensation for loss of office can be found in the Annual Remuneration Report on page 79.
Conflicts of interest: The Board has delegated the authorisation of conflicts to the Nomination Committee and has adopted aConflicts of InterestPolicy.
The Board has considered in detail the current external appointments of the Directors which may give rise to a situational conflict and has authorised potential conflicts where appropriate.
This authorisation can be reviewed atany time but will always be subject to annual review.
The Board is confident that these procedures operate effectively.
Contracts of significance: No Director had any interest in any contract with the Company or its subsidiary undertakings.
Powers: The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles of Association.
The Articles and a schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board can be found on our website.
com about governance ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 85 Governance Directors Report continued Dividends The Board has proposed a final dividend and a special dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Details of these and other dividends paid for the year are as follows: 2015 2014 Interim dividend 1.9p 1.4p Final dividend 4.1p 3.3p Total ordinary dividend 6.0p 4.7p Special dividend 10.0p 6.25p Total dividend payment 16.0p 10.95p The final dividend and special dividend for 2015 will be paid on 27 May 2016 to shareholders on the register on 29 April 2016.
Theex dividend date is 28 April 2016.
Employees Disability: The Company gives full and fair consideration to the employment of people with disabilities inaccordance with the Equality Act2010.
This is reflected in an award from the Department for Work and Pensions of a Two Ticks Disability Symbol.
In the event of a colleague becoming disabled, it is the Companys policy, wherever possible, to support the individual to continue their employment or be considered for other open positions within the business.
The Companys employment and recruitment policy is based on non-discrimination and equal opportunities.
We are committed to ensuring that all training, career development and promotional opportunities are accessible and inclusive to all and individuals with a disability are afforded the same career opportunities for growth and progression.
The Company provides tailored measures to ensure employees are fully supported and that reasonable adjustments are made, training is provided and resource materials are accessible.
The Company continues toreview its policies and practices to build confidence around the disability agenda, to attract, develop and retain those with a disability, both on and off screen.
The Company is also able to draw on its in-house service SignPost for additional support and guidance around access and inclusion for particular audiences.
The Companys commitment around the disability agenda extends beyond our legal obligations and partners with a variety of external specialists to drive best practice.
For a comprehensive outline of our activity visit our Corporate Responsibility website.
com Diversity: Diversity within the organisation is integral to achieving our business aims.
Reflecting the demographics of our customers and understanding their needs ensures that our brand, programmes and services are accessible, inclusive and have wide appeal.
Further information can be found on our Corporate Responsibility website.
com Engagement: Attracting and retaining talent is critical to our success.
It is therefore in our interest to ensure that we provide theappropriate rewards and opportunities for development so that colleagues feel engaged with the Company.
In 2015 the Company carried out an engagement campaign consisting of a series of Management Board led roadshows across the business.
This gave colleagues an opportunity to feed back their thoughts and concerns about the business.
Engagement was reinforced through forums such as the intranet, regular soft and hard-copy newsletters and briefings between management and their teams.
These channels enabled colleagues to understand the financial and economic factors affecting the Companys performance, how their role contributed towards the execution of the strategy and how they could benefit from Company success through involvement in employee share schemes and information on their rights and benefits.
86 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Directors Report To further promote colleague engagement, the Company has introduced a network of Ambassadors who have been nominated and elected by their colleagues to represent each part of the business.
These Ambassadors share the views of colleagues with the business, enabling us to understand ways to make ITV a better place to work.
The Ambassadors also keep colleagues up to date with what is going on across the business.
We have continued to measure and listen to colleagues through employee surveys.
A short survey carried out at the end of 2015 revealed that 93% of colleagues were proud to work for ITV, with the total engagement score of 89.33% 90% in 2014, 6% higher than the benchmark response.
Remuneration: When the Company reviews pay it takes a number of factors into consideration, including the need to stay competitive.
Our focus on cash and costs remains incredibly important for the future health of our business.
We need to balance our business and financial commitments with our continuing investment in our programming and people.
The Company continues to be committed to ensuring colleagues earn at least the Living Wage or greater.
Where appropriate wehave agreed additional increases.
On 1 January 2016, all eligible colleagues received a pay increase of 3.0% 2015: 2.2%, withall those on a full-time equivalent basic salary of 100,000 or above receiving 2.5%.
In addition a bonus arrangement extends to all our colleagues, providing a comprehensive incentive framework which rewards everybody when the Company is successful.
The all-colleague bonus award for 2015 was paid in full at 1,500 2014: paid in full at1,200.
The Company also operates a successful and popular all-employee Save As You Earn scheme that encourages voluntary investment in Company shares and a package of voluntary benefits, which provides valuable cost savings for both colleagues and the Company.
Information about remuneration for the Directors is included in the Annual Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 80.
Succession planning: When planning succession within the Company consideration is given to emergency cover together with medium and long-term succession and this is reviewed annually by the Nomination Committee.
There is particular emphasis on growing the internal leadership pipeline through the launch of the following key programmes: Executive Development Programme Next generation potential Board successors, giving them an opportunity to develop their management potential and gain a greater understanding of the business.
Developing Future Leaders Programme Delegates selected from across the business identified as a result of the performance review process.
Content includes understanding what it means to be a leader at ITV, how to manage performance effectively, coaching skills and change management.
A comprehensive portfolio of development courses and workshops is in place for all colleagues which address common development needs.
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 87 Governance Directors Report continued Greenhouse Gas emissions The Company is required to report annually on the quantity of carbon dioxide equivalent emissions in tonnes emitted as a result of activities for which it is responsible.
All data for the financial year ended 31 December 2015 is disclosed below for direct and indirect electricity consumption emissions.
More information on our environmental impacts and how we aim to make a positive difference can be found on our Corporate Responsibility website.
com Indicator 2015 2014 Total gross CO e emissions 31,196 tCO e 40,219 tCO e 2 2 2 Scope 1: Direct emissions 8,294 tCO e 11,180 tCO e 2 2 Scope 2: Indirect emissions 22,902 tCO e 29,039 tCO e 2 2 Total revenue 3,383m 2,956m Emissions per unit m revenue 9.2 tCO e 13.6 tCO e 2 2 Source: Utilyx analysis of ITV data.
The emissions data covers our global properties but not our US acquisitions.
The latest conversion factors specified in Defra and DECCs 2015 guidance were used to calculate emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents.
35% of our data set is based on estimated data.
Estimates are calculated from previous consumption trends and published benchmarks.
The 2014 total is 19 t CO e which is higher than reported last year due to additional data received.
2 Health and safety The health and safety of our colleagues, contractors and visitors is always a high priority.
The significant loss of human life as theresult of a major incident has been identified as a specific risk to the organisation.
The Companys professional Health and Safety team continue to use a management system that meets the specific risk profile of the business which is communicated across the business.
This is supported by a comprehensive training programme and direct support from the Health and Safetyteam.
Health and safety performance information is reported to the Board monthly and briefings were held in 2015 for the Management and Studios Boards.
In 2015 a full health and safety compliance review was undertaken and work was done with external production companies to develop a model for compliance with the Construction Design and Management Regulations 2015 appropriate for a television production business.
Work at height continues to be an area of focus for us as our reporting indicates this is an ongoing issue for productions.
Performance indicators UK 2015 2014 Non Non Staff Staff Total Staff Staff Total 1 Lost time accidents reported under RIDDOR 5 7 12 8 3 11 2 Specified injuries reported under RIDDOR 1 7 8 4 2 6 1.
This indicates accidents that have led to people being unable to undertake their normal role for seven days or longer.
Specified injuries in this context means injuries such as broken bones not fingers or toes, amputation, serious burns, loss of consciousness caused by a head injury or inpatient hospitalisation.
These are reported if they were caused by our work activity.
Reported data excludes Mammoth, Twofour and Talpa as these were not integrated into the ITV Health and Safety Management System in the year ended 31December 2015.
The majority of these accidents occurred in the production business.
Given the risk profile of production content and the increase in the number of productions last year, the increase in accidents does not indicate any change in overall safety performance within the business.
88 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Directors Report Performance indicators international Australia France Germany USA Finland Norway Sweden Denmark Serious injuries sustained at work by staff or 1 people directly involved in our activities 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 1.
We have used the UK definition of a specific injury under RIDDOR to define a serious injury.
Due to differing local legislative reporting requirements figures for lost time accidents have not yet been integrated into the ITV Health and Safety Management System.
Insurance and indemnities The Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and officers that is renewed on an annual basis.
The Company has also entered into deeds of indemnity with its Directors.
A copy of the indemnity can be found on our website.
com about governance The Company operates a pension scheme that provides retirement and death benefits for colleagues.
Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions, as defined in Section 235 of the Companies Act 2006, were in force for the financial year ended 31December 2015 and remain in force for the benefit of each of the directors of ITV Pension Scheme Limited.
These indemnity provisions cover, to the extent permitted by law, certain losses or liabilities incurred as a director of ITV Pension Scheme Limited.
For further information about pensions is set out on page 45 and in note 3.7 on page 133.
4 disclosures There are no disclosures to be made other than that the trustee of the EBT waived their rights to receive dividends on shares held by them which do not relate to restricted shares held under the ITV Deferred Share Award Plan.
Political contributions It is the Companys policy not to make cash contributions to any political party.
However, within the normal activities of the Companys national and regional news-gathering operations there may be occasions when an activity might fall within the broader definition of political expenditure contained within the Companies Act 2006.
Shareholder authority for such expenditure was given at the 2015 AGM.
However, during 2015 the Group made no payments falling within this definition 2014:nil.
Report and Accounts disclosures Financial risk management: The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including in relation to its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
Details of our risks and associated mitigations together with details of our approach to risk management are set out on page 46 to 51.
Note 4.3 to the accounts on page 144 gives details of the Groups financial risk management policies and related exposures.
Thisnote is incorporated by reference and deemed to form part of this report.
Future developments: Our strategy is set out in the Strategic Report.
Going concern: The going concern statement is set out on page 103.
This note is incorporated by reference and deemed to form part of this report.
Post balance sheet events: On 19 February 2016 Ministerial approval was received and all other conditions confirmed as satisfied for the acquisition of 100% of UTV Limited.
Completion took place on Monday 29 February 2016.
Research and Development: Relevant information is set out in the Strategic Report.
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 89 Governance Directors Report continued Share capital Issued: At the date of this report there were 4,025,409,194 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in issue, all of which are fully paid up and quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Purchase of own shares: The Directors have the authority to purchase up to 402.5 million of the Companys ordinary shares.
Theauthority remains valid until the AGM in 2016 or 12 August 2016, if earlier.
Restrictions: There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company other than those which may be imposed by law from time to time.
In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs, certain employees are required to seek approval to deal in ITV shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
Rights: The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Articles of Association.
A copy of the Articles can be found on our website.
com about governance Share Schemes: Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 4.7.
The Company has a discretionary employees benefittrust EBT funded by loans to acquire shares for the potential benefit of employees.
Details of shares held by the EBT at31December 2015 are set out on page 154.
During the year shares have been released from the EBT in respect of share schemes for employees.
The trustee of the EBT has the power to exercise all voting rights in relation to any investment includingordinary shares held within the EBT.
Substantial shareholders Information regarding interests in voting rights provided to the Company pursuant to the DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
As at 2 March 2016, the information in the table below had been received, in accordance with DTR5, from holders of notifiable interests voting rights in the Companys issued share capital.
It should be noted that these holdings are likely to have changed since notified tothe Company.
However, notification of any change is not required until the next applicable threshold is crossed.
Nature of Shares % holding Liberty Global Incorporated Limited 398,515,510 9.90 Direct FMR LLC 309,919,900 7.69 Indirect Blackrock Inc. 195,504,921 6.24 Indirect The Company received separate notifications from The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Goldman Sachs on various dates during the course of 2015 and, most recently, on 2 February 2016 in respect of an interest in 20.01% of the Companys issued share capital.
Of this, 0.05% related to voting rights over the Companys shares which are held indirectly with a further 0.01% held by way of a physical stock loan and 19.96% being represented by certain financial instruments with similar economic effect to the Companys ordinary shares.
The Company understands that Goldman Sachs initially submitted a notification in respect of its interest as a result of changes to the DTRs, specifically 5.1 and 5.3, which took effect on 26 November 2015 rather than as a result of any change in the interests of Goldman Sachs in the Companys issued share capital.
The number of shares is based on announcements made by each relevant shareholder using the Companys issued share capital at that date.
90 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
