Strategic Report Strategy and Operations Strategic Priority 1: Maximise audience and revenue share from free-to-air broadcast and VOD business Pictured: Im A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!
returned for a 15th series and launched with 11.3 million viewers.
Itaveraged 9.9 million viewers across the series and wasup in the 1634 demographic.
18 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Strategic Priority 1 While the media environment in which we operate isconstantly changing our Broadcast business remains robust and adaptable.
ITV is the biggest marketing platform in the UK and because of the scale of our commercial channels, we reach around 80% of the television owning population every week.
We invest over 1 billion in our programme budget, significantly more than our commercial competitors, and have an unrivalled ability to deliver mass audiences across all demographics.
See page 30 for more As a result, there continues to be a strong demand for advertising on our family ofchannels, which generates significant profit and cash to reinvest across ITV.
Additionally, as an integrated producer broadcaster, our broadcast channels alsoprovide an important platform to showcase ITV Studios content and give it a proven track record, beforeexploiting it internationally.
Continued strong advertising growth driven by our uniqueoffering Since 2009 ITV has maintained its leading position as the only commercial broadcaster consistently able to deliver mass audiences toour advertisers.
In 2015 ITV delivered 98% of all audiences over fivemillion and 93% of all audiences over three million.
% of commercial audiences over three and five million 2015 93% 98% Over 3 million Over 5 million 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 ITVs unique ability to deliver these mass audiences, as well as more targeted demographics across the family of channels and the ITV Hub, has enabled usto once again grow ITV Family NAR ahead of our estimate of the television advertising market, even though our SOV declined in the year.
SOV provides an overall measure of viewing performance, however because advertisers are buying scale and breadth of audience, SOV is not necessarily a direct indicator of advertising performance.
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 19 90 100 90 100 94 99 93 99 96 100 95 99 93 98 Strategic Report Strategy and Operations Strategic Priority 1 continued Maximising the value of our airtime YoureBack in the Room, as well as ITV is also focused on maximising the driving significant audiences with our value of its airtime and driving new returning brands, Im A Celebrity Get Television remains the revenue streams through sponsorship, MeOut Of Here!, Britains Got Talent interactivity and branded content.
Our drama schedule, most efficient and ITVcan utilise its core assets of its which included Code of a Killer, Safe effective advertising strongbrand and reputation, unique House, Downton Abbey, Home Fires, commercial relationships and quality Unforgotten and the second series medium for advertisers production capability to deliver a wide ofBroadchurch, continued to deliver variety of marketing solutions.
to achieve mass we have implemented many innovative simultaneous reach.
sponsorship deals including Aunt Bessies To drive viewing and engagement in for Im A Celebrity Get Me Out Of Here!
ourcontent, we are further developing and Land Rover and SSE for theRugby programme apps which continue World Cup.
We have also produced a togrow in popularity.
Our digital Television remains the most efficient number of branded content solutions engagement has grown significantly and effective advertising medium with our new service ITV AdVentures inthe year, delivering 100 million votes foradvertisers to achieve mass forSuzuki and National Lottery and we across our big entertainment shows simultaneous reach.
Although television have launched AdSync, a partnership and40 million paid competition entries.
has seen some price inflation over the with RadiumOne to amplify the reach last few years, the cost of advertising is ofour television advertising.
In 2016 Looking ahead we have new creative similar to 2004 levels and compared to wewill also be introducing more leadership in place and we remain very many other advertising media it remains targeted advertising.
focused on strengthening our viewing good value, especially given the reach performance in 2016.
We believe that and scale that it delivers.
As the viewing Ongoing focus on strengthening around 1 billion is the appropriate and advertising landscape continues to viewingperformance programme budget for ITVs family fragment, the scale of audience that Although we had many on-screen ofchannels to ensure we continue television, and particularly ITV delivers, successes in 2015, ITV Familys SOV todeliver standout content that drives becomes increasingly valuable.
declined by 3% with ITV main channel the scale and breadth of audiences that SOV down 4% and the digital channels advertisers demand.
We have a strong Advertising inflation 20042015 SOV down 3%.
This performance was a slate of new and returning programmes result of the launch of some new free across the key genres.
We have 50 hours % digital channels, a number of our shows more drama, major football and rugby 125 not performing as well as we had tournaments and will continue to invest 120% 100 expected, particularly in the factual in daytime and soaps.
Our 2016 schedule 75 genre, and relatively strong competition includes new programmes such as from the BBC.
Victoria, Cold Feet, The Durrells, Maigret, 50 Brief Encounters, Family Guy, American 25 However, we enjoyed many real Dad, Drive, Euro 2016 and theRugby Six 31% 0 successes in the year we broadcast the Nations and returning programmes Vera, 1% 24% most watched entertainment show in Endeavour, Britains Got Talent, X-Factor, -25 Television Newspapers Magazines Radio Britains Got Talent, the most watched Im A Celebrity Get Me Out Of Here!, soap in Coronation Street, the most Love Island, Ninja Warrior UK, Long Lost Source: Warc watched drama in Downton Abbey and Family, The Chase and the Tour fide France.
the most watched sporting event with England vs. Wales during the Rugby World Cup.
Our daytime schedule improved, including Good Morning Britain, and we also launched a number of new entertainment shows including Mission Survive, Ninja Warrior UK and 20 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Strategic Priority 1 Pictured left to right: This Morning is one of the longest running daytime programmes in the UK and has been broadcast on ITV since 1989: Black Work was ITVs most watched new drama in 2015 with an average of 7.6m viewers across the three-part series.
Remaining responsive to a changing Three attributes lie at the heart of ITVs media environment successful Broadcast proposition: its The market in which we operate is first-class distribution and reach across The market in which we constantly changing but traditional all platforms: owning the rights to linear television viewing remains high-quality, must have content, for all operate is constantly resilientdespite significant changes in key audiences: and providing advertisers changing but traditional the availability and delivery of content.
with creative access to the biggest and Broadcaster and other VOD is growing most effective marketing platform in linear television viewing rapidly, but it is a gradual process and still the UK.
only accounts for 7% of total viewing.
remains resilient despite 2016 and beyond significant changes in On average viewers watch 216 minutes On 29th February 2016 ITV completed oftelevision a day, which is a similar level its acquisition of 100% of UTV Ltd, the availability and to 2004 of 222 minutes.
The majority of thetelevision assets of UTV plc.
This television viewing is live, which we furtherstrengthens ITVs free-to-air delivery of content.
estimate to be 81%, as television business and enables it to run a more continues to have the power to bring efficient network.
Live event television in particular has demonstrated resilience As we continue to invest in our Over the full year we again expect and a growing relevance as viewers integrated producer broadcast model, tooutperform our estimate of the increasingly connect through social our priority is to strengthen our television advertising market, although media and they continue to deliver very on-screen performance and we have the phasing of NAR is expected tobe significant audiences.
Therefore large started 2016 well, with ITV SOV up different in 2016, driven by the timing sporting events, which also deliver 5%and ITV Family SOV up 2%.
We are ofmajor sporting events.
We expect valuable demographics, continue to be also focused on maintaining the scale ITVNAR to be flat in Q1, marginally an important part of our schedule and as ofouraudiences because as the viewing behind the market, against 12% growth well as the Rugby Six Nations we have and advertising landscape continues in Q1 lastyear.
Q2, which will benefit also recently secured British horseracing tofragment, this becomes increasingly from theEuros, should be positive.
Many consumers, particularly younger viewers, are engaging in an increasing amount of content and entertainment via other platforms such as social media and video games, but television viewing continues to dominate the way people like to be entertained.
The key European markets are structurally different to the US, driven bythe strength of free-to-air television, thelevel of pay penetration and the cost of pay.
Therefore while lessons can be learnt from other countries, there can beno direct read-across.
Family Guy Launching on ITV2 and the ITV Hub in March 2016.
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21 Strategic Report Strategy and Operations Strategic Priority 2: Grow international content business Pictured: Poldark was an eight-part series produced for the BBC by Mammoth Screen, which ITV Studios UK acquired in 2015.
It received critical acclaim andhas been recommissioned.
22 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Strategic Priority 2 Growing a scaled international content business is central to our strategy as an integrated producer broadcaster.
As ITV creates and owns more content, our channels provide a platform to showcase our programmes before distributing them across multiple platforms in the UK and internationally.
See page 30 for more Growing global demand for content Studios revenue growth m The strong global demand for content from 1,237m broadcasters and platform owners provides asignificant opportunity for ITV Studios.
Weestimate that the global content market 33% isgrowing at about 5% per annum, with some YoY genres such as drama growing more quickly than others.
To capitalise on this, our strategy remains to develop, own and manage content 107% rights in genres that return and travel Increase internationally, namely drama, entertainment on 2009 and factual entertainment.
09 10 11 12 13 14 15 In 2015 we again delivered strong growth Studios adjusted EBITA growth m withrevenues up 33% to 1,237 million 206m 2014:933 million and EBITA up 27% to 206m 2014:162 million.
This builds on thesignificant growth we have achieved 27% overthe last few years, more than doubling YoY revenues from 600m in 2009 to over 1.2billion in 2015.
Thisgrowth has been achieved organically aswell as through a mix 126% ofacquisitions, partnerships, investments Increase andtalent deals.
on 2009 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Building scale in creative markets ITV Studios has three production divisions ITV Studios UK, ITV America and ITV Studios Rest ofWorld.
The US and UK are the dominant creative markets, with the US the largest exporterof scripted content and the UK the world leader for exported formats.
Over the last few years we have built scale in these key markets, developing a portfolio ofsuccessful series and formats.
We have made 16acquisitions since 2012 mainly in the UKandUS and also more recently Talpa Media in the Netherlands.
Our original business excluding all acquisitions we have made continues to performwell, delivering a 5% compound annual growth rate since 2009, although production businesses do not deliver straight-line revenue growth.
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 23 91 597 554 81 612 83 107 712 133 857 162 933 206 1,237 Strategic Report Strategy and Operations Strategic Priority 2 continued ITV Studios UK performed strongly in 2015 with overall revenues up 19%, with good growth in sales to ITV and to other We have cemented UK broadcasters.
With the acquisition of Mammoth Screen and Twofour Group ourposition as we have strengthened our production thenumber one capability across the genres of drama, entertainment, factual entertainment commercial producer and comedy, as well as helping to drivefurther growth in our off-ITV in the UK and a leading commissions.
We have delivered series indie producer in such as The Graham Norton Show Hells Kitchen USA BBC1, 24 Hours in A&E Channel 4, Broadcast on the Fox Network Europe and the US.
10,000 BC Channel 5, and following andreturned for a 14th series in these recent acquisitions our portfolio theUS in 2015.
It has been sold includes Poldark BBC, The Voice BBC, to196countries.
Educating Cardiff Channel 4 and Posh Pawn Channel 4. inDenmark and Australia, The Chase in ITV Studios UK is also focused on Norway, Come Dine With Me in Sweden, growing its share of original content The Chase, Quizduell and Im A Celebrity commissioned on the ITV main channel.
in Germany and In 2015 ITV Studios delivered 60% of the AMothers Son in France.
total spend on original commissions on the ITV main channel.
This is a similar In total in 2015 we produced over proportion to 2014 but in terms of 7,000hours of content by our 58 labels, revenue, total sales to Broadcast supplying over 90 channels.
New commissions delivered good revenue growth across delivered to ITV include Thunderbirds our three production divisions and Are Go!, Ninja Warrior UK, Home Fires, wehave cemented our position as the Unforgotten and Jekyll & Hyde.
number one commercial producer intheUK and have become aleading ITV America also had a strong year with independent producer in Europe and the revenues up 36% as it benefited from US.
Over halfof our revenues now come the delivery of major new dramas and from outside the UKas we are becoming ahigh volume of programmes from an increasingly international business.
ourstable portfolio of unscripted series, including Duck Dynasty, Pawn Stars Investing in content with andtwo series of Hells Kitchen USA.
international appeal To become increasingly international we We saw good growth across ITV Studios must continue to expand our portfolio Rest of World RoW with revenues of successful series and formats that up124%, where our production bases return and that can be distributed inAustralia, Germany, France, the globally.
We have a strong mix of Netherlands and the Nordics produce programmes across genres and also original content as well as local versions across their content life cycle which of ITV Studios formats.
This division balances our risk and financial exposure.
benefited from the significant We continue to invest in our pipeline of acquisition of Talpa Media in the year ideas to ensure that we are adding to our and also delivered a number of new catalogue of programmes every year.
andreturning commissions including ImA Celebrity Get Me Out Of Here!
24 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Strategic Priority 2 Pictured left to right: The Real Housewives of New Jersey is an American reality series produced by Sirens a Leftfield company in the US: Jericho is an eight-part UK period drama onITV and has been sold to85 countries.
2016 and beyond Demand for drama is growing strongly We have a very strong international as standout, original content becomes pipeline of programmes and brands brand defining for both broadcasters across genres and across their content and OTT players in an increasingly life cycle.
New programmes include competitive global environment.
We Victoria, Cold Feet, Tutankhamun, arelooking to leverage our network Houdini & Doyle, Married by Mom and relationships and international Dad and Killing Fields and returning distribution network, to expand our programmes which include Aquarius, global scripted business and develop Thunderbirds Are Go!, Home Fires, astrong portfolio of international and TheGood Witch, Poldark, Endeavour, returning drama.
Vera, Coronation Street, Emmerdale, Shetland TheVoice, The Voice Kids, Pawn Stars, Reflecting the Groups strong financial Scottish crime drama produced by Come Dine With Me, The Chase, position and cash generation, we are ITV Studios UK for the BBC.
Currently ImACelebrity Get Me Out Of Here!
now able to finance larger-scale scripted in its third series in the UK and has andCountdown.
Theproduction cost is partly funded ITV Studios is now a global business and bythe initial sale of the series to the going forward we aim to utilise our scale broadcaster, while the deficit is recovered We continue to perform well to grow our market share and expand through distribution revenue from internationally in the entertainment the number of networks and OTT selling the finished product globally to andfactual entertainment genres.
players we work with, particularly in the other broadcasters and platforms.
We Inresponse to continued demand US.
With a strong portfolio of new and balance our financial exposure through fromnetworks, we have grown a solid returning programmes we will build our portfolio approach, with successful portfolio of high volume, high margin further scale internationally, both international dramas offsetting the risk formats including Duck Dynasty, organically and through partnerships that we will not recover the full deficit PawnStars, Come Dine with Me, and acquisitions, aswe continue to on every show.
ImACelebrity Get Me Out Of Here!, reduce our reliance on the UK market.
Hells Kitchen USA and The Chase.
During 2015 we have delivered three major drama series in the US, The Good Overthe last few years we have Witch, Aquarius and Texas Rising, of strengthened our exposure to this genre which The Good Witch and Aquarius with a number of partnerships, including have been recommissioned.
In the in 2015, Possessed Television and Cats UKwehave also delivered or have in onthe Roof and most significantly Talpa production Mr Selfridge s4, Endeavour Media, which we acquired in April 2015 s3, Poldark s2 and Vera s6 which all which is focused on developing new haveinternational appeal.
entertainment formats that attract large audiences and have significant commercial potential.
Benefiting from the creative input of John fide Mol and his management team, who will continue towork with ITV, Talpahas created 75shows and has aired programmes in Demand for drama more than 180 countries over the last six years, including The Voice, The Voice Kids, isgrowingly strongly I Love My Country, Dating in the Dark and asstandout, original Dance Dance Dance.
content becomes brand defining for bothbroadcasters andOTT players.
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 25 Strategic Report Strategy and Operations Strategic Priority 3: Build a global pay and distribution business Pictured: The Voice is produced by Netherlands based 2015 acquisition Talpa Media.
It has been sold to 180 countries.
26 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Strategic Priority 3 As digital media and consumer behaviour continue to evolve, our ability to create and distribute high-value content in new and efficient ways is of increasing significance.
ITV is continually exploring and experimentingwith new ways to distribute our content tobroadcasters and platform owners, both free and pay, while also seekingnew opportunities to extend the reach ofour content for the consumer.
See page 30 for more Capitalising on growing demand for VOD through the ITV Hub Changes in technology and the growing base of connected devices are driving rapid growth in audiences appetite for VOD and in turn fuelling demand from advertisers forVOD inventory.
ITV as a creator and owner of content, particularly sought after drama and entertainment content, is well placed to exploit this growing customer base.
Our Online business has grown rapidly over the last few years and is contributing meaningful revenue to the Group.
In November we successfully launched the ITVHub to replace ITV Player and ITV.
com across mobile, PC and connected TV, throughwhich audiences can access ITV content on different devices, live orondemand.
This is a major step forward in the quality, innovation and ease ofuse of ITVs online services.
The biggest change is that live content is now central to the ITV Hub andlive simulcast viewing is becoming increasingly popular particularly around sporting events andlarge entertainment shows, as viewers areusing their connected devices asatelevision set.
Simulcast viewing now represents about 30% of viewing on theplatforms on which it is available.
To drive growth in our online audiences and online advertising revenues we havealso been working to increase the distribution of the ITV Hub which is now available on 27 platforms, most recently launching on Amazon Fire, YouView Sony and Freeview Play.
Long-form video requests continue to grow strongly up 14% in2015, driven by mobile and connected televisions.
Online consumption, which is the measure of how long viewers are spending online, has also increased by 42% reflecting the quality of ITVs content and the improved viewing experience of the ITV Hub.
To date there have been 21 million downloads of our app and to further increase usage we will continually extend and enhance the ITV Hub with improvements in technology and new content, such as premieres, box sets andshort-form content.
Overall the new service has been very well received by both audiences and advertisers, with consumption growing strongly since launch, particularly for live viewing where our audiences enjoy the new live swipe feature on smartphones and tablets and the ITV Hubs improved streaming quality.
Additionally, we are working to Online, Pay & Interactive maximise the value of our digital revenue growth data.
We have introduced new 188m digital advertising features like AdSync as well as dynamicallyserved advertising on ITVs live 23% simulcast channels on PC and YoY Appleplatforms.
With 13 million registered users of the ITV Hub, we are not only able to understand and 276% engage with our audiences better Increase but we are also developing more on 2009 targeted advertising online in 2016.
09 10 11 12 13 14 15 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27 50 58 81 102 118 153 188 Strategic Report Strategy and Operations Strategic Priority 3 continued As we look to increase ITV brand loyalty, Expanding our global we have already increased our exposure distributionnetwork to new types of content including In 2015 Global Entertainment, the Our Online, Pay & short-form and younger focused distribution arm of ITV Studios, delivered long-form programming and new types revenue growth of 9% to 157 million Interactive business of distribution.
We are widening our 2014: 144 million as we have continued israpidly growing digital reach by expanding our presence to drive value from the investment on YouTube to bring new audiences to wehave made in creating and owning andprofitable.
In 2015 we launched the rights to quality content with 22new ITV branded channels across a international appeal.
range of our biggest programme brands.
Further developing our pay offering We saw usage increase over 400% Global Entertainment inthe UK and internationally across the year on the ITV branded revenue growth m ITV earns revenue from pay television channels to deliver over 160million 157m through licensing our channels and views, the equivalent of over 8 million content.
2015 pay revenue grew by hours of viewing.
38%as we continued to develop our 9% services across multiple platforms.
Talpa has a very strong digital presence YoY internationally across its range of Our pay business in the UK includes deals formats.
Since 2014 it has developed with Sky and Virgin for our HD channels 10successful connected live formats 25% and catch-up VOD, an advertising free including The Voice, The Voice Kids and Increase subscription version of the ITV Hub on on 2009 Dance Dance Dance, in 40 countries, with iOS and a deal with Sky to make ITVs 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 90 apps sites and 100 YouTube channels, content available through its connected in total delivering over 12 billion views.
platforms including Sky Go and Now TV.
Our distribution business has a In 2014 we launched our first pay substantial archive of over 40,000 hours We have made investments in the channel, ITV Encore, which we are of television and film content that we digitalarena as we look to develop our strengthening with more exclusive distribute to broadcasters and platform expertise in monetising online audiences.
content including original commissions owners around the world.
In 2015 These include: Believe Entertainment such as The Frankenstein Chronicles and wehave continued to enhance our Group, a producer of digital-branded Houdini & Doyle and critically acclaimed distribution network, benefiting from short-form entertainment: Zealot, a acquired series such as The Americans our increased rights ownership and digital content multi-platform network: and Jordskott.
strong network relationships as ITV Indigenous Media, a producer of scripted Studios has grown in scale.
digital content: and Channel Mum, Outside the UK we have established thefirst ever online video network anumber of smaller pay propositions We have a strong and balanced dedicated to young mothers.
including Cirkus, a subscription VOD portfolioof scripted and unscripted service that offers the Best of British programmes and formats, both Looking ahead we will further develop content to international pay platforms newandreturning.
We continuously our pay offering both in the UK and which is available in the Nordics and strengthen this using ITVs strong cash internationally exploring opportunities more recently in Iceland.
We also flow to create and fund new content for both pay and online as we seek to distribute ITV Essentials, an online andacquire third-party rights.
ITV monetise our content further.
We will service for expats, and ITV Choice, a Studios creates new programmes in look to do this through a mixedeconomy general entertainment channel for thekey genres ofdrama, entertainment of organic growth, partnerships and emerging markets which was recently and factual entertainment.
We will also increasingly launched in South Africa.
look for opportunities to window our content across our free channels, pay channels and the ITV Hub to derive maximum value for audiences, platformsand advertisers.
28 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 126 123 126 133 135 144 157 Strategic Report Strategic Priority 3 Pictured left to right: Vera is a British based detective drama in its sixth series on ITV.
Ithas had huge international success and has been sold to 177 countries: Thunderbirds Are Go!
is produced by ITV Studios and broadcast on CITV.
It has been sold to 90 countries to date.
Global Entertainment also invests in thefunding of scripted content with international appeal.
ITV has invested Our scripted around 160 million in the year, up 60million, in scripted programmes contenthas sold well such as Texas Rising, Aquarius and The internationally with Good Witch, two of which have been recommissioned and they are selling programmes such well internationally.
Reality dating show Love Island asPoldark, Aquarius, In addition to distributing ITVs own generated significant activity on Texas Rising, Endeavour content, we have also acquired the theITV Hub with 11 million requests third-party distribution rights to a on ad-funded platforms across the and MrSelfridge number of international shows including series.
It was the first ITV programme Schitts Creek from Canada and Nordic to generate two million views in allselling toover thriller Jordskott.
2016 and beyond Our scripted content has sold well Looking ahead we expect to deliver internationally with programmes double-digit growth in our Online, Pay Talpa Connect suchasPoldark, Aquarius, Texas Rising, &Interactive revenues as we further Endeavour, Jekyll & Hyde and Mr Selfridge develop our ability to distribute and sell Since 2014: all selling to over 100 countries.
We will continue to invest entertainment and factual entertainment to enhance the ITV Hub and through content also continues to sell well with amixed economy of organic growth, 10 programmes such as Come Dine With partnerships and acquisitions, we will successful connected Me, The Voice, The Voice Kids, I Love My develop our pay and online services live formats Country, TheChase, Im A Celebrity Get andchannels and explore new ways Me Out Of Here!
topackage and sell our content to in takeadvantage of demand for quality During the year we have also signed a content in the UK and internationally 40 countries number of new multi-year and multifrom consumers, broadcasters and territory deals including a seven year platform owners.
with deal for Coronation Street with CBC in Lastly, we are also continuing to drive Canada.
In early 2016 we agreed a multi 90 apps sites the debate around the implementation series and territory deal for Thunderbirds of retransmission fees in the UK to Are Go!
with Amazon covering the and ensure that we are fairly compensated USand India for first run and UK and for our investment in content for the Germany for second run.
We are now 100 YouTube channels ITVmain channel when it is carried on starting to benefit from merchandising pay TV platforms.
as we look with over to extend the franchise beyond the television set.
12 billion views ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29
