Governance Remuneration Policy Remuneration Policy The Companys policy on remuneration for Executive and Non-executive Directors was approved by shareholders at the AGM on14 May 2014 for a three year period.
The full policy can be found on our website: www.
com about governance The table below contains the principal elements of the remuneration packages for the Executive Directors.
Fixed elements Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential payment Performance metrics Base Reflects the individuals Reviewed annually and paid There is no maximum None, although salary skills, responsibilities monthly in cash.
ordinarily salary increases and business Consideration is typically given will be in line with the performance is Supports the toa range of factors when average increase awarded considered when recruitment and determining salary levels, to other employees in setting and retention of Executive including: theCompany.
Directors of the calibre Personal and Company-wide required to deliver Increases may be made performance.
thebusiness strategy above this level to take Typical pay levels in relevant withinthe competitive account of individual markets for each Executive media market.
circumstances, which whilst recognising the need mayinclude: foran appropriate premium toattract and retain superior Increase in size or talent, balanced against scopeof the role or theneed to provide a responsibility.
cost-effective overall Increase to reflect the remuneration package.
individuals development The wider employee pay review.
Provision for To provide competitive Executives can choose to The maximum None anincome in post-retirement benefits participate in the ITV defined contributions or cash retirement or cash allowance as contribution scheme, receive allowances for the aframework to save acash allowance or receive Executive Directors forretirement.
payments into a personal are25% of base salary.
pension or a combination Supports the thereof.
recruitment and retention of Executive Contributions are set as a Directors of the calibre percentage of base salary.
required to deliver Post-retirement benefits do thebusiness strategy notform part of the base withinthe competitive salaryfor the purposes of media market.
Benefits Ensures the overall The Company provides a range Set at a level which the None package is competitive ofmarket competitive benefits Committee considers and provides financial including travel-related benefits, tobe appropriately protection for employees private medical insurance and positioned taking into and their families.
account typical market levels for comparable Additional benefits may roles, individual also be provided in certain circumstances and circumstances, if required for theoverall cost to business need.
butnot limited to, relocation expenses, housing allowance andeducation support.
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 81 Governance Remuneration Policy continued Variable elements Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential payment Performance metrics Annual Bonus Incentivises Executives Measures and targets are set The maximum bonus Performance Scheme and colleagues to annually based on business opportunity for any measures and targets Bonus and achieve key strategic plans at the start of the Executive Director will are set by the Deferred outcomes on an financial year and pay-out not exceed 200% Committee eachyear Share Award annualbasis.
levelsare determined by the ofsalary.
based on corporate Plan DSA Committee following the objectives closely The current bonus Focus on key financial year-end based on performance linked to the opportunities are 180% metrics and objectives against objectives.
strategicpriorities of salary for Adam to deliver the business andindividual Crozier and 165% of strategy.
Paid once the results have contributions.
Annual bonus The element calculations that are based The majority of the compulsorily deferred Increases above the onthe financial results for the bonus opportunity into shares rewards current opportunities, up year are audited by Internal will be based on the delivery of sustained to the maximum limit, Audit and reviewed by the corporate and long-term performance, may be made to take AuditCommittee before financial measures.
provides alignment account of individual consideration by the withthe shareholder circumstances, which The remainder of the Committee.
experience and may include: bonus will be based on supports the retention The Committee has the performance against Increase in size or of executives.
discretion to amend the bonus individual objectives.
scope of the role pay-out should any formulaic orresponsibility.
Up to 20% of assessment of performance not Increase to reflect themaximum reflect a balanced view of theindividuals opportunity will overall business performance development and bereceived for for the year.
performance in threshold Two-thirds of the bonus is theirrole.
delivered in cash and one-third is deferred into shares under the DSA for a period of threeyears.
During the deferral period shareawards may be reduced orcancelled in certain circumstances.
Further detail is provided on our website www.
Dividends are paid to participants on the deferred shares during the deferral period.
82 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Remuneration Policy Variable elements Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential payment Performance metrics New LTIP Incentivises Executives Awards are made annually Our current operational Performance is to deliver performance withvesting dependent on policy is to make measured against which is aligned to business performance during awardsof 225% of salary corporate targets thebusiness strategy the performance period.
closely linked to the over the longer term performance period will be Companys financial Under the new LTIP rules, andthecreation of three years, other than in and strategic priorities.
the maximum annual shareholder value.
award that may be Performance metrics Acts as a retention tool The Committee has discretion granted in any financial are: to retain the Executives to amend the final vesting year is 350% of salary.
Adjusted EPS required to deliver the levelshould any formulaic The Committee would Non-NAR and its business strategy.
assessment of performance consult with components not reflect a balanced view shareholders if it was Viewing ofthe business performance considering increasing performance during the performance period.
awards above the LTIP awards will vest Awards will be required to be current operational based on financial held for an additional period of policy.
two years after the end of the performance period.
This is A gateway condition called the holding period and must be achieved will be phased in during 2014 before any portion and 2015. ofthe award vests.
Dividends are earned on Each performance deferred shares during the metric will operate holding period.
During the holding period The performance awards may be reduced or range will be cancelled in certain determined for each circumstances.
The proportion isprovided on our website of each element of the www.
award that will vest for threshold performance against a metric will be20%.
SAYE Provides all Executive Directors are entitled Participation limits are None employees, including to participate in the plan on the as per the rules of the Executive Directors, same basis as other employees.
plan and in accordance theopportunity to with HMRC limits.
voluntarily invest in Company shares.
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 83 Governance Remuneration Policy continued The table below summarises the main elements of remuneration for Non-executive Directors: Component Approach of the Company Chairman fees The Committee determines the fees of the Chairman and sets the fees at a level that is considered tobe appropriate, taking into account the size and complexity of the business and the expected time commitment and contribution of the role.
The fee is a fixed annual fee of which 25% 40% for the current Chairman, after statutory deductions, is used to acquire shares in the Company.
The shares are purchased quarterly and held by a nominee until retirement from the Board.
Non-executive fees The Board determines the fees of the Non-executive Directors and sets the fees at a level that is considered to be appropriate, taking into account the size and complexity of the business and the expected time commitment and contribution of the role.
Fees are structured as a basic fee with additional fees payable for membership and or chairmanship ofa committee or other additional responsibilities.
The Non-executive Directors are required to use 25% of their annual fees, after statutory deductions, to acquire shares in the Company.
The shares are purchased quarterly and held by a nominee on their behalf until they retire from the Board.
Benefits Additional benefits may also be provided in certain circumstances, if required for business purposes.
84 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
