Strategic Report Strategy and Operations Our Strategy and Business Model We remain focused on our original vision for ITV as an owner, producer and broadcaster of content.
We are confident that our strategy to maximise our value as an integrated producer broadcaster, creating, owning and distributing content around the world, is the right long-term path for ITV.
Our strategy Our sources of competitive advantage Our strategy is focused The UKs biggest marketing platform delivering unrivalled onthree key priorities: commercial audiences The scale of our channels and the significant investment we make in quality content gives ITV unique scale and reachon our main channel and more targeted audiences on our family ofchannels and the ITV Hub.
80% maximising Our channels reach around 80% of the TV-owning population each week maximise audience andrevenue share from free-to-air broadcast World-class content At the core of ITV is our focus on creativity and content, whether selling unique andVOD business content around the world or investing in third-party content to broadcast across multiple platforms.
Internationally we have built production and distribution scale See page 18 for more in key global creative markets through organic growthand selective acquisitions.
1bn We invest over 1bn annually incontent for our family ofchannels growing Global distribution grow international ITV has built relationships globally, with major networks and local broadcasters, contentbusiness and owns the rights to a diverse portfolio of shows, particularly drama and entertainment, for international distribution.
See page 22 for more 40,000 Hours of television and film content Our strategic assets building build a global pay anddistribution business Our strategic assets underpin ITVs competitive advantage See page 26 for more Creating and Our strong brand Our talented, owningthe rights creativepeople toquality content 10 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Our Strategy and Business Model Pictured left to right: The Sound of Music Live was the first live adaptation of a musical to be broadcast on TV in the UK: behind the scenes for Text Santa, ITVsannual charity appeal.
See page 46 for information on our principal risks Our diversified revenue streams Creating value By developing and retaining the rights to content, ITV is able to For advertisers maximise the value of its programme brands across a range of Through delivering unique revenues streams, making ITV a more balanced business and scale and breadth of enabling it to drive value from different revenue models.
demographics and new innovative ways of engaging Advertising Our family of channels and the ITV Hub drive with consumers around significant advertising revenues from the mass quality programme brands audiences and more targeted demographics itdelivers, which funds our investment in the programme budget.
For audiences Through a varied, high-quality Commercial We work with advertisers and advertising programming schedule partnerships agencies to provide unique commercial partnerships and sponsorship opportunities that extend beyond pure spot advertising.
For broadcasters and platform owners Pay & We earn pay revenues primarily from licensing Through delivering quality interactive our HD channels, our pay channel ITV Encore programming which they can and our online video on demand VOD services.
then monetise through their We also monetise our consumer interaction own business models with our biggest shows through competitions and voting.
For shareholders Original We produce original content commissions Through a track record of production forbroadcasters internationally from our creating shareholder value production bases in the UK, the US, the and delivering significant Netherlands, Germany, France, Australia shareholder returns andthe Nordics.
Distribution We own the rights to a significant catalogue For our people revenues ofprogrammes and formats which we sell Investing in and developing our andlicense to broadcasters internationally.
creative, on screen, commercial Thestrong global demand for content and operational talent providesasignificant opportunity for us.
49% of our total revenue is from sources other than traditional spot TV advertising ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11
