Strategic Report Overview Market Review The market environment in which we operate isdynamic and constantly changing.
Consolidation of media and telecoms companies and the increasing influence of technology brings both challenges and opportunities that we believe we are able to respond to with pace and confidence.
Key market trends Global Content Broadcast & Online Global demand for content continues to Aquarius, The Good Witch and Texas Rising.
Over recent years the number of ways to grow, with more channels, more platforms Leveraging our network relationships and watch TV has greatly increased with viewers and new entrants increasing spend on international distribution network, we able to choose a variety of platforms, high-quality programming.
We estimate arelooking to expand our global scripted bothfree and pay.
Linear viewing remains that the global content market is growing business and develop a strong portfolio dominant although viewing habits vary at around 5% per annum, with some genres ofinternational and returning drama.
bydemographic with younger viewers such as drama growing faster than others.
watching more non-linear content than In the UK, there is stronger demand and older demographics.
Non-linear viewing, This growth can be attributed to a number higher viewing figures for UK content over while currently only a small proportion of factors, including: a larger international imported series.
We are a major producer oftotal viewing, is growing fast and we pay television market: convergence in the ofscripted content and have further continue to invest in ITVs online offering, television market, where telecom and reinforced this position through acquiring for example the ITV Hub, to compete newmedia companies are increasingly Mammoth Screen and Twofour Group.
competing with traditional media Our2015 scripted deliveries included Television viewing companies for content and viewers: online Poldark, Unforgotten and Home Fires.
players such as Netflix and Amazon have Share of viewing by broadcaster continued to invest heavily in archive and While not growing as quickly as scripted new content: and online advertising driven content, demand for non-scripted content ITV Family 21.2% platforms like YouTube and Facebook are remains strong as networks continue to BBC Family 32.8% creating a new market for short form and require lower cost, high volume popular Channel 4 Family 10.6% digital content.
The UK remains the dominant Five Family 5.8% producer of unique non-scripted formats, Sky Family 8.3% The US is by far the largest content market producing almost twice as many as the US.
Other 21.3% in the world, dominating the global ITV has significantly strengthened its Source: BARB production sector, with the UK the second capability in this area with the acquisition largest market.
This represents a significant ofTalpa Media.
Along with the established ITV competes for viewers with the BBC opportunity for ITV Studios, which has a entertainment and factual entertainment andcommercial broadcasters including strong presence in both regions.
genres, scripted reality programming, Channel 4, Sky and Channel 5.
Since the where we have focused our US acquisitions, digital switchover, the number of available Demand for drama, particularly US drama, has grown quickly with formats such channels has grown which has impacted has increased significantly in the last few asPawn Stars, Real Housewives and theSOV of the traditional broadcasters.
Original scripted content becomes DuckDynasty.
However, despite an increase in the number brand defining for broadcasters and OTT of channels, ITV and BBC1 continue to be players in an increasingly competitive ITV is now a genuine global player in the only channels consistently able to globalenvironment.
US studios continue non-scripted content, being the largest deliver mass audiences as well as targeted todominate the market for drama in unscripted independent producer in the demographics, and in 2015 ITV delivered theUSand internationally, however the US, as well as the largest commercial 98% of all commercial audiences over five emergence of Netflix and Amazon in production company in the UK.
In 2015 the ITV family of creating high-quality original scripted independent production companies, such channels delivered a 21.2% SOV, second content has increased competition in the asEndemol Shine Group and Fremantle onlyto the BBCs family of channels.
ITV America has developed a Media, continue to be ITV Studios main number of scripted programmes including competitors in non-scripted content.
8 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Market Review Pictured left to right: Home Fires was a new drama for ITV averaging 6.2 million viewers across six episodes.
It has been commissioned for a second series: Joanna Lumley presented two documentaries for ITV, Elvis and Me and Joanna Lumleys Trans-Siberian Adventure.
Although broadcast television has seen Skyplatform along with our other pay Advertising revenue significant change over the last few years channels, ITV2 HD, ITV3 HD and ITV4 HD.
Televisions share of the overall television viewing levels around the advertisingmarket Non-linear viewing world have remained high.
Long-form content viewing Television 27.5% Average television viewing in the UK in 2015 Press 15.2% was down 2% compared to 2014.
However, Live including Radio 2.8% over a longer-term basis viewing has been simulcast 81% Cinema 1.3% resilient despite year-on-year fluctuations Timeshifted PVR Outdoor 6.1% and remains the most popular form of media up to 28 days 12% Internet 47.1% entertainment.
UK average television viewing VOD: Broadcaster in 2015 was 216 minutes per day which is a catch-up 3% Source: Advertising Association January 2016 similar level to ten years ago.
VOD: Other 4% Source: Internal estimates ITV generates revenues from advertising Pay television through traditional broadcast and online, and competes with commercial Non-linear viewing of long-form content is The platform mix in the UK broadcasters and other advertising media, mostly recorded, or timeshifted viewing and is roughly 50% free-to-air for its advertising revenues.
In the UK, catch-up of live television linear television.
television has broadly held its share of the also encompasses VOD or Over The Top OTT overall advertising market over the last five delivery of other long-form content such as years, with a share of 27.5% in 2015 2010: box sets and movies.
Free-to-air television is delivered through 29.2%.
Internet advertising has grown its While non-linear viewing has grown fast it theservices Freeview, YouView and Freesat, share from 29.3% in 2010 to 47.1% in 2015, still accounts for a small proportion of total while pay television isdelivered through the making the UK one of the most developed viewing time.
In the UK we estimate 81% of satellite operator Skyand cable operators markets for online advertising.
This growth allviewing of legal long-form content is live Virgin and BT.
Paytelevision revenue is at the expense of print advertising, which including simulcast, with a further 12% continues to grow inaggregate but the declined to 15.2% in 2015, down from 30.8% timeshifted via a Personal Video Recorder market dynamics are changing rapidly as in 2010.
PVR and watched within 28 days of the established pay television providers such The UK television advertising market is original broadcast date.
Of the estimated 7% asSky and Virgin come under pressure from getting increasingly hard to measure as all of content viewed on demand, 3% is catch-up relatively new entrants to the market such broadcasters have different definitions, but viewing of broadcaster content via the asBT, Netflix and Amazon.
we estimate ITVs share of broadcast was television set or to other devices such as Increasingly homes are supplementing 46.1% in 2015, up from 44.7% in 2009.
The remaining 4% of theirfree television with other forms of paid isbecause of ITVs unique ability to deliver content is other VOD viewing, where viewing content including subscription VOD such as mass audiences across key demographics.
of box sets via services such as Netflix is Netflix, or by purchasing additional channels replacing viewing of DVDs.
This is growing Within online advertising, display accounts from providers such as BT or Now TV.
quickly driven by increased availability of for 16.9% of the total online advertising devices such as smartphones, tablets and ITV participates in the pay television market, spend, with the remaining 30.2% spent on connected televisions.
earning revenue from various third parties, search and classified.
ITV competes within including Sky and Virgin, through the licensing the display section of this market, providing of channels and content.
ITV also has its pay an advertising platform around our online only television channel, ITV Encore, on the video content.
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 9
