Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Property and Stores Review Sports Fashion Netherlands Given that we acquired an immediate critical mass from our initial acquisition of stores in the country JD then this has largely been a year of consolidation as we We have a consistent retail property strategy for the core JD review and refine our proposition in the country.
However, fascia across Europe with modern, efficient and attractively the performance of our store in the centre of Rotterdam, presented stores located in prime locations with strong footfall.
which we opened in December 2013 and was the first JD is a world class retail fascia and we strongly believe that store we identified and opened independently, has given us our multichannel approach, which marries a vibrant retail the confidence to look for space in other major towns in the theatre with the latest retail digital technology, increases the country.
During the year we opened a store in Den Haag attractiveness and desirability of our product and provides our and so we now have 16 stores in the country.
stores with a real point of difference for both our consumers Germany During the year, we converted the 10 small and our branded suppliers.
stores that we had acquired from the Isico partnership in the The JD fascia provides the foundation for profit and cash prior year to the JD format.
During the year we opened generation in the Group and consequently we continue to invest seven new stores, of which two were committed prior to our heavily in this fascia across an increasing number of territories.
acquisition of the Isico business.
Given the strength of Isico in We are gaining real credibility in Europe with both major the Berlin area then we have focused our attention on other landlords and property agents and we continue to look at cities and larger towns in the country including Dusseldorf opportunities, in both our existing and new territories, to develop and Dortmund.
the fascia with particular focus on major metropolitan areas: Size?
UK & Republic of Ireland 18 new stores were opened in As with JD, we believe that the Size?
fascia with its independent the period with 15, generally smaller, stores closed.
The feel and loyal consumer following has the potential to be 18 new stores included one new store in the Republic of successful internationally.
Our international focus for this fascia Ireland and eight relocations in towns or malls in the UK to is reflected in the fact that of the seven new Size?
stores which a more appropriately spaced store or a position of greater were opened during the year, four were in Europe with two footfall.
We upsized in five locations where we were able to further stores in France, in Toulouse and Bordeaux, to negotiate a favourable rent deal on additional space.
This is complement the existing store in Paris together with our first proving to be a cost efficient way of expanding our product Size?
store in Italy Milan and the Netherlands Amsterdam.
offer, widen our appeal to a broader consumer and Of the three store openings in the UK, one was a concession in ultimately improve the financial performance of the store.
the Harrods department store in London.
Elsewhere, the stores During the year, we also refurbished our flagship store in in Cardiff and Nottingham were relocated.
the Trafford Centre, Manchester, in a new concept which Chausport moves forward our already excellent standards in visual It is still our belief that the Chausport fascia is more suited to the merchandising and embraces the latest instore digital smaller regional towns and centres.
We opened one Chausport technology.
This concept, which has excited consumers and store and closed three small stores in the year.
We continue to our supplier partners, will continue to evolve and we are be satisfied with the performance of the Chausport business confident that our new stores in Oxford Street and other key and will support limited investment in this business where conflict locations, which we will open through 2015, will generate with JDs plans is unlikely.
France JD continues to develop momentum in France.
Sprinter A further five stores opened in the year with 22 stores We continue to believe that the Sprinter proposition has now trading in the country.
The focus on the major significant potential to expand beyond its traditional heartlands metropolitan areas is reflected in the fact that the openings in the communities of Andalucia, Murcia and Valencia and included two stores in malls around Paris, where we now are supporting the Sprinter management team in their store have 11 stores, and one was in a mall in Marseille, where opening programme.
During the year we opened a further 15 we now have three stores.
stores of which four were outside of the traditional heartlands, Spain To date, the economic situation in the country has including the first store in Catalonia.
The average retail meant we have been more cautious in our pace on opening footprint of the stores opened in the year was 6,700 sqft which new stores.
However, we did open a further two stores in is less than 50% of the average footprint of the stores on the year with ten stores now trading in the country.
We are confident that this footprint is more These openings were both in malls around Madrid, where appropriate for the business.
As with France, we have focused initially on developing a critical mass in the capital city.
Scotts We are more optimistic of the economic situation in Spain Whilst investment in the business has been limited in recent now and so, subject to the availability of appropriately years, we are very encouraged by more recent performance.
rented property space in the right locations then we would Accordingly, we anticipate opening a limited number of new look to cautiously accelerate our openings in the new stores in the new financial year.
54 Strategic Report Property and Stores Review Continued Tessuti Ultimate Outdoors The acquisition of the Ultimate Outdoors stores has enabled us to develop a new concept After opening three new stores in the prior year and converting with the same name where we have combined our Outdoor the remaining Cecil Gee stores to the Tessuti style then this has offerings in a significantly larger space.
As the name suggests, been a year of consolidation with the only property movement we believe that this fascia and website can cater for the needs being the closure of one small Originals store.
In addition to of any Outdoor consumer.
Our first store in this new format, the usual decision making factors for new property of rent, retail with 16,300 sqft of retail space, opened in Preston in July footprint and strength of footfall, openings in the premium 2014.
Five further stores of this type are expected to open branded Tessuti business are also dependent on availability of in 2015 utilising the former Kiddicare stores.
third party brands in a particular location.
Tiso Outdoor Tiso has 17 stores of which 16 are located across Scotland Blacks, Millets and Ultimate Outdoors including six standalone Alpine Bikes stores and one in Keswick Subsequent to our acquisition of the business in January 2012, George Fisher.
These stores vary in size ranging from the we agreed short term leases with flexible break clauses with specialist Alpine cycling stores at less than 1,000 sqft to Tiso landlords in a number of locations which gave both parties the fasciaed stores in secondary out of town destinations with the maximum flexibility to move quickly if appropriate.
Consequently, largest one in Glasgow at 15,500 sqft.
the Blacks and Millets store portfolios continue to evolve: For a complete table of store numbers see page 16.
Blacks No new stores were opened in the period although we did acquire two stores formerly trading as Ultimate Outdoors in Lancaster and Skipton which were subsequently converted to the Blacks fascia.
As part of the same transaction, we also acquired a store in Keswick which trades as Planet Fear and caters for the more adventurous outdoor participant.
Three Blacks stores were closed in the period with a further Peter Cowgill three stores converted to Millets.
Executive Chairman 15 April 2015 Millets The Millets store portfolio has seen considerable change during the year with 15 new stores opened, 14 stores acquired which were formerly trading as Oswald Bailey in the South of England and the conversion of three former Blacks stores.
20 stores were closed in the year which included four of the acquired Oswald Bailey stores and two stores which were relocated into new space.
