Strategic Report Market context The UK grocery market is changing faster than at any other time in three decades.
We must evolve to meet these new challenges The market Over the past year, consumer confidence has recovered as household income has improved.
Reducedunemployment rates and real wage growth have led to an increase in the amount of money consumers have to spend.
In addition, there has been a slowing of inflation on many household essentials, with deflation in various commodities including fuel, fresh produce and meat.
This, coupled with the competitive pricing environment which has seen significant price investment across the market, has allowed customers to benefit from reduced prices in their grocery shop.
Even in this environment, volume growth has remained relatively low throughout the year.
Instead, increasingly confident consumers are choosing to treat themselves to things which they missed outon during recessionary years like eating out more frequently and purchasing big ticket items forthe home.
Customer confidence Average UK household discretionary income Index score per week 5 190 185 0 180 5 175 10 170 15 165 20 160 25 155 30 150 145 35 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Source: GfK Consumer confidence Index Source: CEBR 8 9 Strategic Report Shopping habits The savvy shopping behaviour learned during the recession has driven a structural shift in the market.
Customers have been managing their budgets by shopping more frequently and wasting less.
The move away from one weekly shop has been supported by the growth of convenience stores, improvements and confidence in the ease and security of shopping online and the rise of discounters.
As customers use these channels more frequently, volumes in supermarkets are continuing to decline.
However, supermarkets will remain the dominant channel, with forecasts indicating that approximately 60 per cent of grocery spend will still be made in supermarkets by 2022.
Grocery market channel share 200722F % of market Customers now have more choice when deciding when, 2007 where and how to shop 2014 2018F 2022F 0 20 40 60 80 100 Supermarket Discount Convenience Online Source: Company estimates Shopping missions As customers have started to shop more frequently and across an increasing range of shopping channels, they now enjoy an unprecedented level of flexibility and convenience in the way that they buy their groceries.
This has allowed customers to tailor their expectations for each shopping trip and potentially have a very specific shopping mission in mind.
For example, a customer buying a product such as a sandwich is looking to consume that product either immediately or very shortly after purchase.
The speed and ease of shop offered by a convenience store is likely to be more attractive to a customer with limited time.
Price is important as this is an everyday purchase, but not necessarily the key consideration.
A customer can still buy a sandwich in a supermarket but is doing so increasingly less.
This migration of everyday purchases to a convenience store is a major reason behind the falling volumes in supermarkets.
It is not only everyday purchases that are subject to changing shopping missions.
Products which are designated for special events, for example Valentines Day flowers, are also bought for immediate or shortterm use, but here the customer is likely to be even less price sensitive as the purchase is a highly considered one, where quality and freshness really matter.
When buying for the longer term, shopping missions have become impacted by the growth of online.
Customers can easily benchmark the prices of comparable products from one grocer to the next, and the convenience of home delivery, particularly for bulkier products, means the impact of shopping on their leisure time can be minimised.
As with shorter-term purchases in convenience stores, this growing shopping mission, driven by increasing levels of confidence in the security of shopping online, is having an impact on supermarket volumes.
Traditional grocers need to adapt their business model to these changing shopping missions.
Customers are leading increasingly busy lives and, with early signs of improvements to disposable income levels, there is still an opportunity to serve all of a customers needs under one roof, or through one brand.
Generating customer loyalty will be critical in this respect.
Those grocers that evolve their offer to align to these changing habits will be the most successful.
They will also have the licence to expand their range beyond just food, selling clothing, general merchandise and other products and services as customers build even greater levels of trust with their brands.
