Governance Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited Restrictions on Transfer of Shares financial statements of JD Sports Fashion Plc the Company The restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company are and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group for the as follows: 52 week period ended 31 January 2015.
The Board considers The Board may, in absolute discretion, refuse to register any that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, transfer of shares which are not fully paid up but not so as balanced and understandable and provides the information to prevent dealings in listed shares from taking place, or necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position which is in favour of more than four persons jointly or which and performance, business model and strategy.
is in relation to more than one class of share.
Principal Activity Certain restrictions may, from time to time, be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
The principal activity of the Group is the retail of branded sports fashionwear and outdoor clothing and equipment.
Restrictions apply pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby Directors and certain of In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, a review of the the Groups employees require prior approval to deal in the business providing a comprehensive analysis of the main trends Companys shares.
and factors likely to affect the development, performance and position of the business, including environmental, employee, The Company is not aware of any arrangement between its social, community and human rights issues, together with the shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Groups Key Performance Indicators and a description of the shares and or voting rights.
principal risks and uncertainties facing the business is detailed Authority to Purchase Own Shares in the Strategy Report on pages 47 to 59.
A resolution was passed at the 2014 Annual General Meeting All the information set out in those sections is incorporated by giving Directors authority to buy back ordinary shares up to a reference into, and is deemed to form part of, this report.
maximum of 10% of the total issued ordinary share capital of The Corporate Governance Report pages 63 to 66 and the the Company.
As at the date of this report no shares have been Directors Remuneration Report pages 67 to 75 are incorporated purchased under this authority.
by reference into, and are deemed to form part of, this report.
Substantial Interests in Share Capital Share Capital As at 31 January 2015 the Company has been advised of the As at 1 February 2014, the Companys issued share capital following significant holdings of voting rights in its ordinary share was 2,433,083, comprising 48,661,658 ordinary shares of 5p capital pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of each.
However, following a reorganisation of the Companys the Financial Conduct Authority DTRs : share capital as approved by the shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM held on 26 June 2014, each Number of 5p ordinary share was subdivided into 4 ordinary shares of ordinary shares % of Ordinary share voting rights held capital 1.25p each.
The issued share capital following the 2014 AGM was 2,433,083, comprising 194,646,632 ordinary shares of Pentland Group Plc 111,854,888 57.47 1.25p each.
The new 1.25p ordinary shares were admitted to Sports World International Ltd 22,301,020 11.46 the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on Aberforth Partners 18,367,614 9.44 the London Stock Exchange on 30 June 2014.
As at 31 January 2015 the Companys issued share capital is Fidelity Management and Research LLC 10,077,300 5.18 2,433,083, comprising 194,646,632 ordinary shares of 1.25p each.
The Company has not been notified of any significant changes in interests pursuant to the DTRs between 31 January 2015 and Shareholder and Voting Rights the date of this report.
All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend Relationship Agreement and vote at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
On a show of hands at a general meeting, every member present in In accordance with LR 9.2.
2AR 2 a, the Company has entered person or by proxy shall have one vote and, on a poll, every into a written and legally binding relationship agreement with member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for its controlling shareholder Pentland Group Plc.
So far as the every ordinary share they hold.
Subject to relevant statutory Company is aware, the independence provisions included provisions and the Companys Articles of Association, holders within the relationship agreement have been complied with of ordinary shares are entitled to a dividend where declared during the period since the agreement has been in force.
or paid out of profits available for such purposes.
61 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Directors Report Continued Directors or disability.
Recruitment, promotion and the availability of training are based on the suitability of any applicant for the The names and roles of the current Directors together with job and full and fair consideration is always given to disabled brief biographical details are given on page 60.
The Directors persons in such circumstances.
Should an employee become are responsible for the management of the business of the disabled during his or her employment by the Group, every Company and, subject to law and the Companys Articles of effort is made to continue employment and training within their Association Articles, the Directors may exercise all of the existing capacity wherever practicable, or failing that, in some powers of the Company and may delegate their power and alternative suitable capacity.
The number of Directors at any one point in time shall not be Auditor less than two.
KPMG LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in The Articles give the Directors power to appoint and replace office as auditor of the Company.
Any Director so appointed shall hold office only until re-appointment will be proposed to shareholders at the the dissolution of the first AGM of the Company following forthcoming AGM.
appointment unless they are re-elected during such meeting.
Disclosure of Information to the Auditor The Articles require that, at each AGM of the Company, any Each person who is a Director at the date of approval of this Director who was elected or last re-elected at or before the report confirms that: AGM held in the third calendar year before the then current calendar year must retire by rotation and such further Directors So far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information must retire by rotation so that in total not less than one third of of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Directors retire by rotation each year.
A retiring Director is Each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have eligible for re-election.
taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant However in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance audit information and to establish that the Companys Code the Board has determined that all Directors will stand for auditor is aware of that information.
Going Concern Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended expectation that the Company, and the Group as a whole, by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the financial Change of Control Significant Agreements statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Company Annual General Meeting AGM and the lenders of the 155 million bank syndicated facility shall enter into an agreement to determine how to continue the facility.
The Companys AGM will be held at 1pm on 17 June 2015 at If no agreement is reached within 20 business days of the date Edinburgh House, Hollinsbrook Way, Pilsworth, Bury, Lancashire, of change in control, the lenders may, by giving not less than BL9 8RR.
The notice of this years AGM is included in a separate 10 business days notice to the Company, cancel the facility and circular to shareholders and will be sent out at least 20 working declare all outstanding loans, together with accrued interest and days before the meeting.
This notice will be available to view all other amounts accrued immediately due and payable.
under the Investors section of the Companys website, www.
Contractual Arrangements Essential to the Business The Directors consider that each of the proposed resolutions to of the Group be presented at the AGM is in the best interests of the Company The Board considers that continuing supply from Nike and and its shareholders and employees as a whole and most adidas, being the main suppliers of third party branded sporting likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit products, to the Groups core sports fashion retail operation of its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously is essential to the business of the Group.
recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each of the proposed resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect Employees of their own shareholdings.
The Group communicates with its employees through team briefs and via the Companys intranet and notice boards.
Views of employees are sought on matters of common concern.
Priority By order of the Board is given to ensuring that employees are aware of all significant matters affecting the Groups performance and of significant organisational changes.
The Groups employee remuneration strategy is set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 75.
Brian Small The Group is committed to promote equal opportunities in Chief Financial Officer employment regardless of employees or potential employees 15 April 2015 sex, marital status, creed, colour, race, religion, ethnic origin 62
