Directors Report Other disclosures Dividends between holders of securities that may result in restrictions in the transfer of The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 8.2 pence per securities or voting rights.
Further details of the rights, restrictions and share 2014: 12.3 pence, making a total dividend for the year of 13.2 pence obligations attaching to the share capital of the Company, including voting per share 2014: 17.3 pence, a decrease of 23.7 per cent over the previous rights, are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Subject to shareholders approving this recommendation at the Annual Association may only be changed with the agreement of shareholders.
General Meeting AGM, the dividend will be paid on 10 July 2015 to Shares acquired through the Companys employee share plans rank pari shareholders on the register at the close of business on 15 May 2015. passu with shares in issue and have no special rights.
Where, under the Companys All Employee Share Ownership Plan, participants are beneficial Directors and re-election owners of the shares but the Trustee is the registered owner, the voting rights At the AGM on 9 July 2014, Justin King stood down from his position as are normally exercised by the registered owner at the direction of the ChiefExecutive and was succeeded by Mike Coupe.
The J Sainsbury Employee Benefit Trusts waive their right to announced the appointment of David Keens as a Non-Executive Director with vote and to dividends on the shares they hold which are unallocated.
Some of effect from 29 April 2015.
David will succeed Gary Hughes as the Audit the Companys employee share plans include restrictions on transfer of shares Committee Chairman with effect from the 2015 AGM.
while the shares are held within the plan.
The UK Corporate Governance Code provides for all directors of FTSE At the AGM held in July 2014, the Company was authorised by shareholders companies to stand for election or re-election by shareholders every year.
to purchase its own shares, within certain limits and as permitted by the Accordingly, all members of the Board, with the exception of David Keens, Articles of Association.
The Company made no purchases of its own shares who will stand for election for the first time, and Gary Hughes, who is stepping during the year and no shares were acquired by forfeiture or surrender or down, will retire and seek re-election at this years AGM.
Full biographical made subject to a lien or charge.
details of all of the current Directors are set out on page 41.
All of the Companys employee share plans contain provisions relating to a Annual General Meeting change of control.
On a change of control, options and awards granted to The AGM will be held on Wednesday 8 July 2015 at QEII Centre, Broad employees under the Companys share plans may vest and become Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at 11.00am.
The Chairmans letter exercisable, subject to the satisfaction of any applicable performance and the Notice of Meeting accompany thisreport, together with notes conditions at that time.
explaining the business to be transacted atthe meeting.
Certain of the Companys credit facilities and banking arrangements contain At the meeting, resolutions will be proposed to declare a final dividend, to change of control clauses under which lenders may cancel their receive the Annual Report and Financial Statements, approve the Directors commitments and declare all outstanding amounts immediately due and Remuneration Report, elect or re-elect all of the other Directors except Gary payable.
There are no other significant agreements that would take effect, Hughes, and to appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors.
In addition, shareholders alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
will be asked to renew both the general authority of the Directors to issue shares and to authorise the Directors to issue shares without applying the Ordinary shares statutory pre-emption rights.
In this regard, the Company will continue to Details of the changes to the ordinary issued share capital during the year are adhere to the provisions in the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles.
At the date of this report, 1,920,946,556 ordinary shares 4 of 28 7 pence have been issued, are fully paid up and are listed on the Shareholders will be asked to authorise the Company to make market London Stock Exchange.
purchases of its own shares.
Shareholders will also be asked to authorise the Directors to hold general meetings at 14 clear days notice where this Major interests in shares flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be in As at 5 May 2015, the Company had been notified by the following investors of the interests of shareholders as a whole.
A resolution to renew the authority their interests in three per cent or more of the Companys shares.
These interests to make political donations as defined by Part 14 of 2006 Companies Act were notified to the Company pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: will also be proposed.
Following the acquisition of Sainsburys Bank last year, customer deposits % of voting rights with the Bank are currently treated as borrowings under Article 98 of the Lord Sainsbury of Turville 3.18 Companys Articles of Association and therefore limit the borrowing Judith Portrait 3.32 headroom which was previously available to the Company and its subsidiaries.
As a result, at the AGM, the Company will propose a special Qatar Holdings LLC 25.10 resolution to replace Article 98 with a new Article which, in line with general market practice, excludes the Bank and its subsidiary undertakings from the Proceedings in Egypt limit on borrowings set out inthe Article and includes extra clarity around Proceedings have been brought against Mike Coupe in Cairo arising out of a what constitutes borrowing.
This reflects general market practice in relation sale by J Sainsbury plc in 2001 of its shares in an Egyptian joint venture.
Mike to the content of articles of association of banks and the fact that those was not employed by Sainsburys in 2001 and has had no involvement with investing in, and dealing with, banks are protected by sophisticated this historic commercial dispute.
The proceedings represent the latest of a regulatory safeguards which are more detailed and prescriptive than can be number of criminal and civil actions against the Company and its employees included in a set of articles.
The limit on borrowing in the new Article will originating from the counterparty to that sale, all the others of which to date remain unchanged at one and one-half times adjusted capital and reserves.
have been unsuccessful or ultimately withdrawn.
The current proceedings involve an allegation of fraud arising out of the share sale transaction.
Share capital and control Despitethe fact that no notice of the proceedings were served on him or the The following information is given pursuant to Section 992 of the 2006 Company, Mike was convicted in absentia on 1 September 2014.
The Company has been advised by Egyptian counsel that the claims on which Except as described below in relation to the Companys employee share the conviction was obtained have no merit and that the conviction should be schemes, there are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the overturned.
An appeal is currently ongoing on the basis that the allegations Companys ordinary shares or the transfer of securities in the Company: are wholly spurious.
no person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company: and the Company is not aware of any agreements 74 Directors Report Thetaxation policy is reviewed annually by the Board.
Tax is a key item Directors interests on the Audit Committee agenda and is discussed quarterly where large or The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the shares of the complex tax items will feature, together with compliance and key risk Company are shown in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 68 and 69. management updates.
The Companys Register of Directors Interests contains full details of Directors interests, shareholdings and options over ordinary shares of the Company.
All of Sainsburys stores are based in the UK, and all our sales are generated here.
As such, substantially all more than 99 per cent of our taxes are paid During the year, no Director had any material interest in any contract of here.
The Group also includes companies based in the following jurisdictions: significance to the Groups business.
Hong Kong, China, India and Bangladesh these offices source many of ournon-food products, and local taxes of 1 million were paid in the year Directors indemnities 2013 14: 1 million : Isle of Man our insurance company is based here for The Directors are entitled to be indemnified by the Company to the extent regulatory reasons, as are many other insurance companies: Ireland, Jersey, permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association in respect of all Guernsey, USA these companies are all dormant and accordingly do not pay losses arising out of or in connection with the execution of their powers, duties any tax.
There are also other Group companies that were incorporated in and responsibilities.
The Company has executed deeds of indemnity for the Ireland, USA, Jersey and the Cayman Islands that are UK tax resident, benefit of each Director in respect of liabilities which may attach to them in meaning that all relevant taxes are payable to the UK Government.
their capacity as Directors of the Company.
The Company purchased and maintained Directors and Officers liability insurance throughout 2014 15, Post balance sheet events which has been renewed for 2015 16.
Neither the indemnities nor the insurance Events after the balance sheet are disclosed in note 38 on page 140 of the provide cover in the event that the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently.
Employment policies Financial risk management The Company is committed to an equal opportunities policy for recruitment The financial risk management and policies of the Group are disclosed in note and selection, through training and development, performance reviews and 28 on pages 117 to 123 to the financial statements.
promotion through our A Great Place to Work strategy.
The Company has well developed policies for the fair and equal treatment of all colleagues and Going concern the employment of disadvantaged persons.
During the year, a number of The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its training courses have been held to ensure that our policies are understood future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic throughout the organisation.
We will adapt and retrain colleagues who have Report on pages 1 to 39.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows become disabled during their employment.
See page 50 for further and liquidity are highlighted in the Financial Review on pages 31 to 39.
The information on our diversity strategy.
Group manages its financing by diversifying funding sources, structuring core borrowings with long-term maturities and maintaining sufficient levels of As well as creating jobs we are committed to providing a workplace where standby liquidity.
Full details of the Groups financing arrangements can be people feel they are given the right opportunities to succeed in a safe, healthy found in note 20 on pages 109 to 111 to the financial statements.
In addition, and respectful environment.
We know this is important and this is the reason notes 28 and 29 on pages 117 to 129 to the financial statements include why a Great Place to Work is one of our five values.
Our 20x20 Sustainability theGroups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its Plan includes a number of commitments within the category: for further financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments information see our website at http: www.
co. uk responsibility andhedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Management are satisfied that stress tests on the future liquidity of the Group Human rights do not indicate a going concern risk.
The Company does not have a specific human rights policy but fairness and As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to integrity are an important part of the responsible way we run our business, as manage its business risks successfully despite the current challenging shown by the values and policies described above and throughout this report.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the In addition, our customers want to be confident that the people who make Company has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable and sell our products are not being exploited, or exposed to unsafe working future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in conditions.
Our Code of Conduct for Ethical Trade covers the employment preparing the financial statements which are shown on pages 82 to 140. practices we expect from our suppliers, both in the UK and abroad.
As we are a founder member of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI, our Code of Conduct is consistent with the ETI Base Code and national and international laws.
Disclosure of information to auditors Forfurther information on this Code of Conduct see our website at Each of the Directors has confirmed that, so far as he she is aware, there is no http: www.
relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to Donations establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
The Company made no political donations in 2015 2014: nil.
See page 23 for details of the Companys charitable donations.
Independent auditors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to be appointed as Essential contracts auditors of the Company.
Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, Sainsburys has contractual and other arrangements with numerous third resolutions to appoint them as auditors and to authorise the Directors to parties in support of its business activities.
None of the arrangements is determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
individually considered to be essential to the business of Sainsburys.
By order of the Board Taxation The Company complies with relevant tax laws, regulations and obligations regarding the filing of tax returns, payment and collection of tax.
Sainsburys Tim Fallowfield does not undertake any tax planning schemes that seek to use so-called tax Company Secretary and Corporate Services Director havens for aggressive tax planning and for the purpose of tax avoidance.
Sainsburys aims to develop an open, honest relationship with the tax authorities 5 May 2015 and involve them at an early stage should any complex tax issues arise.
