Strategic Report Our Strategy Introduction Multichannel The Group has long been established as a leading retailer of Multichannel activity has continued to grow significantly over branded and own brand sports fashion apparel and footwear the last 12 months and we continue to make good progress in the UK and Ireland.
Our Sports Fashion fascias are also now towards our objective of becoming a cutting edge international firmly established in mainland Europe with significant store multichannel retailer.
We believe that the relocation of our digital presence in France, Spain, The Netherlands and Germany and marketing teams in the year to the Sharp Project in Manchester, we intend to continue to extend our geography further which will which is recognised as the leading location for creative digital necessitate the development of a different operating model for production in the North West of England, is an important step countries outside Europe.
Building our reach in, and potentially in achieving this objective.
beyond Europe, not only gives us significant potential for growth In the UK, we have seen significant growth in online sales, but it also cements the strong supplier relationships required principally driven by the strengthening of our mobile offer.
to constantly bring in new and exclusive products and to market Our digital channels continue to be important research them collaboratively.
destinations for our customers and there has been substantial We will sustain our market positions through ongoing investment growth in sales from our instore digital devices kiosks, web tills in the retail store portfolio, development and nurture of global and iPads, both through increased adoption of existing ones by supplier relationships, and the acquisition of brands and retailers customers and through the roll out of additional devices.
These which we can develop and exploit to ensure our overall product enable customers to order products from the website but pay offers remain uniquely appealing.
In working towards these in cash, access extended ranges not available in the store and objectives we aim to act always in a responsible and ethical access our full warehouse stock inventory.
We have also introduced manner with all our stakeholders including suppliers, employees cross-fascia delivery to store which enables customers to order from and of course our customers.
our digital channels and collect the product from any store within our group retail estate.
Overseas, we have rolled out Our core business strength is branded retail and our consumers a full local language and local currency multichannel offer are either sports fashion or outdoor oriented.
Where we use website, mobile site, apps, instore devices, delivery to home own brands we will seek to market them as third party brands.
and store to Ireland, The Netherlands, France, Spain and We seek to build strong market positions which we will always Germany in the last 12 months for JD.
We expect to grow seek to sustain and defend.
We maintain these positions by these markets to be significant contributors in the future.
constantly adding to our brand roster and endeavouring to be partner of choice to as many brands as possible with as much In 2015 we will continue our focus on optimising our digital exclusive product as possible.
Any business in the Group which channels, improving the customer experience, enhancing we now invest in will have relevance to our core strength.
our multichannel proposition, exploiting group synergies All businesses in the Group need to be capable of enhanced and rolling out our multichannel offer internationally.
profitability in the medium term.
Our ultimate objective is to Multichannel sales represented 9.9% of JD and Size?
fascia deliver long term sustainable earnings growth to enhance total sales in the last year.
shareholder returns TSR through share price performance and dividends, whilst retaining our financial capability to invest in the growth and the sustainability of our propositions.
Recent TSR performance is shown in the graph within the Remuneration Report on page 74.
Stores We are engaged in omnichannel retail and we continue to invest considerable time and money in our retail property portfolio, increasingly overseas in the Sports Fashion fascias.
We believe in maintaining high standards of product presentation in well fitted stores as this increases footfall through the door and the desirability of the product within.
This means that we will look to regularly refurbish stores to maintain our high standards of visual merchandising.
We are also keen to use the latest technology in our stores as exemplified by the recent opening in the Trafford Centre.
The store numbers and square footage at the start and end of the year are documented in the Where we are section on page 16.
47 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Our Strategy Continued Infrastructure and Resources Financial Key Performance Indicators One of our most important resources is our people.
We are 2015 2014 % a large equal opportunities employer and we are particularly 000 000 Change proud of our training resources.
We provide direct employment Revenue 1,522,253 1,216,371 25% and career development to thousands of people, both in the Gross profit % 48.6% 48.7% UK and Europe.
The Group employs large numbers of recent school leavers and graduates and 150 training courses were Operating profit 92,646 77,868 19% completed by employees in the last year.
We believe retention Operating profit 102,173 83,032 23% of our best staff is crucial to the success of our business as it before exceptional items preserves the DNA of each business.
Profit before tax and 100,023 81,995 22% We are continuing to invest in our central distribution facility exceptional items Kingsway in Rochdale.
Volumes processed there continue to Profit before tax 90,496 76,831 18% grow quickly requiring continuing investment in mezzanines, racking and machinery.
Basic earnings per 35.17p 29.08p 21% ordinary share a Period ended Period ended Adjusted basic earnings per 38.89p 30.82p 26% 31 January 2015 1 February 2014 ordinary share a Number of Items Processed by 58.75m 49.50m Total dividend payable per 7.050p 6.775p 4% Kingsway Distribution Centre ordinary share a To support our retail businesses a project is ongoing to replace Net cash at end of period b 84,230 45,276 our bespoke legacy ERP with Oracle Retail Systems.
The new systems should start to go live in 2015 with the Outdoor fascias a The prior year has been restated to reflect the 4:1 share split being the expected pilot migration later in the year although the which was approved by shareholders at the Annual General main Sports Fashion fascias will not migrate until 2016.
The earnings per share are We also recognise the importance of protecting our environment calculated based on the continuing operations only.
and are committed to carrying out all our activities with due b Net cash consists of cash and cash equivalents together with consideration for their environmental impact, particularly with interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
regard to ensuring efficient use of energy and other resources and materials, minimising waste by recycling wherever possible and ensuring compliance with relevant legislation and codes On behalf of the Board of best practice.
See also our Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 56 to 59.
The risks faced by the Group and our mitigation plans are reported separately in pages 49 to 50.
Peter Cowgill Executive Chairman 15 April 2015 48
