Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Who We Are Established in 1 98 1with a single store in the North West of England, JD Sports Fashion Plc is a leading multichannel retailer of sports fashion and outdoor brands in the UK and Europe.
6 Overview Who We Are JD is acknowledged as the leading specialist multiple retailer of Established in 2000, Size?
specialises in supplying the UK and fashionable branded and own brand sports and casual wear in Europe and the rest of the World with the finest products from the the UK and Republic of Ireland combining globally recognised best brands in footwear, apparel and accessories.
Initially set up brands such as Nike, adidas and The North Face with strong own to trial edgier product collections before introducing them to the brand labels such as McKenzie, Carbrini, Supply & Demand and mass market through the JD fascia, the Size?
offer has since The Duffer of St George.
JD continues to increase its presence in grown to include its own roster of highly sought-after worldwide the European market with additional stores in France, Spain, exclusive produce releases.
Outside of the UK and Republic of The Netherlands and Germany.
now has stores in France, The Netherlands and Italy.
Scotts retails fashion and sport led brands with authority to Premium branded fashion menswear is a new opportunity for older, more affluent male consumers largely beyond school the Group and our vision is to become the first choice retailer age stocking brands such as EA7, Lacoste, Fred Perry, adidas for branded premium menswear fashion in the UK.
Our current Originals and Original Penguin.
stores offer customers a strong mix of brands including Hugo Boss, Ralph Lauren Polo, Diesel and Stone Island.
7 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Who We Are Chausport operates throughout France retailing leading Sprinter is one of the leading sports retailers in Spain selling international footwear brands such as Nike, adidas and Le Coq footwear, apparel, accessories and equipment for a wide range Sportif together with brands more specific to the local market of sports as well as lifestyle casual wear and childrenswear.
Their offer includes both international sports brands and successful own brands.
Footpatrol is Londons best-known destination sneaker store, with Cloggs is an online niche retailer of premium branded footwear.
a history in supplying the most exclusive footwear.
Originally Cloggs opened its first retail store in Shrewsbury in 2013 and opened in 2002, and relocated to its new store in 2010, it has has opened a further two stores in 2014 in York and Newcastle.
been at the heart of supplying the sneaker fraternity with the most desirable footwear, apparel and accessories as well as providing a hub for the sneaker community to come and chat about what they love most.
Specialising in new and classic sneakers, limited editions, Japanese exclusives and rare deadstock, Footpatrol is based in the heart of Soho on Berwick Street.
8 Overview Who We Are Focus are involved in the design, sourcing and distribution of Mainline Menswear is an online niche retailer of premium footwear and apparel both for own brand and licensed brands, branded Mens apparel and footwear.
such as Peter Werth, Fly 53, Ecko, Ellesse, and Voi Footwear, for both Group and external customers.
com is an online and catalogue business which offers Nicholas Deakins designs and manufactures predominantly customers significant savings on branded fashion and footwear.
Since its inception in 1991, the brand has been moulded into several collections with labels including Nicholas Deakins Green Label clothing and footwear, Deakins and Deakins kids.
Nicholas Deakins supplies both Group and external businesses.
9 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Who We Are Kooga design, source and wholesale rugby apparel and Kukri sources and provides bespoke sports teamwear to schools, equipment, with teamwear, replica and leisurewear ranges.
Teams can design and order their Kooga is also sole kit supplier to a number of professional personalised kit online, with over 75 different sports catered for.
In addition, Kukri is sole kit supplier to a number of professional sports teams and was the official kit supplier to Team England at the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow.
Source Lab designs, sources and distributes football related ActivInstinct is a leading online retailer of performance sports apparel and other merchandise under license from some of the and outdoor equipment, footwear and apparel for the serious biggest clubs in Europe including Manchester United, Chelsea, sports and outdoor enthusiast.
Aside from operating in the Arsenal and Barcelona.
UK, ActivInstinct also has websites for France, Germany, Spain and Italy.
10 Overview Who We Are Blacks is a long established retailer of specialist outdoor apparel, With a strong emphasis on own brands, such as Peter Storm footwear and equipment.
Trading online and from approximately and Eurohike, our Millets outdoor stores are the port of call for a 70 stores, Blacks primarily stock more technical products from more leisurely consumer.
Trading from approximately 90 stores, premium brands such as Berghaus and The North Face helping Millets supplies a more casual outdoor customer who seeks value the consumer, from weekend family users to more avid explorers, for money, providing for a wide range of recreational activities, reach their goals, no matter how high.
such as walking or leisure camping.
Tiso is Scotlands leading outdoor retailer, with 10 stores, including Our Ultimate Outdoors store in Preston is a larger format the larger format Outdoor Experience shops with unrivalled store catering for a comprehensive range of outdoor activities.
product ranges catering for those who take the outdoors a bit We will be opening more stores during the coming year.
Alpine Bikes is a quality cycle retailer, with six standalone shops, stocking premium brands such as Trek, Cannondale, Whyte and Genesis.
Based in the heart of the English Lake District, George Fisher is the UKs premium outdoor destination for more discerning explorers, who can expect the highest levels of personalised customer service.
11 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 The Group has over 800 stores across a number of retail fascias and is proud of the fact that it always provides its customers with the latest products from the very best brands.
The Group embraces the latest online and instore digital technology providing it with a truly multichannel, international platform for future growth.
12 13 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Who We Are 14 Overview Who We Are 15
