Strategic Report Our values make us different Our values remain at the core of our business and are part of our long-term strategy for growth Our values are part of our long-term strategy for growth and make good business sense.
Aswe approach the half-way point inour 20x20 Sustainability Plan, we are working to review ourcommitments to ensure we remain focused on delivering value and values for customers, suppliers, colleagues and shareholders.
We anticipate that we will change our corporate responsibility commitments and key delivery goals, to further align with our new strategy.
Best for food and health We are committed to producing healthier baskets and set tough salt reduction targets for our own-brand products over 15 years ago.
Historically, around ten per cent of our products missed the Governments 2012 salt targets.
We are addressing products such as bacon where, as signatories to the Governments Responsibility Deal 2017 pledge on salt, the targets present the greatest challenge in terms of customer perception.
During the last year, we have also worked with our suppliers to reformulate our own-brand soft drinks and have removed 2,256 tonnes of sugar annually from our customers baskets, equating to 8.9 billion calories per year.
Sourcing with integrity British dairy farmers have come under pressure this year due to price volatility.
Our dedicated Dairy Development Group protects members through a cost of production model that ensures they are paid a fair price and rewarded for environmental standards and animal welfare.
We have nine other Agricultural Development Groups that contribute to our range of over 1,900 British own-brand products.
We continue to work with our suppliers to address the sustainability of our products.
In 2007, we set We relaunched our Taste a stretching commitment to use only sustainable palm oil by 2014, a target we did not reach.
As of theDifference Conegliano Prosecco with an alcohol December 2014, 95 per cent of the palm oil we use to make own-brand products is certified sustainable.
byvolume reduction from We continue to work with our suppliers to bring the remaining sustainable alternatives to market.
11per cent to 10.5 per cent Wehave also improved our seafood offer with the launch of the first Marine Stewardship Council MSC certified tuna sandwich and our exclusive Freedom Food British rainbow trout.
We have received external recognition for having the best own-brand seafood policy, coming joint top of the Marine Conservation Societys 2014 survey.
22 23 Strategic Report England and Liverpool striker Daniel Sturridge was announced as our new ambassador to support campaigns including Active Kids, alongside Paralympians Ellie Simmonds and Jonnie Peacock Respect for our environment We delivered industry leading environmental initiatives, including our Cannock store becoming the firstretail outlet in the UK to be powered by food waste alone.
Our Portishead store became our first torun fridges powered by green gas created using waste from sugar beet suppliers.
We operate the UKs largest dual fuel lorry fleet and are working to increase this to beyond 12 per cent of our core fleet.
We have also launched a unique lorry with a range of features designed to improve safety for cyclists We were ranked and pedestrians.
as a Sustainability Leader in the Our pace of innovation for energy efficiency initiatives has slowed so we are searching for new ideas.
Our existing efficiency programmes continue to deliver through award-winning initiatives such as the 2014 Dow Jones installation of over 100,000 LED lights.
Our energy usage and associated emissions are discussed in Sustainability more detail on page 52.
Index Food Making a positive difference to our community and Staples This year, with help from our customers, colleagues and suppliers, we raised 52million for charitable Retailing causes, including around 7million in support of The Royal British Legion and over 11.5million for Red Nose Day 2015.
Through our Active Kids scheme, we have now donated over 150million worth ofequipment and experiences to schools and clubs since 2005, and the scheme was recognised in March 2015 by the Prime Minister, David Cameron, with a Big Society Award.
We have 384 stores with a local food donation partner, 59 more stores than last year.
However, 71per cent of our stores are without a partner so we are focused on increasing this number.
A great place to work Recognising that our colleagues make the difference, we have continued to provide training for a range of skills, introducing a new Level 2 Apprenticeship for Craft Skills for our fishmongers and bakers.
We have also opened a new college for our Team Leaders and Store Managers, purely dedicated to leadership training.
Our business is changing, and as part of our strategic review we announced restructuring plans as well as a reduction in our store opening programme, which has disappointingly resulted in fewer job opportunities.
We are, however, committed to being a good employer and work hard to promote the opportunities available.
In the last year, over 450 colleagues pledged their time to mentor young people about careers in retail and since 2008, we have helped over 24,000 people who have faced barriers into work through our You Can scheme.
This year we invested in the We are also proud to pay our fair share of tax.
Whilst we are obliged to pay tax in accordance future of British farming through our new Horticulture withthe law, we also ensure that our taxation policy is aligned with our corporate values.
Apprenticeship scheme Wemaintain good corporate practice and strict controls in order to protect our shareholders funds.
Further information about our values and our 20x20 Sustainability Plan can be found at www.
