REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT The following sets out the Remuneration Policy the Policy for Directors of the Company.
This Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM and took effect from that date, 27 May 2015.
Since the Policy has a maximum term of three years, the Committee is not seeking approval for it this year and it is set out in the report for reference only.
There have been no changes to the Policy and the Committee intends that it remains in effect until the 2018 AGM.
For clarity, we have updated the Policy to reflect 2016 figures where relevant.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The remuneration of the Executive Directors is set by the Remuneration and Nominations Committee under delegated powers from theBoard.
POLICY TABLE Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary To recognise the The Committee sets base Salaries for Executive n a responsibilities, experience salaries within the same Directors are targeted and ability of our talent framework as those for all at around the median in a competitive global other employees taking for the peer group.
environment, keeping our into account a range of people focused on and factors, including: Whilst there is no passionate about the brand.
maximum salary, any the individuals increases will normally be skills, performance in line with the range of and experience: increase for all employees their overall contribution across the Group.
to the business during the year: The Committee retains the the cost to the Company: flexibility to award increases salary increases above this level in certain awarded across the circumstances, for example: Group as a whole: the external economic to reflect the individuals climate: and development and external benchmark performance in the role: data at other global to reflect a significant companies of similar increase in the size and or global reach individuals role or within relevant sectors responsibility: and and or companies with where a new recruit or a high growth profile.
promoted employees salary has been set Base salaries are normally lower than the market reviewed, although not level for such a role necessarily increased, and larger increases annually.
Base salaries are justified in the may be reviewed more Committees opinion as frequently at the discretion the individual becomes of the Committee.
The Committee considers the impact of any base salary increase on the total remuneration package.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GOV ERN A NCE 64 Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Pension To offer market competitive Executive Directors may Maximum Company n a retirement benefits, to receive contributions into contribution: up to 25% recruit and retain appropriate a defined contribution of salary per annum.
talent to lead the business.
arrangement, as a The Company pension cash allowance or as a contribution for the Executive combination thereof.
Directors for 2016 is: Base salary is the only CEO 50,000 to the element of remuneration Caisse des Franais that is pensionable.
fide LEtranger or as a cash allowance.
Other benefits To promote the wellbeing of Benefit levels are normally The aggregate maximum n a and allowances employees, allowing them reviewed on an annual value of all other benefits to focus on the business.
basis and the cost to the and allowances is not Company of providing normally anticipated to benefits can vary due to exceed 200,000 per a number of factors.
Benefits for Executive The Committee retains Directors may include, the discretion to approve a but are not limited to: higher cost in exceptional circumstances e. g. private medical recruitment or relocation insurance including for or in circumstances their spouse and for where factors outside dependent children : the Companys control life assurance: have changed materially long-term disability e. g. increases in private insurance: medical insurance premia.
car or car allowance: an allowance for school fees for dependent children: clothing allowance: employee discount: other benefits provided to all employees across the Group: and the Company paying any tax or social security contributions due on any of the benefits.
Other benefits may be provided where the Committee considers this appropriate.
Reasonably incurred expenses will also be reimbursed.
The Committee may agree that the Company will pay additional allowances linked to relocation or international assignment where required.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GOV ERN A NCE 65 REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Annual Bonus To reward Executive Awards are based on an The maximum opportunity Performance is measured Directors for achieving appropriate balance of under the annual bonus against a range of key annual financial targets or financial and non-financial plan is 200% of salary in performance metrics, other short-term objectives performance metrics.
determined on an annual linked to the Strategic Plan basis to ensure they remain agreed by the Board.
Performance targets are set The maximum bonus appropriate and are aligned annually by the Committee.
opportunities for 2016 are: with the Groups strategy.
At the end of the year, the CEO 120% of salary.
The weighting between the Committee determines CFO 50% of salary.
measures is determined on the extent to which the an annual basis, however performance targets have at least 75% will be based been achieved.
In doing so, on measures relating to the Committee exercises financial performance.
its judgement to ensure that the outcomes are Performance is measured fair in the context of the over 12 months.
underlying performance of the Group as a whole.
For performance below Bonus pay-outs are in cash.
threshold the bonus payout is nil.
For threshold Bonus awards are subject performance the bonus to clawback details set payout is 25% of maximum.
For target performance the bonus payout is up to 75% of maximum.
For 2016, 100% of the annual bonus opportunity will be based on financial performance metrics.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GOV ERN A NCE 66 Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Long-Term To incentivise and reward Under the long-term The Committee calibrates Vesting of awards is subject Incentive Plan participants for the delivery incentive plan, awards long-term incentive share to continued employment.
of long-term performance of shares may be awards for participants as and align the interests granted, which normally a fixed number of shares.
of Executive Directors vest subject to the with our shareholders.
continued employment The Committee will of the participant for a determine annual award five year period from levels for each of the the date of grant.
Executive Directors taking into account its Long-term incentive awards philosophy that the total are normally granted in the compensation opportunity form of conditional shares or for Executive Directors options with a total exercise should be positioned at price of 1 or such higher around the upper quartile amount as determined by of an appropriate peer the Committee at grant.
group as determined They may however be by the Committee.
awarded in other forms if it is considered appropriate.
The maximum award to any individual in respect Unvested awards are of any one financial year subject to malus details will be over no more than set out later in this report.
Details of the awards in respect Dividend equivalents may of each financial year will accrue over the five year be disclosed in the Annual vesting period.
will normally be paid in shares on a cumulative reinvestment basis.
The Committee may adjust and amend awards in accordance with the plan rules.
NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE DISCRETION TO HONOUR ALL PRIOR COMMITMENTS The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office where the terms were agreed before this Policy came into effect or prior to an individual being appointed a Director of the Company and where the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments include the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares including awards granted prior to and shortly after Admission of the Company including the JC PLC Share Award and the One-Off Share Award as detailed below, in line with the terms of the payment that were agreed at the time the award was granted.
JC PLC SHARE AWARD Prior to Admission, a co-investment plan was operated which required executives to invest in shares of Choo Luxury Holdings Limited.
In return for the participants investment in these shares, they were granted matching phantom i. e. cash-settled options which participated in the growth in the value of the Company from the date of the investment to the end of the vesting period.
On Admission of the Company, participants exercised a portion of their phantom options.
The remaining phantom options were surrendered by participants.
Following Admission of the Company, participants were granted awards in the form of an option with a nominal total exercise price of 1 or conditional share awards.
The number of shares awarded was linked to the Black-Scholes value of the phantom options surrendered.
These awards will normally become exercisable or will vest in equal tranches in July 2016, July 2017 and July 2018 subject to the participants continued employment with the Group.
Details of the outstanding awards made to the CEO under the plan are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GOV ERN A NCE 67 REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED ONE-OFF SHARE AWARD PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND APPROACH TO TARGET SET TING Following Admission of the Company, selected senior management The performance measures for the annual bonus are set by the and the Executive Directors of the Company were granted a one-off Remuneration and Nominations Committee on an annual basis award in the form of an option with a nominal total exercise price of toreflect the Groups financial objectives for any given year.
1 or conditional shares, which normally vest 50% on the fifth and 50% on the sixth anniversary of the date of grant subject to the The performance targets applied to the annual bonus are reviewed participants continued employment with the Group.
The CFOs award annually, based on a number of internal reference points including the vests in equal tranches on the fourth, fifth and sixth anniversary of the budget for the financial year and prior year performance and external date of grant, subject to his continued employment with the Group.
reference points including consensus forecasts, forecasts for the Details of the outstanding awards made to Executive Directors under wider luxury industry as well as the wider economic environment.
the plan are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report.
The Committee believes that the payouts under the bonus plan REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS COMMIT TEE DISCRETION IN should only be received for outperformance.
Given the level of REL ATION TO FUTURE OPERATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY stretch in the performance targets for the annual bonus at all levels, In the event of a variation of share capital, demerger, dividend in the Committee considers it appropriate to set payouts for target specie, special dividend or similar event, the Committee may adjust performance at up to 75% of the maximum.
Maximum awards will or amend awards in accordance with the rules of the relevant plan.
only be earned where the performance of the Group has significantly exceeded expectations.
If the Company has been or will be affected by a demerger, dividend in specie, special dividend or other transaction which will affect the The following sets out the performance measures that will be used current or future value of the Companys shares, awards may vest to for the annual bonus for 2016: the extent the Committee determines, which may include awards being time pro-rated if the Committee considers it appropriate.
MEASURES revenue growth: The Committee retains the discretion to amend performance targets net income growth: and in exceptional business or regulatory circumstances or to vary such reduction in net working capital as a percentage of revenue.
targets if acting fairly and reasonably if it considers it appropriate to do so.
If discretion is exercised in this way the Committee may WHY consult with major shareholders as appropriate.
The measures were chosen to support the Companys key financial objectives for 2016 of: The Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy for example for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative growth: purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without margin expansion: and obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
MALUS LONG-TERM INCENTIVE AWARDS AND SHAREHOLDER ALIGNMENT Under the malus provision, the Committee can reduce awards that The Committee believes that the long-term incentive plan should have not yet vested.
Malus may apply where stated in the Policy primarily be used as a tool to align the interests of the management table above.
team with those of the Companys shareholders.
The circumstances in which malus would apply are set out below: In order to achieve this primary objective and to ensure that the long-term incentive plan acts as a strong motivation and retention where there has been a material misstatement of the Companys tool, encouraging individuals to remain in long-term employment with Annual Report and Financial Statements for the financial year the Company, the Committee considers it appropriate to grant during which the award was granted and or for any subsequent long-term incentive awards that are subject to an extended vesting financial year ending before either the last date when the award period i. e. five years from the date of grant rather than granting becomes exercisable or the final vesting date: awards which are subject to performance over a shorter period where there has been serious reputational damage to the i. e. three years from the date of grant, which the Committee Company as a result of the participants actions or the actions considers may drive shorter-term behaviours.
ofamember of the team for which the participant is directly responsible: To emphasise the link between the management team and where the participant has deliberately misled the Company, the shareholders, the Committee also encourages the Executive Companys shareholders or the market regarding the Companys Directors to build up significant shareholdings in the Company.
financial performance: or Executive Directors are therefore expected to build up a significant gross misconduct.
shareholding in the Company over the seven years following Admission.
The shareholding guideline for the CEO is 500% CL AW BACK of base salary and for the CFO is200% of base salary.
The Committee can reclaim bonus payments made from 2016 onwards, for a period of up to two years post the payment date in the following circumstances: where there has been a material misstatement of the Companys Annual Report and Financial Statements for the financial year to which the bonus payment relates: or gross misconduct.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GOV ERN A NCE 68 SCENARIO CHARTS The regulations require the inclusion of a scenario chart which sets out what each of the Executive Directors could receive for varying levels of performance in respect of the financial year.
The following chart has been updated to reflect the 2016 remuneration package.
The Committee does not currently intend to grant a long-term incentive award in respect of 2016 and as such no determination has yet been made on the number of shares that would be granted to each of the Executive Directors under the long-term incentive plan.
The following chart therefore only includes the value of base salary, pension, other benefits and allowances andthe annual bonus.
CEO SCENARIO CHART CFO SCENARIO CHART THRESHOLD 10 0 % 0.89 M THRESHOLD 10 0 % 0.5 9 M TARGET 69 % 31% 1.28 M TARGET 8 7 % 13 % 0.67 M MA XIMUM 53 % 47 % 1.67M MA XIMUM 7 7 % 23 % 0.76 M FIXED PAY ANNUAL REWARD FIXED PAY ANNUAL REWARD The above charts are based on the following assumptions: Below threshold is based on fixed pay only, which includes 2016 base salary, pension assuming both of the Executive Directors participate in the pension and other benefits and allowances.
For simplicity, the normal maximum other benefit and allowances cap of200,000 has been used.
It is noted that the actual level of benefits will vary by year.
Target includes fixed pay as noted above and target bonus opportunity 50% of the maximum.
Maximum includes fixed pay as noted above and the maximum bonus opportunity.
The Committee does not currently intend to grant a long-term incentive award in respect of 2016.
The value of long-term incentives hastherefore been excluded from the above.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Purpose Approach to fees Chairman and Non-Executive Directors fees Fees are set at a market appropriate rate with reference to fees paid to other NonTo attract and retain high-calibre Executive Directors at companies of a similar size to the Company and to reflect the time Non-Executive Directors.
commitment and the personal contribution expected from Non-Executive Directors.
Fees are normally reviewed annually.
The remuneration of the Chairman is set by the Board based on a recommendation from the Remuneration and Nominations Committee.
The Chairman is paid a single fee for all responsibilities.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is set by the Board based on a recommendation from the Chairman.
Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee for theirrole.
Additional fees may be paid for additional Board duties such as chairmanship of a committee and the SID role.
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman are expected to invest 50% of their net of tax fees in the Companys shares.
Any investment at Admission is recognised as a prepayment of such investment of fees.
Fees paid are subject to a maximum cap, which is stated in the Companys Articles of Association.
Any changes in this would be subject to shareholder approval.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Reasonably incurred expenses will be reimbursed.
Additional fees or benefits may be other benefits provided, where appropriate, at the discretion of the Board.
To enable the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors to undertake their roles.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any incentive arrangements operated by the Company.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GOV ERN A NCE 69 REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY FOR NEW HIRES NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The remuneration policy for new hires has been updated to reflect If a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director is appointed, the clarificatory announcement made on its operation on 8 May 2015. remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with thosedetailed in the remuneration policy for Non-Executive The Committee aims to attract, motivate and retain Executive Directorsabove.
Directors with the required expertise to develop and deliver the SERVICE CONTRACT AND EXIT PAYMENT POLICY business strategy, while at the same time ensuring that the EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS remuneration arrangements offered are in the best interests Executive Director service agreements, including for early ofboththe Company and its shareholders.
termination, are carefully reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee does not believe that there should be any element In determining the appropriate remuneration arrangements for a new ofreward for failure.
recruit, the Committee will take into account all relevant factors, including but not limited to, the individuals skills and expertise, local The Committees approach to termination payments is to consider market practice, appropriate market data and the individuals existing each case on an individual basis taking into account any preremuneration package.
established contractual agreements including the provisions of any incentive plans, the performance and conduct of the individual and In cases of hiring a new recruit to the Board including an internal the commercial justification for any payments.
promote, the Committee will ensure that the remuneration arrangements are in line with the approved remuneration policy and The key terms and conditions of the current Executive Directors, all its elements as set out in the Policy table above.
The ongoing asstipulated in their service agreements, are set out below: annual remuneration arrangements for new Executive Directors will therefore comprise: NOTICE PERIOD Each Executive Directors service agreement is terminable by base salary: theExecutive Director on six months written notice.
suitable pension and other benefits and allowances which may The Company may terminate Pierre Denis service agreement include a relocation allowance where the Committee considers on12 months written notice.
itappropriate : The Company may terminate Jonathan Sinclairs service an annual bonus opportunity: and agreement on six months written notice.
For new appointments, the Committees policy is that Executive Director service agreements will provide up to 12 months The maximum ongoing level of annual variable remuneration which noticeby the Company and up to 12 months notice by the may be awarded to a new executive shall therefore be limited to the Executive Director.
levels set out in the Policy table i. e. 200% of salary for the annual bonus and 2,500,000 shares under the long-term incentive plan for TERMINATION PAYMENTS Executive Directors, excluding buy-out awards.
The Company is entitled to terminate each Executive Directors employment immediately and make a payment in lieu of notice The Committee retains the flexibility to undertake the following comprising the executives base salary in respect of the notice actions, as appropriate, in the best interests of the Company and period or the remaining part of it and a sum equal to the value of therefore shareholders: other benefits during the notice period or the remaining part of it.
Alternatively, the Company may continue to provide Jonathan For external appointments, the Committee may offer additional Sinclair with his contractual benefits for the duration of what cash and or share awards buy-out awards to take account of would have been his notice period or the remaining part of it.
remuneration relinquished when leaving a former employer.
As far The Company may elect at its discretion to make the payment in as possible and appropriate, such payments would reflect the lieu as a lump sum or to pay half the payment in lieu as a lump nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to sum and to pay the second half subsequently in equal instalments.
Where appropriate, the Committee A duty to mitigate may apply to the payment in instalments.
retains the discretion to utilise Listing Rule 9.4.
2 for the purpose of making such an award.
ANNUAL BONUS For an internal appointment, the Committee would honour any Where an Executive Director leaves office during the performance contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to the period or after the end of the performance year but before Executive Director level, even in instances where they would payment is made any bonus will be at the discretion of the nototherwise be consistent with the prevailing Policy at the time Committee.
Any payment will typically be on a pro rata basis up of appointment.
tothe termination date, taking into account the extent to which As set out in the regulatory information statement on 8 May 2015, any performance targets have been met.
the Committee may also offer additional cash and or share-based Under his service contract, other than in certain bad-leaver elements to secure an appointment, which will be limited to a circumstances, where the Company gives notice to Pierre Denis, value equivalent to 2,500,000 shares at the time of such he is entitled to a pro rata annual bonus taking into account time in appointment.
The Committee would determine the performance employment during the financial year and the extent to which any conditions and time horizons that would apply to such awards at performance targets have been met.
The Committee would provide full disclosure of the Upon voluntary resignation or termination for cause, no bonus rationale for such an award in the Directors Remuneration Report payment would be made.
in the year following such an award.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GOV ERN A NCE 70 LONG-TERM INCENTIVES The appointments of each Non-Executive Director are for a fixed The treatment of long-term incentive awards is governed by the term of six years, subject to annual re-election in general meeting.
The appointments of all the Non-Executive Directors may be terminated at any time upon written notice, in accordance with the JC PLC SHARE AWARD Articles of Association or upon their resignations.
In addition, the If a participant ceases employment with the Group by reason appointment of the Non-Executive Directors appointed pursuant to ofdisability, death or dismissal without cause including mutual the relationship agreement entered into between the Company and agreement the Committee will determine the number of JAB Luxury may be terminated in accordance with that agreement.
unvested awards that will vest taking into account the proportion REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE REST OF THE COMPANY of time elapsed since the original investment was made under theco-investment plan and a pre-agreed pro-rating approach The remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors outlined foreachtranche of the award.
above are consistent with those for the other employees in the In other circumstances, unless the Committee determines Group, although quantum and award opportunities vary by executive otherwise, unvested awards will lapse on cessation level.
Only the most senior executives in the Group participate in the ofemployment.
Awards to the extent that they have vested on cessation of employment or for any reason or that are allowed to vest During its deliberations on executive remuneration, the Committee asreferred to above, will be exercisable for a period of up to considers the reward framework for all employees worldwide, 12months from the date of cessation or if earlier until the ensuring that the principles applied are consistent with the Executive end of theoption exercise period.
Merit increases awarded to executives are determined within the broader context of employee remuneration.
ONE-OFF SHARE AWARD AND FUTURE AWARDS UNDER THE LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN Due to the size and geographical spread of the Groups operations, Unless the Committee in its sole discretion determines otherwise itdoes not invite employees to comment on the Directors in which case it will determine the terms on which awards vest Remuneration Policy.
and may be exercised, if a participant ceases to be employed bythe Group for any reason, any awards will lapse on cessation CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS ofemployment.
The Committee recognises the importance of understanding the views of shareholders.
The Committee is therefore open to listening OTHER to the views of our shareholders through the year and at the AGM.
Legal fees and outplacement costs may be paid if the Committee considers this commercially appropriate.
The Committee Chairman speaks with the Companys largest shareholder on the subject of remuneration as and when appropriate.
CHANGE OF CONTROL The Companys largest shareholder is very supportive of the In the event of a change of control, Executive Directors may Companys philosophy and policy on remuneration.
The Committee receive a bonus in respect of the year in which the change of will continue to keep its remuneration policy under review to ensure control occurs, which, unless the Committee determines that it remains aligned with the Companys strategic objectives and otherwise, will be pro-rated by reference to the time elapsed in provides strong alignment with shareholder interests.
the bonus year and performance achieved.
Long-term incentive awards will normally vest, taking into account the time elapsed between grant and vest, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Awards may alternatively be exchanged for an equivalent award in the acquirer, where appropriate.
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Non-Executive Directors and Chairman of the Board have letters of appointment which set out their duties and responsibilities.
They do not have service contracts.
The Chairmans letter of appointment states that his appointment is expected to last for at least six years, subject to annual re-election ingeneral meeting.
His appointment is terminable at any time upon written notice, in accordance with the Articles of Association, his resignation or in accordance with the relationship agreement entered into between the Company and JAB Luxury.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GOV ERN A NCE 71 REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT The Committee considers the exact performance targets to be EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS commercially sensitive and as such these have not been disclosed STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR 2016 ahead of the financial year.
However, in next years Annual Report BASE SALARY and Financial Statements, the Committee will provide shareholders No changes will be made to base salaries for 2016, which will with appropriate context on performance against the performance continue to be as follows: targets and the rationale for any bonuspayouts, within commercial constraints.
Pierre Denis 650,000 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PL AN Jonathan Sinclair 350,000 There is currently no intention for Executive Directors to participate ina further long-term incentive plan in 2016.
PENSION In respect of Pierre Denis, the Company will contribute up to 50,000 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS to the Caisse des Franais fide lEtranger.
In respect of Jonathan The following table sets out the Non-Executive Director fee structure Sinclair, the Company will contribute 10% of base salary to the for 2016, which remains in line with 2015: Companys Group Personal Pension Scheme if he contributes at least5% of base salary.
Chairman 150,000 BENEF ITS Basic fee for Non-Executive Directors 50,000 The Committee sets benefits in line with the Policy set out on Board Committee Chairman 15,000 pages64 to 67.
For 2016, each of the Executive Directors will receive private medical insurance for himself, his spouse and dependent Senior Independent Director 5,000 children and life assurance.
As agreed as part of his relocation arrangements on joining the Group, Pierre Denis will also be Fees will be paid in cash.
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman reimbursed for annual school fees in respect of his children up are expected to invest 50% of their net of tax fees in the Companys to a maximum of 18,000 per child and receive a company car.
shares, taking into account any investment prepaid at Admission.
ANNUAL BONUS The maximum bonus opportunity for the Executive Directors in respect of 2016, which is unchanged from 2015, will be as follows: Pierre Denis 120% of base salary Jonathan Sinclair 50% of base salary For 2016, the annual bonus opportunity will be based solely on the following financial performance metrics: revenue growth measured on a constant exchange rate basis, net income growth and a reduction in net working capital as a percentage of revenue.
For 2016, performance below threshold, the bonus payout will be nil.
Forthreshold performance, the bonus payout will be 25% of maximum and for target performance, the bonus payout will be 50% of maximum.
Annual bonus awards will be paid in cash.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GOV ERN A NCE 72 SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 AUDITED The following table sets out the total remuneration for Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Given that JimmyChoo PLC only listed as a public company on 22 October 2014, the comparative figures for 2014 only represent the remuneration received over theperiod 22 October 2014 to 31 December 2014.
It is noted that the Executive Directors did not provide any qualifying services between 1 September 2014 the date of appointment as Directors ofJimmyChoo PLC and 22 October 2014.
Other Total pre Base benefits and Annual long-term Long-term 1 salary Pension allowances Bonus incentives incentives Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Pierre Denis Year to 31 December 2015 650 36 67 135 888 888 22 October 2014 to 31 December 2014 128 8 15 55 206 5,147 5,353 Jonathan Sinclair Year to 31 December 2015 350 4 30 384 384 22 October 2014 to 31 December 2014 68 2 20 90 1,500 1,590 1 The amounts shown in this column reflect the value on grant of the awards made shortly after Admission of the Company to Pierre Denis and Jonathan Sinclair.
Although the regulations require the disclosure of the full grant value of the awards in this table, these awards are subject to continued employment requirements.
Further details on the time horizons for these awards are set out in the 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
ELEMENTS OF THE SINGLE FIGURE OF REMUNERATION AUDITED BASE SALARY The values shown in the table represent the amount received since Admission of the Company.
Annualised base salaries for the Executive Directors following Admission were: Pierre Denis 650,000 Jonathan Sinclair 350,000 PENSION For Pierre Denis, this represents the Companys contribution to the Caisse des Franais fide lEtranger.
Jonathan Sinclair did not participate in the pension arrangements in 2015.
OTHER BENEFITS AND ALLOWANCES The values shown in the table represent the taxable value of benefits received during the financial year.
For Pierre Denis this includes: company car, school fees which is only drawn in respect of two of his three dependent children, private healthcare and product allowances.
For Jonathan Sinclair this includes: private healthcare and product allowances.
ANNUAL BONUS The value shown in the table reflects the annual bonus earned in respect of performance in the year ended 31 December 2015.
The bonus was paid in cash.
The Executive Directors annual bonus awards in relation to performance during 2015 were measured against a basket of metrics and objectives.
For Pierre Denis and Jonathan Sinclair, they were weighted 100% on Group financial objectives.
The table below shows the overall outcome against each of the financial measures.
The Board considered the financial performance of the Group to be above market for the year and in particular, the Group made strong progress against the revenue target set at the beginning of the year, which was considered to be very good performance given the significant headwinds in the luxury market.
The stretch absolute Adjusted Consolidated Net Income targets set at the beginning of the year were not met nor were the net working capital targets.
Weighting as a total of Performance achieved as annual bonus opportunity apercentage of maximum Pierre Jonathan Payout Performance measure Denis Sinclair Threshold Target Maximum % maximum Adjusted Consolidated Net Income 40% 40% 0% Net Revenue growth at constant exchange rates 40% 40% 43.3% Net working capital as a percentage of revenue 20% 20% 0% The actual financial performance targets used for the determination of the annual bonus have not been disclosed as they reward achievement of the Groups business plan, the disclosure of which the Board considers to be commercially sensitive.
The targets will be disclosed, at the earliest, in the Directors Remuneration Report published for the financial year following the year for which the bonus is earned.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GOV ERN A NCE 73 REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED As a result of the above performance, the Committee considered it appropriate to pay Pierre Denis a bonus of c. 21% of salary and Jonathan Sinclair a bonus of c. 9% of salary.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVES No share awards were granted to the Executive Directors during the financial year.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SHAREHOLDINGS AUDITED The Committee recognises the importance of aligning Executive Directors and shareholders interests through the executives building up significant shareholdings in the Company.
Executive Directors are therefore expected to build up a significant shareholding in the Company over the seven years following Admission.
The shareholding guideline for Pierre Denis is 500% of base salary and for Jonathan Sinclair is 200% of base salary.
The table below shows the shareholding of each Executive Director against their respective shareholding guideline as at 31 December 2015: Shares acquired Total value of by the Director Total number of Total number of shares owned at during the period shares owned at shares owned at 31 December as a 31 December 2015 1 2 Individual 31 December 2014 31 December 2015 percentage of salary and 21 March 2016 3 4 Pierre Denis 2,771,428 2,771,428 601% Jonathan Sinclair 35,714 35,714 14% 1 Includes shares held by the Director and by their connected persons.
2 Based on a closing share price on 31 December 2015 of 141p.
3 As disclosed in the Prospectus, following Pierre Denis exercise of awards under the previous phantom share option plan, he agreed to make an investment in JimmyChoo PLC shares.
Pursuant to this agreement, Pierre Denis purchased 771,428 shares immediately following Admission of the Company.
In order to fund his investment, Pierre Denis has entered into a loan agreement with HSBC, pursuant to which he agreed to grant a pledge over 2,771,428 shares to HSBC.
Pierre Denis has agreed that he will hold these shares in line with and in the same proportions as the vesting schedule for the JC PLC Share Awards.
4 2014 share figure is restated as it was reported as 2,771,429 in the previous Annual Remuneration Report.
As shown in the table above Pierre Denis has met his shareholding guideline.
Jonathan Sinclair is on target to meet his shareholding guideline.
The table below shows in relation to each Executive Director the total number of share options with and without performance conditions held at 31December 2015.
Options Options with without performance performance Vested but Exercised Individual measures measures unexercised during the year Pierre Denis 3,676,548 Jonathan Sinclair 1,071,429 PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS AUDITED There were no payments to past Directors during the financial year.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE AUDITED There were no payments for loss of office during the financial year.
TSR PERFORMANCE CHART UNAUDITED The following graph shows the TSR of the Company and the UK FTSE 250 Index as well as a group of luxury comparators since Admission of the Company to 31 December 2015.
TheFTSE 250 Index was selected on the basis that the Company is a member of the FTSE 250 in the UK.
We have introduced the Luxury Comparator Group this year after a 14 month period to illustrate the impact of sector derating across the industry.
The Luxury Comparator Group includes Brunello Cucinelli, Burberry, Kering, LVMH, Moncler, Prada, Salvatore Ferragamo and Tods.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GOV ERN A NCE 74 VALUE OF 100 INVESTED AT ADMISSION 14 0 12 0 10 0 8 0 OC TOBER 2 014 DECEMBER 2 014 FEBRUARY 2 015 APRIL 2 015 JUNE 2 015 AUGUST 2 015 OCTOBER 2 015 DECEMBER 2 015 JIMM Y CHOO LUXURY COMPARATOR GROUP F TSE 2 5 0 HISTORICAL CEO PAY Given that the Company has only been publicly listed since 22 October 2014, the following sets out information regarding the CEOs historical pay since Admission.
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 CEO 000 000 000 000 000 1 Single figure of remuneration n a n a n a 5,353 888 Annual bonus payout as a % of maximum opportunity n a n a n a 36% 17% 1 Long-term incentive payout as a % of maximum opportunity n a n a n a 100% n a 1 The regulations require the value of long-term incentives granted to the Executive Directors to be included at the date of grant as they are subject to continued employment with the Company only.
Further details of the vesting schedule for these awards are provided in the 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CEO REMUNERATION UNAUDITED The table below illustrates the percentage change in salary, benefits and annual bonus for the CEO as against all other employees in the Head Office.
% change in % change in % change in basic salary benefits annual bonus 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 CEO 0.0% 9.0% 26.4% All other Head Office employees 5.5% 4.8% 47.0% NB Figures calculated comparing full year equivalent remuneration as at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015 of Head Office employees only those that were employed in both years.
Bonus refers to actual bonuses paid, though for 2015 these numbers are unaudited.
We used UK non-store employees as the benefit structure is similar UK store employees are remunerated using a commission scheme.
REL ATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY UNAUDITED The following table illustrates total remuneration for all employees in the Group compared to distributions to shareholders based on the financial year up until 31 December 2015.
2014 2015 m m Shareholder distributions dividends and share buybacks 1 Total employee expenditure 10.8 55.5 1 Relates to the period between 22 October 2014 and 31 December 2014.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS UNAUDITED Subject to the Boards approval, Executive Directors are able to accept a limited number of external appointments outside the Company and can retain any fees paid for these services.
Details of such external appointments held in the year up to 31 December 2015 are set out below: Individual Organisation Fees Pierre Denis 1 Jonathan Sinclair LLX Global Business Services SA Nottingham Scientific Limited 5,000 1 A subsidiary of JAB Luxury that provides various services to JimmyChoo PLC and its subsidiaries.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GOV ERN A NCE 75 REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE CHAIRMAN FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 AUDIT ED The following table sets out the total remuneration for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Given that JimmyChoo PLC only listed as a public company on 22 October 2014, the comparative figures for 2014 only represent the remuneration received over the period 22 October 2014 to 31 December 2014.
Board Committee Senior Chairmanship Independent Total fee Total fee Basic fee fee Director fee 2015 2014 000 000 000 000 000 Peter Harf Year to 31 December 150 150 30 Gianluca Brozzetti Year to 31 December 50 50 10 Fabio Fusco Year to 31 December 50 50 10 Olivier Goudet Year to 31 December 50 50 10 David Poulter Year to 31 December 50 5 55 11 Robert Singer Year to 31 December 50 12 62 10 Anna-Lena Kamenetzky Year to 31 December 21 21 Meribeth Parker Year to 31 December 21 21 Elisabeth Murdoch Year to 31 December 6 6 FORMER NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Bart Becht Year to 31 December 29 9 38 13 Judith Sprieser Year to 31 December 19 6 25 13 Notes: Fees for Anna-Lena Kamenetzky relate to the period from 1 August 2015 her appointment date to 31 December 2015.
Fees for Meribeth Parker relate to the period from 1 August 2015 her appointment date to 31 December 2015.
Fees for Elisabeth Murdoch relate to the period from 13 November 2015 her appointment date to 31 December 2015.
Fees for Bart Becht relate to the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 July 2015 when he stepped down from the Board.
Fees for Judith Sprieser relate to the period from 1 January 2015 to 5 March 2015 when she stepped down from the Board.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GOV ERN A NCE 76 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SHAREHOLDINGS AUDITED The following table shows the shareholding of each of the Non-Executive Directors and their connected persons as at 31 December 2015.
Total number of Total number of shares owned at shares owned at 31 December 2014 31 December 2015 Peter Harf 928,571 928,571 Bart Becht 928,571 928,571 Gianluca Brozzetti Fabio Fusco 107,143 107,143 Olivier Goudet 928,571 928,571 Anna-Lena Kamenetzky n a 9,500 Elisabeth Murdoch n a Meribeth Parker n a 9,500 David Poulter 142,857 142,857 Robert Singer 285,714 285,714 Judith Sprieser 35,714 35,714 As at the date of resignation.
THE REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS COMMIT TEE UNAUDITED As of 31 December 2015, the Committee comprised of two Non-Executive Directors: Peter Harf Chairman Gianluca Brozzetti The Board has decided that, given the professional background and experience offered by the two members of the Committee, it is not necessary to extend membership of the Committee further at this point.
This is something that the Board will keep under regular review, particularly in light of the recommendation of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee determines and recommends to the Board the Groups policy on executive remuneration, determines the level of remuneration for Executive Directors and the Chairman and other senior executives and prepares the Annual Remuneration Report for approval by shareholders at the AGM.
The Committee also assists the Board in reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board.
Itis also responsible for reviewing succession plans for the Directors, including the Chairman, the CEO and other senior executives.
The Committee held three scheduled meetings during 2015 in March, August and November.
During the year, the Committee received independent advice on executive remuneration matters from Deloitte LLP Deloitte.
Deloitte isamember of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Committee has reviewed the advice provided by Deloitte during the year and is comfortable that it has been objective and independent.
Total fees received by Deloitte in relation to the remuneration advice provided to the Committee during 2015 amounted to 46,400 excluding VAT based on the required time commitment.
SHAREHOLDER VOTING UNAUDITED The following table shows the results of the votes on the Directors Remuneration Policy and the Directors Remuneration Report at the AGM in May 2015.
For Against Total Votes Withheld Resolution Votes % Votes % Votes Votes Approval of the Directors Remuneration Policy 275,689,703 96.95 8,679,103 3.05 284,368,806 0 Approval of the Directors Remuneration Report 283,015,340 99.52 1,353,466 0.48 284,368,806 0 On behalf of the Board, PETER HARF CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS COMMIT TEE 21 March 2016 JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GOV ERN A NCE 77
