STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK Our goal is to pursue growth without compromising the Jimmy Choo LFL growth: through continued performance of our collections brand.
This is achieved by successful product collections driving and investment in our DOS network, with selected openings, positive LFL sales, opening new DOS and expansion in Asia and relocations and New Store Concept renovations in Jimmy Choos selected new markets.
existing developed markets of Europe, USA and Japan.
Retail led growth driven by: Shoes are at the heart of Jimmy Choo and will remain the core Door growth opportunity: expansion of DOS in Greater China, offering.
Shoes represent just over three quarters of revenue, which where Jimmy Choo is currently underpenetrated compared to we do not expect to change substantially.
Jimmy Choo is a specialist our peers and potential franchise buyouts and JVs in fast luxury shoe company focused on growing our relationship with our growing markets, including the Middle East and South Korea.
Growth will always be pursued within the It is expected that around half of Jimmy Choos DOS context of protecting the Jimmy Choo brand identity and luxury development will be in China each year.
We believe that Jimmy Choos unique brand DNA and Online: the Group will continue our investment in online which experienced design team will enable us to continue to deliver has proved to be one of the key elements of growth in the collections that resonate strongly with our clients.
Recent investments into the supply chain and systems upgrades are expected to position the Group to We aim to deliver earnings growth and returns through focusing on capitalise on the growth of the global online trend and provide growth ahead of the market and margin expansion, together with an Omnichannel distribution offering in the medium-term, good cash flow conversion.
starting progressively in the USA and Europe.
Wholesale entry: exploration of potential franchise opportunities REVENUE GROWTH in new markets where Jimmy Choo currently has a limited Revenue growth is supported by the store opening programme, presence, particularly in Latin America, Eastern Europe and Travel through which the Group plans to open 10 to 15 new DOS each year, Retail, alongside continued development of our existing business.
as well as the roll out of the recently introduced New Store Concept MARGIN EXPANSION across the estate.
In addition to our DOS expansion plans, we intend to pursue growth through our multibrand, franchise and JV channels.
The business is now scaled for growth.
Our expectation is that the All of these are important for Jimmy Choos business model as they revenue growth initiatives described above, together with increased provide access to new markets.
control over distribution, should drive gross margin improvement in the business.
Direct costs will grow broadly in line with retail revenue Our aim is to grow towards a regional mix more in line with the wider and indirect costs will grow slower than overall revenue.
The new luxury market through growth in Asia and selected new markets, systems and logistics investment will help the management team while maintaining our presence in EMEA and the Americas.
Jimmy toimprove inventory efficiency, thereby reducing markdowns and Choos revenue growth strategy is focused around the following increasing cash flow.
In 2015, margin expansion was hindered by keypillars: headwinds inmarket growth and macro-economic conditions: however we havetaken steps on our cost base to create the Market outperformance: we believe that Jimmy Choos client conditions for margin expansion to resume in 2016. insight, design approach and systems which we have developed as a specialist will enable us to outperform the wider luxury market.
Jimmy Choo has the right specialist resource, knowhow, skills and people to excel in this attractive and complex category.
LONGER TERM VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 Corporate The ability for the Company to operate within its current and Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the expected financing covenants.
Company in line with its long-term business planning cycle.
The The Groups ability to raise external finance based on projected long-term planning cycle is a Strategic Planning Process and includes business requirements.
a detailed financial forecast for revenue, cost, profit measures, working capital requirements, cash flow, capital investment In developing the financial forecast, the Directors have also requirements and the levelof available capital resources.
The Board considered the principal risks to which the Group is exposed, as set believes that a three year planning horizon is an appropriate time out on pages 42 to 44, including strategic, operational, financial and horizon for the business based onthe type of investments that the reputational risks.
These risks are subject to oversight at both the business typically undertakes.
Audit and Risk Committee in regard to financial control risk and at the Board in respect of enterprise risks.
These risks, offset by possible As part of the Strategic Planning Process, the Strategic Plan and mitigating scenarios, were considered in order to stress test the thefinancial forecast are reviewed annually bythe Board and this Strategic Plan and the detailed financial forecast.
review includes: Based on the analysis described above, the Directors have concluded A review of planning assumptions used in the financial plan, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able testedagainst historic trends and future market expectations.
to continue in operation and to meet its liabilities as they fall due for Challenging the Strategic Plan and the output from the the period until 31 December 2018. financialprojections.
A review of financing, investment and capital requirements overthe planning period and the businesss ability to make investments within the constraints of financing available.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 27
