44 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 2.
Financial Financial Review of Operations continued Speciality products for the pharmaceutical industry Key Statistics 35.7 million 1.9 16.7 million 481 million 1,489 Capital expenditure Capex depreciation R&D expenditure Average invested capital Employees Year to 31st March % at 2015 2014 % constant million million change rates Revenue 370 371 1 Sales excluding precious metals sales 327 322 1 3 Underlying operating profit 88.8 84.1 6 7 Return on sales 27.2% 26.1% Return on invested capital ROIC 18.4% 18.8% Sales Sales by Destination Rest of Rest of World Asia 2% 7% China Research Chemicals 3% Europe 24% 37% Catalysis and Chiral Technologies API Manufacturing 10% 66% North America 51% Divisional Sales Divisional Underlying Operating Profit million million 88.8 350 327 90 322 84.1 308 76.6 280 60 210 140 30 70 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 45 Strategy Fine Chemicals is focused on delivering niche products and services to Deliver niche products and services pharmaceutical markets where it can apply its speciality and expertise to pharmaceutical markets in research, development and manufacturing to deliver existing and new products.
Differentiation through technology while delivering on speed to Leverage synergies between research, market and quality is a key value proposition we offer to both branded and development and manufacturing generic pharmaceutical customers.
Move further up the pharmaceutical By leveraging synergies between research, development and manufacturing value chain across the division, we maintain a robust portfolio of new products and customers.
Vertical integration and close collaboration between its Catalysis Deliver superior growth and Chiral Technologies and Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient API Manufacturing businesses are key advantages the division offers to customers through providing a broad technical offering.
Building upon its reputation as a premier API development business that can reliably stand out against its competition, Fine Chemicals aims to extend its position in generics by moving further up the pharmaceutical value chain, increasing access to a high growth market segment, through coinvesting in and codeveloping formulated drug products.
The division aims to deliver superior growth in markets that are driven by global trends towards the increased use of pharmaceutical products.
Its strong position in niche areas and its development and manufacturing infrastructure position it well for growth at rates ahead of industry baselines.
Divisional Summary as at 31st March 2015 Business API Manufacturing Catalysis and Research Chemicals Chiral Technologies What We Do Develop and manufacture complex active Supply a range of speciality chemical, Supply speciality inorganic and organic APIs for a variety of treatments, including chiral and biocatalytic technologies chemicals and biochemicals under the for pain management and Attention Deficit and products Alfa Aesar brand name Hyperactivity Disorders ADHD How We Add Use our unique technology position and Use our unique catalysis technology Support the research and development expertise to develop and manufacture position to develop and manufacture activities of our customers around the Value APIs, enabling first to market products for customers in the world commercialisation opportunities for pharmaceutical and agrochemical sectors our branded and generic customers Societal Benefits Improved quality of life for an ageing Enhances life science development Our customers work underpins a global population broad range of health and other societal benefits Treats critical conditions e. g. cancer, chronic pain, neurodegenerative diseases Global Drivers Population Growth Health and Nutrition Urbanisation Ageing Population Increasing Wealth Customer Profile Multiple small and large branded and Pharmaceutical, fine chemical and Academic and industrial research generic pharmaceutical companies agrochemical companies organisations Global customer base, expanding in Asia Major Medtronic Noramco Evonik Sigma Aldrich Competitors Francopia Siegfried BASF Cambrex AMRI Employees 1,489 Locations Three sites in the US and two in the UK UK, US, Germany, India and China UK, US, Germany, China, India and Korea 2014 15 Sales 216 million 34 million 77 million Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 46 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 2.
Financial Financial Review of Operations continued FINE CHEMICALS continued Performance in 2014 15 Fine Chemicals Sales by Business % change 2015 2014 % at constant Fine Chemicals had a good year.
Whilst million million change rates sales of 327 million were up 1% on last API Manufacturing 216 211 3 3 year 3% ahead at constant rates, Catalysis and Chiral Technologies 34 32 4 7 underlying operating profit was 6% Research Chemicals 77 79 -3 -1 ahead.
Return on sales increased by 1.1% to 27.2% driven primarily by Total 327 322 1 3 process efficiency improvements in our API Manufacturing business.
API Manufacturing Research Chemicals Key Investments and Developments Our API Manufacturing business sales Research Chemicals, which operates During the year, we have continued to were up 3% at 216 million and operating globally under the Alfa Aesar brand, invest in the development of APIs to profit was further ahead.
Sales from employs around 480 people and has a ensure a steady pipeline of new products APIs for the treatment of ADHD were global network of operations with eight and move up the pharmaceutical broadly in line with last year, although core sites supported by five stand-alone product value chain.
We are focusing sales of bulk opiates in Europe were sales offices.
on complex, typically smaller volume, down this year as one of our customers In 2014 15, sales were down 3% to APIs and are working with a number of relocated production outside of the 77 million 1% down at constant rates customers partners to formulate and controlled UK market in which we and operating profit also reduced.
To date, this work operate.
Speciality opiate sales were Steady sales in North America and Asia has generated a number of abbreviated also lower as, in line with expectations, were held back by slower markets in new drug applications ANDAs that have we saw increased competition from Europe.
During the year we completed received, or are awaiting, Food and Drug generic manufacturers for an API used in our programme to construct new Administration FDA approval.
There was good warehouses in key regions.
The benefits In November 2014 we purchased demand for the provision of custom of these are now starting to be delivered an API manufacturing facility in Annan, services for API development and this and the business saw growth in sales in south west Scotland which strongly supported sales growth in the business the second half.
complements our existing global during the year.
In line with our long term strategy, manufacturing assets.
This plant offers we have taken a decision to divest further opportunities to optimise the Research Chemicals business.
efficiencies across our operations and Catalysis and Chiral Technologies CCT We are in advanced negotiations will provide additional capacity to CCT develops and supplies speciality regarding its sale and expect to be in support growth in our API Manufacturing technologies and products, many of a position to announce that agreement business, especially in Europe.
which are used by our customers in on the sale has been reached in the Refurbishment of the site is currently complex multi step reactions, mainly for near future.
We anticipate that the underway and we expect it to be the production of APIs.
During the year transaction will be completed by the regulatory compliant in mid 2016. demand was good for CCTs range of end of the calendar year.
catalyst products and sales grew by 4% This divestment is a further to 34 million.
Underlying operating step in delivering our long term strategy profit also grew well.
to focus the group on areas where we can use our expertise in complex chemistry and its applications to deliver value adding sustainable technologies for our customers.
