18 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 1.
Overview Research and Development Continued investment in R&D is vital to the future growth of Johnson Matthey.
This, together with our ability to recruit and retain the worlds top scientific talent, ensures we can create value adding sustainable technologies of the future.
Differentiating Through Chemistry and its Applications Johnson Matthey has expertise in a Our Expertise number of interrelated chemistry skills.
These range from coatings technology, in advanced materials and technology underpins our which is vital to the functionality of our business model to create value.
It gives us a competitive emission control catalysts, to characterisation methods which help edge, creates high barriers to entry and provides access us understand the composition of our products.
However, it is not just our into new markets.
In line with our 3C Strategy, we employ chemistry skills that give us an edge: it is equally important that we know how scientists of the highest calibre and are investing in our best to use them.
That applications people, products and technology to keep our chemistry knowledge, such as how we can manufacture a laboratory based product and processes cutting edge.
at full production scale and then test it to make sure it will work for our customers, is the way we turn our great chemistry ideas into multi million pound businesses.
Differentiation Through Technology Johnson Mattheys skill lies in understanding both the chemistry and its applications Chemistry and its applications Specialist technology Pgm and expertise Coatings chemistry ADVANCED Integration MATERIAL into DESIGN applications Surface Modelling science Manufacture Testing at scale Characterisation 19 Delivering the Right Science at Around 1,600 of our employees In 2014 15 Johnson Matthey work in R&D representing around 13% increased its gross investment in R&D the Right Time of the total workforce and include many by 12% to 169.9 million with the We have a balanced portfolio of short, highly skilled scientists and engineers.
greatest proportion of spend within medium and long term research which Around 80% of our R&D staff work Emission Control Technologies and gives us a sustained pipeline of new within the groups divisions in dedicated Process Technologies.
The proportion products, as shown in the figure below.
R&D and technical centres around the of spend on new business development External university collaborations world.
Alongside these activities, increased this year to support future provide fundamental science knowledge Johnson Mattheys central capability on growth.
to underpin our longer term R&D goals.
strategic R&D is located at five global This complements the work of our core technology centres and works on behalf Find more online at Johnson Matthey science teams which is focused on the of all of the groups businesses.
core expertise that underpins all We maintain a close link between Johnson Mattheys divisions and their our central R&D activities and the ongoing R&D.
Our business funded development work carried out directly by R&D ensures a pipeline of new products our divisions.
This collaboration is key in and facilitates technology transfer into ensuring the rapid transfer of technology the divisions.
This supports technology to support the continued development development within the groups of innovative new products and services divisions where work is mainly focused for our customers.
on delivery of shorter term business specific projects and ongoing product development to address particular market developments or customer needs.
R&D to Deliver Future Growth Johnson Matthey Technology Centres Divisions TIME TO LONG MID SHORT MARKET External Projects University Core Science Business Funded R&D Technology Development Collaboration in Divisions Access to world class Develops expertise in core Aligned with business plans Ongoing product development people facilities Johnson Matthey areas Strong technology pipeline Link into manufacturing Fundamental science to Applicable across divisions Facilitates technology transfer Customer focused aid understanding Underpins ongoing R&D Feeds into divisions Research and Development Distribution of Research and Gross Research and Employees Development Expenditure Development Expenditure million % New New Businesses Businesses Central Fine 180 169.9 10 Fine Central 9% 5% Research Chemicals 152.3 Chemicals Research 160 17% 10% 136.0 8 7% 21% Precious 140 128.6 Metal 120 109.8 Precious 6 Products Metal 100 6% Products 80 4 7% 60 Process 40 2 Technologies Process 20 20% Technologies 0 0 Emission Emission 19% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Control Control Technologies Technologies R&D expenditure R&D expenditure 37% 42% sales Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
