"Strategic report Governance Financial statements Letter from the Chair of the Board ""I am confident in the capabilities of Robins Executive Leadership Team to steer Wood Group through a challenging market environment in 2016 and continue to feel that the Board is well placed to ensure effective challenge, debate and decision making in the best long-term interests of the Group. """
Dear Shareholder The remit of the Groups Safety & Assurance Committee was extended Having marked, in 2014, a natural evolution of the Groups stewardship and its title is in the process of being changed to Safety, Assurance and with the appointment of the Groups first independent non-executive Business Ethics Committee which will aim to enhance governance and chair, the difficult market conditions that prevailed throughout 2015 assurance over compliance matters including inspection and regulatory required that the Board focused more on the practicalities of effective reporting services.
A new Group HSSE Assurance function has been corporate governance.
formed and this will report to the Committee.
The Board responded by adjusting its agenda, devoting more time The Remuneration Committee continued to simplify and standardise to challenging and to supporting the development of the executives the variable pay structure for executive directors and senior managers.
strategic response to the lower for longer oil price environment, with a In 2015, business unit level measures of performance were replaced particular focus on internal simplification and overhead cost reduction: with Group targets for all participants in the long-term incentive plans.
leveraging balance sheet strength for strategic acquisitions and investing The Committee also decided to refine the balance of performance organically in the development of efficient solutions for customers.
measures for long-term incentive plan cycles commencing in 2016 and The Board also devoted time to the Groups longer-term strategic beyond to 50% AEPs and 50% TSR, resulting in a balance more suited development, including growth opportunities beyond our core to the cyclical nature of Wood Groups business and that of our peer upstream oil & gas business.
In addition, annual bonus and long-term incentive scheme rules were updated in line with best practice to include both clawback and Later in the year, the Nomination Committee considered Bob Keillers malus provisions from 2015 onwards.
desire to retire having served for five years since the Groups acquisition of the PSN business that he had led since 2006, ultimately recommending I am confident in the capabilities of Robins Executive Leadership that this should take effect in December to ensure that the new CEO Team to steer Wood Group through a challenging market environment was fully installed ahead of what appears likely to remain a challenging in 2016 and continue to feel that the Board is well placed to ensure trading environment in 2016.
Robin Watsons successful leadership effective challenge, debate and decision making in the best long-term of the Groups largest division, Wood Group PSN, since 2013 and his interests of the Group.
assured performance as Group COO made him the Boards unanimous choice as Bobs successor.
At the 2015 AGM, Michel Contie retired from the Board, having served 5 years as a non-executive director.
Having served as a non-executive director since 2007, David Woodward, our Senior independent non-executive director SID and Chair of the Remuneration Committee does not intend seek reappointment and will retire at the Annual General Meeting in May.
Jann Brown will follow David as SID and Jeremy Wilson will assume the Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
An externally led search for a new non-executive director is Ian Marchant, Chair underway with the objective of broadening the Boards expertise.
23 February 2016 The Board continues to comprise a majority of independent non-executive directors and we remain committed to ensuring that the Board retains the appropriate balance and diversity of skills, experience and personalities.
The Board currently comprises 25% female directors, in line with the recommendations of the Davies Report.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21
