Directors' report The directors submit their report together with the Statement of Directors responsibilities audited financial statements of the Group for the The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group and the John Wood year ended 31 December 2015.
Group PLC the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Group consolidated income statement for the year is set out on Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for page 53.
In respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 an interim each financial year.
The directors have prepared the Group financial dividend of 9.8 cents per share was paid on 24 September 2015 and statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting the directors have proposed a final dividend of 20.5 cents per share Standards IFRSs as issued by the IASB and as adopted by the to be paid on 17 May 2016.
The full year dividend will therefore be European Union, and the Company financial statements in accordance 30.3 cents per share.
with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Group and Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair Further reading view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the Information relevant to and forming part of the report of the directors is profit or loss of the Group for that period.
to be found in the following sections of the annual report: In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: Pages X select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Statement of Directors responsibilities 22 X make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent Fair, balanced and understandable 23 Going concern 18 X state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB and as adopted by the European Union, Viability statement 19 subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Risk management and internal control 23 financial statements.
Board of Directors and biographies 24 to 25 The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position Principal activities and business review 02 to 13 of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Principal risks and uncertainties 18 to 20 financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply Acquisitions and divestments 89 to 90 with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible Principal subsidiaries and joint ventures 96 to 102 for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and, Corporate governance 26 to 31 hence, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Employment policies 17 The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Ethical conduct 17 Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the Health, safety, security and the environment 15 to 16 preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Substantial shareholders 27 legislation in other jurisdictions.
Share capital 86 Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 24 and 25, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: Directors interests in options over ordinary shares 43 Directors interests in ordinary shares 42 X the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB and as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group, and X the directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the significant risks and uncertainties that it faces.
So far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Relevant information is defined as information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report.
Each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
22 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements X Internal control structure Governance code compliance The Group has a clear organisational structure for the control and The Board remains fully committed to maintaining high standards monitoring of its businesses, including defined lines of responsibility of corporate governance and believes that this is key to overall performance and integrity, consistent with our Core Values.
The Group has issued policies which define the standards of business conduct and include Accounting: The Board also believes that good corporate governance extends Contract Risk Management and Review: Health, Safety, Security beyond regulatory compliance and consistently monitors developments and Environment: and Business Ethics.
A Group Business Ethics in best practice, including guidance published by investor groups.
helpline, operated by an independent third party, is in place to enable staff and third parties to raise concerns in confidence about possible This section of the annual report explains how the Group has applied noncompliance with the Groups Business Ethics Policy.
the main principles of Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with shareholders outlined in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued in September 2014 the Governance Code.
A copy of the Governance Code is available at www.
The directors consider that the Group has, throughout X Ongoing monitoring of internal control systems 2015, fully complied with the provisions of the Governance Code which The Board has agreed certain reporting procedures to monitor key applies to the year ended 31 December 2015. risk areas on an ongoing basis, including safety, legal and financial matters.
The Audit Committee has been delegated the responsibility Fair, balanced and understandable to review the effectiveness of the internal financial and IT control systems implemented by management, and the Safety and Assurance The Board considers that the annual report and accounts, taken committee has been delegated responsibility for the effectiveness as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the of the Groups safety policies and systems.
At the end of 2015, information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups responsibility for ethical and regulatory matters was in the process of position, performance, business model and strategy.
being transferred to the Safety and Assurance committee, which will be renamed as the Safety, Assurance and Business Ethics Committee.
Risk management and internal control The Audit Committee is assisted by the internal audit function and, The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal where appropriate, the external auditors.
Where the internal or external control and risk management which is fundamental to the achievement auditors identify any significant deficiencies in the financial internal of the Groups strategic objectives.
control system, a plan of action is agreed to remedy these and progress against them is tracked and reported with updates provided Risk management to the Audit Committee as necessary.
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, The Chairs of the Audit and Safety & Assurance Committees report that has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of regularly to the Board on their discussions.
approval of this annual report.
The process is regularly reviewed by the The Wood Group PSN US business has expanded rapidly both Board and is in accordance with the September 2014 edition of the through acquisition and organically.
This has resulted in a degree of Governance Code.
The Group, for the purposes of applying the Code, management stretch and pressure on the internal control environment 1 comprises John Wood Group PLC and its subsidiaries.
For further which resulted in a relatively small number of control failures.
During details on the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group 2015 we took the opportunity to standardise and improve the internal along with associated mitigations, monitoring and assurance please control environment, and implementation will continue into 2016. refer to pages 18 to 20.
As part of a wider Group initiative to simplify and consolidate our back Any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than office systems all US businesses will migrate to a single existing ERP eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can system and transactional finance and HR activity will be transferred to only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material service centres which will improve the consistency and effectiveness misstatement or loss.
of the control environment in these areas.
Operationally, improved management and reporting structures will aim to enhance compliance The key elements of the ongoing procedures, which the directors have and the control environment in general.
To provide assurance that established to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control these measures are operating effectively, an increased level of internal on an annual basis, are listed below.
As a result of these ongoing audit activity will be undertaken in 2016. procedures the Boards assessment was that the overall internal control environment was operating effectively.
X Information and communication The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting performance to the Board.
This includes monthly and quarterly reports.
The quarterly reports include a detailed financial review against budgets and latest forecasts.
The Group ELT also receives detailed monthly financial reports and meets on a monthly basis to discuss financial performance and other operational matters.
In addition, each SBU holds Quarterly Review Meetings QRMs involving the Group Chief Executive and the Group CFO.
Subsidiaries include those entities which are under Group management and control.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 23
