REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The long-term incentive programme is the primary tool to be used DEAR SHAREHOLDER to drive the long-term business strategy and align the interests of the management team with those of the Companys shareholders.
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our Remuneration Following a review this year and given the awards granted to the Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2015.
This has been Executive Directors at or shortly prior to Admission, it was prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act considered appropriate not to grant a long-term incentive award 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium sized Company and toExecutive Directors in respect of 2016.
Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
To emphasise the link between the management team and In line with the regulations, this Directors Remuneration Report has shareholders, the Committee encourages the Executive Directors been split into three parts: to build up significant shareholdings in the Company.
Executive Directors are therefore expected to build up a significant this Annual Statement: shareholding in the Company over the seven years following the Remuneration Policy Report which sets out the Directors Admission.
The shareholding guideline for Pierre Denis is 500% Remuneration Policy of JimmyChoo PLC which was approved at ofbase salary and forJonathan Sinclair is 200% of base salary.
the 2015 AGM: and the Annual Remuneration Report which sets out details on how 2015 PERFORMANCE AND REMUNERATION OUTCOMES the Directors were remunerated in the period to 31December 2015 was the first full year as a public company and represented an 2015 and how the policy will be implemented in 2016.
This will be above market year of performance for JimmyChoo PLC, particularly subject to an advisory vote at our 2016 AGM.
given significant headwinds in the luxury market.
Highlights for REMUNERATION PHILOSOPHY 2015include: The remuneration package for our Executive Directors has been Revenue growth of 7.2% at constant currency to 317.9m 6.1% designed based on the following key principles: at reported rates : Retail revenue growth of 8.7% at constant currency to 207.7m Fixed remuneration should be set at a suitable level to attract and retain executives with the required calibre to run a company with 7.7% at reported rates with 1.1% LFL: the size and growth profile of the Company.
Base salaries are Wholesale revenue growth of 1.3% at constant currency to generally targeted around market median of a suitable peergroup.
99.8m up 0.2% at reported rates despite the impact of the Variable remuneration, in particular long-term incentives, should conversion of Singapore and Malaysia from Wholesale to Retail: form a significant part of the remuneration package to encourage DOS count increased by 16 in the year: a high-performance culture and to ensure that the interests of 15 further DOS renovated in the New Store Concept: executives are strongly aligned with those of the Companys 30% of store portfolio now in the New Store Concept: shareholders.
EBITDA of 51.0m, 0.8m ahead of 2014: In line with the above, the total target cash remuneration EBIT of 33.2m, down from 35.4m reflecting the impact of store opportunity for Executive Directors fixed remuneration and target development and transformation programmes: annual bonus is set at around the market median of a suitable Adjusted Consolidated Net Income of 19.0m vs 22.9m last peer group.
The total remuneration opportunity for Executive year: and Directors fixed remuneration, annual bonus and long-term EBITDA Cash Conversion of 96.5%.
incentives is targeted at around the upper quartile ofa suitable peer group.
In light of the level of performance achieved in 2015 against objectives that were set, the Remuneration and Nominations In recognition of our remuneration philosophy, the variable Committee approved bonus payments of c. 21% of salary to the remuneration arrangements for our Executive Directors are made up CEOand c. 9% of salary to the CFO.
of an appropriate balance of both short and long-term incentives to ensure that our Executive Directors are focused on delivering both The Remuneration and Nominations Committee is pleased to confirm annual as well as long-term returns for shareholders.
that all remuneration payments to Directors made during the year have been in line with the Remuneration Policy approved by The annual bonus is based predominantly on financial shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
The Committee is satisfied that performance conditions designed to reward the delivery of the thePolicy has proved fit for purpose, reflecting the long-term Groups strategy of pursuing growth without compromising the performance of the Company and remains appropriate to continue brand.
For 2016, the annual bonus will be subject to three key tobe implemented going forward.
performance metrics: I hope that you find the Remuneration Report helpful, clear and 1 A revenue growth metric to support the long-term growth informative and that you will support the resolutions to approve strategy of the business and the sustainability of thebrand: theRemuneration Report at the 2016 AGM.
2 A profit growth metric to ensure that any growth delivers appropriate returns to shareholders: and PETER HARF 3 A cash conversion metric to ensure that the business is CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION AND NOMINATIONS COMMIT TEE delivering sufficient cash returns to cover its operating costs.
21 March 2016 JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GOV ERN A NCE 63
