6 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 1.
Overview 8 Chairmans Statement 10 Chief Executives Statement 13 Our Business 15 Building Our 3rd Century Our Business Model 16 Our Strategy 18 Research and Development 20 Group Key Performance Indicators 22 Risks and Uncertainties 6% underlying earnings per share at 180.6 pence 89% of sales from products with sustainability benefits 12% R&D investment of 169.9 million OVERVIEW SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGIES for today and for the future 7 Reducing Harmful Emissions with Clean Diesel Technology Throughout the world, vehicle emissions legislation is driving improvements to air quality.
Modern diesel vehicles are cleaner than ever before.
In Europe, emission control systems on todays cars and vans reduce harmful oxides of nitrogen NOx gases by 84% and particulate matter by 90% compared with pre 2005 vehicles.
Johnson Mattheys catalyst technologies are part of the clean diesel story.
Paul Phillips, from our Emission Control Technologies Division, explains more.
What are the benefits of diesel engines compared with petrol?
Diesel engines are more fuel efficient than petrol engines and typically produce 15% lower carbon dioxide CO.
Many new UK passenger 2 cars that meet the upcoming EU 2020 CO 95g km target are diesel powered, compared to only a handful of petrol ones with the remainder 2 being hybrids or fully electric.
The better fuel efficiency of diesel engines means that they make an important contribution to reducing transport CO emissions.
You cant simply discount them.
2 How is Johnson Matthey involved in the clean diesel story?
Our role is to develop highly effective and efficient catalyst systems to meet legislative standards for clean diesel.
In Europe for example, where diesel cars are particularly popular, catalysed particulate filters have been fitted to all diesel passenger cars and vans since 2009.
These filters remove particulate matter or soot to address health concerns.
As well as filters to control soot emissions, vehicles today have catalysts to remove NOx emissions.
Selective catalytic reduction catalysts and NOx adsorber catalysts are both used to convert NOx to harmless nitrogen.
Johnson Matthey also supplies catalyst technology to tackle emissions from larger diesel powered vehicles, such as trucks, buses and agricultural equipment.
Is there anything we can do to reduce emissions from older diesel vehicles?
Yes, together with one of our customers, we have developed a retrofit system that reduces emissions from older buses.
This can mean that a bus manufactured to meet older emissions standards is able to achieve emissions equivalent to a new one.
Whats next for clean diesel?
The need for even more CO savings and improved air quality in the future means 2 the story will continue.
Better fuel efficiency is coming from improved diesel engine designs, vehicle weight and friction reduction and electrification.
These developments give less heat to the exhaust, which in turn means catalyst systems must work harder across ever wider temperature ranges.
This combination of even more efficient engines and catalysts is essential to further reduce CO emissions 2 and improve air quality.
Paul Phillips Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
