"Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chairs statement ""The Group performed in line with expectations, benefitting from the flexibility of an asset-light model and the delivery of significant overhead cost savings, while continuing to invest in strategic acquisitions and organic growth. """
Introduction Executive Board changes During 2015, the Board focused on supporting the executive As planned, following the AGM in May, David Kemp assumed the role leadership team in its response to a tough trading environment.
of Group CFO following an interim period as deputy CFO.
David has Overall, the Group performed in line with expectations, benefitting been with the Group since 2013 in the position of Wood Group PSN from the flexibility of an asset-light model and the delivery of significant CFO.
David succeeded Alan Semple who retired from Wood Group on and sustainable overhead cost savings, while continuing to invest in 13 May 2015, following 15 years in the CFO role.
Alan was an excellent strategic acquisitions and organic growth.
financial leader of the Group and the Board, and we are grateful for his noteworthy contribution.
Markets In October, we announced the appointment of Robin Watson as Conditions in the oil & gas markets became increasingly challenging Chief Executive, effective 1 January 2016.
Robin has been with the in 2015.
During the year, oil prices fell by around a further 30% and Group since 2010 and has served on the Board since 2013, initially global exploration and production E&P capital expenditure was as CEO of Wood Group PSN and then, since April 2015, as Group down approximately 20%.
The expectation of a lower-for-longer COO.
Robin succeeds Bob Keiller who retired from Wood Group commodity price environment has prompted many E&P customers on 31 December 2015.
I would like to thank Bob for his significant to reassess capex and opex spending plans.
Industry commentators contribution to the Group, both following the acquisition of PSN in are anticipating further spending reductions in 2016, which would 2011, and during his three years as CEO.
Robin was identified as represent the first consecutive annual declines in spending in more the stand-out candidate to succeed Bob as part of our succession than 20 years.
In other markets we have seen more resilient demand planning process, and his appointment will ensure important for our services.
continuity for our people and customers.
Wood Group is well placed to develop further its offering of technical Dividend solutions and I look forward to the Groups continued success under the The Board has recommended a final dividend of 20.5 cents per leadership and direction of Robin and his executive leadership team.
share, which makes a total distribution for the year of 30.3 cents, an increase of 10% in line with previously stated intentions.
The dividend cover ratio was 2.8 times 2015: 3.6 times.
There is no change to our dividend approach, and our intention is to increase the dividend per share for 2016 by a double digit percentage.
Ian Marchant, Chair John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 05
