Board of Directors Non-executive directors Chair Senior Independent Director Ian Marchant David Woodward Key experience: Public company boards, power sector, finance and public Key experience: International oil & gas including North Sea, North capital markets, government and regulation America, Middle East and the Former Soviet Union Appointed: 2006, Chair since 2014 Appointed: 2007 Was Chief Executive of SSE plc, a leading UK energy utility company, Retired in February 2016 from his role as Senior Management Adviser of for over 10 years until stepping down in mid 2013.
He is currently a Mubadala Petroleum LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Mubadala Development non-executive of Aggreko plc and Maggies Cancer Charity.
Until December Company, a leading business development and investment company based he was a Chairman of Infinis Energy plc and is the immediate past president in Abu Dhabi.
Previously with BP for 36 years, latterly as President of BP of the Energy Institute.
In 2006 he was awarded the Companion of the order of St. Michael and St. George CMG for services to the international oil industry.
Committee membership: Chair of the Nomination Committee Committee membership: Chair of the Remuneration Committee and member of the Audit and Nomination Committees Non-executive directors Thomas Botts Mary Shafer-Malicki Key experience: International oil & gas including North America, Europe, Key experience: Public company boards, international oil & gas including South America, Middle East and Downstream Europe, Asia and Africa Appointed: 2013 Appointed: 2012 Formerly with Shell for 35 years, latterly as Global Head of Shells Worked for Amoco and BP for 26 years, latterly a Senior Vice President and manufacturing business.
He is a non-executive director of EnPro Industries, CEO for BP Angola, with previous appointments in Vietnam, Aberdeen, is Co-Chair of the Governors Task Force at the University of Wyoming, a Holland and the US, principally in upstream activities.
She is currently a Director of the University of Wyoming Foundation and is a long-standing non-executive director of McDermott International, Inc. and of Ausenco member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
Limited and is a member of industry councils at Oklahoma State University and the University of Wyoming.
Committee membership: Chair of the Safety & Assurance Committee and member of the Nomination Committee Committee membership: Member of the Nomination, Safety & Assurance and Remuneration Committees Jann Brown Jeremy Wilson Key experience: International oil & gas, public company boards, finance Key experience: Public company boards, finance and public capital and public capital markets markets Appointed: 2014 Appointed: 2011 Spent her career in the accounting profession before moving into the Spent his career at J. P. Morgan, which he joined in 1987, until retiring in oil industry, latterly as Managing Director and CFO of Cairn Energy PLC.
He held a series of senior level positions at J. P. Morgan, She is immediate past President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants including head of their European Mergers and Acquisitions Group, Global of Scotland ICAS and Chair of the Consultative Committee of Accountancy Co-Head of their Natural Resources and Diversified Industrial Group and Bodies CCAB, Audit Committee Chair of Troy Income and Growth Trust, a latterly Vice Chair of the Energy Group, and was involved in a number of Trustee of Edinburgh University Development Trust and on the Board of the major oil & gas mergers over the years.
He is a non-executive director of Scottish Ballet.
Tullow Oil plc and Chair of The Lakeland Climbing Centre.
Committee membership: Chair of the Audit Committee and member of Committee membership: Member of the Remuneration, Nomination the Nomination Committee and Audit Committees 24 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Executive directors Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Robin Watson David Kemp Appointed: 2013 Appointed: 2015 Group Chief Executive since January 2016.
Formerly Chief Operating Group CFO since May 2015, previously CFO of Wood Group PSN, having Officer from April 2015, CEO of Wood Group PSN and Managing Director joined Wood Group in 2013.
Prior to joining Wood Group served in executive of Wood Group PSN in the UK, having joined Wood Group in 2010. roles at Trap Oil Group, Technip, Simmons and Company International, Prior to joining Wood Group served in a variety of leadership and and Hess Corporation, working across Finance, M&A and Operations.
Is a management positions with Petrofac and Mobil.
Serves as non-executive member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
director of Oil & Gas UK, the Oil & Gas UK Contractors Council and the Committee membership: None Scottish Business Board.
Previously Work Group Co-Chair on the Step Change in Safety Leadership Team.
Committee membership: Safety & Assurance Committee Previous directors Executive Leadership Team Bob Keiller Dave Stewart WG PSN CEO - 18 years with Wood Group Appointed: 2011, retired December 2015 Group CEO since November 2012, formerly Chief Executive of Michele McNichol Wood Group PSN from April 2011 WG Mustang CEO - 14 years with Wood Group Alan Semple Bob MacDonald Appointed: 2000, retired May 2015 WG Kenny CEO - 12 years with Wood Group Group CFO since 2000 Sue McDonald Michel Contie Group Head of HR - 5 years with Wood Group Appointed: 2010, retired May 2015 Non-executive director and member of the Nomination, Nina Schofield Remuneration and Safety & Assurance Committees Group Head of HSSE - 1 year with Wood Group Steve Wayman Group Head of Strategy & Development - 26 years with Wood Group Find out more about our leaders at: www.
com about-us our-leaders John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 25
