47 Financial Review of Operations continued Creating growth engines of the future Key Statistics 6.5 million 1.6 9.6 million 106 million 898 Capital expenditure Capex depreciation R&D expenditure Average invested capital Employees Year to 31st March % at 2015 2014 % constant million million change rates Revenue 93 79 18 25 Sales excluding precious metals sales 91 76 20 27 Underlying operating profit loss 22.1 18.3 -21 -19 Sales Sales by Destination Rest of Asia China Other 1% Fuel Cells 3% 1% 7% North America 12% Europe Battery Technologies 84% 92% Divisional Sales Operating Loss million million 100 2013 2014 2015 91 0 76 -4 75 -8 50 37 -12 -16 25 -16.0 -20 -18.3 0 -22.1 2013 2014 2015 -24 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 48 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 2.
Financial Financial Review of Operations continued NEW BUSINESSES continued Strategy Targeting opportunities with sales We are targeting opportunities with sales potential of around 200 million per annum in ten years.
We will focus on areas adjacent to our current potential of around 200 million businesses and that build on our core technology competences.
per annum in ten years The division is focused on developing new business areas.
Potential areas Develop new business areas must show a good fit with our key global drivers, offer strong market growth, high margin potential and present the opportunity for new market entry Invest in R&D to drive growth positions through a new technology solution.
Make targeted acquisitions We will invest in R&D to drive growth through developing technology for new markets.
Through an ongoing process, we will identify and evaluate new to accelerate progress opportunities whilst developing and filtering out those already in our pipeline.
Alongside organic development and the evolution of our business plans, we anticipate the need to fill gaps in our experience and make targeted acquisitions to accelerate progress.
These are likely to be relatively small scale, up to the value of around 100 million.
Divisional Summary as at 31st March 2015 Business Battery Technologies Fuel Cells What We Do Research, development and manufacture of battery materials, Develop and manufacture catalysts and components for design and supply of high performance battery systems emerging fuel cell markets How We Add Research into improved next generation battery materials, Leverage expertise in advanced materials to develop more development of advanced battery systems economically viable fuel cell components Value Societal Benefits Alternative energy Low carbon, zero emission transport power Global Drivers Environmental Factors Natural Climate Change Resource Regulation Constraints Customer Profile Automotive and heavy duty vehicle customers Manufacturers of fuel cells for portable, automotive and stationary applications Lithium-ion cell manufacturers High performance cordless tool and niche transport manufacturers Major Systems: Materials: W L Gore Competitors LG BASF 3M BMZ Umicore Solivcore Employees 898 Locations Materials manufacturing in China and Canada Headquartered in UK Materials R&D in UK, Germany and Singapore R&D capability in UK Systems design, development and manufacture in UK and Poland 2014 15 Sales 84 million 6 million 49 Performance in 2014 15 These two complementary New Business Development transactions strengthen Johnson We invested just under 10 million New Businesses made good progress Mattheys position in the battery materials in other new opportunities, the most with sales up 20% to 91 million.
This provides us with a strong advanced being our Water Purification division benefited from increased sales platform in LFP from which we will and Atmosphere Control Technologies in Battery Technologies, and we develop a broader portfolio of battery ACT businesses.
completed two bolt-on acquisitions in materials.
Integration of the two On 18th May 2015 we completed this area during the year.
Excluding businesses into our Battery Technologies the acquisition of the StePac Modified acquisitions the divisions sales were business is underway to realise benefits Atmosphere Packaging business from 11% ahead.
We continued to invest in from R&D, manufacturing and commercial DS Smith for 20 million, subject to research and development to support synergies.
Sales of battery materials typical post-closing adjustments.
The other long term new business areas, such made a small contribution in 2014 15 transaction is an important step in the as water purification and atmosphere which we expect to increase in 2015 16 development of our ACT business.
As a result of this as a result of a full year of ownership of StePac, which employs around 90 and acquisition-related costs, the the two acquired businesses.
people, is a leading provider of modified division made an underlying operating We have also continued to invest in atmosphere packaging which works loss of 22.1 million.
R&D to support our battery technologies closely with growers and distributors of development and the business as a fresh produce to develop, manufacture Battery Technologies whole made a small operating loss in and supply application specific products.
Our Battery Technologies business the period.
The business is commercially active in performed well with sales 23% ahead over 60 countries and has manufacturing at 84 million 31% at constant rates facilities in Israel and the US.
Fuel Cells supported by good demand for battery Combined with our expertise in Sales in our Fuel Cells business were systems for high performance power functional materials, the acquisition of 6 million, slightly lower than last year.
Sales of battery StePac provides a strong platform of The business was impacted in the first systems to customers in the automotive complementary technical skills and half of the year by the bankruptcy of sector also made progress.
market access to enable Johnson a principal customer for membrane Within Battery Technologies, a Matthey to accelerate the selection, electrode assemblies MEAs for focus is on the development of battery development and commercialisation of stationary applications.
That customer materials for highly demanding new technologies.
We expect our ACT was subsequently acquired by a larger applications such as for the automotive business to deliver sales of around organisation to which we have sector.
In September 2014 we 20 million in 2015 16 and, after taking continued to supply our MEAs.
This completed the purchase of a cathode account of integration costs, the supported sales in the second half.
material manufacturing facility in China business should make a small operating For transport applications, the from A123 Systems LLC, a leading profit in the year.
phased emissions regulation in California, lithium-ion Li-ion battery manufacturer, USA and the impact of Japans Basic for US $26 million.
The acquisition also Energy Plan continue to incentivise the includes a long term agreement where introduction of small numbers of fuel cell Johnson Matthey will supply A123 with powered cars and several companies lithium iron phosphate LFP.
have announced plans for the In February 2015 we completed commercial launch of these vehicles.
the acquisition of Clariant AGs Energy We have continued to work with a Storage business for US $75 million.
number of OEMs on their development This includes a world scale battery programmes and it is our strategy to materials manufacturing facility in Canada, convert these existing OEM relationships an R&D centre and pilot plant in Germany into volume supply in the next two to together with the customer order book three years.
and a substantial intellectual property The net expense of our Fuel Cells portfolio.
The business is a leading business reduced this year to 9.9 million.
supplier of LFP cathode material to the Li-ion battery sector for both automotive and non-automotive applications.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
