DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Annual Report on the affairs of the Group, SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS together with the financial statements and Auditors Report, for the On 31 December 2015, the Company had been notified, in year ended 31 December 2015.
The Corporate Governance accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, Statement set out on pages 52 to 62 forms part of this report.
of the following voting rights as a shareholder of the Company.
Percentage of Details of significant events since the balance sheet date are voting rights and issued Number of contained in note 28 to the financial statements.
An indication of Name share capital ordinary shares likely future developments in the business of the Group is included 1 JAB Luxury GmbH 67.68% 263,767,227 inthe Strategic Report.
The Directors Report should be read in conjunction with the Strategic Report, which contains details of GIC Private Limited 6.17% 24,028,926 theprincipal activities of the Group during the year.
Ethna-AKTIV Luxembourg registered Information about the use of financial instruments by the Group investment fund FCP 5.66% 22,052,583 andits subsidiaries is given in note 23 to the financial statements.
1 Restated as was reported as 263,767,190 in the 2014 Directors Report.
DIVIDENDS During the period between 31 December 2015 and 21 March 2016 The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend the Company did not receive any notifications under chapter 5 of the 2014:nil.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT WITH CONTROLLING SHAREHOLDER Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with Prior to the IPO in October 2014, the Company and JAB Luxury details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital entered into a relationship agreement to regulate the ongoing during the year are shown in note 21 to the financial statements.
relationship between them the Relationship Agreement.
The TheCompany has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general Group is capable of carrying on its business for the benefit of the meetings of the Company.
The percentage of the issued nominal shareholders of the Company as a whole and that transactions and value of the ordinary shares is equal to the total issued nominal relationships with JAB Luxury and any of their respective associates valueof all share capital.
are at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
Further details of the Relationship Agreement with regard to the conduct of the There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the major shareholder are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions page 55 and with regard to the right to appoint Directors, are set out of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors on page 55. are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or DIREC TORS on voting rights.
The Directors of the Company as at 31 December 2015 and their interests in the shares of the Company are shown on pages 74 Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 22 to the and 77. financial statements.
Shares held by the Jimmy Choo PLC Employee Benefit Trust abstain from voting.
On 1 August 2015, Anna-Lena Kamenetzky was appointed to the Board of the Company as a Non-Executive Director following the resignation With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the of Bart Becht on 31 July 2015.
Meribeth Parker was appointed on Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate 1 August 2015 as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
On Governance Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The 13 November 2015, Elisabeth Murdoch was appointed following a Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the process to identify new Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The powers of Directors are described in the Main Board Terms of Reference, copies of which are available on request As detailed in the Articles of Association, at every AGM, all Directors and the Corporate Governance Report on page 52. at the date of any subsequent notice of AGM shall retire from office.
Consequently, the Directors currently holding office will all be required and all intend to seek re-election at the forthcoming AGM to be held in June 2016.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors which were made during 2014 and which remain in force at the date of this report.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GOV ERN A NCE 78 POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS INFORMATION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The Group has not made any political donations during the year This Annual Report and Financial Statements includes forward- 2014: nil.
These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are ACQUISITION OF THE COMPANYS OWN SHARES beyond the Companys control and all of which are based on the From a resolution passed at the AGM on 27 May 2015, the Directors Directors current beliefs and expectations about future events.
did have the authority to purchase the Companys own ordinary Forward-looking statements are sometimes identified by the use shares as permitted under the Articles of Association and under offorward-looking terminology such as believe, expects, may, statute.
No share purchases were made during 2015. will, could, should, shall, risk, intends, estimates, aims, plans, predicts, continues, assumes, positioned SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS oranticipates or the negative thereof, other variations thereon A summary of how the Group recognises its responsibility to orcomparable terminology.
colleagues, customers, the environment including greenhouse gas emissions and community is contained within the Sustainable These forward-looking statements include all matters that are not Business Report on pages 37 to 39 which forms part of this report.
They appear in a number of places throughout this Annual Report and Financial Statements and include statements GOING CONCERN regarding the intentions, beliefs or current expectations of the The Board is of the opinion that there is a reasonable expectation that Directors or the Company concerning, amongst other things, the the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in results of operations, financial condition, prospects, growth, operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In arriving at this strategies including continued store roll out plans and dividend conclusion the Board has taken account of current and anticipated policy of the Company and the industry in which it operates.
In trading performance, current and anticipated levels of borrowings particular, the statements regarding the Companys strategy and andthe availability of borrowing facilities and exposures to and other future events or prospects are forward-looking statements.
management of the financial risks detailed on pages 42 to 44.
Consequently, the going concern basis has been used in the STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS preparation of the Company and Group financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance The AGM will be held on 15 June 2016.
The Notice of Annual General with applicable law and regulations.
Meeting is contained in a separate letter from the Chairman accompanying this report.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and Annual Report and Financial Statements confirms that: have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair asa Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and auditor is aware of that information.
Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006. make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been KPMG LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether forthcoming AGM.
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GOV ERN A NCE 79 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation inother jurisdictions.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view ofthe assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
We consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board, HANNAH MERRITT COMPANY SECRETARY 21 March 2016 JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GOV ERN A NCE 80 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
