28 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 2.
Financial 30 Group Performance Review 32 Financial Review of Operations 32 Emission Control Technologies 36 Process Technologies 40 Precious Metal Products 44 Fine Chemicals 47 New Businesses 50 Financial Review 55 Treasury Policies and Going Concern 3.1 billion sales excluding precious metals, up 5% 440.1 million underlying profit before tax, up 3% 18.8% return on invested capital FINANCIAL SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGIES for today and for the future 29 Customer Focus Boosts Business in Asia Pacific Methanol is a key building block in the manufacture of chemicals that are used to make numerous products that are integral parts of our daily lives.
In recent years there has also been a surge in demand for blending it into transportation fuels.
Steam reforming is a key step in the methanol production process, requiring high pressure and temperatures.
If equipment fails, the consequences can be serious.
Johnson Matthey is a leader in process technologies and catalysts for the production of methanol and so was well placed when a customers plant experienced operational problems in its steam reformer.
Asim Yadav from our Process Technologies Division based in India explains how a complex customer problem was solved.
What issues was the customer facing that our team could help with?
The customer had recently commissioned its methanol plant and was experiencing problems in the reformer where a few of the reactor tubes had failed and there was a concern that more might fail.
The high temperatures in that part of the equipment meant that failures presented serious safety risks such as fire or damage to equipment.
Johnson Matthey is very well known for its process technologies and products for the reforming process so, although we hadnt worked with the customer before, we were seen as a natural choice.
How did you solve the problem?
Initially we visited the customer to investigate how we could help.
We discovered that the temperature in the reformer had risen above what it was designed for, and that was what was causing the reactor tubes to fail.
However, we were confident that we could fix the problem.
We recommended that the customer install a high activity catalyst which would pick up the heat, backed up by a second catalyst to maintain the overall drop in pressure.
Did you collaborate across Johnson Matthey to design a solution?
A survey of the reformer was carried out by our UK engineers and the results were presented by our UK expert on reformers, along with the sales team from India.
We made a proposal to the customer, which was accepted.
Now our colleagues from Bahrain and the India office have worked with the new customer to commission the catalysts.
How will we maintain customer focus to further develop the work?
We continue to maintain a close relationship with the customer.
After installing the catalysts ongoing checks will be made to make sure they are working as expected.
Following this we will visit regularly to monitor performance and review the plant data so that we can anticipate any future needs.
How have the products and services provided created value for the customer?
We expect performance using our high activity catalyst to keep the reactor temperature within safe limits and allow uninterrupted production.
Crucially, we also expect to have eliminated the risk of equipment failure, including all the safety implications that it has for the plant operators.
Asim Yadav Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
