Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Committee During 2015, the Committee met four times to discuss the During 2015, the Remuneration Committee comprised the following remuneration issues arising and the operation of the remuneration independent non-executive directors: David Woodward Chair, Michel policy.
There was full Committee attendance at each of these meetings.
Contie, Mary Shafer-Malicki and Jeremy Wilson.
Mary Shafer-Malicki The Committee considered the following matters during 2015: joined the Committee in February 2015: Michel Contie retired at the AGM in May 2015, and also stepped down from the Board.
Agenda Items Matters The Remuneration Committee advises the Board on executive Determined executive remuneration for 2015 and remuneration and sets the remuneration packages of each of the executive directors within the approved policy.
The Committee has a confirmed arrangements for 2016 Executive written charter which is publicly available on the Groups website.
remuneration Review of executive remuneration agreed, including executive risk review: recommendations considered Where appropriate, the Committee receives input from the Group Chair, Group Chief Executive, Group CFO, Group Head of Human Confirmed executive 2014 annual bonus payment Resources and the Director of Compensation & Benefits.
This input 2015 annual bonus objectives agreed never directly relates to their own remuneration.
The Company Annual Bonus Reviewed bonus target setting philosophy Secretary attended the February 2015 Committee in his role as Secretary to the Committee: the Director of Compensation & Benefits Considered projected annual bonus outcome for 2015 was subsequently appointed Secretary to the Committee in May 2015.
Reviewed summary of arrangements for 2016 The aim of the Committee is to establish an overall remuneration Approved LTIP payments for performance period structure which will: 2012-2014 and deferred element for performance period 2010-2012 X promote the long-term success of the Group 2015-2017 targets and participants agreed LTIP LTP X reflect the size and complexity of the Groups business Reviewed LTIP target setting philosophy X take account of executives individual responsibilities and Progress against targets reviewed geographical location Considered potential LTP awards for 2016 X attract, retain and motivate executives 2014 Directors Remuneration Report approved X clearly align remuneration with the Groups long-term strategy AGM preparation, including shareholder consultation AGM DRR and the pursuit of maximising shareholder value Agreed approach to 2015 DRR and first draft of the Reporting 2015 annual report for approval at 2016 AGM X take into account the broader setting of pay conditions elsewhere within Wood Group.
Reviewed feedback from shareholder consultation In setting remuneration policy the Committee gives full consideration Reviewed and approved Committee charter to the relevant provisions of the Governance Code and relevant Committee Completed Committee performance evaluation against regulations enacted under the Companies Act 2006.
2015 objectives matters Committee objectives for 2016 agreed Read the Remuneration Committee charter at: www.
com investors charters Employee share plan structure and rules agreed Other business Approved Alan Semple and Bob Keiller retirement arrangements During the year, the Committee took advice from Deloitte LLP, who was retained as external advisor to the Committee.
Deloitte adhere to the Remuneration Consultants Groups Code of Conduct.
Deloitte received 24,650 for the provision of services to the Committee during the year.
These fees consisted of core services where the cost was agreed in advance and additional services which were charged on a time and materials basis.
As well as advising the Remuneration Committee Deloitte provided tax consulting and global mobility services to the Group in 2015.
The Committee has reviewed the remuneration advice provided by Deloitte during the year and is comfortable that it has been objective and independent.
The Committee has reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
34 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
