16 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 1.
Overview Our Strategy Our 3C Strategy will enable us to build our 3rd century of value adding sustainable technologies.
We have nine building blocks that make up our strategy pyramid and we are focusing on three powerful themes: Collaborate, Customer Focus and Create Value.
Our strategic priorities Progress in 2014 15 Key challenges in 2014 15 COLLABORATION Health and safety is our priority added to Changing employees attitudes and We aim to collaborate more to core values.
Working together to deliver embedded behaviours so we can drive better leverage our expertise across continual improvement.
the group and with our external Global roll out of 3C Strategy and vision to Complexity of implementing business partners.
This, supported by our engage employees.
culture and values, will help enable Enhanced employee mobility efforts.
our transition to a small big company.
Started global programme to update core business systems.
CUSTOMER FOCUS Work commenced to define approach to Providing tailored technology offerings for Our aim is to become truly customer customer focus.
customers that are appropriate for the centric.
We are investing in our needs of their markets.
Increased R&D investment and expanded people, products and technology network of R&D technology centres in Asia Managing change in product mix and impact to differentiate ourselves from our and the USA.
of resulting higher processing costs in Platinum competitors and are building on our group metal Pgm Refining and Recycling.
Began implementation of new HR strategy core strengths to generate the next and talent management approach.
Understanding what, if any, the impact a lower generation of sustainable products.
oil price has on our customers plans and projects.
Divested Gold and Silver Refining business and commenced negotiations on the sale of Research Chemicals.
CREATE VALUE Delivered further growth, supported Loss of income due to change in contracts Our aim is to grow our business by strong performance in Emission with Anglo American Platinum Limited and build our 3rd century through Control Technologies.
Continued focus on Manufacturing Slowdown in technology licensing activity We are focusing on operational Excellence and Sustainability in China.
excellence and sustainability to 2017 programmes.
Decrease in return on invested capital as a optimise our efficiencies in the most Good progress in New Businesses: result of the Anglo Platinum contract change responsible way and are investing in completed two Battery Technologies and higher levels of working capital.
new businesses to provide growth in acquisitions.
new sustainable markets for the future.
17 Turning our 3C Strategy into Reality Back in 2013 we reviewed our business strategy and confirmed that the plans put in place in 2010 were still the right ones for us.
The strategy is driven by what we call our 3Cs: collaborate, customer focus and create value.
Incorporating these into the way we all work will help us achieve our vision of building our 3rd century through value adding sustainable technologies.
Employees told us that they didnt fully understand our strategy or where the business was heading so we decided it was time for a global campaign.
Effective communications were essential in order for us to reach everybody and ensure understanding of our ambitions for the future.
It began with a presentation from senior executives in Philadelphia, USA led by our Chief Executive, Robert MacLeod.
This was filmed and shared with everyone via our collaboration platform, myJM.
A network of local champions organised over 150 subsequent events and we distributed materials worldwide in 13 different languages.
The launch was a truly international effort and it was great to see everyone thinking about how the strategy applied to them, whilst delivering a consistent message.
Feedback from a post launch survey was positive.
Over 94% of those who responded said they now understood the business strategy more clearly.
We continue to think of new and interesting ways to embed our strategy and flesh out what it means in day to day activities so that we can all work together to keep our strategy at the core of what we do.
2014 15 key performance Our priorities in 2015 16 Health and safety continue programmes to build culture and 25% embed behaviours.
reduction in lost time injury and illness rate.
Develop roadmap for small big company transition.
132 Continue global programme to update core business systems internal moves between businesses.
in preparation for initial roll out from 2016 17.
Launch new systems and framework to drive further cross 94% divisional collaboration.
employees understand the business strategy more clearly.
of those responding to groupwide survey.
Agree customer focus model and commence implementation.
#1 or #2 Continue investment in pgm refining to deliver efficiency positions maintained in key markets.
Continue construction of new facility in China to meet future demand.
Complete divestment of Research Chemicals.
Continued implementation of talent management activities.
89% sales from sustainable products, up on prior year.
440.1 million Develop new growth opportunities throughout the business underlying profit before tax, up 15% excluding impact of from technology, organically and through acquisitions.
foreign exchange and Anglo Platinum contract change.
Continue to enhance governance and compliance supported 180.6 pence by launch of code of business integrity and ethics.
underlying earnings per share, up 6% on 2013 14.
26 million savings from Manufacturing Excellence and Sustainability 2017 programmes in 2014 15.
