OUR MARKET A CHALLENGING YEAR FOR THE LUXURY MARKET LUXURY SHOE SPECIALIST BRANDS CONTINUE TO OUTPERFORM THE MARKET THE LUXURY MARKET IN 2015 2015 was a challenging year for the luxury industry and the impact MENS LUXURY SHOES of foreign currency was an important theme, as the volatility in exchange rates affected the whole market and affected our regional Male segments of the shopping patterns.
This coincided with an increased level of luxury goods market competition in the sector and a slowdown in growth in luxury overall.
remain underrepresented by leading brands LUXURY SHOE MARKET GROWTH Luxury shoes continue to be a fast growing segment of the luxury market with an estimated sales compound growth rate from 2011 to2014 of 7%, compared to the luxury market excluding shoes whichhad a compound growth rate of 5% over the same period.
We believe that the strong historical growth experienced in the luxuryshoe market is a result ofa number of factors.
OPTIMAL GATEWAY Shoes are available at a psychologically accessible price.
This makes INCREASING PARTICIPATION OF MEN IN LUXURY them an optimal gateway into the luxury market, compared to many Men continue to become more hedonistic and opinionated on fashion other luxury goods.
matters and over recent years, there has been an increasing trend formale clients to purchase luxury fashion goods for themselves.
ACCESSORIES ARE KEY Webelieve that the male segments of the luxury goods market, in Over recent years, consumers have been buying ready-to-wear particular luxury shoes, remain underrepresented by leading luxury apparel from high street retailers and then upgrading their wardrobe brands.
Luxury fashion companies are beginning to address this with luxury shoes, bags and other accessories.
opportunity, with some market participants launching men only stores as well as expanding their product offering for men, includingshoes.
ACCESSORIES ARE KEY LUXURY SHOE SPECIALIST BRANDS Jimmy Choo shoes, bag, Luxury shoes have outperformed the general luxury market in high street outfit recent years.
Luxury shoe specialist brands have outperformed the luxury shoe market.
We believe that luxury shoe specialist brands experienced compound revenue growth from 2011 to 2014 of 10% compared to 7% for the luxury shoe market as a whole.
Jimmy Choo has continued to grow ahead of the market.
The luxury shoe business is very complex, with a variety of sizes, heel heights, materials and colours.
Successfully mastering this complexity requires a constant and dedicated focus.
We believe luxury shoe specialist brands, like Jimmy Choo, are strongly positioned to offer this.
FOCUS OF RETAILERS ON LUXURY SHOES As a result of the fragmented nature of the market, there remains Luxury brands and multibrand retailers have both increased their significant scope for luxury shoe specialist brands, like Jimmy Choo, focus on shoes in recent years and as a consequence, many tocontinue outperforming the luxury shoe market as a whole.
department stores have considerably expanded their shoe floors.
LUXURY SHOE MARKET RESILIENCE We believe that the luxury shoe market is one of the more resilient segments of the luxury goods market.
During the global financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, luxury shoe sales decreased by 4%, compared to a total market decrease of 8%.
Over this same period, Jimmy Choos revenue increased by 2%.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 26
