13 Our Business We work together, applying our What We Do expertise in advanced materials and technology to innovate and At Johnson Matthey we always improve solutions that: aim to deliver what we promise.
are valued by our customers: optimise the use of natural resources: and enhance the quality of life for the people of the world, both for today and for the future.
Our Vision Our Values Our vision is to build our Our values highlight what is 3rd century through value important to us, what makes us adding sustainable technologies.
distinctive and what its like to work at Johnson Matthey.
st In our 1 century They describe how we do things we built a reputation, not just for expertise in when we are at our best.
precious metals, but for real integrity, and for being a company our customers could trust.
Health and Safety is Our Priority We focus on protecting our people.
Integrity nd In our 2 century Doing the right thing is important to us.
we developed our expertise in the engineering Recognition and Development Anyone from anywhere can progress.
We also began our environmental journey a journey that Ability and Innovation continues to this day.
We seek and value talented people.
Freedom to Act Anyone with a good business case can realise rd their ideas.
For our 3 century The Best of Big and Small we have developed a business model and We have big company resources but apply strategy that, when underpinned by our company small company methods.
values, will drive our next century of growth.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 14 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 1.
Overview Our Business continued Key Facts With operations in over 30 countries, Johnson Matthey Johnson Matthey is a speciality chemicals is a truly global company.
We sell our products around company and a world leader in sustainable the world which provides stability in times of regional market uncertainty.
Year on year we are increasing our technologies.
Today, some 89% of the groups sales to developing markets and expanding our operations to support this global growth.
sales represent products and services which We focus on key markets where we can innovate and improve solutions for our customers through provide sustainability benefits i. e. through the applying our expertise in advanced materials and positive impact they have on the environment, technology.
This enables us to differentiate ourselves from our competitors and achieve leading industry resource efficiency or human health.
positions with high margin products.
Sales by Area of Beneficial Impact A Leader in Sustainable Technologies Other 11% Environment 89% Resource 60% efficiency sales from products providing sustainability benefits in 2014 15 20% Health 9% Sales by Region A Truly Global Company Rest of World 10% Rest of Asia Europe 9% 19% 36% sales in Asia in 2014 15 China 10% North America 35% Sales by Key Market Focused on Key Markets Other 14% Precious metal services Light duty 3% 14% vehicles 36% growth in heavy duty diesel catalyst sales in 2014 15 Pharmaceutical 12% Petrochemical 13% Heavy duty diesel vehicles 22%
