Segmental review Wood Group Engineering Subsea & pipelines represented around 40% of Engineering revenue.
2015 2014 % We continued our activity on larger projects such as BP Shah Deniz $m $m Change and Quad 204, Tullow TEN and Chevron Gorgon, and won FEED Revenue 1,729 2,131 18.9 % work with Woodside and Shell on Browse, and Talisman in Vietnam.
EBITA 215 232 7.5 % We continue to benefit from our long-term customer relationships, securing a five year contract with BP in October covering Norway, EBITA margin 12.4% 10.9% 1.5pts Gulf of Mexico and the Azerbaijan region and progressing to detailed 3 People 8,900 11,200 20.5 % design on the Greater Western Flank II for Woodside in Australia after the successful completion of the FEED work.
Our US onshore Through Wood Group Mustang and Wood Group Kenny, we pipelines business has performed robustly as customers look to provide a range of specialist engineering services including improve transportation to downstream facilities, with activity on the conceptual studies, engineering, project & construction ETC Dakota access pipeline expected to continue throughout 2016. management EPCM : and control systems upgrades to the The acquisition of Beta Machinery in June further strengthened upstream, subsea & pipeline, downstream, chemical process the breadth of our services, specifically our integrity management automation & industrial and clean energy sectors.
capabilities which have been reinforced by the expansion of Beta into the UK.
In Wood Group Engineering, revenue decreased by 19%, with Downstream, process & industrial activities accounted for around significant falls in activity in Upstream and Subsea due to project 25% of revenue.
Following the successful completion of the front-end deferrals and cancellations.
This was partly offset by growth in design of the Flint Hills refinery modification, we are progressing with downstream, process and industrial and robust performance in the detailed engineering work which will continue throughout 2016. onshore pipelines.
EBITA decreased by 7.5% however EBITA margin In September, we acquired UK-based Automated Technology Group, increased by 1.5pts to 12.4%.
This reflected our focus on utilisation, an independent provider of control and power solutions for industrial overhead cost reduction initiatives, margin improvement in onshore automation.
ATG will complement our process automation capabilities pipelines and downstream and the successful completion of lump sum which are currently centred in the US, and we started this expansion projects in downstream, process and industrial.
with the opening of an operation in Slovakia in December.
Our Upstream business accounted for around 35% of Engineering revenue.
Throughout the year, we remained active on the Det Norske Outlook Ivar Aasen and Hess Stampede projects and will continue to provide The breadth and diversity of our Engineering business will continue to operating support services into 2016, albeit diminishing through benefit us and we enter 2016 with backlog in a similar position to the the year.
We secured a number of longer-term contracts in the year previous year.
Although there remains a lack of visibility of significant including our six year Offshore Maintain Potential Programme contract Upstream and Subsea projects, recent awards evidence continued with Saudi Aramco in June on which we have commenced work, and customer support for our differentiated service offering.
We remain well our six year c. $400m maintenance and modifications contract with positioned to provide engineering project solutions to our balanced Statoil in Norway.
The market for new awards, particularly detailed portfolio of clients, as they manage themselves through a prolonged design scopes, has been subdued as customers limit their capital period of challenging market conditions.
expenditure, however we remain confident that early stage work is a good indicator of future activity.
We are well positioned to continue to the detailed design phase following successful FEED work on Peregrino Phase II and Tengizchevroil.
08 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wood Group PSN Performance in our international business has been robust, with 2015 2014 % Production Services increased activity in the Middle East offsetting lower performance $m $m Change in Africa.
We have secured and commenced work on a number of Revenue 3,448 4,636 25.6 % important contracts over a wide geographical spread.
We continued to EBITA 258 342 24.5 % increase our presence in the Middle East with the award of a three year contract in Iraq and moved further into the Caspian region with a 3 year EBITA margin 7.5% 7.4% 0.1pts contract for NCOC in Kazakhstan.
Contracts in Australia and Papua People 23,900 26,600 10.2 % New Guinea are progressing well and, in December, we were awarded a brownfield engineering contract with Conoco in Australia, including work on the Darwin LNG plant.
Developing our relationships built in the We provide services to the upstream, midstream, downstream US and North Sea, we are progressing with our work for Shell on the five and industrial sectors through brownfield engineering and year Gabon contract which was awarded in August and, in Brazil, we modifications, production enhancement, operations and have commenced work with Statoil in the Peregrino field.
maintenance, facility construction and maintenance management, industrial services, training, and decommissioning services.
Outlook Market conditions remain very challenging, particularly in our core onshore In Wood Group PSN Production Services, revenue decreased by 26% US and North Sea markets.
Elsewhere, we continue to be encouraged and EBITA decreased by 25%.
This decrease in turnover predominantly by good opportunities internationally and we will benefit from a good reflects lower activity in the North Sea and the Americas.
Activity in contribution from the completed acquisitions of Infinity and Kelchner.
other international markets remained relatively robust.
EBITA margin was steady year-on-year, as utilisation management, significant overhead cost savings and the release of deferred consideration 2015 2014 % Turbine Activities provisions helped to offset pricing pressure from customers and foreign $m $m Change exchange headwinds.
Excluding the impact of businesses acquired in Turbine JVs 676 819 17.4 % 2015, headcount was down by around 6,000 people 22%.
Legacy EPC - 31 n m The Americas accounted for around 40% of Production Services Total Revenue 676 850 20.4 % revenue.
Following a strong performance in 2014, our US onshore Turbine JVs 44 44 1.1 % business was impacted by significant pressure on volumes and Legacy EPC - 11 n m pricing in 2015.
The pressure was most pronounced on our well site activities which are highly correlated to the decline in the rig count, with Total EBITA 44 33 32.7% our infrastructure development and production related operations & Total EBITA margin 6.5% 3.9% 2.6pts maintenance activities being less affected.
The acquisition of Kelchner, a provider of midstream and upstream construction and energy field services, in December, provides the Group with greater access to the Through three joint venture arrangements, we provide industrial gas turbine and rotating equipment repair, maintenance, overhaul Marcellus and Utica basins.
This broadens our exposure for the and power plant EPC services to the oil & gas and power sectors.
longer-term opportunity in US shale.
The acquisition of Infinity Group for an initial consideration of $155m was completed in December 2015, Our Turbine Activities consist of: two joint ventures with Siemens, further broadening our US service offering.
The Infinity Group is an EthosEnergy and RWG, and our joint venture with TransCanada, industrial construction and maintenance provider to the petrochemical, TransCanada Turbines TCT together Turbine JVs.
Turbine Activities refining and gas processing sectors based in the US Gulf Coast.
also included Wood Group GTS EPC contracts in 2014.
This establishes a strong brownfield service offering in the petrochemical In Turbine JVs, revenue fell 17% and EBITA fell 1.3%.
Poor performance market which we believe offers attractive growth opportunities.
in EthosEnergy, which saw a reduction in major maintenance and low The North Sea business represented just below 40% of revenue, with equipment sales, was offset by improved performance in RWG and volumes under longer-term contracts impacted by the reduction in project TCT.
As noted in December 2015, we have revised our expectations and non-essential maintenance work and efficiency initiatives, including of near term performance in EthosEnergy and this has resulted in updates to processes and changes in offshore rotation patterns.
a non-cash impairment of the carrying value of our investment in We continue to secure contracts with our long standing customer base EthosEnergy of $159m.
including Total, Enquest and Chevron.
Our industrial services business, established with the acquisition of Pyeroy in 2013, is performing well Outlook and has benefitted from several new contracts with existing and new In our Turbine Activities servicing the oil & gas markets we are focused customers.
In December, we also commenced work on a new duty holder on delivering efficiencies to support our customers and protect contract with Antin Infrastructure Partners operating the CATS pipeline performance.
On the power side, we are looking to drive performance with a continued focus on cost and efficiency.
We remain fully aligned with customers looking to improve efficiency and we believe our record of cost leadership will be key as we address the operational challenges our customers are facing in this tough environment.
In 2016, we have again revisited North Sea contractor rates resulting in the reduction of rates for over a third of our 600 contractors.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 09
