y g o l P o e n o h p c l e e T Strategic Report Our Business Model JUST EAT operates a simple, Our mission: scalable, success-based business model that has a beneficial Empower consumers cash flow cycle, creating value to love their takeaway for restaurants, consumers experience and JUST EAT.
How we generate value We generate value through our four key drivers, which underpin our three strategic initiatives.
Technology Our technology makes life easier for consumers and restaurants.
The JUST EAT system enables restaurants to efficiently manage their order process by reducing communication errors that could be made over the telephone and reducing time spent on order processing.
The JUST EAT platform enables consumers to make informed choices about what food to order, or simply repeat previous orders, in a quick and convenient way.
How we Scalability g en er a t e When creating, developing and maintaining our technology, we recognise the importance of v a l u e scalability to consumer access, particularly at peak times.
We invest heavily to ensure our websites andApps are robust, flexible and secure enough to meet increasing peaks of demand from consumers and restaurants.
Brand Consumers have the reassurance of ordering from well-known, trusted brands, receiving customer service through JUST EAT online support or offline through contact centres.
Brand association helps restaurants to drive scale in orders by enabling efficient entry to the online market.
People Our people are integral to all that we do at Long-term JUST EAT.
We have an outstanding team who Short-term priorities are responsible for designing, implementing, priorities Focusing on profit maintaining, supporting and promoting our Focusing on growth websites and Apps, as well as great local teams Being a who lead in-country sales, marketing and sustainable business Being a clear operational functions.
market leader Increasing market share 6 y t i l i B b r a a l a n c d S Strategic Report Value for takeaway restaurants: More orders with Access to brand More efficient Services and higher value and technology order processing information An online presence and access JUST EAT provides SMEs The JUST EAT platform Restaurants have access to JUST EATs 13.4 million with a brand presence, leadingsignificantly reduces to other benefits such as Active Users, help restaurants edge digital technology, and communication errors discounted menu printing, generate more orders and orders the ability to accept online and restaurant order branded commodity products, of higher value than when payments.
and feedback on consumer orders are placed by telephone.
Value for consumers: Informed choices Convenience Trusted brand Ordering simplicity With an online menu for each Consumers can choose to Consumers have the Payment card details can restaurant and customer reviews, place an order wherever they reassuranceof ordering from be stored securely with consumers make informed are using one of our Apps or well-known, trusted brands, JUST EAT, along with contact choices of which food to order mobile website.
receiving customer service details, favourite restaurants and from where.
through JUST EAT online and previous orders.
support or offline through our contact centres.
Value for JUST EAT: L o ng - t er m E m p l oye e financial value d e v el o p m en t Compound annual growth in orders of 62% over the The growth of the business has provided past four years have driven a 65% and 394% compound many opportunities for employees and we increase in revenues and Underlying EBITDA respectively.
continue to invest in developing and retaining This demonstrates the inherent leverage in our model and our people and strengthening the team.
how it preserves value over the long term.
Read more on how we measure our performance Page 18 7
