Strategic Report Market Overview tickets for live entertainment, Our marketplace Potential of scale classified advertising and restaurant 3 model works best bookings.
Over 60% of takeaway orders for delivery are still placed in geographies with on the phone, demonstrating the 19.6% remaining opportunity for JUST a strong culture for Group market EAT to convert those consumers takeaway food and a toordering via our platform.
Across the 13 territories we operate in, over The optimal market for JUST EAT 2015 our average market penetration was is where eCommerce is established only 19.6% 2014: 12.4%, leaving substantial Our current markets and where the takeaway market is opportunities for JUST EAT to develop its The markets in which JUST EAT business in the future.
highly fragmented, consisting of currently operates were estimated to lots of independent outlets and few represent a total annual takeaway order chains.
This has been key in choosing 1 value for delivery of 23.9 billion those territories in which we invest in2015, of which the UK is the largest and JUST EAT is now market leader 1 single market at 5.5 billion.
in 12 of the 13 territories around the world in which we operate.
In the UK, one of our more developed TheUK, Australia, Brazil, Denmark, markets, online ordering has grown France, Ireland, Italy and Spain faster than GDP, driven by broad areparticularly strong examples adoption of eCommerce and increased 2 of a highly fragmented takeaway smartphone tablet penetration.
market in which aggregators such This channel shift is similar to the asJUST EAT should thrive.
migration towards the use of the internet by consumers in other highly 1.
Source: Consumer Foodservice in the UK fragmented markets, such as holiday one selling cuisine byEuromonitor and EIU.
Source: Management estimates and published data.
What drives demand for our platform?
Drive towards convenience Reluctance to spend time Consumer desire for choice, Consumers want more peoples increasingly food shopping and preparing over 100 cuisine categories.
information reviews busy lives food takeaway viewed as satisfy that demand part of the daily routine Restaurants want access Simplicity, speed and Increasing adoption of Increasing mobile to digital customers efficiency storing of card eCommerce, similar to other penetration details, easier to process an highly fragmented markets order for both consumers such as holiday bookings and TRs e. g. Apple Pay 8 156122 JUST EAT-TEXT-pgs008-009.
indd 8 06 03 2016 20:53 Strategic Report Clear market-leader in 12 territories 4 Canada Spain Ireland UK Norway Denmark Benelux Mexico Brazil France Switzerland Italy Australia & New Zealand Source: JUST EAT management estimates.
JUST EAT is the number two operator in Benelux.
takeaways to dine-in restaurants: Who are our consumers?
from sole proprietors and family The biggest single demographic of What is run businesses to branded chains, JUST EAT consumers are families who, and over 100 cuisine types available, as expected, tend to place orders of the future?
demonstrating the breadth of choice.
higher value, as opposed to our student customers who typically order more There is significant potential for cheaply and for fewer people.
Lifestyles JUSTEAT to increase its orders, have shifted with consumers looking for revenues and operating profits convenience options that fit with their within our current markets given the increasingly busy daily routines.
This, relatively low consumer penetration combined with the growing variety in most countries.
In time there is of takeaway food, including healthier also the opportunity for JUST EAT to choices becoming available, has resulted further address the collection market, in consumers embracing takeaway as higher end restaurants and delivery via third parties.
The opportunities to afeature of their daily lives.
utilise our significant data resources Who are our with both our restaurant partners restaurant partners?
JUST EAT was pleased Our restaurant partners are wide to welcome 70 YO!
Sushi restaurants to its ranging: from counter-service UK platform in 2015.
