Strategic Report Improving the Consumer Experience Consumers may also choose to rank Key highlights JUST EAT brings restaurants by review rating only, alphabetically or by prioritising those consumers convenience, restaurants with special offers.
restaurant choice and Having better information is key 38% the ability to read leave to enabling consumers to make Group orders via App empowered choices.
Over 2015, consumers increasingly chose to of displaying the search results are order via our Apps, now available for most planned for release during 2016. major mobile operating systems 2014: 30%.
A more informed consumer App users are typically more loyal and order Once a consumer enters a postcode, Consumer reviews, which can only more frequently than non-App users.
or geolocates via the App, the Search be placed by those who have made Engine Results Page SERP lists the an order, offer valuable insight into live restaurants that are available to fellow consumers views on food prepare food.
There are clearly labelled quality, service and delivery.
In top-placement slots at the top of the addition to these reviews, which are 13.5m SERP.
All restaurants listed below these updated daily, we also include a link are ranked based on the consumer to the FoodStandards Agency where Reviews rating they have received and distance relevant, for access to restaurant At 31 December 2015, we had 7.7m reviews from the consumer, placing the higherhygiene ratings.
on our UK platform 31 December 2014: 3.7m.
Outside the UK, consumers had left rated restaurants at the top.
The scalability of our platform ensures that consumer orders UK Daily orders thousand indicates New Years Day get through to our restaurant 400 partners on even the busiest of evenings.
Having processed 350 300,000 orders for the first time 300 in a single evening in the UK in 250 November 2015, we broke that record a further two times in 200 2015 before processing 371,000 150 UK orders on New Years Day 100 2016.
At peak, our core platforms process an order every 25 50 milliseconds!
indd 12 06 03 2016 20:00 Strategic Report Investing in technology During 2015 a total of 320 updates 2014: 103 were rolled out across our30 Apps, mobile web and desktop platforms.
Most of these changes were incremental improvements to enhance the consumer experience, while keeping it simple and consistent.
More significant improvements included adding the ability to pay for orders using Apple Pay, trialling Order-on-itsWay notification and continuing to develop real-time Order Tracking.
We will continue to invest in technology and product, to ensure the stability, security and scalability of our system and to improve both our consumer offer and restaurant technology platforms.
During the last quarter of the year, we launched a new CRM tool that will enable us to better target consumers with marketing messagesand relevant promotions.
Chriss Fish and Recognising the best We should start seeing the benefits Chips in Leicestershire The inaugural British Takeaway of this in 2016. was voted best Awards, held in 2015, recognised takeaway restaurant in the country.
the role our restaurant partners play both as purveyors of food and in their local communities.
Not only does this improve standards in the industry but it also reinforces JUST EAT as a Read about the risks that champion of the takeaway industry.
could impact our strategy on page 28 Restaurant technology Improving the visibility of order-on-its-way notification was deliveriesenables restaurants live in 711 UK restaurants.
to runmore efficiently while These trials have delivered much enhancing the overall takeaway real-life user case information and experience for consumers.
have enabled us to be in a position Orderpad is the tablet-based order to commence the commercial rollmanagement platform, upon which out of Orderpad to our restaurants we have built our order-on-its-way in Q2 of 2016.
Our target is to have notification and order tracking one third of UK orders processed on features.
During 2015, we expanded an Orderpad within 12 months.
The rollout of Orderpad will also enable our trials of the former, including the expansion of full order tracking developing both new hardware and technology trials during 2016. software.
At the end of the year, 13 156122 JUST EAT-TEXT-pgs012-013.
indd 13 06 03 2016 20:00 Strategic Report Bringing Greater Choice Enhancing our restaurant offer A first for the UK drives loyalty from existing restaurants Steven Mavrou and encourages is the co-owner of Gyms Kitchen, others to join.
the UKs first Greater restaurant choice will attract protein-based more consumers to the JUST EAT platform, completing the virtuous restaurant chain, circle.
with two locations Technology advances in East London.
Our vision is to be fully integrated into how a takeaway restaurant operates, moving away from traditional We wanted to bring healthy and We have been with JUST EAT for transaction methods.
This means not affordable food to the high street, just under three years, and have just facilitating JUST EAT orders but and dont believe you should have seen a huge benefit to our business enabling us to offer our restaurant tocompromise taste to eat well.
We get around 20 partners the right tools to manage We only use fresh ingredients and orders per day, equivalent to around their businesses.
prepare everything on site daily in 6070% of our total orders.
We are an open plan kitchen.
Our menu primarily a dine-in restaurant so In September 2015 we launched the offers fast, simple and healthy having a delivery and collection JUST EAT Partner Centre App a meals, broken down for those option is a great side-business for us, dedicated business management tool withan eye on their daily intakes.
especially during the middle of the that enables restaurant owners to week, when restaurants are often manage their own online presence less busy.
e. g. adjusting their opening hours, manage their business operations e. g. purchasing merchandise in the JUST EAT shop and obtain key business data such as number of each dish sold.
Restaurants can also read feedback left for them and respond asrequired.
Further expansion of thisplatform will take place in 2016.
Read about the risks that could impact our strategy on page 28 14 156122 JUST EAT-TEXT-pgs014-015.
indd 14 06 03 2016 20:41 Strategic Report Over 100 different cuisine types available onJUST EAT You can eat from almost every country in the world without leaving your home!
From Argentinian to Vietnamese and from starters to desserts, consumers can order a truly international feast through JUSTEAT.
Increasingly, reflectingconsumer trends, healthier choices are being highlighted byrestaurants.
Coverage To p 3 Collection pick-up has been a focus of the UK business since p r io r i t ie s early 2014 and orders through this channel have been growing at f o r g r e at e r around twice the rate of the broader c ho i c e business.
In 2015, 4% of orders were 61,500 collected by consumers 2014: 3%.
Collection offers significant further restaurants on JUST EAT opportunity beyond our core delivery business, a market estimated by platforms at 31 December management to be worth around an 2015 31 December 2014: 1 additional 2.6 billion, a significant 45,700, up 35%.
proportion of which should be Identify consumer trends addressable by JUST EAT.
and offer better curation of menus 2 Add more restaurants to our platforms 3 Offer a better selection of restaurants to consumers, catering for all their takeaway occasions 15 156122 JUST EAT-TEXT-pgs014-015.
indd 15 06 03 2016 20:41 Strategic Report Driving Channel Shift Global brands While eight of our 13 markets trade as JUST EAT, the remaining five use well-established local brands that were acquired by JUST EAT.
Marketing concepts, and even collateral, are shared within markets at similar stages of maturity, while less developed, or more unique, markets require a bespoke approach.
In Italy, an early stage market, the advertising approach was one of discovery that takeaway food could be ordered via App, as shown below.
In Spain, a gloomy anteater was one character used to demonstrate the wide choice of cuisines available to humans on the platform.
While in In the UK, over 60% of France the television adverts talked Our focus remains takeaway orders for delivery of eating restaurant-quality food, in are still placed on the on shifting consumers the comfort of your own home.
phone demonstrating the to ordering through opportunity still available our digital platforms for channel shift from ordering by telephone.
This potential channel shift represents Improving the consumer experience the main opportunity for JUST EAT and maintaining strong marketing as consumer migration from offline messaging will help drive further to mobile online ordering remains in channel shift.
JUST EATs its early stages in the vast majority of spontaneous brand awareness among our geographies.
Even in the UK, one UK takeaway consumers increased to of our more developed markets, over 47% in November 2015 from 44% in 1 2 60% of takeaway orders for delivery December 2014.
This measures the are still placed on the phone.
During percentage of consumers for whom a 2015 Active Users globally grew 65% given brand is the first that comes to to 13.4 million 31 December 2014: 8.1 mind in a category and demonstrates million.
how brand investment increases consumer loyalty.
Source: Management estimates and published data.
indd 16 06 03 2016 19:54 Strategic Report through Android tablets and phones, Mobile-led strategy iPhone, iPad, Windows mobile, Kindle In 2015 mobile penetration continued Fire tablets along with laptop and to increase due to the rise in popularity desktop computers.
of smartphones and tablets with our consumers.
In the UK, smartphone The additional benefit of orders made penetration of households has via App direct to JUST EAT is that they 3 remained at around two-thirds, while bypass search engines and avoid search tablet penetration increased to 55% engine fees, reduce the chance of 2 inMay 2015 from 44% in Q12014.
competitor redirection and reduce the risks associated with changes in search Our mobile-led strategy has resulted provider algorithms.
We will continue in 66% of Group JUST EAT orders now our focus on driving consumers to App being placed using a mobile device use into 2015.
JUST EAT iOS Apps have 2014: 53%, which includes 38% of been downloaded more than six million total orders via an App 2014: 30%.
times, while four million Android Evidence to date shows that App users downloads have been made.
order more frequently than non-App users.
In the UK, orders can be made 3.
Source: Ofcom Technology Tracker, August 2015.
Tap the App Organising the worlds takeaway food JUST EAT helps consumers around the world choose what cuisine to eat and from which of their local restaurants, whether its a treat or an everyday meal.
We provide geographic targeting, various searchoptions along with genuine To encourage migration of consumers Consumers trust well-known brands customer reviews.
from offline to digital ordering, and to with which they identify, helping make To help consumers from having reinforce our brand values to existing our business model highly defensible to deal with too much choice, we consumers, we continue to build as we become a more established brand can tailor the restaurants we sign JUST EAT brands through innovative in all of our geographies.
We now up in agiven postcode, and in marketing campaigns such as the undertake television marketing in future we will be able to curate #minifistpump campaign launched in all of the core markets we operate in.
which restaurants are shown to October 2014, and moved into a second the consumer depending on their phase with this winters I need a balti!
demographic and prior order history.
and Chicken Madras TV campaigns supported by radio, PR, digital and experiential elements.
Read about the risks that could impact our strategy on page 28 17 156122 JUST EAT-TEXT-pgs016-017.
