Strategic Report About Us It is important to JUST EAT that Success-based revenue model At JUST EAT, we when restaurants join the JUST We have a simple, scalable, successoperate the worlds EAT platform they make a conscious based revenue model.
Order-driven decision to treat orders sent to them revenues account for 91% of Group leading digital through our platforms with at least revenues 2014: 89%, comprising the same care and attention as their marketplace for commission paid by the TR on other orders.
successfully transmitted orders and takeaway food delivery, payment card or administration Restaurants may also pay for providing consumers fees, charged to the restaurant and additional services such as often recharged on to the consumer promotional top-placement on the with an easy and when they choose to pay online.
The JUST EAT platform and branded commission rates are agreed in the secure way to order and commodity products, which together contractual terms with TRs and vary constituted 6% of the Groups revenues pay for food from local by country.
Top-placement fees are is driven by the number of orders takeaway restaurants.
charged to restaurants who want to be placed, the average order value listed in a clearly-labelled sponsored AOV and commission rates.
Thus, Takeaway restaurants TRs that slot at the top of search results in a an increase in any one of these three join the JUST EAT platform have particular postcode.
By paying this variables will have a positive impact their menus made accessible to online fee, the TR secures a top-placement on revenues.
The performance of consumers, who are able to search for slot for a particular postcode for a order-driven revenues is measured local TRs and choose to pay securely period of up to 12 weeks.
Our organic by the Groups Average Revenue Per online at the point of ordering or with listings below these top-placement Order ARPO KPI, which increased cash on delivery.
Details of the order slots are ordered by an algorithm by 3% during 2015. are sent to the TRvia proprietary based on consumer ratings and technology, mostly Just Connect distance from the consumer, and are The remaining revenues consist of Terminals JCTs, whichare provided not affected by restaurant payments.
a one-off connection fee to join the to TRs to accept orders and send JUST EAT network, which accounted confirmations to the consumer.
for 3% of the Groups revenues 2014:5%.
These range from nil to Once prepared, the food is delivered 699, depending on geography and to the consumer, or the consumer market maturity.
maychoose to collect the order.
Consumer journey: P o s t co d e Choose restaurant D el i v er y P a y m e n t me t h o d me t h o d The JUST EAT Apps and Consumers can make websites enable consumers an informed choice Consumers can The final stage in placing an to search for restaurants by reading customer choose delivery or collect order is for the consumer in their area using their reviews and examining the order themselves.
to choose to either pay postcode, sorted by cuisine the full menu.
There were securely online or pay cash choice and preference for 13.5 million reviews on on delivery collection.
JUST EAT by the year end, placed by those who have made orders.
indd 4 06 03 2016 20:55 Strategic Report Success-based revenue model 6% 78% Top-placement fee Commissions and other revenue Same menu price for Promotional consumers as ordering top-placement directly from restaurants Branded Rate charged varies Revenue driven commodity products by country by consumer orders 3% 13% 91% Connection Payment card fees revenue admin fee revenue Small fee typically charged One-off cost paid by to the restaurant and restaurants to join often recharged on to the consumer when they Pricing depends choose to pay online on market maturity With the exception of Denmark and France, where TRs also pay a small annual subscription fee.
Beneficial cash flow cycle factor in our sector.
The UK is the In 2015 we completed ten targeted When a consumer pays online, largest of JUST EATs operations in transactions including the acquisition JUSTEAT collects the full order value terms of number of orders, active of the Menulog Group, the market on behalf of the restaurant.
As over customers and takeaway restaurants leader in Australia and New Zealand, 60% of orders are paid online, JUST EAT and represents 68% of total Group and the purchase of SinDelantal in operates with a very favourable revenues 2014: 73%.
Mexico, the largest online takeaway working capital cycle.
The funds are food provider in a very early stage During 2015 we continued to grow typically transferred to restaurants, market.
We also increased our stake our team and at 31 December 2015 net of our fees, twice per month, but in IF-JE, our Brazilian associate, from 1,868 people Full Time Equivalents will be moving to a weekly basis in 25% to 30%: increased our share of FTEs worked for JUST EAT globally the UK from Q2 2016.
We do not use our Swiss business from 64% to 100%: 31 December 2014: 1,508 FTEs.
these amounts to fund our operations made two small acquisitions in Italy Whileour head office is in the heart so it is appropriate to remit them to Clicca e Mangia and DeliveRex: of London, we have strong local our restaurant partners more quickly.
acquired Nifty Nosh in Northern teams on the ground in every country Ireland: and acquired Orderit.
ca, Where we are ofoperation including dedicated thenumber two operator in Canada.
Since the first JUST EAT website in-house customer care teams.
was launched in Denmark in 2001, On 5 February 2016, JUST EAT M&A we have expanded globally with acquired the number two operators Our approach to M&A is one operations in Australia, Belgium, in Spain, Italy, Mexico and Brazil.
The that is focused on achieving our Brazil, Canada, Denmark, France, Spanish acquisition is due to complete strategic objectives whilst remaining Ireland, Italy, Mexico, the Netherlands, once approval is obtained from the financially disciplined.
We have New Zealand, Norway, Spain, local competition commission.
It is focused on building and maintaining Switzerland and the UK.
expected that the acquired Brazilian our existing market leading positions business will be sold on to IF-JE, We are clear market leader in 12 where wehave a proven track record.
of our 13 territories: a key success 5 156122 JUST EAT-TEXT-pgs001-005.
