Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual Research and development Report and audited financial statements of the Company We continue to dedicate resources to the development andthe Group for the year ended 31 December 2015. of new technologies, in order to improve the consumer experience and enhance our offering to our restaurant The Directors Report contains certain statutory, regulatory partners.
Expenses incurred are capitalised when it is and other information and incorporates, by reference, the probable that future economic benefits will be attributable Strategic Report and the Governance Report included earlier tothe asset and that these costs can be measured reliably.
Change of control Strategic Report In the event of a takeover, a scheme of arrangement A fair review of the Groups performance during the period other than a scheme of arrangement for the purposes of and of its position at the period end, including commentary creating a new holding company or certain other events, on its likely future development and prospects, is set out unvested Executive Director and employee share awards in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 33, while information may in certain circumstances become exercisable.
Such on principal risks and uncertainties and key performance circumstances may, although do not necessarily, depend on indicators is given on pages 28 to 29 and pages 18 to the achievement of performance conditions or the discretion 19, respectively.
All this information should be read in of the Remuneration Committee.
The Company does not conjunction with this Report.
The Corporate Governance have any agreements with any Director or officer of the Report, including the Directors Remuneration Report, Company that would provide compensation for loss of office onpages 34 to 65, summarises the Companys governance or employment resulting from a takeover.
The Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 30 to 33 summarises The Group has facility agreements in place with its bank the Groups approach to diversity, health and safety, lenders which contain provisions giving those lenders environmental matters and community matters.
All these certain rights on a change of control of the Company.
sections form part of this Directors Report, into which Save as otherwise disclosed above, there are no other theyare incorporated byreference.
significant agreements to which the Company is a party Results and dividends that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control The audited financial statements of the Group and of the following a takeover bid.
Company for the period under review are set out on pages Financial instruments 66 to 110 and pages 111 to 115, respectively.
The Company Our risk management policies relating to credit risk, market intends to retain its earnings to expand the growth and risk, capital risk and liquidity risk are detailed within note 35 development of its business and, therefore, does not anticipate of the notes to the financial statements on pages 97 to 99. paying dividends in the foreseeable future.
Details of In addition, the overall risk framework and strategy for the dividends paid during the year before the Companys IPO Group is included within the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 33. are set out in note 13 to the financialstatements.
Employment of disabled persons 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM Our policy in respect of the employment of disabled persons An explanation of the resolutions to be proposed at the is set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on AGM, and the recommendation of Directors in relation page 32. to these, is included in the circular to shareholders accompanying this Annual Report.
Resolutions regarding Employee consultation the authority to issue shares are commented upon later Details of employee consultation are set out in the inthis Report under share capital.
CorporateSocial Responsibility report on pages 30 to 33.
The Companys AGM will be held at the Lincoln Centre, 18Lincolns Inn Fields, London, WC2A 3ED at 9.30am on 27April 2016.
indd 116 06 03 2016 20:28 Financial Statements Biographical details of the current Directors are set out Substantial shareholdings on pages 36 and 37.
The Directors interests in the At 29 February 2016, the Company had been notified in ordinary share capital of the Company and any interests accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of known to the Company of their connected persons are the UK Listing Authority, or was aware, that the following set out in the Report of the Remuneration Committee held, or were beneficially interested in, 3% or more of the onpage 57.
Companys shares at that date: The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity Number of % of voting provisions for the benefit of its Directors in relation 1 Ordinary shares rights tocertain losses and liabilities that they may incur in The Sara Marron Discretionary 121,972,442 18.05% thecourse of acting as Directors of the Company, its 2 Settlement the SMTrust subsidiaries or associates, which remain in force at the Deutsche Bank AG 69,316,997 10.26% date of this report.
BlackRock Inc 51,912,483 7.68% No member of the Board had a material interest in any Old Mutual Plc 48,157,281 7.12% contract of significance with the Company or any of its Index Ventures V Jersey, LP 42,848,600 6.34% subsidiaries at any time during the year, except for their interests in shares and in share awards and under their Munch S. A. R. L 36,933,291 5.46% service agreements and letters of appointment disclosed FIL Limited 33,879,886 5.01% in the Report of the Remuneration Committee commencing on page 48.
Total voting rights attaching to the issued share capital of the Company  Ordinary shares each of 0.01 nominal value, being the675,583,799 Ordinary shares in issue.
STM Fidecs Trust Company Limited is the holder of registered legal title to Certain key information relating to the Companys shares theOrdinary shares beneficially owned by the SM Trust.
isshown below: The Company received no notifications of interests indicating The Companys shares at the year end comprised a different whole percentage holding at 31 December 2015. entirelyOrdinary shares of 0.01 each, which rank Directors equally in all respects.
The Directors of the Company who served throughout the The rights attached to the shares, in addition to those period and up to the date of signing this Annual Report conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the except where noted were: Companys Articles of Association.
The Companys John Hughes Chairman Articles of Association may only be amended by a specialresolution of the shareholders.
David Buttress CEO There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares or on Mike Wroe CFO the exercise of voting rights attached to them, except: Gwyn Burr i where the Company has exercised its right to suspend their voting rights or to prohibit their transfer following Frederic Coorevits the omission of their holder, or any person interested in Andrew Griffith them, to provide the Company with information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the Benjamin Holmes Companies Act 2006 the Act : or ii where their holder Diego Oliva appointed 24 September 2015 is precluded from exercising voting rights by the FCAs Listing Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Michael Risman The Group operates employee share plans as set out in Henri Moissinac resigned 31 July 2015 the Report of the Remuneration Committee commencing Certain key matters in connection with the Directors on page 48 and in note 34 of the financial statements.
areshown below: Shares held by the employee benefit trust trustees abstain from voting.
The business of the Company is managed by its Directors who may exercise all powers of the Company subject to Save as described above, shares acquired through the the Articles of Association and UK legislation.
Directors Companys employee share plans rank pari passu with of the Company are appointed either by the Board or by shares in issue and have no special rights.
shareholders under the Companys Articles of Association and may resign or be removed in a similar manner.
indd 117 06 03 2016 20:28 Directors Report continued During the year, the Company issued 105,397,759 Each Shareholder Party has also agreed not to propose Ordinary shares at a price of 425 pence per share under a the appointment of a further Board representative or vote placing and open offer in connection with its acquisition against the election or re-election of a person the Board of Menulog.
These shares were admitted to the London hasput forward for election or re-election as a Director Stock Exchanges main market on 11 June 2015. ofthe Company.
At the year end, the Company had authority exercisable Corporate governance by the Directors to issue up to 273,571,241 shares subject The Company is committed to high standards of corporate to certain restrictions.
The Company will seek to renew governance.
Its application of the principles of good its authority to issue shares at the 2016 AGM.
governance in respect of the UK Corporate Governance Code for the period under review is described in the Save as described under the Board Representation Corporate Governance Report on pages 34 to 35.
Agreement described below, the Company is not awareof any agreements or control rights between The Directors responsibility statement in respect of this shareholders that may result in restrictions on the Annual Report and the financial statements appears on transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Further information regarding the Companys share capital, Going concern including the changes to this during the year, is set out The Companys statement with regard to the going concern innote 26 to the financial statements.
basis for preparing the financial statements is included in the CFO Update and Financial Review on page 27.
Board Representation Agreement On 2 April 2014 the SM Trust, Index Ventures and Political donations Vitruvian Partners entered into an agreement with The Company did not make any political donations theCompany which entitles each such shareholder party duringthe year.
and their respective permitted transferees together the Greenhouse gas emissions Shareholder Parties and each a Shareholder Party Reporting on greenhouse gas emissions is included in to appoint one Director to the Board of the Company.
theCorporate Social Responsibility report on page 33.
The initial appointees were Frederic Coorevits SM Trust appointee, Benjamin Holmes Index Ventures appointee Related party transactions with Directors and Michael Risman Vitruvian Partners appointee.
Please refer to note 36 for details of transactions entered Thisentitlement shall lapse in respect of a Shareholder into with related parties.
Party, and such Shareholder Party shall procure that its appointee will resign: Overseas branches The Company has no branches outside the UK.
a during the period commencing on the date of the agreement and expiring on the date falling two years Post balance sheet events thereafter, or if later, the date of the Companys AGM Details of important events affecting the Company held in 2016 the Initial Period, if: since 31 December 2015 are disclosed in note 38 to .
i that Shareholder Party ceases to hold at least 5% ofthe Ordinary shares: or ii on the occurrence of the Companys AGM held in 2016, such Shareholder Party has ceased at any time during the Initial Period to hold at least 10% of the Ordinary shares: and b at any time following the Initial Period, where that Shareholder Party does not hold at least 10% of the Ordinary shares.
indd 118 06 03 2016 20:28 Financial Statements the Company and Group financial statements, Directors responsibility statement whichhave been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual asadopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the Report and the financial statements in accordance with assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the applicable law and regulations.
UK company law requires Group and Parent Company: and the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Strategic Report and Directors Report include a the Group and Parent Company financial statements in fairreview of the development and performance of the accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union.
business and the position of the Company and Group, Under UK company law the Directors must not approve together with a description of the principal risks and the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they uncertainties that they face.
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for Disclosure of information to the auditor that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Each of the Directors of the Company at the time when Directors are required to: thisReport was approved confirms that: select suitable accounting policies and then apply so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant themconsistently: auditinformation of which the Companys auditor isunaware: and make judgements and accounting estimates that he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought arereasonable and prudent: tohave taken as a Director in order to make himself state whether applicable IFRSs, as adopted by the orherself aware of any relevant audit information European Union have been followed, subject to any andtoestablish that the Companys auditor is aware material departures disclosed and explained in the ofthatinformation.
financial statements: and This confirmation is given in accordance with section 418 2 prepare the financial statements on the going concern of the Act.
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Auditor Deloitte LLP, the Groups auditor, has indicated their The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate willingness to continue in office and, on the recommendation accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain of the Audit Committee and in accordance with Section 489 the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable of the Act, a resolution to re-appoint them will be put to accuracy at any time the financial position of the the2016 AGM.
Companyand the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration On behalf of the Board Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 the Act and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for Tony Hunter safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group Company Secretary andhence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 29 February 2016 and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 36 to 37, confirm that, to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys and the Groups performance, business model and strategy: 119 156122 JUST EAT-TEXT-pgs116-119.
