Corporate Governance Our Board comprises a diverse range of Directors with a Our Board wide variety of complementary skill sets and experience.
Benjamin Gwyn Michael Dr John David Mike Holmes Burr Risman Hughes Buttress Wroe Non-executive Independent Non-executive Non-executive Chief Executive Chief Financial Director Non-executive Director Chairman Officer Officer Director 36 156122 JUST EAT-TEXT-pgs034-043.
indd 36 09 03 2016 15:06 Corporate Governance Dr John Hughes, CBE, Hon DSc N Frederic Coorevits S Non-executive Chairman Chairman of Non-executive Director the Nomination Committee Fred was appointed a Director in July 2009.
John joined as Chairman in December 2011.
Fred is an advisor for SM Trust, for which He has more than 30 years experience he has been working for more than ten leading complex, high technology businesses years.
He manages SM Trusts portfolio of operating at a global level.
This has included investments, which focus on the areas of senior executive positions at Thales Group, eCommerce and cloud computing.
Prior Lucent Technologies and Hewlett Packard.
to this, Fred worked as a finance director John currently serves as Chairman of for i-spire plc and as a senior manager for Spectris plc and was, until January 2016,  transaction Executive Chairman of Telecity Group plc services in London.
Fred holds a Masters in and, until September 2015, Non-executive Business Administration and a Masters in Chairman of Sepura plc.
He also serves Organic Chemistry from Louvain Belgium.
as a Non-executive Director of Equinix Inc and CSG Systems International Inc. Andrew Griffith A, R, N, I John is also an advisor to Oakley Capital Senior Independent Non-executive Director Limited.
John holds a Bachelor of Science in Chairman of Audit Committee Electrical and Electronic Engineering from Andrew was appointed a Director in March the University of Hertfordshire formerly 2014.
Andrew has served as Chief Financial Hatfield Polytechnic from which he was, Officer of Sky plc since April 2008 where, in 2014, awarded an honorary Doctorate since 2012, he has also had executive ofScience in recognition of his contribution responsibility for Skys commercial to the communications and technology businesses, having originally joined Sky in sector and to the wider business community.
1999 from Rothschild Group, the investment He was awarded the CBE for services to banking organisation.
Andrew is a Trustee international telecommunications in the of Riverside Studios, serves on the Advisory Queens 2011 New Year Honours List.
Board of the Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation and is director of a David Buttress number of Sky associate companies.
Andrew Chief Executive Officer is a qualified Chartered Accountant and David joined JUST EAT in March 2006 to holds a degree in Law from the University launch its UK business, and was appointed of Nottingham.
Chief Executive Officer in January 2013.
Beginning his career in 1998 with Coca-Cola Benjamin Holmes S Enterprises, David enjoyed a variety of Non-executive Director senior sales roles and won the prestigious Ben was appointed a Director of the Account Manager of the Year award while Company in July 2009.
Ben is a partner at managing Coca-Colas key UK restaurant Index Ventures and is based in the London customers.
David holds a Bachelor of Arts office.
He joined Index Ventures in 2002, Hons in Law and Business from Middlesex having worked previously as an investment University Business School.
In 2014, David manager at NewMedia Spark and as a was named Entrepreneur of the Year at the consultant at OC&C Strategy Consultants.
Investor Allstars Awards, and was listed At Index Ventures, Ben focuses on commerce as one of the London Evening Standards and consumer investments and played a top 1,000 influential people.
In 2015 he was key role in building the portfolio of games named as one of Britains most influential investments.
Ben holds a Masters degree in people in the Debretts 500.
David is also Engineering Economics and Management a Special Advisor at 83 North a global from Oxford University.
Diego Oliva A, R, N, I Mike Wroe Independent Non-executive Director Chief Financial Officer Diego was appointed an independent Appointed a Director of the Company Non-executive Director of the Company in October 2013, Mike originally joined in September 2015.
Diego has extensive JUST EAT in October 2008 as Chief international experience in executive Financial Officer.
Prior to joining JUST EAT, roles in the technology, digital marketing his roles included Chief Financial Officer and mobile sectors, having spent six years of listed Radio Frequency Identification as Regional Director at Facebook.
He is RFID Near Field Communication NFC currently co-founder and Chief Operating chip design business Innovision Research Officer of Glue, a smart physical access and Technology plc, which he took public company.
Diego also serves as Limited in 2001.
Mike now has over 20 years Partner and Advisor at Earlybird Venture commercial experience having qualified Capital, White Star Capital and Wamda as a chartered accountant in 1993 with Capital, VC funds.
He holds a Joint Honours Bachelor degrees from Harvard Business School, of Science in Chemistry and Management Stockholm University and IE Business Studies from the University of Nottingham School and received a Bachelors degree and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered inEconomics from Tec fide Monterrey.
Accountants in England and Wales.
Michael Risman S Gwyn Burr A, R, N, I Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Mike was appointed as a Director in Chairman of the Remuneration Committee March 2014.
He also acted as the primary Gwyn was appointed a Director in March representative of the former corporate 2014.
Gwyn is also Non-executive Director director of the Company, Vitruvian of Sainsburys Bank plc, Hammerson plc, Directors I Limited, from April 2012 to DFS Furniture Holdings plc and Metro March 2014.
Mike is a Managing Partner AG.
From May 2005 to March 2013, Gwyn at Vitruvian and one of the founders was Customer Director and a member of of the firm.
He is currently Chairman the operating board for J Sainsbury plc, of the Board for Benity Linnealex AB with responsibility for brand, own brand and Snow Software Iglu Intressenter customer service, corporate communications AB.
He also serves as a Director on the and corporate and social responsibility and Board of Verastar Etihad Topco Limited, also, from 2010, human resources.
Gwyn CRF Health CRF Health Group Limited, Andrew Diego Frederic holds a Bachelor of Science in Economics and FarFetch.
com Limited, JAC Travel JAC Griffith Oliva Coorevits History from the University of Bradford.
Travel Group Holdings Limited, and Accountor Calcyteam Oy for the Vitruvian Senior Independent Independent Non-executive funds.
Mike holds an MBA from Harvard Non-executive Non-executive Director Business School and a Masters in Electrical Engineering and Management from Director Director A: Audit Committee Cambridge University.
He is also Chairman N: Nomination Committee of the Venture Partnership Foundation, a R: Remuneration Committee charity that supports social entrepreneurs.
I: Independent Non-executive Director S: Nominee of a Major Shareholder 37 156122 JUST EAT-TEXT-pgs034-043.
