Effectiveness The Boards policy on tenure is that Board, Committee and Directors Effectiveness continuity and experience are considered evaluation to add significantly to the strength of the Our Board is committed to evaluating Board and, as such, other than an initial its performance each year.
Towards The members of the Board term of three years from the date of the end of 2015 and in the early part We currently consider the overall appointment, no limit on the overall of 2016, we held a second evaluation, size and composition of the Board length of service of any of the Directors, which was internally managed like the to be appropriate, whilst this is including the Chair, has been imposed.
first evaluation which took place at the continually monitored by the Nomination end of 2014, through questionnaires Committee and also the Board.
This There have been no changes to the which were completed by each of opinion is informed by the results of other significant commitments of the our Directors.
In addition, members the recent evaluation of our Board Chair or any of the other Non-Executive of the Audit Committee completed members described below, particularly Directors during the year under review.
evaluation questionnaires to assess the regarding the independence of character performance and effectiveness of the and integrity of all our Directors, and Mark McNicholas was appointed to Audit Committee and the responses the skills and experience they bring to their duties.
These qualities prevent the role of senior independent director to all the questionnaires were formally any individual or small group from on 25 February 2015. discussed at the Nomination Committee dominating the Boards decision meeting.
The evaluation reviewed the making or exercising undue influence.
The Directors are subject to re-election Boards balance of skills, experience, on an annual basis and their biographies, independence and knowledge of the We monitor developments in corporate setting out their relevant skills, Company, its diversity, including gender, governance standards to ensure that as experience, their other professional how the Board works together as a a Board we remain aligned with the best commitments and their individual unit and other factors relevant to its practices followed by our peers.
We contributions to the Board, are effectiveness.
The evaluation concluded acknowledge the importance of diversity, described on pages 64 to 65. that the Board, the Chair and its including gender and nationality, for the Committees operate effectively and effective functioning of the Board and Independence of Non-Executive that Board communication as well as are committed to supporting diversity Directors quality and transparency of disclosure of business skills, experience and Mark McNicholas and Simon Radford to all stakeholders had been enhanced background in the boardroom.
Further are considered to meet the independence since the time of the first evaluation.
information on our diversity policy requirements of the Code.
The Chair, The evaluation further confirmed that can be found on page 68.
Charlotte Valeur, was considered each Directors performance continues independent on appointment in to be effective and demonstrates The Board considers that the skills and accordance with the Code.
It was experience of our members, particularly observed that whilst the size, in the areas of investment, real estate, Taking into account the provisions of composition and competency of financial services, corporate governance the Code, two of our five Non-Executive the Board is ideal to discharge its and corporate finance, are fundamental Directors, William McMorrow and responsibilities, the Nomination to the pursuit of the Companys strategic Mary Ricks, are not considered Committee should also consider the objectives.
In addition, the international independent by the Board because of appointment of a new independent and quoted company experience of their employment with KW and its group non-executive director to the Board members of the Board in a variety of companies.
Mary Ricks is also a Director in 2016.
The Board has planned markets is invaluable to the Company.
on the Board of the Investment Manager, training for the coming year on topics and both of them have been nominated including real estate market and industry for appointment to the Board by the trends in order to further enhance its Investment Manager, in accordance knowledge and skills.
The Board has with a right set out in the IMA.
committed to an external evaluation on a three-year basis and it is anticipated that the first external evaluation exercise will be conducted in 2016.
66 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Nomination Committee report Committee attendance during assess the effectiveness and Nomination the period performance of the Board and each of Committee report We meet at least once a year and on its Committees, how the Board works other occasions as required.
For the together as a unit, the relationships period under review, we have held two between the Board and the Investment meetings of the Nomination Committee Manager and Administrator, and other and our attendance is shown in this table.
relevant factors and make a statement in the Annual Report Member Attendance and Accounts about our activities.
Mark McNicholas 2 2 The Committees focus during Charlotte Valeur 2 2 the period Mark McNicholas Mary Ricks 2 2 During the year, the Committee Nomination Committee Chair considered the structure of the Board and Crestbridge Fund Administrators Ltd has decided that currently no changes are attends all our meetings as Secretary necessary and that the Boards levels of to the Committee.
In addition, we invite experience and knowledge are appropriate The Nomination Committee other representatives of the Investment for the size and nature of the Company.
Manager and its investment advisors, has created clear policies and our Board Apprentice to attend The Committee also discussed the and procedures and as required.
composition of the Audit Committee, which under the provisions of the Code provided valuable input The Committees terms of reference required a composition of at least three to the Board during 2015.
Our full terms of reference, explaining independent non-executive directors, our role and the authority delegated and was of the view that currently no to us by the Board, are available on additional appointments are necessary KWEs website.
and that the Audit Committees composition and level of experience Dear Shareholder, The Committees purpose and knowledge are appropriate for The primary purpose of our Nomination the size and nature of the Company.
I am pleased to report on the activities Committee is to fill vacancies on Further details are set out in the Code of the Nomination Committee during its the Board and ensure that the Board compliance statement on page 58. second year of functioning following the maintains an appropriate level and Companys listing on the London Stock balance of skills and experience to The Committee also met to discuss Exchange in 2014. effectively lead the Company, as well director self-evaluations undertaken as putting in place plans for succession in early 2016 and the appointment The Nomination Committee was formed for Directors, particularly the Chair.
of a senior independent director to the at the time of the IPO and its members To do this, we keep the leadership needs Company in early 2015.
We proposed the are three Non-Executive Directors: of the Company under review, to ensure appointment of an SID to the Board and Charlotte Valeur, Mary Ricks and Mark the continued ability of the Company to the Board decided that Mark McNicholas McNicholas.
The Nomination Committee compete effectively in the marketplace.
should be appointed as SID, with effect is chaired by me, Mark McNicholas.
We also keep up-to-date and fully from 25 February 2015. informed about strategic issues and Detailed biographies of the commercial changes affecting the Remuneration Committee Committee members are given Company and the market in which it During the year we have also discussed on pages 64 to 65. operates so we can ensure the leadership the establishment of a remuneration of the Company is well-equipped to deal committee for the Company.
After I am confident that the Nomination with any consequent changes.
due consideration we have concluded, Committee will ensure that the Board and and have recommended to the Board, its Committees have the right leadership Beyond our primary function, we also: that this scenario should be re-visited skills for the Company as it continues its on a regular basis and a remuneration long-term growth strategy.
make recommendations to the committee established if deemed Board concerning any matters relating necessary or desirable.
Further details to the continuation in office of any are set out in the Code compliance Director at any time.
This includes statement on page 58. the suspension or termination of service of that Director Ongoing training of directors review the structure, size and As the majority of the Non-Executive composition of the Board and its various Directors are Jersey residents and each Committees, including the range of skills, of the Board members is regulated knowledge, diversity and experience by the JFSC, they are each required available.
We make recommendations to to undertake 25 hours per annum of the Board about any adjustments, having continued professional development regard to the regulations to which the CPD.
Accordingly, each director and Company is subject any other individual who forms part of the span of control for the Company, including the directors of the Investment Manager has provided a confirmation Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67 Nomination Committee report continued that the appropriate CPD requirements The Committee formally adopted a The Committees effectiveness have been met during the year ended diversity policy for the Board, which This was the Companys and the 31 December 2015.
In addition, Jersey sets out the Boards approach to diversity Nomination Committees second year of regulations require that all Directors in relation to its composition.
Under operation, and I am very pleased to report of the Company undergo anti-bribery the terms of the adopted policy, the on behalf of the Committee that it has and anti-money laundering training.
In Committee will review and assess Board acted in accordance with its documented April 2015, a training session covering composition periodically, and take into terms of reference, established policies the Groups regulatory and compliance account the benefits of all aspects of and procedures with a view to creating practices to address anti-bribery, diversity, including, but not limited to, a platform for the future, and overall anti-money laundering and other topical nationalities, race, skill sets, age groups, provided valuable input to the Board areas of compliance such as insider industry experience and gender as well on the areas set out above.
The Board trading and cyber security risks was as the personal attributes and experience and its committees were comprised attended by the Directors of the of the Directors.
To implement the appropriately for the size and needs of the Company as well as the Investment diversity policy effectively in the context Company, and were operating effectively.
of any future Board appointments, the Committee may use various practical Board appointment process tools such as the Smile composition No new Director has been appointed model or checklist that will identify and since the Companys IPO in February grade the various diversifying factors to Mark McNicholas 2014 and we do not believe that there be considered in the selection process.
Nomination Committee Chair is a gap that currently needs to be filled.
The Committee will also discuss and agree any targets or objectives for We have a formal policy for the achieving diversity on the Board, taking appointment process and this is set into account any applicable rules or out in the terms of reference of the regulations that apply at the time, such Nomination Committee.
We will use as those around director residency open advertising or the services of and domicile requirements and make external advisors to facilitate the search recommendations in this regard to the for suitable candidates.
All appointments to will be given to candidates from a wide the Board will always be made on merit range of backgrounds, based on merit and suitability for the role.
and against objective criteria, including assurance that appointees have enough Currently, we do not consider that time available to devote to the position it is appropriate or in the interest of and with due regard for the benefits of the Company and its shareholders diversity in all its forms on the Board, as to set prescriptive diversity targets well as the applicable requirements under for the Board.
The proportion of female AIFMD.
Any short-listed candidates we Directors on the Board is currently 40%.
select will be seen in the first instance by the Chair and one other Committee Board apprenticeship member.
If appropriate, the potential The Board is committed to improving the candidate s will be invited to meet opportunities for people from a diverse the Committee as a whole.
We will range of backgrounds to understand and then decide whether to recommend prepare for membership of corporate an appointment to the Board and the boards.
During the period under review, Board will decide whether to make the apprentice from Board Apprentice Ltd the appointment.
a not-for-profit organisation dedicated to increasing diversity on boards by widening Diversity policy the pool of board-ready candidates and We consider that together the Directors which looks at diversity beyond gender have a balance of skills, qualifications and encompassing ethnicity, culture, and experience which are relevant to the age, disability, personality and skill set Company and the Group as a whole.
The completed a year of board apprenticeship Board and this Committee support the with the Company.
This was the recommendations of the Davies Report Companys first apprentice on the Board and believe in the value and importance under the programme, and given the of diversity in the boardroom.
potential for positive impact and influence the scheme can create, the Board has committed to take on an apprentice for the year 2016 as well.
68 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
