Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Biographies Charlotte Valeur 52 Simon is the CFO of Aztec Group Ltd In 2014 she won the PERE award for Charlotte has more than 30 years of in Jersey, a role he has held since 2005 Industry Figure of the Year.
Mary is a experience in financial markets and and from which he retires in March 2016. founding board member of the Richard is the Managing Director of GFG Ltd, Previously he was a senior partner of S. Ziman Center for Real Estate at the a governance consultancy.
Between 2006 and University of California, Los Angeles.
2008, Simon served as Chairman of She currently serves as a Non-Executive the Institute of Directors in Jersey and Andrew McNulty 38 Director on the boards of certain President of the Jersey Society of Andrew has more than 15 years of listed companies including Blackstone Chartered and Certified Accountants.
experience in real estate across brokerage GSO Loan Financing Ltd, JPMorgan and fund management industries.
Convertibles Income Fund Ltd, NTR Plc Simon has a deep knowledge of and DW Catalyst Ltd. auditing and associated regulatory issues, He is a Senior Director of the Investment and his experience acquired through his Manager and prior to this he was an Charlotte was the founding Partner of stint at Deloitte, coupled with his role as Associate Director at Crestbridge, Brook Street Partners in 2003 and the Chairman of the KWE Audit Committee, a role held since 2009, where he was Global Governance Group in 2009.
Prior allows him to provide substantial insight responsible for developing the real estate to this, Charlotte worked in London as a and oversight in relation to the Groups funds business.
Director in Capital Markets at Warburg, financial reporting and risk management BNP Paribas, Socit Gnrale and processes.
He has extensive experience as a Commerzbank, beginning her career director on real estate client boards and in Copenhagen with Nordea A S. She He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered regulated Jersey vehicles holding real is a member of The Institute of Directors Accountants in England and Wales and estate assets.
Andrew started his career and is regulated by the Jersey Financial is regulated by the Jersey Financial with JLL and subsequently CBRE, in Services Commission.
the UK, across property investment and leasing.
He then became a property With significant experience in Mark McNicholas 50 fund manager at Schroders.
international corporate finance, Charlotte Mark has more than 20 years of has technical knowledge of capital experience in real estate finance.
Andrew is a member of the Royal markets.
Her non-executive board roles Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
at a number of companies have provided Since 2012, Mark has been the principal her with an excellent understanding and of JLA Real Estate Finance Ltd, a debt Mark Hodgson 46 experience of boardroom dynamics and advisory practice based in Jersey and prior Mark is a Channel Islands fund director, corporate governance.
to this joined BNP Paribas Real Estates with over 25 years financial services debt advisory desk in 2010.
He sits on experience and an extensive banking William McMorrow 68 the board of two  background.
His expertise covers a Bill has more than 40 years of funds providing senior and mezzanine wide range of differing asset classes, experience in real estate and banking.
debt to the UK real estate market.
including real estate, infrastructure, hedge and private equity.
He is the Chairman and CEO of Mark began his career in 1993 at RBS Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc. and in its corporate real estate finance team Mark is currently Managing Director at its predecessor, since 1988.
Bill was in London and became head of real estate Carne Global Financial Services, based instrumental in KWs expansion into real finance at RBS International, based in in Jersey, a role he has held since estate brokerage, property management Jersey, in 1999 where he was also a April 2014. and investment services and in 2011 member of the RBS Corporate Bankings launching KWs business in Europe.
He moved to Jersey in 2006 to head up HBSCs Commercial Centre, where In addition to his real estate experience, Mark has significant real estate and he was responsible for credit and Bill has more than 17 years banking debt experience gained through a lending within the jurisdiction.
In 2008, experience serving as Chair of the Credit number of senior positions at leading Mark joined Capita Fiduciary Group as Policy Committee of Imperial Bancorp global financial institutions, and is Managing Director Offshore Registration, and various senior positions at Fidelity therefore able to contribute to the also taking on the role of Managing Bank.
Bill currently sits on the Executive development of the Groups strategy.
Director of Capita Financial Administrations Board of the USC Lusk Center for Real Jersey Ltd.
Prior to this, Mark spent Estate, in California, US.
Mark is regulated by the Jersey Financial over 20 years in a variety of senior roles Services Commission.
with HSBC where he gained in depth Simon Radford 59 knowledge of credit, financial markets Simon has more than 25 years of Mary Ricks 51 and complex lending structures.
experience of audit, corporate finance Mary has more than 25 years of experience and corporate investigation.
in international real estate investment.
He has worked with a wide variety of She is President and CEO of Kennedy boards and audit committees, currently Wilson Europe, which she helped serving as a Non-Executive Director establish in 2011 and prior to this she on the boards of four other alternative headed KWs commercial investment investment strategy funds covering group since 2002.
Mary joined Kennedyreal estate, hedge, private equity and Wilson Holdings, Inc. in 1990. infrastructure sectors.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65
