About Keller Market leaders We operate in over 40 countries: we are the clear market leader in North America, Australia and Sub-Saharan Africa: we have prime positions in most established European markets: and we have a strong profile in many developing markets.
North America EMEA We are the market leader in Our EMEA division has North America, where we have operations across Europe, the had a market presence for over Middle East and Africa, together 30 years.
Today, we operate from with a developing business in locations spanning the US and Latin America.
We operate as Western Europe 50% Canada.
Hayward Baker offers Keller in most of these regions, Africa 18% extensive ground engineering other than Sub-Saharan Africa, Eastern Europe 17% solutions across North America.
where we operate under the US 91% Middle East 8% In the US, Case, McKinney and HJ Franki brand.
Canada 9% Other 7% are heavy foundation specialists and Suncoast provides posttension cable systems.
In Canada, Revenue m 9.7% Revenue m -2.2% Geo-Foundations specialises in micro-piling, ground anchors, and 851.2m 441.5m specialty grouting services and Keller Canada offers a broad range of pilingsolutions.
Operating profit m 27.5% Operating profit m 65.1% 76.4m 21.3m Before exceptional items.
Asia Australia In recent years we have built Keller offers a range of piling up our presence in Asia, where services under its Keller we started life as a ground Foundations brand.
Keller improvement specialist, but now Ground Engineering KGE offer a wide range of foundation offers specialist ground services.
We are well established improvement and geotechnical Singapore 43% Keller Foundations 50% in Singapore, India and Malaysia, solutions.
Austral Construction Malaysia 40% Waterway 32% with developing businesses in Austral and Waterway India 13% Austral 12% other parts of the ASEAN Constructions Waterway Other 4% KGE 6% Region.
In Asia we generally specialise in foundations for, and operate as Keller, although the the maintenance of, wharves, Resource Piling name has been jetties and other marine Revenue m -2.8% Revenue m -38.2% retained alongside the Keller structures.
108.2m 161.5m Although they specialise in different techniques, on very Operating profit m -45.8% large or complex projects, the Operating profit m -54.1% companies may join forces, under 4.5m the Keller Australia brand.
KELLER GROUP PLC 2 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Approximate split of products Products We are the worlds largest independent ground engineering 01 Piling and earth retention 50% 02 Ground improvement 20% specialist, renowned forproviding 03 Anchors, nails and minipiles 10% technically advanced and cost-effective 04 Specialty grouting 10% foundation solutions.
05 Post-tension concrete 9% 06 Instrumentation and monitoring 1% Our products are used across the construction sector ininfrastructure, industrial, commercial residential and environmental projects.
Piling and Ground Anchors, nails 01 02 03 earth retention improvement and minipiles Piling involves the installation of structural Ground improvement techniques are used Anchors, nails and minipiles can provide elements to transfer foundation loads toprepare the ground for new construction temporary or permanent solutions for a through weak soils to stronger underlying projects and to reduce the risk of wide range of stability or support problems ground.
Keller offers a wide range of piling liquefaction inareas of seismic activity.
and are often used to underpin or stabilise and earth retention systems including buildings, slopes and embankments.
diaphragm walls and marine piles.
Read more on page 14 Read more on page 19 Read more on page 21 Specialty Post-tension Instrumentation 04 05 06 grouting concrete and monitoring Specialty grouting strengthens target areas Post-tension cable systems are used to Keller specialises in providing instrumentation in the ground and controls ground water reinforce concrete foundations and structural and monitoring solutions for a wide range of flow through rocks and soils by reducing spans, enhancing their load-bearing capacity by applications.
We provide and install a wide their permeability.
It is applicable both to applying a compressive force to the concrete, range of instruments and then provide new construction projects and to repair and once set.
Suncoasts post-tension systems are reliable and repeatable data.
used in foundation slabs for single family homes.
Read more on page 22 Read more on page 25 KELLER GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 3
