Our business model How our business model creates value The inputs to our business model Financial Intellectual Human Social relationship Debt and equity provided The Investment Managers The Investment Managers The Investment by our investors, plus deep understanding of our team of debt, equity Managers extensive retained profits markets and its sophisticated and other property and relationships with approach to due diligence, finance specialists financial institutions development and asset and other real estate management owners, and with contractors, planners, councils, consultants and our occupiers The components of our business model Debt Strong Excellent Expert local Real estate and equity pricing relationships presence operators synergies discipline Business structure The outputs from our business model For our shareholders For our occupiers For our suppliers For the KW team Secure and rising income High-quality commercial The potential to grow Interesting and and growing asset values, or residential property, their business through challenging careers underpinning dividends which meets their business a mutually beneficial in a growing and and our share price or personal needs long-term relationship successful business 18 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information KWE unlocks the value of real estate that has been under-managed or under-capitalised by its previous owners.
We use our strong balance sheet to acquire assets, which we source through our excellent relationships with financial institutions, administrators and other vendors who are not natural real estate operators.
We then use our asset management and development skills to release each assets inherent value, for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
The key components of our business model are described below.
Debt and equity synergies Excellent relationships Strong pricing discipline The Investment Manager and its The Investment Manager and its Our distinctive investment strategy advisors employ debt and equity advisors have excellent, strong opens up a wide range of opportunities professionals who work seamlessly relationships with financial institutions, for us, meaning we can be highly together.
Uniquely among our listed as well as other potential sellers selective about the ones we pursue peers, this allows us to invest in both of under-resourced assets such as and can exercise strong risk-return direct real estate and loans, and to government agencies, commercial pricing discipline.
carefully assess the quality of both the real estate lenders, receivers, REITs debt and the underlying property asset and property funds.
We apply the KW teams expertise before making a purchasing decision.
and resources to perform detailed These relationships give us a critical due diligence on everything we buy, Acquiring debt at a discount to its advantage in sourcing attractive whether it is a single asset or a large market value gives us control of the investment opportunities, either portfolio.
This means we develop a underlying asset.
We can then execute off-market or with limited competition.
deep understanding of what we are asset management strategies see Our ability to expeditiously complete acquiring and the value we can add below that create further value for transactions encourages vendors to to it, enabling us to determine the our shareholders.
transact with us and leads to repeat appropriate price.
us from private equity firms, who are amongst our main competitors for the portfolios we acquire.
Expert local presence Real estate operators Having expert people located in each Asset management sits at the heart of of our markets is crucial for capitalising our value creation.
During due diligence on local opportunities.
We continue we produce a business plan for every to grow to support our business and asset, so the asset management team the wider KW team has grown to can start implementing actions over 80 employees, comprising asset on day one.
An experienced in-house managers, investment specialists, development team also helps to and finance and operations, located generate new thinking about the best in the UK, Ireland, Spain, Jersey way to develop an asset.
KWE has permanent capital, so we can This local expert knowledge and take a long-term view of each assets presence ensures we take a bottompotential.
An asset that is currently a up approach to investment and core part of our portfolio may present asset management, and gives us asset management or development the infrastructure to execute large opportunities in several years time.
We will also dispose of assets, for example where we have completed our value enhancement initiatives, so we can recycle the proceeds into other opportunities.
Our business structure Being externally managed has a number of advantages for us.
In particular, we have access to the experience and relationships of KWs senior management and to the expertise of KWs substantial wider team in Europe, at a cost to us that is substantially less then employing those resources in-house.
Our business platform also benefits from the Investment Managers robust systems and processes, which it continues to enhance, and from our strong corporate governance, which ensures we meet our compliance, regulatory and filing requirements in each of the jurisdictions we operate in.
See Resources and relationships on page 26 for more on our relationship with the Investment Manager.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 19
