OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Directors report The Directors present their report together with the audited consolidated Change of control financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Groups main banking facilities contain provisions that, upon 15 days notice being given to the Group, lenders may exercise their discretion to This report is required to be produced by law.
The Disclosure and Transparency require immediate repayment of the loans on a change of control and Rules and Listing Rules also require us to make certain disclosures.
cancel all commitments under the agreement.
The Corporate governance statement, including the Audit Committee report, Certain other commercial agreements, entered into in the normal course of form part of this Directors report and is incorporated by reference.
Disclosures business, include change of control provisions.
There are no agreements providing elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts are cross-referenced where for compensation for the Directors or employees on a change of control.
Taken together, the Strategic report on pages 4 to 39 and this Directors report fulfil the requirement of Disclosure and Transparency Rule Transactions with related parties 4.1.
Apart from transactions between the Company, its subsidiaries and joint operations, which are related parties, there have been no related party Results and dividends transactions during the year.
The results for the year, showing a profit before taxation of 95.7m 2014: 85.1m, are set out on pages 72 to 105.
The Directors recommend a final Directors and their interests dividend of 18.3p per share to be paid on 10 June 2016, to members on the The names of all persons who, at any time during the year, were Directors register at the close of business on 20 May 2016.
An interim dividend of 8.8p of the Company can be found on page 45.
The interests of the Directors per share was paid on 4 September 2015.
The total dividend for the year of holding office at the end of the year in the issued Ordinary Share capital of 27.1p 2014: 25.2p will amount to 19.1m 2014: 18.0m.
the Company and any interests in its performance share plan are given in the Directors remuneration report on pages 62 and 63.
Going concern The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial resources No Director had a material interest in any significant contract, other than a tocontinue operating for a period of 12 months from the date of this report service contract or a contract for services, with the Company or any of its and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in operating companies during the year.
The Companys Articles of Association indemnify the Directors out of the assets The Directors have satisfied themselves that the Group is in a sound of the Company in the event that they suffer any loss or liability in the execution financial position and that it has access to sufficient borrowing facilities and of their duties as Directors, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act can reasonably expect sufficient facilities to be available to meet the Groups 2006.
The Company maintains insurance for Directors and Officers in respect foreseeable cash requirements.
Further information is provided in note 23 of liabilities which could arise on the discharge of their duties.
to the accounts and the Financial review.
Powers of the Directors Viability statement The business of the Company is managed by the Board who may exercise In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Code, all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of the Companys the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over a Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006 and any ordinary three-year period.
Specific treatment of Directors powers regarding allotment and repurchase of shares is provided under separate i The Board selected the three-year period as: headings below.
a. the Groups business planning and budget processes are carried out over a three-year period which provides the relevant estimates: and Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association b. three years is a reasonable approximation of the maximum time taken Any amendments to the Companys Articles of Association may be made from procuring a project to completion and therefore reflects our inaccordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of current revenue earning cycle.
ii The review included cash flows and other key financial ratios over the Appointment and replacement of Directors three-year period.
These metrics were subject to downside sensitivity Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 12 in number.
Subject analysis which involved flexing a number of the main assumptions to applicable law, a Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of underlying the forecast both individually and in unison.
This downside shareholders in general meeting following nomination by the Board or a sensitivity analysis was carried out to evaluate the potential impact on the member or members entitled to vote at such a meeting, or following Group if both the effects of the global financial crisis were to be repeated retirement by rotation if the Director chooses to seek re-election at a and there was a substantial charge arising from a contract dispute.
In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director to fill a review also made certain assumptions about the normal level of capital vacancy or as an additional Director, provided that the individual retires at recycling likely to occur and considered whether additional financing the next AGM.
A Director may be removed by the Company as provided facilities would be required.
for by applicable law, in certain circumstances set out in the Companys Articles of Association for example bankruptcy, or resignation, or by a The Directors assessment has been made with reference to the Groups special resolution of the Company.
All Directors stand for re-election on current position and prospects, the Groups strategy, the Boards risk an annual basis, in line with the recommendations of the Code.
appetite and the Groups principal risks and how these are managed, as detailed in the Strategic report.
Employees The Group employed approximately 10,000 people at the end of the year.
On the basis of the above and other matters considered and reviewed by the Board during the year, the Board has reasonable expectations that the Employment policy Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment due over the next three years.
In doing so, it is recognised that such future made by disabled persons, having regard for their respective aptitudes and assessments are subject to a level of uncertainty that increases with time and, abilities.
The policy includes, where practicable, the continued employment therefore, future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
of those who become disabled during their employment and the provision of training and career development and promotion, where appropriate.
Financial instruments Information on the Groups approach to employee involvement, equal Full details can be found in note 23 to the financial statements and in the opportunities and health, safety and the environment can be found in the Financial review.
Resources and relationships report on pages 30 and 31.
Post balance sheet events Political donations There were no post balance sheet events in the period from 1 January 2016 No political donations were made during the year.
Keller has an established to the date of signing the accounts.
policy of not making donations to any political party, representative or candidate in any part of the world.
Before exceptional items KELLER GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 67 Directors report continued Greenhouse gas emissions Auditors Information relating to the greenhouse gas emissions of the Company is The Board has decided that KPMG LLP will be proposed as the Groups setout on page 31 and is incorporated by reference into this report.
auditors for the year ending 31 December 2016 and a resolution to appoint KPMG LLP will be put to shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
Research and development The Group continues to have in-house design, development and manufacturing Annual General Meeting facilities, where staff work closely with site engineers to develop new and more The 2016 AGM of the Company will take place at the offices of Investec, effective methods of solving problems of ground conditions and behaviour.
m. on Tuesday 24 May Mostof the specialised ground improvement equipment used in the business 2016.
The full wording of the resolutions to be tabled at the meeting is set isdesigned and built in-house and, where applicable, the development costs out in the Notice of AGM.
areincluded in the cost of the equipment.
Further information on our latest activities can be found on page 7 of the Strategic report.
Disclaimer The purpose of this Annual Report and Accounts is to provide information Share capital to the members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
Details of the share capital, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year, are shown in note 24: Share The Company, its Directors and employees, agents or advisers do not capital and reserves.
The Company has one class of Ordinary Shares which accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is listed on the London Stock Exchange Ordinary Shares.
Ordinary Shares is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or carry no right to a fixed income: and each Ordinary Share carries theright liability is expressly disclaimed.
to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
The Annual Report and Accounts contain certain forward-looking statements There are no specific restrictions on the size of a shareholding, nor on the with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the Articles of Association Group.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future and the prevailing law.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ between shareholders that may result in restrictions on voting rights and materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect thetransfer of securities.
No person has any special rights of control over knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Report and Accounts and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 28: Share-based Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
Shares held by the Keller Group plc Employee Benefit Trust are not voted.
Information included in the Directors report Certain information that fulfils the requirements of the Corporate Repurchase of shares governance statement can be found in the Directors report in the sections The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last AGM 14 May 2015 headed Substantial shareholdings, Repurchase of shares, Amendment of to buy back up to 7,309,974 Ordinary Shares.
The authority remains outstanding the Companys Articles of Association, Appointment and replacement of until the conclusion of the 2016 AGM but could be varied or withdrawn by Directors and Powers of the Directors and is incorporated into this agreement of shareholders at an intervening General Meeting.
The minimum Corporate governance section by reference.
price which must be paid for each Ordinary Share is its nominal value and the maximum price is the higher of an amount equal to not more than 5% above Other information the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days report confirm that, in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the immediately before the purchase is made and an amount equal to the higher Companies Act 2006, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant of the price of the last independent trade of an Ordinary Share and the highest audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and each current independent bid for an Ordinary Share on the trading venue where Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a the purchase is carried out.
Director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors have not used, and have no current plans to use, this authority.
Allotment of shares and pre-emption disapplication Shareholder authority was also given at the last AGM for the Directors to allot new shares up to a nominal amount of 2,375,660, equivalent to approximately one-third of the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury shares as at2 March 2015 and to disapply pre-emption rights up to an aggregate nominal Kerry Porritt amount of 356,349, representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued Company Secretary share capital as at 2 March 2015.
29 February 2016 The Directors have not used, and have no current plans to use, these authorities.
Registered Office: Substantial shareholdings 5th floor, 1 Sheldon Square At 29 February 2016, the Company had been notified in accordance with London W2 6TT chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority of the following voting rights of shareholders in the Company: Registered in England No.
2442580 Percentage Number of of the Companys voting Ordinary Shares total rights Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited 6,261,390 8.78% Old Mutual Plc 4,946,626 6.97% Schroders plc 3,632,097 5.07% Franklin Templeton Institutional, LLC 3,557,757 4.96% Norges Bank 2,973,272 4.17% KELLER GROUP PLC 68 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
