Our strategy Kellers goal is to be the world leader in geotechnical solutions.
Element Description Explanation KPIs In 2015, we continued to make We have a set of target product segments based The acquisition of Bencor broadened our Measure Performance 01 on growth, profit and strategic considerations.
product offering to include diaphragm in 2015 progress in delivering against our wall technology.
There are five elements: We also have a set of target geographies to eitherconsolidate market position or open up The acquisition of Austral in Western Australia, Revenue growth year on year: Growing our product range and -2.3% new markets.
coupled with our existing operation Waterway year on year sales growth, entering new markets, organically in Eastern Australia, consolidated our market including acquisitions We maintain a short-list of potential acquisitions andby acquisition position in Australia in marine piling.
to help us access target markets, where required.
Return on capital employed: 20.5% operating profit before exceptional items as a net Ground engineering is a local business that Business units in over 40 countries provide local 02 return on capital employed demands local expertise and relationships.
knowledge of both markets and ground Wewill continue to focus on and satisfy the conditions.
Building Operating margins: needs of our customers at local level.
6.6% Business units with robust divisional and Group Building strong, customer-focused operating profit before Our businesses evaluate the quality of their controls framework.
exceptional items expressed as local businesses customer feedback amongst other things.
a percentage of revenue We have established a Business Development Our businesses offer two routes to value function focused on capturingourcustomer creation: high operational efficiency and requirements and understanding our Accident frequency rate: 0.35 utilisation and or strong technical differentiation.
accident frequency per 100,000 hours: lost time injuries are calculated as any incident over one day Keller has globally leading expertise and a In the last year, we undertook a strategic review 03 corporate structure that allows us to bring the of the Group that resulted in the following best of Keller to every customer engagement.
changes: Staff turnover rate: Leveraging 5.6% Wewill be investing in the tools and processes managerial, professional and Merger of our Asia and Australia Divisions Leveraging the scale and expertise tomake this more effective and efficient.
technical staff leaving in the APAC leading to greater capability and ofthe Group period, other than through Synergies in operating model will be selectively productivity in this Division.
redundancy or normal implemented so that we dont lose local Business units are now supported by Group retirement, expressed as a responsiveness.
functions, e. g. Engineering & Operations, percentage of staff in Quality, Procurement and Legal, to offer our Kellers scale provides security for customers this category greater support and provide more oversight andemployees through resilience to risk.
of our operations from the centre.
We are investing in connecting our global Engineering & Operations function established, 04 network of engineers and project managers charged with building Group capability and to share best practices onproject execution, expertise, to deliver superior solutions and Enhancing equipment management and maintenance productivity.
Enhancing our engineering and and technology innovation.
Global Product Teams developing minimum operational capabilities Our global supply chain is optimised to balance operating standards for the Group and equipment utilisation with efficient transport.
We aim to be a leader and investor in We continue to invest above depreciation rates newtechnologies.
We are investing in developing the talent of Executive Committee reinforced.
05 our employees to help deliver world-class Talent development programme rolled out to solutions to our customers as well as creating Investing our senior management population.
opportunities for all to maximise their potential.
Investing in our people Global Leadership Team identified and We continue to strive for leadership in HSEQ.
programme of communications is in train.
Continued strong emphasis on safety improvement.
KELLER GROUP PLC 12 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Element Description Explanation KPIs We have a set of target product segments based The acquisition of Bencor broadened our Measure Performance 01 on growth, profit and strategic considerations.
product offering to include diaphragm in 2015 wall technology.
Growing We also have a set of target geographies to eitherconsolidate market position or open up The acquisition of Austral in Western Australia, Revenue growth year on year: Growing our product range and -2.3% new markets.
KELLER GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 13
