Strategy in action The acquisition of Bencor supports Kellers strategy of growing its product range, thereby Products used being able to offer customers the full spectrum of geotechnical solutions.
The acquisition provides Keller with a modern fleet of equipment and more importantly the skills, knowledge and experience to immediately be a significant player in North America.
Being part Piling and earth retention of the Group, Bencor can now maximise the opportunity of growing outside of its domestic Keller company market and to expand globally.
Bencor Bencor has been appointed by the US Army Technologies used Corps of Engineers as the Principal Contractor Diaphragm walling to carry out repair and upgrade works to this large earth fill dam.
Size of contract Our works include 715m of cut-off wall up US$135m to 80m in depth that will be installed using hydromills.
As this is a turnkey type project, Customer Keller is also responsible for the working US Army Corps of Engineers platform on the top of the dam, new reinforced concrete weir structures and other associated geotechnical engineering including exploratory During 2015, Keller made two strategic and verification drilling, foundation drilling and acquisitions, one of which was Bencor in grouting, and the installation of inclined drains.
Bencor is based in Dallas and operates throughout the USA and Canada, specialising in diaphragm wall technology, a market segment in which Keller was relatively weak.
The acquisition, for US$40m, brought 150 employees and hydro-mills and associated equipment into the Group.
KELLER GROUP PLC 14 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS East Branch Dam, Pennsylvania, USA KELLER GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 15 Strategy in action Both businesses carry out turnkey projects undertaking other enabling works, in addition to Products used pure geotechnical solutions.
Austral Constructions unique market position contractor and sub-contractor together with Keller Australias business mix, will significantly enhance the Australian profile in both new and existing markets and act as a real differentiator in an Piling and earth retention increasingly competitive and mature market place.
Keller company Austral Construction Pty, Limited Austral Construction was engaged by Rio Tinto to complete refurbishment works of their Technologies used operating EII iron ore production wharf and Marine piling access jetty.
The works comprised the design, fabrication, Size of contract supply and installation of the new dolphin A$80m structures including marine piling, structural steel installation, structural welding, grouting works, Customer major electrical and mechanical installations and Rio Tinto corrosion protection.
The redundant dolphins also had to be demolished involving sub-sea pile cutting and off-site disposal.
The second significant acquisition in 2015 was Austral Construction Pty, Limited Austral.
The jetty itself required the fabrication, supply Operated from Melbourne, Victoria, the and installation of composite steel and pre-cast business has a particular emphasis on marine concrete deck modules to replace the redundant piling work and has a significant customer base timber decking.
This included concrete and in Western Australia, an area of potential grouting works, corrosion protection, geographical growth for Keller.
deconstruction works and service installations.
Acquired for an initial consideration of A$42m, These works have extended the life expectancy Austral brings 115 employees and material land of the wharf by at least 50 years and have and marine-based equipment to Keller.
resulted in major safety improvements for the operation of the out-loading facility.
The combination with Kellers existing marine business in Australia, Waterway Construction, gives a truly national footprint and enhances the Groups ability to compete for large complex projects.
KELLER GROUP PLC 16 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Dampier, Western Australia KELLER GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 17 Strategy in action Port of Safi, Morocco KELLER GROUP PLC 18 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In 2014, Keller began installing off-shore stone columns to depths of up to 38m to provide Products used foundation support in a seismic region for the new Port of Safi, Morocco.
The project is due for completion in 2017.
Using experts from its offices in France, Germany, Spain and Morocco, Keller has Ground improvement developed a scheme to treat the loose sands and compressible sediments on the seabed, so that Keller company the breakwater may be constructed without Keller Fondations Spciales SAS excessive settlement and to eliminate the risk of slope failure in the event of an earthquake.
Technologies used Vibro-compaction Specialist equipment built in Kellers manufacturing facility in Rechen, Germany is being worked over three shifts, seven days a week.
Size of contract 7.5m Obviously, there are specific risks when working off-shore, especially in winter when waves can Customer exceed heights of 10m.
Working patterns are Ministry of Equipment, Transport and Logistics, therefore carefully planned around the daily Kingdom of Morocco weather forecasts and special contingency measures have been designed in the event that the weather turns unexpectedly.
Keller is able to leverage its scale to deliver major infrastructure projects around the globe.
Expertise exists across the Keller Group and by connecting this knowledge, the best geotechnical solution can be found for the customer.
This engineering and operational capability has been brought to bear to deliver an offshore ground improvement project in North Africa.
Port of Safi, Morocco KELLER GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 19 Strategy in action STAR Refinery, Aliaga, Turkey KELLER GROUP PLC 20 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Aegean Refinery Project ARP is one of the biggest infrastructure projects in Turkey.
Products used Permanent anchors, with up to 14 strands and lengthsof 50m are being used to ensure that the soil slopes are stable and can withstand earthquakes, with anchor forces of up to 3,000kN.
All the anchors are manufactured directly Anchors, nails and minipiles on-site in a specially built anchor hall, allowing for a fast response to any changes on-site as the Keller company project progresses.
Anchor heads are precast Keller Grundbau Ges.
mbH concrete plinths, developed by Keller especially for this project.
They are produced in a field Technologies used factory on-site in order to meet the required Ground anchors quality criteria.
A new technique for anchor tensioning is also Size of contract being used, which enables the testing and 7.2m tensioning of multiple anchors with only one tensioning jack.
Using this new stressing technique, Customer the time involved in the testing and commissioning Yenign Insaat, Ankara has been dramatically decreased.
Whilst Keller has global strength, it is also a local, customer-focused business.
By working with our clients and forming partnerships with the other project stakeholders we are able to develop winning solutions.
We are currently working on a large slope stabilisation project in Turkey where by working with the Principal Contractor we have been able to set up a production hall to manufacture the anchors directly on the site.
Similarly, we have developed a precast concrete anchor head, which again is made at the project location.
KELLER GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 21 Strategy in action Due to the size of the tunnels and the large excavations that were required for the stations, Products used something had to be done to avoid damaging several important and historic buildings along the route.
Compensation grouting was pioneered by Keller, initially in Germany, and has now been used on Specialty grouting underground projects on five continents.
Keller company Drilling from deep shafts, only 4.5m in diameter, Keller Limited Keller drilled and installed over 45km of grouting pipes under the critical buildings in the heart of Technologies used the West End of London.
Keller subsequently Compensation grouting used these pipes to pump, under high pressure, grout into the ground, to lift the ground after the tunnelling machines had passed, compensating Size of contract for any settlement.
By using sophisticated 40m instrumentation and monitoring it was possible to control movements at the ground surface Customer to within 1mm, protecting Londons assets BFK Joint Venture and heritage.
Keller is the largest geotechnical contractor in the world, with a strong balance sheet.
This makes it possible to be involved in some of the largest contracts.
As one would expect, the Company was heavily involved in the Crossrail Project, working on many different sites for different construction teams.
In all, Keller secured over 80m of geotechnical work on this one project alone.
Crossrail is currently the largest construction project in Europe.
Involving the boring of 42km of twin underground railway tunnel and the building of 10 new stations, the line commences in Maidenhead and runs beneath London from Paddington to Essex and Kent in the East.
KELLER GROUP PLC 22 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Crossrail, London, UK KELLER GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 23 Strategy in action Wrigley Field, Chicago, USA KELLER GROUP PLC 24 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Keller companies have utilised a wide range of geotechnical solutions for the redevelopment of Products used Wrigley Field, the iconic, 100-year-old baseball park in Chicago.
Micropiles have been used to underpin existing columns to allow for increased loading and jet grouting was utilised for both underpinning and as Piling and earth Instrumentation earth retention to develop a cut and cover tunnel retention and monitoring extending beneath the concourse.
Keller has also installed sheet piles that have been used with Keller companies internal bracing and anchors, and to add to the Hayward Baker, Case Foundations and Getec UK toolkit large diameter under-reamed or belled piles have been installed to the underlying rock.
Technologies used It was evident from the tender stage that these Jet grouting, micropiles, secant piles, sheet works could lead to movement of the structure piling, ground anchors, bracing, caissons, during the construction period and it was real-time structure monitoring therefore agreed to bring monitoring technology from Getec UK to measure for settlement and Size of contract rotation, using inclinometers, water level cells and US$23m tilt meters.
The instruments were programmed to send movement data at 15-minute intervals Customer and coupled with innovative visualisation Pepper Construction Company software this would have alerted the site team had there been any unexpected movement.
Through sharing best practice and innovation across the Group, Keller is able to introduce new products or solutions organically into new markets.
As an example, dry soil mixing, which was traditionally performed by our Scandinavian business, has been successfully used in Poland, the UK, the USA, Malaysia and Australia, by transferring the technology in-house.
This sharing of new ideas is essential to maintain a competitive edge, but it also provides fantastic opportunities for our people to travel to new regions and develop their skills.
One such transfer of technology is in instrumentation and monitoring.
KELLER GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 25
