Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Letter from the Chair The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Group, for developing and delivering its strategy and for establishing a framework of prudent and effective controls to assess and manage risk effectively.
Part of my role as Chair is to ensure that the Board retains an appropriate balance, with Non-Executive Directors who can effectively and appropriately challenge and provide guidance on the Companys strategy.
KWE continues to be led by a Board with a range of skills and experience which will challenge, motivate and support the business.
See pages 62 to 63 for an overview of the governance and management structure of the Group.
As a Board, we understand our Charlotte Valeur responsibility to present a fair, balanced Chair and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects in this Annual Report and Accounts.
We also understand the need to maintain sound risk management and internal control systems.
We have given detailed On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present consideration to the recent changes to our corporate governance report for the year ended the Code, in particular, the requirement to make a statement as to the Groups 31 December 2015.
The Board plays a key role in ensuring longer-term viability in this years Annual high standards of corporate governance and providing Report and Accounts and the Board and the Audit Committee have worked leadership for the Company.
together to ensure that we comply with this requirement.
During the course of the year, the As a Board, we believe that the Group governance.
Although we are not subject Audit Committee has assisted the Board and the delivery of its strategy should to the UK Companies Act 2006, we have to discharge its obligations with respect be based on strong governance.
We also chosen to report in line with best practice to the management of risk.
A summary believe that good governance is essential and the official guidance on its application of the matters considered by the Audit to the way in which we operate on where appropriate.
KWE is also an Committee during the course of the year a day-to-day basis.
Alternative Investment Fund AIF for is set out in the Audit Committee report the purposes of the Jersey Financial contained on pages 70 to 73.
Further In this part of the Annual Report and Services Commissions JFSC AIFMD information relating to our compliance Accounts, we describe governance at The Alternate Investment Fund Managers with the accountability provisions of KWE, the principal areas of activity of the Directive related regulations and complies the Code are set out on page 57.
Board and its Committees throughout the with the JFSCs Codes of Practice for year and how we have complied with the Alternative Investment Funds and AIF UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Services Business.
You can find the Code, demonstrating our commitment to required regulatory and governance applying high standards of corporate disclosures throughout this report see Charlotte Valeur governance.
As a company with a Directors statements on page 59 and the Chair premium listing on the London Stock Code compliance statement on page 58.
Exchange, KWE is required to apply the main principles of the Code and to comply During the 2015 financial year, from with all relevant provisions, or explain 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015, any non-compliance.
Whilst KWE is a the Company continued to apply the main member of the Association of Investment principles of the Code and complied with Companies AIC and acknowledges its provisions, except where noted in this the AIC Code of Corporate Governance, report.
Further details are set out in the we have decided to follow and report Code compliance statement on page 58. against the Code, to the extent reasonably In preparation for this Annual Report and applicable to an externally managed Accounts, the Board took account of all property investment company, so as the changes to the Code which were to measure ourselves against, and where made in the September 2014 edition and we consider it appropriate, comply with applied to KWE for the first time in our the highest standards of corporate 2015 financial year.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55
