Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Relations with shareholders The Board as a whole is informed on The entire Board attends the Companys Relations with a regular basis about the views of key AGM which provides a forum for stakeholders, including their concerns communication with all sizes of shareholders and feedback, along with any new analyst shareholders.
The Annual Report and The Board is committed to research.
We communicate with existing Accounts is sent to all shareholders at communicating regularly with our and target shareholders and analysts least 20 working days before the AGM, shareholders.
We aim to help our throughout the year by various means, together with the Notice of Meeting, investors achieve a clear understanding which has been structured in the which includes details of the resolutions of the Groups strategy and to ensure following way: to be proposed at the AGM.
Details of their feedback is understood and the outcome of the AGM resolutions are examined by the Board.
We attach Regular meetings with key shareholders posted on our corporate website at significant importance to the Face-to-face presentations of full-year www.
eu and announced effectiveness of our communications and half-year results where the to the market following the meeting.
with all of our shareholders and set Investment Manager and its senior ourselves the target of providing management team were available AGM 2015 Feedback from information that is timely, clear for discussions shareholders and proxy advisors and concise.
Telephone briefings for shareholders The Board observed that the feedback and analysts detailed in the proxy advisor reports in The Group has an Investor Relations Participation in industry conferences connection with the AGM held in 2015 team led by the Investor Relations Live and post-event webcasts of was positive on the whole: however Director who reports to Mary Ricks key presentations two common issues had been identified in her capacity as CEO and President Investor meetings with existing by investors: of Kennedy Wilson Europe and a and target shareholders Director on the Board of the Investment Investor days, briefings and ad hoc the level of audit fees versus nonManager and the Board.
meetings on request, where permitted audit fees incurred by the Group and by calendar and regulatory requirements the absence of a remuneration policy.
The investor relations team has been Conducted tours of the Groups key in direct contact with more than 75% sites for shareholders and analysts In relation to the level of non-audit of the Groups share register over the Presentations with bank sales teams fees, it was noted that this issue had course of the year.
The feedback from Notification of key financial calendar been discussed at length by the Audit this level of regular interaction is information Committee throughout the year and communicated to the Board through Notification of the provision of a non-audit services policy had been updates to the Chair and the other live webcasting services for key specifically implemented to address Non-Executive Directors by way of presentations and this.
For further details, see page 72 presentations to the Board which Notification of availability of past key of the Audit Committee report.
include, amongst other things, share presentations via our corporate website.
With regard to the remuneration policy, price performance, peer group the Board had again considered this comparison of relevant metrics, the In February 2015, Mark McNicholas was and it was of the view, as a Jerseycomposition of the shareholder register, appointed SID and, along with the Chair, incorporated and externally managed feedback from investor meetings, is available to address concerns that vehicle, and taking into account the fact including key questions asked, and investors may wish to raise, in addition that the Company has no executive recommendations and expectations to channels of contact through the directors or internal senior management from sell-side analysts.
Investment Manager and the investor and the Investment Manager director relations team.
The Groups corporate representatives on the Board having During the year the Board received website is an important source of waived their director fee in entirety, regular insight into shareholder information to analysts and investors there was no requirement to institute perception of KWEs shares through and through it we aim to give all our a remuneration policy specific to detailed market updates from our stakeholders full access to material Directors remuneration or constitute corporate brokers.
Matters about the Kennedy Wilson brand in following announcement of the Groups relating to the remuneration of the Europe increased through the Groups financial results and other ad hoc Investment Manager are considered activities and successful performance presentations are immediately made by the Management Engagement in its second year of operation, a visible available on the website to ensure full Committee.
In any event, this situation increase in investor appetite was transparency.
In addition, the market is will be kept under review by the Board beginning to emerge and this is expected kept informed of the Companys progress and the Nomination Committee.
to result in further diversification of the through results statements and other shareholder base of the Company.
announcements released through the website of the London Stock Exchange.
Existing and prospective equity and debt investors as well as analysts can raise queries directly with the Company at any time through the investor relations email address provided on the website.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 77
