Application of the principles of the Code A.
Effectiveness Set out on the following pages A1.
The composition of the Board is the Boards assessment of the The Board is responsible for the overall Our Nomination Committee is Companys application of the main strategy and success of the Company responsible for regularly reviewing principles of the Code during the and provides a framework of oversight the composition of the Board.
In year under review and up to the and control within which the Investment making appointments to the Board, date of this report: Manager operates.
The ultimate the Nomination Committee considers responsibility for the management, the wide range of skills, knowledge Icons used in our strategic direction, governance, values and experience required in order to Governance report and performance of the Group vests maintain an effective Board.
During the with the Board.
The relationship year, the Board reviewed the overall between the Board and the Investment balance of skills, experience, diversity, Manager is supportive, co-operative independence and knowledge of the and open.
Board and the Committee members, and the Board considers it to be Leadership A2.
Division of responsibilities appropriate and that the Board and Running the Board and the Company The Chair is responsible for the its Committees operate effectively.
to deliver the strategy leadership and effectiveness of the Board.
Appointments to the Board responsible for leading the day-to-day The appointment of new Directors management of the Company, with to the Board is led by our Nomination oversight from the Board.
Further details of the has all of the customary legal powers activities of the Nomination Committee Effectiveness for the overall control and administration can be found on pages 67 to 68.
Ensuring the Board has the right of the Company, and has assessed the skills, experience and balance relationship between the Company and B3.
Commitment the Investment Manager to be one of On appointment, Directors are principal and agent.
notified of the time commitment expected from them, recognising A3.
The Chair the need for availability according to The Chair leads the Board and ensures business requirements.
In practice, Accountability it operates effectively.
With input the time given by Directors goes Monitoring and controlling from the Investment Manager and beyond preparation and attendance the workings of the Company, Administrator, the Chair is responsible at scheduled meetings and especially risk, audit and the for setting the agendas for meetings, training sessions.
Investment Manager managing the meeting timetable and facilitating open and constructive B4.
All Directors receive induction training when they are appointed A4.
Non-Executive Directors to the Board and, as part of the annual The Chair promotes an open and effectiveness evaluation, the training Remuneration constructive environment in the and development needs of each of Setting appropriate standards, boardroom and actively invites the our Directors are assessed.
in line with best practice Non-Executive Directors views.
Information and support Directors provide objective, rigorous The Chair, with assistance from and constructive challenges to the the Administrator and Investment Investment Manager and communicate Manager, ensures that all our Board regularly amongst themselves.
They members receive accurate and Relations with shareholders bring an external perspective to the timely information.
Constructive engagement with business and contribute their expertise our stakeholders to the Board.
Evaluation with delegated specific responsibilities The Chair, members of the Audit by the Board and operating in Committee and each of the individual accordance with written terms of Directors are evaluated each year.
reference, are formed of the Chair of the In addition, we have committed to Board, who is considered independent an external evaluation every three in character and judgement and was years and anticipate that the first such independent on appointment for the evaluation will be carried out in 2016. purposes of the Code, and independent Non-Executive Directors, except the B7.
Re-election Nomination Committee which is At each Annual General Meeting, our formed of the Chair of the Board, one Directors retire and offer themselves independent Non-Executive Director and for re-election.
56 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information C. Accountability D. Remuneration E. Relations with shareholders C1.
Dialogue with shareholders reporting of remuneration Representatives of the Investment The Strategic report is set out on As the Company is externally Manager and the investor relations pages 1 to 53.
It provides information managed, we have no executive team meet regularly with our about our business model, performance, directors or senior management shareholders and the Board receives investment policy, strategy and the risks employees see note 38 of the regular feedback on shareholder and uncertainties relating to our future consolidated financial statements issues.
Details of the arrangements regarding disclosure of personnel director SID was appointed on the Board has established to ensure directly employed by certain of our 25 February 2015.
The Chair and that the information it presents is fair, wholly-owned operating subsidiaries.
the SID are available to attend balanced and understandable can be Each of the Non-Executive Directors one-on-one shareholder meetings found on page 71. receives a fixed fee for directorship if requested or appropriate.
on the Board and membership C2.
Risk management and chairmanship of the Board E2.
Constructive use of general internal control Committees, as set out on page 76. meetings The Board determines the Groups Our Annual General Meeting risk appetite and monitors and reviews D2.
Procedure provides an important opportunity the effectiveness of the Groups risk The Directors are entitled to such to meet with our shareholders.
management and internal control remuneration as the Board may The Board welcomes questions systems.
The activities of our Audit determine, subject to any limitation from shareholders.
They have an Committee, which assists the Board as the Company may set by ordinary opportunity to raise issues formally with its responsibilities in relation to the resolution.
No Director is involved in at the Annual General Meeting or management of risk, are summarised any decisions in respect of his or her informally with the Board before on pages 70 to 73. own individual remuneration.
The or after the meeting as well.
The Chair and other independent Directors Companys next Annual General C3.
Audit Committee and auditors received a fixed fee as members of the Meeting will be held on 27 April 2016.
The Board has delegated a number Board and the members chairs of our of responsibilities to our Audit Board Committees received a fixed Committee, which assists the Board supplementary fee.
William McMorrow in fulfilling its responsibilities in relation and Mary Ricks have waived their to overseeing our financial reporting entitlement to receive fees for their processes, internal control and respective appointments as Nonrisk management framework and Executive Directors on the Board.
maintaining an appropriate relationship with the external auditor and reviewing their effectiveness, independence and objectivity.
The Chair of our Audit Committee provides regular updates to the Board.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57
