Chairs introduction A YEAR OF NOTABLE MILESTONES Our business is performing well and I am pleased to report strong operational and financial results for 2015.
The portfolio stands at 2,792.7 million, on the back of 1,135.5 million of transactions completed and a total valuation surplus of 211.8 million, up 8.2%.
The expertise of our asset management and development teams has been evidenced in the growth in our asset valuation earnings and dividend during the year, and the building blocks for further income and value enhancement are firmly embedded.
The portfolio has also benefited from significant balance sheet management.
KWE entered the unsecured bond market with the successful rating by Standard and Poors of BBB for KWE and both the 300 million debut seven-year bond in June 2015 and the 400 million Charlotte Valeur ten-year bond in November 2015, shortly Chair, Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc after we announced a 2,000 million Euro Medium Term Note EMTN programme.
This enables us to access the unsecured debt capital markets, diversify our funding sources and extend our debt maturities.
The 2015 financial results illustrate material progress across all parts of the business.
I am pleased to report that both Results KWE delivered adjusted NAV per share operational and financial results are ahead of business of 1,174.5 pence per share adjusted plans and as a result we have grown the quarterly interim NAV of 1,596.5 million.
The portfolio value movement is primarily owing to dividend a further 20% over the previous quarter.
The acquisitions and a total valuation surplus prospective dividend of 12.0 pence per share, or 48.0 pence of 211.8 million.
Adjusted earnings per share of 47.9 pence per share 65.0 per share on an annualised basis, reflects the Boards million and basic earnings per share of confidence in the teams ability to deliver income growth 191.0 pence, were both up materially over 2014, owing primarily to acquisition-led across the existing portfolio as well as secure cash flows growth during 2015 and the timing of the from our accretive investments.
2014 acquisitions, which were weighted towards the back-end of the year.
8 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Strategic goals The Investment Manager has also Bearing this in mind, property The Board is delighted with the investment invested in developing its finance and fundamentals across the UK and Ireland management teams success in delivering portfolio management systems, to ensure remain positive and investments across against our goals for the year.
we continue to meet monthly reporting offices as well as selected residential deadlines for our significantly expanded and retail properties in key cities continue During 2015 we focused on: portfolio.
A new approach to on boarding to perform well.
In Spain, we remain new assets was also rolled out across the positive on consumers prospects and Delivering total returns for shareholders portfolio.
This focuses on the critical first are pleased to have increased our retail with a focus on dividend returns 90 days of ownership and ensures we exposure there, and in Italy, a market we Ensuring an efficient capital structure take new assets onto the balance sheet entered in October 2015, we remain Employing accretive asset in a systematic fashion.
focused on offices and retail sectors in management initiatives, and the north of the country and are seeing Recycling capital to actively manage The Board increasing opportunities.
The Board works closely with the Investment Manager and its advisors to Refer to the Performance review achieve a high standard of governance, on pages 38 to 45 for further which remains a key priority.
The details on our achievements.
Company is a fee-paying member of Charlotte Valeur EPRA, the European trade body for listed Chair Dividends real estate securities, and follows EPRAs Dividends of 35.0 pence per share, or Best Practice Recommendations for 47.5 million were paid during the year, reporting disclosure.
In addition, KWE is a reflecting a dividend cover based on 2015 member of the Association of Investment adjusted earnings of 1.4 times.
Companies AIC and acknowledges the AIC Code of Corporate Governance.
To The Board has announced an increase demonstrate our commitment to applying in the quarterly interim dividend of 20% high standards of corporate governance, to 12.0 pence per share or 48.0 pence we report against the UK Corporate annualised, representing a 37% uplift over Governance Code 2014.
2015 and implying an attractive dividend yield of 4.5%, as at 25 February 2016.
Outlook KWE continues to deliver robust, quarterThe real estate investment market across on-quarter dividend growth, as the our four regions, the UK, Ireland, Spain portfolios accretive acquisitions deliver and Italy, are all at different positions in improving sustainable cash flows.
their respective property cycles, providing us with a wider menu of entry points.
The Board believes the new dividend level Whilst all four markets remain provides an appropriate balance between competitive, KWE has a unique blend NOI growth within the portfolio, and our of debt and equity skills, strong market planned net investments, taking into account relationships and multi-sector approach.
The Board will continue This drives pricing discipline and allows to monitor the portfolio cash flows and the us to execute on attractive investment resulting dividend coverage ratio to provide opportunities to accretively deploy capital shareholders with a secure dividend whilst and grow income and values, so we can maintaining sufficient headroom to provide deliver strong returns for shareholders.
We are conscious of the current An enhanced platform uncertainty in global investment markets, The Investment Manager and its advisors exacerbated in the UK by Brexit concerns.
have continued to enhance the platform At this stage, we are not seeing that that supports our business, enabling uncertainty feed into our occupier base, the Group to execute and manage our which is well diversified across countries investments across multiple jurisdictions.
We continue to actively KWE has access to top professionals monitor the risk of investment market across real estate asset management, volatility feeding into the underlying development, investment, and finance fundamentals in which we operate.
and operations, across the UK, Ireland, Spain, Italy, Jersey and Luxembourg.
During the year, the investment management group added a further 26 employees, including 13 new asset managers and development managers.
This took its total employees at year end to over 80, up from approximately 50 at the time of the IPO in February 2014.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 9
