Code compliance statement As a Board, we support and are committed B.
2.1: The Nomination Committee D. 1.1, D. 1.2, D. 2.1, D. 2.2 and D. 2.4: to implementing high standards of requires a composition of a majority The recommendations relating to the corporate governance and the development of independent non-executive remuneration arrangements for of corporate governance policies and directors.
The Board has established executive directors under provisions procedures derived from the Code.
a Nomination Committee of three D. 1.1, D. 1.2 and D. 2.4 are not relevant Non-Executive directors, including: the as the Company is externally managed We consider, that reporting in line with SID: the Chair who was independent by the Investment Manager and the principles and provisions of the Code, on appointment for the purposes has no executive directors and does with explanations as necessary, and of the Code but is not considered not operate any long-term incentive taking account of AIC guidance where independent following such schemes.
The Board has not established a remuneration committee appropriate, will ensure full transparency appointment, and one non-executive per the recommendation in provision and provide clear information to all our director who is not considered to be D. 2.1.
The Companys Board consists stakeholders.
A copy of the Code is independent.
The Board is of the view of Non-Executive non-independent publicly available at www.
that as the Company is externally directors together with non-executive The AICs materials can be found at managed and does not have any independent directors and a Chair.
executive directors, the Chair provides William McMorrow and Mary Ricks, a significant degree of independent as the non-independent directors, do During the financial year under review, challenge to the non-independent not charge a directorship fee to the we believe that the Company has Non-Executive Directors on the Board Company.
The Nomination Committee complied with all of the provisions as well as the Investment Manager, has recognised that, given that no of the Code, with the exception of the making her independent in character fee is charged by the non-independent items noted below.
The areas of nonand judgment.
The Board considers directors, there is no value in establishing compliance with the provisions of the that this is in keeping with the spirit a remuneration committee.
The Board Code, and our explanations for these, of the recommendation that a majority is satisfied that any issues relating are as follows: of committee members should be remuneration can be properly independent non-executive directors.
considered by the Board as a whole A.
1.1: The Board should meet and no director is involved in any sufficiently regularly to discharge C. 3.1: The Audit Committee requires decisions in respect of his or her own its duties effectively, with a formal a composition of at least three individual remuneration.
The position is schedule of matters specifically independent non-executive directors.
kept under regular review by the Board.
Being The Board has established an Audit Further explanation of the Boards externally managed, except for matters Committee of three Non-Executive remuneration arrangements can be involving any conflict of interest, the directors, including the Boards two found on page 76.
Board has delegated full discretionary independent non-executive directors authority to make all investment and and the Chair who was independent E. 1.1: Details of the Companys financing decisions on behalf of the on appointment for the purposes approach to shareholder dialogue can Group to the Investment Manager.
of the Code but is not considered be found on page 77.
Meetings with However, the Board is responsible independent following such investors in the year under review were for determining the Companys appointment.
The Board considers that led by the non-independent Directors, strategy and investment policy, as the Company is externally managed senior representatives of the its corporate governance practices, with no executive directors and the Investment Manager Group and the and is responsible for overseeing overall composition of the Board Companys investor relations team.
the performance of the Investment comprises five Non-Executive directors The Chair and the SID are available Manager and other service providers.
two of whom are independent for to attend meetings with investors as The Board does not currently have a the purposes of the Code, the Chair appropriate or requested.
As explained formal written schedule of matters provides a significant degree of in the Annual Report and Accounts reserved for its decision, but is planning independent challenge to the non- 2014, for the period prior to 24 to adopt such a schedule during the independent Non-Executive Directors February 2015, there was no SID 2016 financial year, as recommended on the Board as well as the Investment appointed by the Board.
Manager, making her, in the Boards McNicholas was appointed as view, independent in character and SID on 25 February 2015. judgment.
Accordingly the Board is of the view that currently no additional appointments are necessary and that the Audit Committees composition and level of experience and knowledge are appropriate for the size and nature of the Company.
The Board does not feel that this in any way impeded good corporate governance and believes that the practice is in compliance with the main principle of the Code regarding composition and effectiveness of the Audit Committee.
58 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
