Investment policy The Company aims to acquire, through Whilst the majority of the Companys Where the Company invests in a mixed the services of the Investment Manager, assets are expected to be wholly-owned, portfolio of real estate and or real estate real estate and real estate loans in the Company will retain the ability to loans that includes other non-real estate Europe, initially in the UK, Ireland and pursue its investments through a variety related assets as part of the portfolio, Spain, and thereafter in these jurisdictions of investment structures, including joint the value of the non-real estate related as well as other European countries on ventures, acquisitions of controlling assets in the portfolio being acquired, an opportunistic basis, with the intention interests or acquisitions of minority in combination with any other non-real of creating value for shareholders.
estate related assets being held by the Company at the time of the applicable The Company will seek to invest in a Asset diversification investment as a result of similar diversified portfolio of commercial real No single investment, or aggregate acquisitions, shall not exceed 15 per estate including office, retail, industrial, investments secured on a single property, cent of the Companys most recently warehouse and distribution, leisure and will exceed 25 per cent of the Companys published NAV, calculated at the time of recreational assets, and residential real most recently published NAV, calculated investment.
The Investment Manager will estate including multi-family, singleat the time of investment, excluding the use its reasonable endeavours to dispose family and multi-tenanted assets.
The Companys interests in the intermediate of such non-real estate related assets on Company may also consider investing holding undertakings in the Group.
commercially acceptable terms as soon in mixed-use real estate.
The aggregate value of real estate loans The Company will also invest in real originated by the Company excluding Gearing estate loans.
The Company may also any loans made to Group entities and The Company intends to use gearing with invest in a mixed portfolio of real estate loans with equity characteristics shall a view to enhancing equity returns whilst and or real estate loans that may include not exceed 10 per cent of the Companys maintaining prudent levels of interest other non-real estate related assets most recently published NAV, calculated cover and protecting shareholders funds.
as part of the portfolio, provided that at the time of origination of any such loan.
The Investment Manager intends to following the completion of the determine the appropriate level of acquisition of any such non-real estate The Company may consider a limited borrowings on a deal specific basis and related assets, the Investment Manager number of property development limit the lenders recourse only to assets will use its reasonable endeavours to opportunities, including land site of the entity making the acquisition dispose of such non-real estate related acquisitions, as well as property in question, thereby ring-fencing risk.
assets on commercially acceptable terms redevelopment opportunities.
At any The Investment Manager does not intend as soon as reasonably practicable.
point in time, the aggregate development to impose a particular LTV ratio limit for and redevelopment costs incurred in each investment, but expects that on an In addition, the Company may originate respect of assets under development overall basis, the Groups LTV ratio will real estate loans which are either floating and or redevelopment at that time will not exceed 50 per cent at the time of or fixed rate and may also securitise pools not exceed 15 per cent of the Companys borrowing i. e. that the Groups aggregate of real estate loans.
The Company may most recently published NAV.
For borrowings will not exceed 50 per cent also invest in securities traded on a public the avoidance of doubt, renovation, of the aggregate market value of the exchange and in other public or private restoration, fit-outs, internal Groups total assets including cash and investment funds, in each case focussed reconfigurations, maintenance and in any event, the Groups LTV ratio will on the real estate sector.
engineering works and general up-keep not exceed 65 per cent at the time of of any existing and new investments borrowing.
The Board may modify the The Company will invest its funds in by the Company will be classified as Companys gearing policy from time to these asset classes in the real estate refurbishment activities undertaken time taking into account then prevailing sector where it sees an opportunity by the Company and do not fall within economic and market conditions, fair to create value for shareholders.
The the ambit of such development and value of the Groups assets, acquisition Company intends that its portfolio will redevelopment limits.
and active management opportunities comprise a mix of real estate and real or other factors the Board deems estate loans, appropriately diversified The Company will invest in real estate appropriate.
However, no modification by geography, real estate sector type, and real estate loans, including mixed of the Companys gearing policy to allow asset class, tenant exposure, tenure and portfolios of real estate and or real estate the LTV ratio to exceed 65 per cent shall location.
The Investment Manager has loans that may include other non-real occur without prior shareholder approval.
been authorised by the Board to exercise estate related assets, as set out above.
its discretion in managing and diversifying the real estate asset classes identified above within the Companys portfolio to the benefit of shareholders and ensuring that the funds available to the Company for investment are invested in such real estate assets.
150 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Hedging FCA investment restrictions The Company will not enter into The Company currently complies with the derivative transactions for purely investment restrictions set out below and speculative purposes.
However, the will continue to do so for so long as they Companys investments will typically be remain requirements of the FCA: made in the currency of the country where the underlying real estate assets neither the Company nor any of its are located.
In the case of Ireland and subsidiaries will conduct any trading Spain, this will largely be Euros.
The activity which is significant in the Company may implement measures context of the Group as a whole designed to protect the investments but this rule does not prevent the against material movements in the businesses forming part of the exchange rate between Sterling, being investment portfolio from conducting the Companys reporting currency, and trading activities themselves Euros, being the currency in which such the Company will avoid cross-financing investments are made.
The analysis between businesses forming part as to whether such measures should of its investment portfolio be implemented will take into account the Company will avoid the operation periodic interest, principal distributions of common treasury functions as or dividends, as well as the expected between the Company and investee date of realisation of the investment.
companies for this purpose investee The Company may bear a level of companies does not include currency risk that could otherwise be intermediate holding companies hedged where it considers that bearing in the Group such risk is advisable.
The Company will not more than 10 per cent, in only enter into hedging contracts, such aggregate, of the value of the total as currency swap agreements, futures assets of the Company at Admission contracts, options and forward currency will be invested in other UK-listed exchange and other derivative contracts, closed-ended investment funds, when they are available in a timely except for those which themselves manner and on terms acceptable to it.
have published investment policies The Company reserves the right to to invest not more than 15 per cent terminate any hedging arrangement of their total assets in other UK-listed in its absolute discretion.
closed-ended investment funds and the Company must, at all times, invest and manage its assets in a way that is consistent with its object of spreading investment risk and in accordance with the published investment policy.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 151
