Investment proposition FIVE REASONS TO INVEST IN KWE 1.
We have unique expertise across asset strategies Our ability to invest in direct real estate and in real estate loans differentiates us from our peers.
We have a robust platform in place to ensure that we can react quickly and underwrite entire portfolios or single assets.
Our ability to maintain pricing discipline across multiple sectors and jurisdictions allows us to source and acquire high-quality assets, in attractive markets with good growth prospects.
William McMorrow Mary Ricks Non-Executive Director, KWE Non-Executive Director, KWE 1,135.5m Chairman and CEO, Kennedy Wilson President and CEO, Kennedy Wilson Europe Total amount invested in the year KWE has quickly and successfully built a portfolio with critical mass.
The excellent cash flows from these assets 2. underpin the dividend and we will continue to grow those We have a track record of cash flows, as we execute our asset management plans.
value creation We add value at the point of The portfolio contains significant embedded value that acquisition and through asset we have yet to unlock for KWEs shareholders and we management, which means that we are not reliant on market rental look forward to building on our success to date.
In 2015, we achieved a like-for-like portfolio valuation surplus of 11.5% or 157.1 million and like-for-like NOI growth of 4.1%.
Disposals allow us to crystallise valuation gains and to recycle the capital into attractive opportunities.
23% Total return on cost on disposals 10 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information 3.
We have the financial flexibility The Investment Manager is to implement our strategy incentivised to deliver for KWE aims for an efficient mix of equity shareholders Mary Ricks and debt to support our returns without KW owns 18.2% of KWE, which is its President and CEO, Kennedy Wilson Europe taking undue risks.
Our debt portfolio largest single investment.
This holding includes both secured and unsecured is steadily increasing, with 50% of the debt finance, with an average term to investment manager fee and 100% maturity of 5.9 years and financing of any performance fee paid in shares.
capacity of 551 million at year end.
Of KWs holding, a significant majority Our business remains in This gives us the flexibility to continue is KWs own cash investment with the to implement our investment strategy.
remaining coming from issuing shares robust operational health We have worked hard to lock in the to satisfy the investment manager fees.
This robust cash flows from our portfolio KW is therefore highly incentivised to by fixing our interests costs at low rates, deliver value over the long term, to the will allow us to selectively with 85% of our debt either fixed or benefit of all shareholders.
Our weighted average cost of debt is just 2.9%.
opportunities across our target regions that may 18.2% arise from potential market Kennedy Wilsons ownership of KWE dislocations, given the 672m current volatile state of 1 Pro forma financing capacity capital markets.
100% of performance fee is paid in shares 4.
We are delivering strong returns for shareholders We aim to reward investors through a secure income base that is poised for future growth and by investing in assets where we believe there is good potential for capital growth through our asset management expertise.
In 2015, the successful implementation of our strategy enabled us to grow our dividend substantially.
Our total dividend in respect of the year was 35 pence per share.
We are growing our quarterly interim dividend by 20% to 12 pence per share which reflects an annualised dividend for 2016 of 48 pence per share, reflecting a prospective dividend yield of 2 4.5% and an uplift of 37% over 2015.
Including proceeds from completed post year end disposals 2.
Based on a share price of 1056 pence at 25 February 2016 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11
