Our markets Local National Global Competition Competition Competition Local competition is highly fragmented In Europe, competition is often owned by Only very few competitors can claim to comprising many small businesses, often generalcontractors.
Inthe US and Australia, have a truly global capability, strong financial family-owned, with limited equipment these servicesare usually outsourced.
credentials and the ability to offer a full capacityand few or single product lines.
Independent national competitors tend productrange.
Types of project Types of project Standard foundations for small to medium Types of project Large-scale projects, requiring capacity structures, where ground conditions are As for Local, together with foundations for or expertise which may not be available relatively straightforward.
larger structures and more complex solutions in-country.
Often direct foreign investment, for challenging ground conditions.
where funders or clients prefer to contract Kellers advantage in this segment withinternational partners.
Our structure enables us to compete Kellers advantage in this segment withlocalplayers for small to mediumWe have a wide network of subsidiary Kellers advantage in this segment sizedcontracts.
companiesand branch offices employing As the largest independent operator with local people with knowledge of: a global presence, we can: Our scale allows us to compete with local national building codes: follow known customers into new players by giving us access to more productive local language and business culture: geographic markets: equipment and techniques.
pool our global resources and expertise: meet the stringent quality, safety and ethical Our experience and reliability also standards of our blue-chip customers.
differentiates us from national competitors.
To find out more please visit our website: www.
co. uk KELLER GROUP PLC 8 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Where we operate From our centres of excellence inmore than Algeria Ghana Namibia Spain 40 countries around the world, we deliver Australia India Netherlands Swaziland combinations of industry-leading expertise to Austria Indonesia Oman Sweden the most challenging projects and locations.
Brazil Italy Panama Switzerland Canada Ivory Coast Peru Turkey Chile Kazakhstan Poland United Kingdom Denmark Lesotho Qatar United States Egypt Malaysia Saudi Arabia Finland Mexico Singapore France Morocco Slovakia Germany Mozambique South Africa For a precise understanding of how we see the markets in which we operate: www.
co. uk The best of being local The best of being global Market drivers our wide network of regional offices we can join forces across company Throughout the world, we expect the growth allows Keller to be responsive and and country borders to tackle big in specialist ground engineering to exceed the competitive in local markets opportunities and challenging jobs growth in general construction, driven over the medium-to-long term by those trends set this, in turn, means that our revenue is we share technologies and equipment out below: spread over some 6,000 contracts with an average value of around 250,000 we exchange best practice and urbanisation and more large-scale information across the Group creating development projects: our local people have knowledge of local economies of scale ground conditions increasing land shortage, driving a need to we have common operating rules, use more brownfield and marginal land: we can respond to the changing including our safety programme and dynamics of our business in a timely Code of Conduct, which means that infrastructure renewal and expansion, and informed way customers see a consistent Keller e. g. road, rail, power: approach, wherever in the world an entrepreneurial culture allows us we operate increasing demand from customers to compete in an industry dominated for complete solutions rather than by entrepreneurs our brand recognition is unrivalled by just products: and local regional players increasing technical complexity.
our financial strength is unrivalled KELLER GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 9
