Our business model Our vision To be the world leader in geotechnical solutions.
Our business model is evolving to realise our vision and drive our new strategy.
Understanding the value chain Key inputs In providing geotechnical solutions, Keller operates in the initialstages of the construction Our people value chain.
Whilst the value chain and High-quality engineers and operators construction process varies significantly from capable of delivering world-class solutions project to project, Keller is typically the first Strong local relationships with real trust from contractor on-site and the firstoff-site.
Ensuring our customers giving us insight into market our work is done efficiently is critical for our developments and allowing us to drive for customers in saving them money and providing high-value solutions a sound platform for the remaining work on a Highly experienced low staff turnover means project.
Our projects are often for ashort we are more reliable than the competition duration and the majority have an average value Specialists, flexible to go to the toughest of 250,000.
We work across the construction problems, ensure the customer gets the spectrum.
Very often we will joint venture with best of Keller amain contractor on a bid.
Our technology Depending on the nature of a project, Keller Broad coverage for all geotechnical solutions mayprovide insights into design and other phases giving us resilience to market changes and of the construction process but generally value supporting us to lead on innovation iscreated and captured principally from our Keller unique solutions giving improved groundwork activities.
Our products and services customerresults and Keller profitability are not just about foundations for construction seebelow but are most commonly geotechnical solutions Building Information Modelling BIM tocomplex construction projects from solving capabilitiesto support digitisation of forterrain and water pressure in constructing groundengineering see below adam to the foundations for a major stadium.
Our market focus We are unique given our market-leading positions Targeting markets that value geotechnical derived from combinations of technology, scale solutions and customer relationship leadership.
Selective investment in profitable segments Our financial strength Strong balance sheet Keller was the first company to develop methods and equipment for the successful deep compaction of soil in the 1930s and has continued to develop the equipment and widened its application.
Common soil stabilisation techniques include a combination of vibro-compaction with stone, concrete or lime columns as well as soil mixing and injection systems.
These techniques have beenused by Keller to improve many thousands of sites around the world.
Building Information Modelling BIM is a process involving the generation and management of digital representations of physical and functional characteristics of places.
Current BIM software is used to plan, design, construct, operate and maintaindiverse physical infrastructures.
Our capabilities to monitor solutions and ourownequipment operations are providing us witha competitive edge as BIM expands inthe construction market.
KELLER GROUP PLC 10 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY P PE ER RF FO OR RMAN MANC CE E GOVERNANCE F FIINAN NANC CIIAL AL S ST TA ATE TEM ME ENT NTS S Engineering leadership Extensive products and services Global How we create and World-class capture value geotechnical Knowledge and solutions capability sharing to build best solutions Local Who benefits from that Cost-effective value creation approaches Customers Local knowledge with global scale and resource Provision of complex geotechnical solutions Shareholders Dividends Capital growth People Operational Employment excellence Qualifications Global and local opportunities Communities Employment Construction of facilities Our business model is underpinned by safety and sustainability KELLER GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 11
