Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Directors statements Fair, balanced and understandable of the main assumptions underlying After making enquiries about the In accordance with the principles of the forecast, both individually and in Groups business activities and financial the Code, the Board has established aggregate.
This involved stress-testing resources, and bearing in mind the nature arrangements to evaluate whether the the business model with the impact of the Groups business and assets, the information presented in this Annual of occupational demand on the net Directors consider that the Group has Report and Accounts is fair, balanced operating income, the impact of access to: sufficient liquidity comprising and understandable.
Further details of increased interest rates on finance cash and undrawn facilities, together these arrangements can be found on costs, dividend cover and overall interest with flexible financing options under page 71.
Having taken advice from the coverage ratio, the impact of foreign the EMTN programme established in Audit Committee, the Board considers exchange movements on net asset November 2015, secure income from that the Annual Report and Accounts, value and cash flow, as well as the strong covenants supported by a high taken as a whole, are fair, balanced impact of valuation falls on loan to value occupancy and a high WAULT: and and understandable and provide the covenants in the Groups debt facilities.
value and income enhancing asset information necessary to assess the management initiatives.
As a consequence, Groups position and performance, Further explanation of the process the Directors believe that the Group is business model and strategy.
used in preparing the Board to make this well placed to successfully manage its statement is set out on page 71 Audit business risks.
In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of The Directors have considered the the Code, the Directors have assessed Review of principal risks, risk Groups asset position and valuation the prospects of the Group over a management and internal control of the investment portfolio at the year three-year period, taking account of its In accordance with provision C. 2.1 of end, together with projected cash flows current position, and the potential impact the Code, the Directors confirm that they for a period of one year from the date of the principal risks documented in the have carried out a robust assessment of signing these consolidated financial Strategic report on pages 1 to 53.
Based of the principal risks facing the Company, statements, and have concluded that on this assessment, the Directors have a including those that would threaten its the Group has adequate resources to reasonable expectation that the Company business model, future performance, continue in operation for the next 12 will be able to continue in operation and solvency or liquidity.
The process upon months from the date of this statement.
meet its liabilities as they fall due over which this statement is based is the period to December 2018.
In doing described on page 72 Audit Committee The Directors are satisfied that: so, it is recognised that such future report and the principal risks and the Groups and Companys activities assessments are subject to a level of uncertainties and how they are managed are sustainable for the foreseeable uncertainty that increases with time and, and mitigated are described on pages future, being a period of not less than therefore, future outcomes cannot be 32 to 36.
The Directors have also given 12 months from the date of approval guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
due consideration to the review of the of this statement and the business Companys risk management framework is a going concern: and The period of three years was selected and internal control systems during the it is therefore appropriate to continue by the Board for the following reasons: year ended 31 December 2015.
Further to adopt the going concern basis in details are provided on page 72. preparing the consolidated financial The Groups strategic review period statements.
is three years: Going concern Underlying individual asset bottom-up The Groups business activities and Directors responsibility statements business plans and cash flow forecasts assets, together with factors likely The Directors further statements in are prepared on a one and three year to affect its future development, respect of their responsibility for the basis: and performance and position, are set out Annual Report and Accounts can be The Groups WAULT is 7.3 years, and in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 53. found on page 81. therefore, a three year period captures The financial position of the Group, its sufficient reversionary risk.
cash flows, liquidity position and leverage, are described on pages 48 to 53.
Details The three-year strategic review considers of the Groups financial instruments and the Groups cash flows, income profile, derivative and hedging activities, and dividend cover, loan to value and other details of other financial and non-financial key financial metrics, as well as the level liabilities are described on pages 125 to of capital recycling and reinvestment 129.
Lastly, the Groups exposure to risks, likely to occur, over the period.
These including credit risk and liquidity risk, metrics were subject to sensitivity and its management of these risks is analysis which involved flexing a number described on pages 130 to 134.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59
