Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Accountability The Group has a well-understood The Investment Manager has delegated Accountability externally managed structure with certain responsibilities and functions, documented levels for the authorisation including property level services to the of business transactions and clear bank investment advisors, and has contracted Introduction mandates to control the approval of to receive portfolio advisory services The Board has ultimate responsibility payments.
Control of the Groups cash from them.
The investment advisors for ensuring that there are sufficient, resources is operated by a centralised are all subsidiaries of Kennedy Wilson appropriate and effective systems, treasury function in the Investment in Europe.
procedures, policies and processes Manager Group.
in place for internal control of financial, The investment advisors engaged operational, compliance and risk Internal management reporting and by the Investment Manager utilise management matters to manage the external statutory reporting timetables a thorough and rigorous investment risks which are an inherent part of and delivery requirements are well process when advising the Investment business.
The Board receives regular established and documented.
Control Manager on investment opportunities reports from the Investment Manager of these is maintained centrally and for the Company.
They are responsible on the Groups business risk profile and key risks.
All key risk, compliance and communicated regularly.
for identifying investment opportunities control activities are considered at the and conducting due diligence on those Audit Committee.
This framework is The Investment Manager, on behalf opportunities.
However, investment designed to manage and mitigate risk of the Group, maintains computer decisions are made at the sole rather than eliminate it in order to permit systems to record and consolidate discretion of the Investment Manager, the Company to meet its financial and all of its financial transactions.
These who has been authorised by the Board other objectives and can only provide ledger systems are used to produce the to make such decisions, other than in reasonable, and not absolute, assurance information for the monthly management relation to matters involving a conflict against material loss or misstatement.
accounts, and for the annual statutory of interest which require the formal financial statements.
The accounts approval of the independent Directors.
production process ensures that there Financial reporting is a clear audit trail from the output of Statement of review The Group maintains a control the Groups financial reporting systems, The risk management process detailed environment that is regularly reviewed through the conversion and consolidation earlier was in place for the year under by the Board.
The principal elements processes, to the Groups consolidated review and up to the date of approval of the control environment include financial statements.
comprehensive management and financial reporting systems and Risk management The Board has given due consideration processes, defined operating controls The Group risk management cycle to the adequacy of the Companys risk and authorisation limits, regular Board is an iterative cycle of identification, management framework and its internal meetings, and clear subsidiary board assessment, mitigation and monitoring control systems, including all material and operating structures.
of risks facing the Group.
Further details financial, operational and compliance are set out on pages 32 to 36 of this controls, during the year ended Internal control and risk management report under Managing risks.
31 December 2015 and believes systems relating to the financial reporting process and the process them to be operating effectively.
for preparing consolidated accounts Investment processes adopted by No significant failings or weaknesses ensure the accuracy and timeliness of the Investment Manager were noted by the Board.
internal and external financial reporting.
We are responsible for reviewing Regular monthly reporting cycles allow and challenging where appropriate the Investment Manager to assess the adequacy and efficacy of the performance, and identify risks and systems and procedures adopted by opportunities at the earliest opportunity.
the Investment Manager regarding the Performance is assessed against Groups operations and investments.
budget and against the latest forecast expectations.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69
