Governance Directors report The directors present their Annual Report andthe audited Listing Rule 9.8.
4 financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for The Trustee of the Ladbrokes Share Ownership Trust, which is the year ended 31 December 2015. used in connection with certain of the Companys employee share ownership plans, waives dividends on shares in the Trust The Corporate Governance reports on pages 38 to 71 are deemed to be incorporated into this Directors report the not allocated to plan members.
There are no other items that Report by reference.
Details ofthe likely future developments are required to be disclosed under Listing Rule 9.8.
4. of the business are described inthe Strategic report on pages Share capital 2 to 35.
The Strategic report, Directors report and other At 22 February 2016, the Company had been notified, in sections from the Annual Report which are incorporated by accordance with the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, reference, collectively comprise the Management Report of the following holdings of voting rights attaching to the for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
Companys shares: Directors Number of % of issued Biographical details of the directors at the date of the Report shares share capital are shown on pages 36 and 37.
Richard Glynn served as a Playtech Limited 98,589,095 9.71 director until 31 March 2015, Darren Shapland served as a The Capital Group of Companies, Inc. 71,234,245 7.00 director until 24September 2015 and Peter Erskine served Old Mutual Plc 61,570,205 6.05 asadirector until 3December 2015.
FIL Limited 51,635,952 5.07 Jupiter Asset Management Limited 45,953,525 5.00 Details of the directors service contracts, their share interests andother details of their remuneration by the Company are None of the interests stated above have changed since contained in the Directors remuneration report.
The Chairman and the independent non-executive directors Further details in respect of the share capital are shown in note areappointed, subject to re-election, for a specified term of 27 to the consolidated financial statements which forms part approximately three years, renewable by one additional period ofthe Report.
Rights attributable to the Companys ordinary ofthree years and renewable thereafter at the discretion of shares are as set out in the Articles and in applicable company theCompany.
Holders of the Companys ordinary shares have the right The Board has in place an established procedure for managing, toattend, speak and vote either in person or by proxy at a and where appropriate approving, any conflicts of interest.
general meeting of the Company and the right to participate inany distribution of the Company which includes, but is not Appointment and replacement of directors limited to, dividends.
Directors are appointed to, or removed from, the Board accordingto the provisions contained in the Companys The Company operates a number of employee share plans  the Articles and the requirements of the which are detailed in note 28.
The voting rights of shares held Companies Act 2006.
A copy of the Articles is available to view in trust for share plan participants, as beneficial holders, are onthe Companys website www.
exercised at the direction of the participant.
In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Directors authority to issue and purchase shares Governance Code, all directors, with the exception of Ian Bull, At the Annual General Meeting held on 7 May 2015, the willstand for election or re-election at the 2016 Annual directors were authorised to allot ordinary shares up to a GeneralMeeting.
nominal value of 87,167,847 and were further authorised to Directors indemnities and insurance make market purchases of up to 92,295,379 of the Companys Each of the directors has been provided with a qualifying ordinary shares.
third-party indemnity from the Company which remain in No purchases of Company shares were made during the year.
force at the date of the Report.
The Company also Details of shares allotted during the year are shown in note 27 maintains directors and officers liability insurance.
to the consolidated financial statements.
To the extent the Amendment of the Companys Articles authorities granted by shareholders remain unused they remain ofAssociation in effect until the earlier of the Annual General Meeting in 2016 The Companys Articles may be amended by the members or 30 June 2016. of theCompany by special resolution requiring a majority Corporate responsibility of at least75% of the persons voting on the relevant resolution.
The 2015 Corporate Responsibility CR report is available at Annual General Meeting www.
com and should be considered in This years Annual General Meeting will be held at Deutsche conjunction with the highlights disclosed on pages 31 to 35.
BankAG, Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street, The processes described in the section Financial reporting, LondonEC2N2DB on 5 May 2016 at 11.00am.
internal control and risk management systems on pages 41 to Dividends 43 applied to CR including human rights issues as appropriate, The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of as did the practices described on page 40 for ensuring the 2.0pence per ordinary share, making a total of 3.0 pence for Board is supplied with appropriate and timely information and theyear.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual training and for assisting the directors to update their General Meeting, the final dividend is expected to be paid on knowledge.
In addition to business presentations regularly 12May 2016 to shareholders registered on 29 March 2016.
com made to the Board at which CR was considered as appropriate, Significant agreements that take effect, the Board conducts anannual CR review and Board members alterorterminate upon a change of control regularly receive CRupdates.
CR performance is included in following a takeover bid business unit accountability systems and remuneration The agreements between Ladbrokes Group Finance plc LGF, arrangements.
The Remuneration Committee, in determining a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and five separate executive remuneration, takes into account CR matters as banks for the provision by the banks of revolving credit facilities of up to 350m on a committed basis provide that the banks described in the Directors remuneration report.
maygive notice of cancellation if a change of control occurs.
The risks and opportunities relating to CR in 2015 and going On cancellation the amounts drawn would be immediately forward primarily revolve around the reputation of the Group repayable.
In the context of a takeover bid, the acquirer would and the quality of its brands.
The promotion of responsible normally arrange substitute facilities.
In addition, LGF issued bonds gambling and the protection of children and the vulnerable was in March 2010 and June 2014.
The bonds have a Put Event that of particular importance.
CR also impacted on the performance allows bondholders to exercise put options when achange of of the Groups employees on whom the Group relies for the control occurs.
The put options allow the bondholders to require provision of high-quality services to customers and the health LGF topurchase the bonds at a priceof101 pence.
and safety of these employees and the customers they serve.
Nevada regulator The identification and management of CR issues, the CR Shareholders of Ladbrokes are subject to regulation by the reporting framework and any associated data has been reviewed Nevada State Gaming Control Board and the Nevada Gaming by the Companys CR adviser, Carnstone Partners LLP.
Commission as a result of the Companys ownership of Details of the Groups disclosure of its greenhouse gas licensed subsidiaries in Nevada, USA and the Companys emissions are set out in the Strategic report on page 35. registration as apublicly traded company operating in Nevada.
Information regarding Nevada gaming regulatory requirements Employee policies is available at www.
The Board values two-way communication between senior management and employees on all aspects of the Companys Financial risk management strategy, Company performance, management effectiveness A description of the Groups financial risk management andapproach to wellbeing.
objectives and policies and its exposure to price, credit liquidity There is a rolling three-year internal communications strategy and cash flow risk is contained in note 24 to the consolidated anddelivery plan which includes interventions such as regular financial statements and forms part of the Report.
management roadshows, virtual strategy briefings, visits to Auditor and disclosure of information operating units, responses to the regular colleague opinion totheauditor surveyand updates on performance.
Each of the directors in office as of the date of approval of the The internal communications channels include a mobile device Report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no platform, face to face events, a corporate intranet, phone relevant audit information being information needed by the broadcasting, SMS alerts, a Company magazine, leadership auditor in connection with preparing its report of which the and line manager briefing packs.
auditor is unaware and that he or she has taken all the steps that he or sheought to have taken as a director in order to The UK Retail Colleague Forum, which was launched in 2012 as make himself orherself aware of any relevant audit information an evolution of our Staff Council, provides a further mechanism and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
In addition, those employees who are eligible are also Going concern encouragedto become involved in the Groups performance Having assessed the principal risks and other matters through participation in share schemes.
Retail colleagues discussed in the connection with the viability statement on page also have the opportunity to raise issues with the senior 30, the directors considers it appropriate to adopt the going management team by submitting emails for consideration to our concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
speak up mailbox, orby calling on one of our speak up days.
The Directors report and the Strategic report were approved Throughout the Group, the principles of equal opportunities bythe Board and have been signed on its behalf by the arerecognised in the formulation and development of Company Secretary.
It is the Companys policy to give full and fair consideration to applications from people with disabilities, having regard to theirparticular aptitudes and abilities.
If an employee becomes disabled, the Companys objective is the continued provision ofsuitable employment, either in the same or an alternative Adrian Bushnell position, with appropriate adjustments being made if necessary.
Company Secretary Employees with disabilities share equally in the opportunities 22 February 2016 for training, career development and promotion.
Ladbrokes plc Registered Number 566221 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 73 Financial statements Financial statements Consolidated financial statements contents Consolidated financial statements contents 75 Statement of directors responsibilities 76 Independent auditors report to the members of Ladbrokes plc 84 Consolidated income statement 85 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 86 Consolidated balance sheet 87 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 88 Consolidated statement of cash flows 89 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 89 1 Corporate information 89 2 Basis of preparation 89 3 Changes in accounting policies 89 4 Summary of significant accounting policies 96 5 Segment information 97 6 Exceptional items 98 7 Profit before tax and net finance expense 98 8 Finance expense and income 99 9 Staff costs 100 10 Income tax expense 101 11 Dividends 102 12 Earnings per share 103 13 Goodwill and intangible assets 104 14 Impairment testing of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets 105 15 Property, plant and equipment 106 16 Interest in joint venture 107 17 Interest in associates and other investments 108 18 Trade and other receivables 108 19 Cash and cash equivalents 108 20 Trade and other payables 109 21 Provisions 109 22 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 109 23 Lease liabilities 110 24 Financial risk management objectives and policies 112 25 Financial instruments and fair value disclosures 115 26 Net debt 116 27 Issued Share capital 116 28 Employee share ownership plans 117 29 Notes to the statement of cash flows 118 30 Retirement benefit schemes 120 31 Share-based payments 122 32 Commitments and contingencies 123 33 Related party disclosures 128 34 Proposed merger 128 35 Subsequent events Ladbrokes classification: Protected 74 ladbrokesplc.
com 70 Ladbrokes classification: Protected ladbrokesplc.
