Divisional review Services 1 The Services division comprises capabilities Services revenue was up 13% to 1.2bn 2014: inhighways maintenance both local authority 1.1bn reflecting the awards of a 200m four-year and strategic highways, utilities, housing extension of the highways services contract with maintenance, facilities management and Northamptonshire County Council and more than environmental services.
The recently acquired 700m of awards as part of the AMP6 water cycle.
activities of Mouchels consulting and local Following the acquisition of Mouchel in early June, authority business processing operations, athree-week contribution from Mouchels recently renamed Kier Business Services, businesses has been included.
2 Underlying operating profit was 58.0m 2014: 2 53.3m, up 9%.
Underlying operating margins remained in line with managements expectations at4.7%, reflecting the high volume of bidding costs incurred on the successful AMP tenders in the 1,247m 13% firsthalf of the financial year and the impact of a significant reduction in market prices for recyclate 1 Revenue within the environmental business, which impacted 2014: 1,104m underlying operating profit by 4m.
As announced at the completion of the Mouchel acquisition, it is anticipated that the transaction 58.0m 9% willdeliver pre-tax cost savings of approximately Underlying operating 4min the financial year ending 30 June 2016 and 2 profit 10m in the financial year ending 30 June 2017 2014: 53.3m andthereafter.
The order book at 30 June 2015 of 6.0bn 30 June 2014: 3.7bn provides good visibility of future work, 4.7% having secured over 0.8bn of new contracts during the year.
More than 90% of targeted revenue for Underlying operating 2 2016 was secured at 30 June 2015.
The order profit margin 2014: 4.8% bookdoes not include contract extensions, which, ifincluded, would add a further 2.2bn to the 6.0bntotal.
6.0bn 62% Highways maintenance The highways business continued to perform Order book well, benefiting from the Governments continued 2014: 3.7bn focus oninfrastructure.
Following the acquisition of Mouchel, Kier is now the sector leader in a growing UK highways maintenance and management market covering both the local authority and strategic 17,021 highways sectors of the UK highways market, where Employees Government spend has increased and will continue 2014: 10,813 todo so.
Overseas, the DownerMouchel joint venture continues to perform well and additional contracts inthe Australian highways market and new opportunities in New Zealand are being evaluated.
In the UK, total annual spend on highways is 13bn, of which approximately 7bn relates to maintenance, providing an opportunity for the Group to extend its presence in this market.
This spend is further underpinned by Highways Englands 17bn five-year investment in the strategic road network.
The local authority highways market isusing funds made available by the new 575m Challenge Fund, set up by central Government, to help repair and maintain 1 Group and share of joint ventures, including three weeks local infrastructure from 2016 and improve overall ofMouchel trading in 2015. asset management.
2 Includes three weeks of Mouchel trading in 2015, stated before non-underlying items: see notes 2 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
Reported Services operating profit was 39.3m 2014: 32.6m.
49 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168 Divisional review Services continued In Kiers local authority highways business, a 200m four-year extension of the Northamptonshire County Council highways services contract, in joint venture, was confirmed.
In addition, the Lincolnshire and East Sussex contracts were extended with an estimated value of 37m and 15m respectively.
Discussions are ongoing with Surrey County Council to develop amore strategic approach to their maintenance requirements, as wellas a one-year extension with avalue of approximately 50m.
Utilities The utilities business had a good year, marking Environmental Mouchel Consulting provides a range of services across a thetransition between the AMP5 and AMP6 water project lifecycle including policy development, planning and cycles.
Onthe back of 700m of new contract design and performance monitoring principally in the transport, awards for Anglian Water, Bournemouth, Bristol, environmental, property and water sectors.
Canal River Trust and Thames Water during the AMP6 bidding cycle and extensions with Scotia Gas Network SGN and South West Water, Kier is now Housing maintenance one ofthetop three participants in the UK regulated The business experienced a good first half of the watersector.
year: however, trading was more subdued in the second half as is typical around an election.
During the period, the business undertook four Following the award of the four-year 140m repairs mobilisations in the water sector: one for Thames and maintenance contract with Genesis Housing Water and three for Anglian Water, which have been Association in September 2014, this was completed successfully.
As part of these, work has successfully mobilised.
Other contract awards in the focused on cultural transformation of the alliances, year included the 26m four-year roofing contract for more efficient processes and an improved Sheffield City Council and the five-year 6m planned customerexperience.
maintenance contract for Richmondshire District Council in North Yorkshire.
In addition, the business In the energy sector, there have been significant is supporting the 25m ProCure21 opportunities particularly in the gas sector and there regional minor are increased opportunities in the environmental works contract being undertaken through Kier protection market.
With the growth in the utilities Construction.
New opportunities are under sector, availability of skills remains under pressure discussion with Metropolitan Housing and following and Kierhas created its own utilities skills academy achange in strategic approach from the client, the torespond to this demand.
9m Circle repairs contract was exited enabling the Group to focus on the planned works and gas The gas and telecoms sectors of the utilities market compliance contracts for that client.
remain particularly attractive with opportunities under discussion with OpenReach and SGN.
This business continues to develop new opportunities in the East and West Midlands, the Mouchel Consulting North West and East Anglia.
Opportunities are also Mouchel Consulting operates within the highways arising from targeting frameworks and places have design, management and technology sector with been secured on 24 frameworks covering works for operations in both the UK and the Middle East.
Since 150clients, including the Greater London Authority 30 June 2015, Mouchel Consulting has secured one RE:NEW framework.
With the recentGovernment of the five major regional traffic modelling contracts affordable housing and rent announcements, it is with Highways England and, supporting the anticipated that the market for registered providers Governments northern powerhouse devolution will change, with likely consolidation providing access agenda, has been awarded a 1.4mproject to to larger stock portfolios and the need for increased assess the feasibility ofa new TransPennine link outsourced support.
Building on its track record in the Middle East highways sector, a Facilities management four-year 17m supervision contract has been To better define its offer in a competitive market, secured for a highways maintenance contract in thefacilities management FM business focuses AbuDhabi.
on providing a broad FM and asset management proposition to clients.
This breadth of delivery is in line with market trends and has resulted in contracts being signed with Staffordshire County Council and the Police and Crime Commissioner for Staffordshire.
50 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Thames Water Thames Water is a client using a range of Kierservices.
During this year, Kier was awarded the 1bn Thames Water infrastructure alliance contract, in joint venture with ClancyDocwra.
51 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168 Divisional review Services continued Highways The Mouchel acquisition extends Kiers market share of the highways and, more broadly, the transport market.
The Strategic Highways business is one of Highways Englands key suppliers whilst the Consulting business provides capabilities in the fields of development and transport planning, design and management, intelligent transport services including tolling and enforcement, and maintenance and operations.
52 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 There have been a number of new awards in the year, including a five-year 22.5m contract with the Royal Opera House and the provision of a four-year 4.8m contract for engineering services to University College London, built by Kier Construction.
In the year, the business also joined two national public sector frameworks: the hard FM framework for Crown Commercial Services and the soft FM services framework for national Procurement Services Wales.
The market for FM services both in the public and private sectors looks encouraging and, with clients appearing to prefer integrated self-delivered solutions, Kier is well placed to make further progress.
Kier Business Services KBS The newly acquired operations of Mouchel provide a range of business process outsourcing and property management services to the local authority market, Kier Business Services Kier Business Services, formerly a Mouchel company, as well as to the police, health and education providesa range of business process outsourcing and sectors.
Kier has a prominent position with local propertymanagement services to the local authority market authorities across its operations and further aswell as to the police, health and education sectors.
opportunities exist to extend its services to clients via Kier Business Services KBS.
KBS remains focused onthe provision ofbundled services to assist local authorities to address their budgetary challenges.
Keyclients of KBS are exploring the breadth of services now available through Kier and discussions on further outsourcing with current customers areongoing.
Other During August, the Bristol City Council contract in ourEnvironmental business mutually terminated within the overall fair value provisions arising at the time ofthe May Gurney acquisition.
Elsewhere, the performance of the environmental business remains challenging but stable.
The sale of Fleet & Passenger Services was completed on 1 July 2015 for 17.9m.
Proceeds from the sale were used to improve Kiers cash position and, where appropriate, to fund growth opportunities in line with Kiers strategy.
Royal Opera House Kier provides hard and soft FM services for the Royal Opera House at its iconic site in Covent Garden, in addition to two Services outlook other locations across the UK.
Following the acquisition of Mouchel, the Groups highways capability has been extended and accelerated.
Our enhanced capabilities within thehighways market, together with our Group infrastructure capabilities, positions us well for futureinvestment in the transport sector.
The increased focus of our utilities business on regulated sectors such as telecoms and power provides new opportunities for further growth in the business.
Inthe local authority market, budgetary challenges continue to create a need for a new approach to managing assets and how services aredelivered leading to the outsourcing of more complex, asset focused contracts.
Our strong relationships with local authorities provide a robust foundation on which to grow and utilise the breadth of skills we have across theGroup.
The division has a 6.0bn order book withpotential extensions adding a further 3.3bn and is90% secured for 2016.
53 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168
