Strategic report Business model Ladbrokes aim to deliver long-term value to shareWe leverage our resources holders and an exciting Brand leadership Technology Trading expertise and systems Best of breed product gambling experience Best in class partners and Heritage supplier relationships tocustomers.
Market insight Our business is built on bookmaking through all channels expertise delivered through retail and telephone operations as well asMobile and Digital services.
Retail Digital We are a brand leader in the UK, Ireland in our chosen markets and Belgium, a growing force through our joint venture in Spain and we are Established New developing good business opportunities UK Ireland Belgium Australia US China Spain in other key territories.
We are a regulated business and takeourregulatory licensing conditions seriously.
In delivering our strategy remaining aware of our responsibilities weregard health and safety and responsible gambling as a nonRegulation Responsible Community negotiable in how we go about our gambling engagement everyday business.
We aim to be available to the customer to deliver our promise at their convenience and provide afun experience wherever, however and whenever they choose to play withus.
AN EXCITING AND ENGAGING GAMING EXPERIENCE and to generate returns and long-term value Dividends Interest and Investment in our to shareholders repayments people, operations to bond holders and businesses 06 ladbrokesplc.
com Life of a bet Customers enjoy placing a bet to enhance the funof a sporting event and to experience theexcitement offered by casino games.
Customer places bet Wagers can be placed on the high street in our shops orvia our Digital andMobile services.
Retail Digital UK Europe Mobile tablet desktop Customer Customer wins loses Customer Customer Contributes recycles keeps their to Group their winnings winnings revenue Customers could choose to recycle winnings as theyoften have asetlevel of spendthey are comfortable with.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 07
