Strategic update We can achieve significant benets from developing a more common, unique and effective offer and by unifying activities and standardising processes.
Following the appointment of Vronique We are right to focus on Europe.
The There is no one, clear winning format Laury as Chief Executive officer, the European home improvement market or channel in our market today.
leadership team reviewed Kingshers is an attractive sector, worth 235 Kingshers multi-format structure 1 business and strategy.
They concluded billion across a customer base of 320 is therefore an advantage, having 1 that Kingshers position and prospects million homes.
Kingsher currently businesses across Big Box 1 has a 5% share of this large, resilient in the attractive European home format, Medium Box format and improvement market were strong, and fragmented market, meaning Omnichannel formats.
However, being there is plenty of scope for growth.
but that the business needed to be omnichannel everywhere is a given.
organised very differently to deliver We can achieve significant benets We can achieve significant benets the full potential of ONE Kingsher.
from developing a more common, from unifying activities and unique and effective offer.
Currently A summary of the review findings becoming increasingly clear that there are few shared processes are below: customer needs are already largely within Kingsher and the sharing of Home improvement is a great the same, that the markets we serve infrastructure is limited.
There is also market with huge potential.
Home are fundamentally more similar than no standardised operating model, improvement is a top customer different and that there are few known which means, for example, that our spending priority, with an estimated manufacturing brands across the Brico Dpt businesses in France, 58% of Europeans doing a home sector.
There is therefore an Spain, Romania and Portugal operate improvement project last year.
The opportunity for Kingsher to develop in different ways.
market is resilient and its growth is a unique offer that can be sold across supported by favourable megatrends our businesses.
Kingsher already which are similar across all markets.
has significant scale, with over a For example, changing demographics million customers a day.
The potential as well as ongoing societal trends of our 7.4 billion buying scale is still mean that households are needing relatively untapped and we have a to adapt their homes, while increasing fragmented supplier base.
However, urbanisation means most people are we have made progress on group 2 living in smaller homes.
In addition, sourcing now at 22% of sales and the rise in home technology and establishing our own brand product automation is changing the type of ranges now at 30% of sales.
improvements people want to make to their homes, all of which provide us with sustainable opportunity.
1 Source AMA builders merchant report 2014, 2 Across top five operating companies - Castorama AMA commissioned research, Mintel Europe France, Brico Dpt France, B&Q UK & Ireland, DIY report 2014: BCG, Kingsher research Screwx UK and Castorama Poland See glossary on page 147 Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 12
