Strategic update continued We are organising ourselves very differently In order to unlock King shers true potential the Company needs to be organised very differently.
This will involve taking what is essentially a locally managed set of businesses and creating instead a single uni ed company where customer needs come first.
1 Customer Uni ed & OpCo OpCo 1 Customer 2 Offer Uni ed & OpCo OpCo 2 Offer 3 Formats Channels Uni ed OpCo 3 Formats channels OpCo 4 Infrastructure Uni ed 4 Infrastructure & Processes & Processes OpCo 5 People 5 People Uni ed & OpCo King sher Annual Report 2014 15 14 Strategic Report Sustainably enhancing our customer offer We want to understand the reality of how our customers live so we can develop the products and services that really meet their needs.
At the end of last year we asked 17,000 householders across Europe about their homes and their biggest fear is high energy bills.
Its the number one concern in all our European markets and people are now eight times more likely to prioritise energy ef ciency projects than they were two years ago.
Our energy ef ciency innovations are helping people make their homes warmer and more affordable to run.
For example, our newly refurbished Castorama store in Hnin-Beaumont enables customers to get help from specially trained energy ef ciency sales advisors.
Providing solutions to peoples energy concerns means were best placed to address the growing 70bn in-home energy ef ciency market in Europe.
As our homes become more energy ef cient and we spend more time in them, we also need to help ensure that homes are healthy.
Indoor air pollutants are an increasing concern, contributing to health conditions such as allergies and respiratory conditions.
Weve led the industry offering minimal VOC paint for many years but Castoramas Respira paint innovation actually improves indoor air quality by capturing and absorbing formaldehyde.
United States Environmental Protection Agency www.
com 15 Strategic update continued Our work to mobilise ONE Kingsher will be focused on the following five areas.
For each of these we have identied the first sharp decisions that are being implemented at pace.
A key step in developing this new organisation ONE Kingsher is the creation of a new leadership team with more focused cross-company roles including: Chief Executive officer Three operations directors by format for Big Box, Medium Box & Omnichannel Chief Financial officer Chief Digital & IT officer Chief Offer & Supply Chain officer Chief People officer 1 2 3 Customer Offer Formats 1 Everything will be based on our deep Of a total of 393,000 products sold knowledge of customer needs and the across the company, only 7,000 products Channels customers shopping journey.
representing 7% of sales are currently Our goal is to present the same products sold in at least two operating companies.
First sharp decision: to customers across Europe in the same Of the 393,000 products a large To develop unied garden and bathroom way under a simplied model.
This will proportion relate to delisted and businesses across Europe, covering the full drive operational efficiencies whilst ex-promotional ranges which do not design process from customers needs to recognising that customer needs are form part of existing retail planograms.
evolving quickly so we need to adapt to Beyond this, driven by the knowledge this fast changing retail environment.
Our that customer needs are more similar existing channels will be managed under than different across geographies, three formats: Big Box, Medium Box planogram product ranges can be more and Omnichannel, and each will be similar in all our markets across Europe.
standardised across all of our markets.
First sharp decision: First sharp decisions: Develop plan to cut existing product tail.
Kingsher has said for some time that B&Q UK & Ireland can adequately meet local customer needs from fewer stores and that some of the stores should be smaller.
As a result of detailed catchment reviews Kingsher announced the following plans: Close 15% of surplus B&Q space c60 stores: 6right-sizes over the next two years with the right-sizes planned to be completed in the full year 2015 16.
The closures are being prioritised by the most over-spaced catchments in order to retain customers and sales.
This will give rise to an exceptional charge of around 350m relating principally to onerous lease provisions over the next two years.
Optimise vacant space through a combination of outright sale and sub-letting.
We are already in discussions with several retailers.
Close the small number of loss-making stores we have across Europe.
Do more of the good we have: Start Big Box revitalisation programme across Europe, drawing on our latest, most developed formats.
Extend the Screwx Germany trial by five outlets taking the total to nine, replicating our highly successful omnichannel format developed in the UK.
1 Across top five operating companies: Castorama France, Brico Dpt France, B&Q UK & Ireland, Screwx UK and Castorama Poland.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 16 Strategic Report Responding to trends 4 5 rooted in sustainability Wood is in more than a third of our products Infrastructure People some of it is obvious, like To drive through these changes that used in our ooring we have announced a new leadership & Processes or our bathroom cabinets, team and the need to move to a wider some is less so, like the Unifying our processes and infrastructure reorganisation of the structure of wooden frames underneath will not only drive operating ef ciencies our teams in order to unlock the real our baths that you dont but will also make us a simpler and more potential of ONE King sher.
Security of supply agile organisation.
leadership team combines existing and pricing pressures are and new talent with cross-company First sharp decisions: real concerns, particularly and more focused roles.
Pilot company-wide uni ed SAP IT as demand for wood platformin B&Q Ireland, then look products is set to triple We are pleased to announce that Arja toaccelerate.
Thats why Taaveniku will be joining King sher in Unify the process for managing we are passionate about early May as Chief Offer & Supply Chain 1.2 billion goods not for resale e. g. sustainably sourcing Of cer.
She has 22 years of experience store maintenance, cleaning and our wood to ensure the merchandising equipment.
from the IKEA Group, including 13 years world retains its much at IKEA of Sweden, working in various needed forests.
senior roles involved in developing, managing and supplying the global King sher continues to Unlocking the IKEA product range e. g. she was lead the industry with 92% Global Business Area manager for IKEA of its timber volume for real potential of Kitchen & Dining from 2008 to 2012. products coming from Since 2012 she has been CEO of the ONE King sher sustainable certi ed Ikano Group.
To ensure that by 2020 its all sustainably We are also appointing three Operations Higher Sales sourced, weve recently Directors by format.
Guy Colleau will introduced a timber policy become our Operations Director for for all our markets and Big Box B&Q, Castorama, Kotas.
Maintained Gross we know we can get Alain Souillard will become our Margin Rate there because B&Q Operations Director for Medium Box UK has already done it.
Steve Willett will become Sustainable sourcing Lower Costs our Omnichannel Operations Director protects our forests, helps Screw x as well taking the role of us continue to secure Chief Digital & IT Of cer.
Our operating Capital Discipline supply and enables us company CEOs will report into our to differentiate ourselves Operations Directors.
A Chief People from our competitors.
Of cer will be appointed in due course.
According to the World First sharp decisions: Resources Institute and WWF respectively Finalise new leadership team and wider reorganisation structure.
Improved Financial Metrics With clear and simple nonfinancial KPIs to measure our success across the company.
