n o i t c A t n e m s s e s s a k s i R n o i t a c fi i t n e d i k s i R Strategic report Risks and how we manage them RISK GOVERNANCE AND RESPONSIBILITIES RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS AND METHODOLOGY The effective understanding, acceptance and management of risk is fundamental to the strategy of the Group and what could THE BOARD materially affect the ability to achieve strategic goals.
Over the Overall responsibility for risk management as an integral period of the year, Ladbrokes has looked to improve its risk part of strategic planning management capabilities and enhance its ability to detect and Formal review of risks twice yearly monitor principal risks.
Setting clear policies on acceptable levels of risk We have adopted an integrated and proactive approach Bi-annual assessment of the effectiveness of Internal toourrisk management and responsibilities, this includes Controls System improvement in our ability to discuss and understand our risk.
A new Enterprise Risk Management Framework has been established, which includes an assessment of risk appetite andtolerance within the Group as a whole.
The level of risk it isconsidered appropriate to accept in achieving Ladbrokes THE AUDIT COMMITTEE strategic objectives is reviewed by the Board.
Responsible for assessing the scope and effectiveness of the systems established to identify, assess, manage and monitor risks Reviews reports from Internal Audit four times per year and external audit PwC Internal audit function outsourced to Deloitte LLP hasan annual audit programme that addresses most ofthe principal risks as well as other operational and CONTINUOUS business risks IMPROVEMENT EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Executive directors and senior executives identify keyrisks and make recommendations on the overall approach to risk management The Risk Committee considers all identified risks to the Reviews overall assessment of likely risks business but focuses on the principal risks of the business.
Responsible for enforcing risk management as an For each risk identified within the impact areas the likelihood, integral part of the Groups internal control, planning consequence, risk owner Executive Committee member andapproval process andoperational lead are identified by the Risk Committee.
Each key risk is assigned Executive Committee The risk owner and operational lead suggest the memberownership  control and actions which are reviewedfor appropriateness and monitored regularly by theRisk Committee.
Throughout the year the risk management approach is the RISK COMMITTEE subject of continuous review and updated to reflect new Constitutes Group and divisional executives and anddeveloping issues which might impact business strategy.
seniormanagers Emerging or topical risks are examined to understand the Responsible for maintaining the corporate risk register significance to the business.
Risks are identified and monitored including periodic monitoring of the mitigating actions through workshops and risk registers at the Group level and aswell as the likelihood and consequence of each risk within key business units.
Meets four times a year A Risk Matrix and risk indicators have been established and Business units report into the Risk Committee further developed which helps to monitor progress on risks.
com g n i t r o p e R g n i r o t i n o M g n i n n a l p PRINCIPAL RISKS Increased Decreased Remains unaltered The risks outlined here are those principal risks that are material Marketplace and Operational changes in the to the Group.
They do not include all those associated with economicenvironment, the European Union, changes Group activities and are not set out in any order of priority.
inconsumer leisure spend and international expansion.
Additional risks not presently known to management, or Financial availability of debt financing and costs of currently deemed less material may also have an adverse borrowing, taxation and pension fund liability.
effecton the business including: SPECIFIC RISKS THAT ARE MATERIAL TO LADBROKES ARE: Change in risk Risks Mitigation Relevance to strategy to the business Betting and gaming industry Taxes, laws, regulations and licensing, regulatory compliance All Regulatory, legislative and fiscal regimes for betting Regulatory, legislative and fiscal developments and gaming in key markets around the world in key markets are monitored closely, allowing can change, sometimes at short notice.
Such Ladbrokes to assess and adapt quickly to changes could benefit or have an adverse effect on changes in the environment and minimise risks Ladbrokes and additional costs might be incurred in to the business.
Ladbrokes engages with its order to comply with any new laws or regulations.
regulators and the relevant trade organisations with regard to the betting and gaming regulatory framework and other issues of shared concern, such as problem gambling.
Ladbrokes has entered into a voluntary code of practice and has a Social Responsibility Committee.
Increased cost of product Grow recreational customer base develop multi-channel Ladbrokes is subject to certain financing Ladbrokes engages with the relevant trade arrangements intended to support industries associations and the principal bodies of sport fromwhich it profits.
Examples are the horse and event industries with regard to sports rights racing and the voluntary greyhound racing levies payments, including the statutory horse racing which respectively support the British horse racing levy, animal welfare and other issues.
In addition, Ladbrokes enters into contracts for the distribution of television pictures, audio and other data that are broadcast into Ladbrokes betting shops.
Anumber of these are under negotiation at anyone time.
Operational and bookmaking Trading, liability management and pricing All Ladbrokes may experience significant losses as a Ladbrokes core expertise is trading liability result of a failure to determine accurately the odds management and it has developed the skills in relation to any particular event and or any failure and systems to be able to offer a wide range of its risk management processes.
of betting opportunities and accept large bets.
There is in place a highly experienced trading team and risks are spread across a wide range of events.
A bookmakers odds are determined so as to provide an average return to the bookmaker over a large number of events and therefore, over the longterm, Ladbrokes gross win percentage has remained fairly constant.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27 Strategic report Risks and how we manage them continued PRINCIPAL RISKS continued Change in risk Risks Mitigation Relevance to strategy to the business Operational and bookmaking continued Loss of key locations Develop multi-channel grow recreational customer base Australia Ladbrokes has a number of key sites, in particular Existing business continuity plans and Imperial House at Rayners Lane in London, its head arrangements for off-site data storage, alternate office and main operations centre, its premises at system availability and remote working for key Europort in Gibraltar from where online betting and operational and senior management continue to gaming operations are based, and in Tel Aviv, Israel be developed and refined as part of an ongoing from where our Digital marketing operates and our review process.
Recruitment and retention of key employees and succession planning Develop multi-channel grow recreational customer base Australia Our people are our greatest asset.
We aim to be Performance Management, Development, an employer of choice for talented and passionate Reward and Recognition systems are all people and we need a high level of competence constantly reviewed and updated to marry across the business to meet our objectives and business needs with best practice.
An respond to changing market needs.
increasingly important part is being played by formal, biannual Talent Management and Succession Plan reviews.
Information technology and communications Technology failure All Ladbrokes operations are highly dependent on Ladbrokes has a level of resilience in place technology and advanced information systems which seeks to eliminate single points of failure and there is a risk that such technology or systems within key technology locations.
In particular, any damage to, or failure of online systems and servers, electronic point of sale systems and electronic display systems could result in interruptions to financial controls and customer service systems.
Data management Develop multi-channel grow recreational customer base Australia Ladbrokes process sensitive personal customer Security systems are deployed to protect data including name, address, age, bank details transactional data.
Sophisticated hardware and and betting and gaming history as part of its security mechanisms are used to ensure all business and therefore must comply with strict data sensitive and confidential data is fully encrypted.
protection and privacy laws in all jurisdictions in To provide fail-safe integrity of all data, a series which the Group operates.
Ladbrokes is exposed of storage systems are used to replicate all data to the risk that this data could be wrongfully processed by online services.
In respect of fraud appropriated, lost or disclosed, or processed in protection, an extensive programme of data breach of data protection regulation.
This could monitoring is in place with both prevention and also result in prosecutions including potential detection audit controls.
financial penalties and the loss of the goodwill A cyber security programme is in place ofitscustomers and deter new customers.
supporting our ongoing approach to assessing the threats and improving our security maturity.
com Change in risk Risks Mitigation Relevance to strategy to the business Information technology and communications continued Failure in the supply chain All Ladbrokes is dependent on a number of third Infrastructure suppliers, network and parties for the operation of its business.
The telecommunication suppliers and application withdrawal or removal from the market of one or service providers are long-term partners in more of these major third party suppliers, or failure providing an infrastructure which seeks to ensure of third party suppliers to comply with contractual the delivery of sophisticated and high performance obligations could adversely affect Ladbrokes transaction processing systems.
communication with these suppliers and providers at an operating level and service level agreements have been established to maintain high service levels.
Theongoing review of business continuity plans includes key supplier alternatives and the continued development of the Supply Relationship Management SRM platform.
Marketplace Competition All Ladbrokes faces competition primarily from other Ladbrokes performance and competitive land-based bookmakers, online betting exchanges position are continuously monitored and, where and other online gambling operators.
In particular, appropriate, changes are instituted, including the online gambling market is characterised by in relation to marketing, product development, intense and substantial competition and by relatively yield management, cost control and investment.
low barriers to entry for new participants.
In Acquisition opportunities, with a view to addition, Ladbrokes faces competition from market taking advantage of market consolidation, participants who benefit from greater liquidity arecontinuously evaluated.
as a result of accepting bets and wagers from jurisdictions in which Ladbrokes chooses not to operate because of legal reasons or otherwise.
Health and Safety All Failure to meet the requirements of the various Ladbrokes has numerous policies and domestic and international rules and regulations could procedures in place and these are the subject expose the company and individual employees and ofa continual review.
directors to material civil criminal action with the associated financial and reputational consequences.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29 Strategic report Risks and how we manage them continued VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision c2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Increasing burdens on operating margins due to Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed legislative changes involving a range of risks: taxes, theprospect of Ladbrokes over a longer period than the laws, regulations and licensing, regulatory compliance, 12months required by the Going Concern provision.
recruitment and retention of key employees, technology failure, competition, and data management : The Board notes that the business has, for many years, a history of planning, budgeting and forecasting and that Loss of a major site focused on loss of a key location : the nature offorecasts and plans is that they are best and expectation of the business going forward: thus, they Loss of key leadership personnel involving a range of already contain uncertainty and expectations.
risks: taxes, laws, regulations and licensing, regulatory The directors concluded that three years was an appropriate compliance, trading liability management and pricing, period of assessment given that this is the key period of focus andtechnology failure.
within the Groups strategic planning process and is a typical These scenarios were assessed taking into account the time period for visibility of commercial implications of key current risk appetite and mitigation actions Ladbrokes drivers of the business.
The objectives of the strategic planning takesin respect of these principal risks.
process are to consider the Groups strategy and address The viability statement and the modelling carried out to challenges to this strategy.
In support, the Company builds support it are made based upon the current Ladbrokes plc aconsolidated financial model containing scenarios which business model and balance sheet together with the thedirectors have used to assess the principal risks and assumption that future finance facilities that mature during uncertainties to the business within the three-year time period.
thethree-year period will be refinanced.
In order to confirm the longer-term viability of Ladbrokes, a This viability assessment takes into account all the committed series of scenarios were modelled to simulate the potential expenditure of the Group together with corporate transaction impactsofexposure to the Companys principal risks being costs securing the completion of the proposed merger with realised see section Principal Risks in the Strategic Report.
certain businesses of the Gala Coral Group.
It does not : include the financial results, position and prospects of Gala The impacts of changes to the regulatory landscape Coral entities subject of the merger nor the financing facilities involving a range of risks: taxes, laws, regulations as mentioned on page 128 that have been arranged in andlicensing, regulatory compliance, recruitment connection with the proposed merger.
andretention of key employees, technology failure, Based on the results of the this analysis, the directors have competition, and datamanagement : areasonable expectation that the Company will be able Loss of trading and reputational damage from data tocontinue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall losses involving increased cost of product and dueover the three-year period of this assessment.
technology failure : The going concern statement is contained on page 73.
