Our strategy in action How this supports Vision 2020: The acquisition brings together Mouchels leading position in strategic highways services and Kiers presence in the local authority roads markets making Kier the sector leader in the growing highways market.
18 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Mouchel Creating a sector leader in a growingmarket The UKs roads are a vital part of our national infrastructure and key to economic growth.
As a result, the UK Government has significantly increased its investment in this area, making highways an even more attractive market forKier.
We have built a strong position in maintaining local authority roads and have begun to develop our business inthe strategic roads market, through our place onHighways Englands collaborative delivery framework and the award of a 475m Smart Motorway Programme contract, in joint venture.
Our acquisition of Mouchel has transformed our position, making us a sector leader in highways management and maintenance and accelerating our progress towards Vision 2020.
Critically, Mouchels strength in strategic roads complements our local authority business and gives us access to Highways England as a strategic partner.
Highways England will invest 17bn in the strategic road network over the next five years, increasing the scale of opportunity available to us.
Mouchels commitment to excellent customer experience is second to none.
The highways business was rated as the top key supplier out of20companies for alignment with Highways Englands strategy.
Inaddition, their Area 3 AssetSupport Contract ASC, which covers centralsouthern England, was the best performing of Highways Englands ASCs over the last 12months.
Given the quality of Mouchels delivery and relationships, ensuring we retained its key people has been animportant element of our acquisition integration process.
19 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168 Our strategy in action continued How this supports Vision 2020: The UK infrastructure market remains akey sector forKierin view ofgreater Government investment.
20 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Mersey Gateway Delivering one of theUKs largest infrastructure projects Merseylink, our consortium with Samsung C&T Corporation and FCC Construccin SA, isconstructing the Mersey Gateway project one of the largest current infrastructure initiatives in the UK.
The centrepiece is a new six-lane toll bridge over the River Mersey, between Widnes and Runcorn, in addition to upgrades to more than 9km of local roads.
The project is expected to create more than 4,600 permanent jobs and contribute in excess of60m a year to the localeconomy by 2030.
The project uses innovative construction methodsincluding the creation of a temporary bridge andusing a moving scaffold system to improve access to the bridge construction site.
This increases efficiency and reduces the amount ofcostly work that must be undertaken on the water.
Weare also carefully protecting the local environment, using clearly defined access routesto protect nearby sites of special scientificinterest.
We are committed to recruiting people from thelocal area and to employing apprentices, todevelop the skills young people will need foracareer in the construction industry.
A joint venture is a learning and personal development opportunity for our staff.
Through regular two-way communication and senior management visits, our joint venture employees bring that learning back into Kier.
21 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168 Our strategy in action continued How this supports Vision 2020: The partnership accesses the Groups broader property andstrategic assetmanagement capabilities, providing opportunities for growththrough our integrated offering.
22 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Staffordshire Strategic PropertyPartnership Delivering a broad and integrated service through a unique partnership This year the Staffordshire Strategic Property Partnership was formed by combining public and private sector skills and knowledge.
Kier began a ground breaking 10-year strategic property partnership with Staffordshire County Council and Staffordshires Police and Crime Commissioner PCC.
Together, the public sector partners own around 450 properties in the county.
Drawing on our broad integrated capabilities in development, regeneration, disposal, acquisition, construction, asset management and facilities management, the partnership will unlock value from surplus land and empty or under-used buildings, revitalising them to offer new jobs, homes and developments.
As part of the partnership, the Council and PCC provide details of their property assets, local needs and access to other public sector organisations, which may have adjoining assets that can be pooled with the partnerships projects.
Kier has appointed staff to the partnership, to provide expertise and advice on those assets, developing and managing the partners property assets.
In return, we have first option on providing services to the partnership, subject to demonstrating value for money criteria.
The partnership is unique in the breadth of services it commissions and in its operation.
Its long-term strategic approach also allows it to undertake socially valuable projects that are not immediately financially viable on a stand-alone basis, by combining them with projects that achieve greater financial benefits.
In its first year, the partnership will consider nearly 40 projects, ranging from facilities management and a new headquarters for the police to residential schemesincluding new office accommodation forthe Council.
In addition, the countys other public sector bodiescan use the partnership to deliver their property-related initiatives.
This will save them time and money compared with traditional procurement andaccess to expertise.
In summary, the partnership can achieve outcomes that neither party could deliver alone, improving overall client satisfaction.
23 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168 Our strategy in action continued How this supports Vision 2020: Increasingly projects involve teams from across the Kier businesses.
Kier holds a16% equity stake in VIEW 58 and is also the development manager.
This development showcases the capabilities of both ourConstruction andProperty teams.
24 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Victoria Embankment VIEW 58 Enhancing our returns  By taking an integrated and sustainable approach to construction, we develop attractivebuildings that give our customers agreat customer experience and a unique finalproduct.
Through our joint venture with FORE Partnership, the pan-European real estate investment club forfamily offices and private investors, we are constructing, jointly funding and developing VIEW 58, a highly sustainable office building in central London.
The project draws on capabilities from Kiers Property andConstruction divisions.
Sustainability is at the heart of the strategy beingdeveloped for the building.
VIEW 58 is sensitiveto the local area, being on theRiver Thames Embankment in London.
The development isretaining the existing faade while creating highly functional contemporary offices behind it, diverting 99% of the demolition waste from landfill and recycling it.
The building is designed to exceed a BREEAM Excellent rating and incorporates green technologies such as a sophisticated building management system and solar photovoltaic panelsthat generate power from both their topsandundersides.
VIEW 58s integrated vision of sustainability goes beyond traditional carbon reduction.
For example, the design provides collaboration and exhibition space, which will enable organisations using the building to come together and to engage with thecommunity.
In July 2015, FORE and Kier announced VIEW 58s sale for50.95m to Nesta, a charity with a mission todrive innovation in the UK.
The buildings sustainability standards were an important factorin Nestas decision.
VIEW 58 supports Nestas values, reducing its running costsand providing a hub for organisations committed toinnovation.
25 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168
