Governance Board of Directors 1 3 2 4 1 2 3 4 JOHN M KELLY OBE 68 JIM MULLEN 45 IAN BULL 55 CHRISTINE HODGSON 51 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent John was appointed as Jim was appointed as Chief Ian was appointed as Chief Non-Executive Director SeniorIndependent Non-Executive Executive Officer in April 2015 Financial Officer in July 2011.
Christine was appointed as Director in September 2010, andadirector inMay2015.
Skills and experience Independent Non-Executive andsubsequently as Chairman Skills and experience Ians skills and extensive experience Director in May 2012 and as inDecember 2015.
Jims extensive experience in in finance, with over 25 years SeniorIndependent Non-Executive Skills and experience thegaming and betting industry, in finance-based roles, allows Director in December2015.
John brings extensive particularly online gaming, brings him to effectively manage the Skills and experience experiencefrom the gaming and valuable insight to lead the Group Groups affairs relating to Christine has extensive experience betting industry having previously and implement the strategy to grow accounting, tax, treasury and in business leadership, finance, been a Board member of a number our recreational customer base and investor relations.
Ianalso brings accounting and technology having of betting companies.
commercial experience to the worked in a number of international years experience asa director in a Career experience Boards discussions.
This brings valuable wide range of leisure companies, Joined Ladbrokes in November Career experience experience to Board and John also hasa wealth of experience 2013 as Managing Director of Group Finance Director of Greene Committee discussions.
to draw from in his role as Chairman theDigital business.
Prior to joining King plc and held a number of Career experience and leader of the Board.
Ladbrokes, Jim was ChiefOperating senior finance positions with BT Christine was a senior manager Career experience Officer for WilliamHillsDigital Group plc, including CEO of BT atCoopers & Lybrand and the Founder and Chief Executive of operations forthree years and Retail Enterprises and CFO of BT Corporate Development Director Gala Coral Group having led a heldsenior positions atthe Murray Retail.
Prior to this he was Vice ofRonson plc before joining management buy-in from Bass Plc Group, Arc Worldwide and News President, Finance of Buena Vista Capgemini, where she has held in 1997 and subsequently became International where he was Director Home Entertainment Walt Disney various UK and global roles Chairman.
After founding Gala of Digital Strategy.
Group and held senior finance including CEO of Technology Coral, he was a Board member Other roles positions with Whitbread plc.
Services North West Europe and atMecca Leisure Limited, the None.
Other roles CFO of Global Outsourcing.
com and Committee membership Non-Executive Director of St Other roles Chairman of Novus Leisure Limited.
Chairman of Capgemini UK He was also aBoard member of Committee membership andNon-Executive Director of The Prince ofWales Business in None.
is a Board member of The Prince of Other roles Wales Business in the Community Chairman of Kings Park Capital LLP Charity and sits on the Audit Advisory Board and Kings Park Committee of The Queen Elizabeth Capital LLP Investment Committee Diamond Jubilee Trust.
and co-founder of Dunelmia Committee membership Partners LLP.
Audit Committee, Nomination Committee membership Committee, Remuneration Nomination Committee Chairman Committee and Social and Remuneration Committee.
com 5 7 6 8 5 6 7 8 SLY BAILEY 54 DAVID MARTIN 64 RICHARD MOROSS MBE 38 MARK PAIN 54 Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Director Director Director Sly was appointed as David was appointed as Richard was appointed as Mark Pain was appointed as Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director in November 2009.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Sly brings extensive skills and David has a wealth of experience Richard is a digital entrepreneur Mark brings a range of skills experience in media, marketing leading and building a highly andbrings over 15 years of digital andexperience in financial andsales along with broad successful major pan-European industry experience.
Having worked management, strategic planning, business experience gained growth business from a strong UK in the London technology sector business leadership and change.
asbotha senior executive and base in regulated and non-regulated since 2000, Richard has been He also has over 17 years non-executive director in various markets, involving multiple M&A featured in the Wired 100 and experience as a board director public and private companies and activity, change management in Media Guardian 100 lists, was in a number of sectors.
She also labour intensive operations and named amongst the Telegraph Career experience has experience as a director in the contract and stakeholder Newspapers 1,000 Most Powerful Held senior executive and board successful sale and purchase of management across many People in British Business, and positions at Abbey National plc, anumber ofbusinesses.
wasranked in the Guardian wasGroup Finance Director of Career experience Career experience Newspapers top 10 most Barratt Developments PLC and Chief Executive of Trinity Mirrorplc Chief Executive of Arriva plc, having influentialpeople in digital media.
hasalso been a Non-Executive and Non-Executive Director and previously been Deputy Chief Career experience Director on the boards of LSL Chairman of the Remuneration Executive and Group Managing Founder of Moo.
Prior to this, Property Services plc, Punch Committee of thePress Director of its International business.
he worked for the design company, Taverns plc andSpirit Pub Association.
Sly also held senior David joined Arriva plc on its Imagination, sorted.
positions with IPC Media Limited, acquisition of British Bus plc and the BBC.
Other roles including Chief Executive, and was became aBoard member.
He was Other roles Chairman and a non-executive also Senior Independent Director previously involved in the acquisition Chief Executive of Moo.
com, a ofLondon Square Developments and Remuneration Committee of National Express and subsequent member of the Governments Tech Limited, Senior Independent Chairman of EMI plc, Non-Executive management buy-outs leading to the City Advisory Group, the Young Director of Johnston Press Plc, Director of Littlewoods Plc, creation of British Bus Group Limited.
Presidents Organisation and the aNon-Executive Director of the President of NewstrAid and Prior to joining the bus industry, International Academy of Digital Arts Yorkshire Building Society Governor of the English National heheld various senior financial and Sciences.
andAvivaInsurance Ltd and Ballet School.
positions, including Financial Director Committee membership aTrustee ofSomerset House.
Other roles of Holyhead Group.
Nomination Committee and Committee membership Non-Executive Director Other roles Remuneration Committee.
Audit Committee Chairman ofGreencore Group plc and the Director of Arriva plc.
Committee membership Committee membership Remuneration Committee Social Responsibility Committee Chairman, Audit Committee, Chairman, Nomination Committee andNomination Committee.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 37
