Governance Directors Statement of Responsibility Going concern provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users The directors confirm that, after reviewing expenditure to understand the impact of particular transactions, other commitments, expected cash flows and borrowing facilities, events and conditions on the entitys financial performance: they have a reasonable expectations that Kingfisher plc the and Company and the Kingfisher group of companies the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for make an assessment of the Groups ability to continue as the next financial year and the foreseeable future.
For this reason a going concern.
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting financial statements.
Further details of the Groups liquidity are records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys provided in the Financial Review on page 18. transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Disclosure of information to auditors the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act report confirms that: so far as he or she is aware, there is no 2006.
They are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the relevant audit information as defined by section 418 of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors are prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he or The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or of the corporate and financial information included on the herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Companys website.
Legislation, regulation and practice in the that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination Responsibility for preparing financial statements of financial statements may differ from legislation, regulation The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and practice in other jurisdictions.
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law Responsibility statement and regulations.
The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: UK Company law requires the directors to prepare financial the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair directors are required to prepare the Group Financial view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or statements in accordance with International Financial loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European consolidation taken as a whole: union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in the strategic report includes a fair review of the development accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted and performance of the business and the position of the Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation and applicable law.
Under s. 393 of the Companies Act taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 2006, the directors must not approve the accounts unless risks and uncertainties they face: and they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the Company for that period.
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the In preparing the parent Company financial statements, Companys performance, business model and strategy.
the directors are required to: By order of the Board select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Clare Wardle make judgements and accounting estimates that are Company Secretary reasonable and prudent: 30 March 2015 follow applicable UK Accounting Standards except where any departures from this requirement are explained in the notes to the parent Company financial statements : and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements in accordance with IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: www.
