The Company may by ordinary resolution, of which 0.39% of the issued share capital of the Company special notice has been given, remove any director asat that date on trust for the benefit of employees before the expiry of the directors period of office.
Both trusts were established for The office of a director will be vacated if: thepurposes of satisfying awards ofshares to individuals under MayGurneys remuneration and long-term incentive arrangements.
During the year, The director becomes bankrupt or the subject thetrustees waived the dividends payable in respect ofan interim receiving order or makes any of these shares.
arrangement or composition with his creditors generally or applies to the court for an interim Voting order in connection with a voluntary arrangement Subject to any terms upon which the relevant shares under the Insolvency Act 1986: may have been issued or to which they are subject The director is certified as having become and to the Articles, every member present in person physically or mentally incapable of acting as or by proxy at a general meeting and entitled to vote adirector and may remain so for more than has, upon ashow of hands, one vote and, upon a threemonths: poll, one vote for every share held.
In the case of The director ceases to be a director by virtue of joint holders of ashare, the vote of the senior holder the Companies Acts or becomes prohibited by law who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, from being a director: will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the The director receives written notice from not less other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority will than three-quarters of the other directors be determined by the order in which the names stand removing the director from office: or inthe register in respect of the joint holding.
In the case of a director who holds executive office, the director ceases to hold such office and Restrictions on voting rights the majority of the other directors resolve that the No member shall, unless the Board otherwise relevant directors office be vacated.
determines, be entitled to vote at any general meeting in respect of any share held by it unless all Amendment of Articles calls or other sums then payable by it in respect of The Articles may be amended by a special resolution that share have been paid or if that member has of the Companys shareholders.
been served with a disenfranchisement notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the Powers of the directors Company with information concerning interests in Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and that share required to be provided under the anydirections given by the Company by special Companies Acts.
resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board, which may exercise all the The Company is not aware of any agreements powers of the Company.
between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Powers in relation to the Company issuing itsshares Appointment and replacement of directors The directors were granted authority at the AGM on The directors shall be not less than three and not 13 November 2014 to allot shares in the Company more than 12 in number.
The Company may by inaccordance with section 551 of the Companies ordinary resolution vary the minimum and or Act 2006 i up to an aggregate nominal amount maximum number of directors.
of184,664 and ii up to an aggregate nominal amount of 369,328 in connection with a rights Directors may be appointed by the Company by issue.
The directors were also granted authority to ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A director allot shares non-pre-emptively and wholly for cash appointed by the Board holds office only until the upto an aggregate nominal amount of 27,700. next AGM of the Company after his her appointment Inaddition, at the AGM held in 2013, an ordinary and is then eligible to stand forelection.
resolution was approved which grants the directors the authority to continue to offer the scrip dividend Pursuant to the Articles, at every AGM of the alternative.
In accordance with the requirements of Company, one-third of the directors who are subject investor protection committees, this authority is tothe requirement to retire by rotation not including renewed every five years.
any director who was appointed by the Board and is standing for election will retire from office and may Powers in relation to the Company buying back offer themselves for re-election by the members.
its shares Thedirectors to retire by rotation will be those who The Company may only buy back shares if the have been longest in office since their last election.
Articles do not prohibit it from doing so and it has However, at the forthcoming AGM of the Company, received the requisite authority from shareholders in notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, all the general meeting.
Although the Articles do not contain directors will offer themselves for re-election in any such prohibition, the Company did not request accordance with the UKCorporate Governance Code.
any such authority at its last AGM and does not propose to do so at the forthcoming AGM.
109 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168 Corporate governance Directors Report continued Change of control Branches The Company has entered into certain agreements Because the Group is a global business, it that may take effect, alter or terminate upon a hasactivities operated through branches in change of control of the Company following a certainjurisdictions.
The significant agreements in this respect are: Auditor The Board has decided that  The Companys 30m term facility agreement LLP will be proposed as the Groups auditor for the dated 11 January 2013 entered into with Lloyds financial year ending 30 June 2016 and a resolution relating to this appointment will be tabled at the TSB Bank plc: forthcoming AGM.
The Companys 380m revolving credit facility dated 22 April 2015 entered into with HSBC Bank Each director who holds office at the date of approval plc, Lloyds Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland of this Directors Report confirms that, so far as each plc, Abbey National Treasury Services plc, such director is aware, there is no relevant audit Barclays Bank PLC and National Westminster information of which the auditor is unaware: and the Bank plc together with the 30m facility directors have taken all the steps that they ought to agreement, the Facility Agreements : have taken as directors to make themselves aware The Companys 45m and US$28m note ofany relevant audit information and to establish purchase agreement dated 20 December 2012 thatthe auditor is aware of that information.
the 2012 Note Purchase Agreement : The Companys 47m and US$116m note purchase AGM agreement dated 20 November 2014 together The Companys 2015 AGM will be held at 12 noon on with the 2012 Note Purchase Agreement, 'the 12 November 2015 at the Andaz Hotel, 40 Liverpool Note Purchase Agreements : and Street, London, EC2M 7QN.
Certain of the Groups employee share schemes.
The Directors Report was approved by the Board on Each of the Facility Agreements includes a provision 16September 2015 and signed on its behalf by: under which, in the event of a change of control ofthe Company, the lenders may cancel all or any part of the relevant facility and or declare that all amounts outstanding under the relevant facility are immediately due and payable by the Company.
Each of the Note Purchase Agreements includes aprovision under which, in the event of a change ofcontrol of the Company, the Company is obliged tooffer to prepay the notes issued pursuant to Hugh Raven theagreement.
Company Secretary Tempsford Hall Outstanding options granted under the SAYE Scheme Sandy and the May Gurney Integrated Services PLC Savings Bedfordshire Related Share Option Scheme 2007 may be exercised SG19 2BD within a period of six months from a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid or will lapse upon the expiry of such a period.
Awards granted under the Groups long-term incentive plan which is described in the Remuneration Report may vest on a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid and the maximum number of shares in the Company to beawarded upon such vesting may become immediately due.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors providing for compensation for loss of office that occurs as a result of a takeover bid.
110 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance Statement of directors responsibilities Introduction They have general responsibility for taking such The directors are responsible for preparing the steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard annual report and the Group and parent company the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect financial statements in accordance with applicable fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors Company law requires the directors to prepare the are also responsible for preparing a directors report, Group and parent company financial statements for a directors remuneration report and a corporate each financial year.
Under that law, they are required governance statement that comply with that law and to prepare the Group financial statements in those regulations.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS The directors are responsible for the maintenance and applicable law and have elected to prepare the and integrity of the corporate and financial parent company financial statements in accordance information included on the Companys website.
with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied Directors responsibility statement that they give a true and fair view of the state of Each of the directors of Kier Group plc, whose names affairs of the Group and parent company and of their and functions are set out on pages 64 to 66 inclusive, profit or loss for that period.
confirms that to the best of his or herknowledge: In preparing each of the Group and parent company The financial statements contained in this annual financial statements, the directors are required to: report and accounts, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give Select suitable accounting policies and then apply atrue and fair view of the assets, liabilities, them consistently: financial position and profit or loss of the Make judgements and estimates that are Company and the undertakings included in the reasonable and prudent: consolidation as a whole: For the Group financial statements, state whether The management report contained in this annual they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, report and accounts includes a fair review ofthe as adopted by the EU: development and performance of the business For the parent company financial statements, and the position of the Company and the state whether applicable UK Accounting undertakings included in the consolidation taken Standards have been followed, subject to any as a whole, together with a description of the material departures disclosed and explained in principal risks and uncertainties that they face: the parent company financial statements: and and Prepare the financial statements on the going This annual report and accounts taken as a whole concern basis unless it is inappropriate to is fair, balanced and understandable and provides presume that the Group and the parent company the information necessary for shareholders to will continue in business.
assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and Signed on behalf of the Board by: explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
Haydn Mursell Bev Dew Chief Executive Finance Director 111 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168 Independent auditors report to the members of Kier Group plc Report on the financial statements What we have audited Kier Group plcs financial statements comprise: Our opinion In our opinion: The Consolidated balance sheet as at 30 June 2015: The Company balance sheet as at 30 June 2015: Kier Group plcs Group financial statements and parent The Consolidated income statement and Consolidated company financial statements the financial statements give statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: atrue and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent The Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: companys affairs as at 30 June 2015 and of the Groups profit The Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year and cash flows for the year then ended: then ended: and The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in The notes to the financial statements, which include a summary accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: The parent company financial statements have been properly The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and Accepted Accounting Practice: and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as company financial statements is applicable law and United regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally IASRegulation.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 4.3m which represents 5% of consolidated profit before tax excluding non-underlyingitems.
Materiality We conducted audit work across all four of the Groups divisions, and paid particular attention to the accounting for the acquisition on 8 June 2015 of Mouchel.
The divisions where we performed our audit work accounted for Audit scope 95% of Group revenues.
Valuation of land and properties.
Areas of Accounting for long-term contracts including profit recognition, work in progress and provisioning.
focus Accounting for adjustments to underlying profit.
Assessment of carrying value of goodwill.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented ariskof material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
112 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
