s e c i v r e S n o i t c u r t s O n u r o s i C x s o t d r a e t w e Our business model Vision 2020 is our strategic plan to grow the scale, coverage and profitability of the Group.
Our business model provides the foundation and rationale underlying this growth strategy.
How we work Enthusiastic Renew Renew Forward-thinking Collaborative Ensure we have Operate a investment in safe and technology and sustainable back-of ce 1 business systems 6 Attract and Accelerate growth retain highly to be a top three motivated, player in our high-performing chosen markets teams Provide Achieve 5 2 sector-leading top quartile customer performance experience and ef ciency 4 3 Our strategic priorities delivering sector-leading customer experience.
We will build continually on our business model Italso requires highly motivated teams aligned to toenable us to achieve our growth plans and our strategy and our values, and robust technology implement our Vision 2020 strategy.
and back-office systems to underpin our efforts.
This requires us to invest in and develop further Our strategic priorities are focused on building the core capabilities of the Group.
In particular, we such capabilities.
will seek to maintain strong client relationships by 14 g t i a c h p W r i o r i l t a i e i s t n e d i s e R y t r e p o r P Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our integrated offer The Group has a broad range of capabilities across its four This approach means that we can maximise our returns using divisions.
This breadth means we can help clients tofund, thecash generated by low capital intensive cash-generating plan, design, build and maintain their assets tooptimise their businesses to invest in high capital-intensive activities whole-life cost.
The Groups structure works because our elsewhere in the Group.
 enablesus to develop opportunities for our different business streams through our strong and In this manner we create value for our customers and for strategic client relationships.
Our divisions deliver Property Residential Construction Services for our clients... each able to create opportunities for otherdivisions... and offer integratedsolutions for our clients Invest Build Maintain Renew Cash generated by contracting activities is invested to generate additional returns...... which collectively we translate to improved shareholder returns Shareholder returns 15 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168
