Board of directors Daniel Bernard Vronique Laury Karen Witts Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Current directorships: Joined the Board as Current directorships: Appointed to the Board Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in Deputy Chairman in May 2006 before being in December 2014.
She is a non-executive director appointed Chairman on 3 June 2009.
He is of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
Expertise and experience: Vronique is a highly President of Provestis, his own investment experienced international retailer who has Expertise and experience: Karen provides company, and since January 2010 has been worked in the home improvement sector for additional recent relevant finance expertise to Chairman of MAF Retail Group, Dubai.
He 26 years in France and in the UK.
She was previously Chief Financial has also been Senior Advisor of TowerBrook Kingfisher in 2003 and in her 11 years with Officer, Africa, Middle East, Asia and Asia Capital Partners since October 2010.
He is the business she has held several key roles Pacific for Vodafone plc.
From 1999 to 2010 a non-executive director of Capgemini.
He is including Chief Executive of Castorama France, she worked at BT plc, most recently as Chief also Honorary Chairman of the HEC Business Group commercial director, and commercial Financial Officer, BT Retail and Managing School Foundation in Paris and a member director of B&Q UK & Ireland.
Previously she Director Enterprises and before that as Managing of the Advisory Board of HEC.
spent 15 years at Leroy Merlin in various Director Operations, Openreach.
She is a Expertise and experience: Daniel provides commercial roles.
She was named Group chartered accountant and has experience in considerable retailing experience and expertise Chief Executive on 8 December 2014. finance and management roles at companies to the Kingfisher Board.
He was Chairman and such as Paribas, Diageo, Mars Electronics, The Chief Executive of Carrefour, the Paris-based Observer Newspaper and Ernst & Whinney.
retail group and world's second largest retailer, from 1992 to 2005.
Prior to Carrefour, he was Chief Operating Officer of METRO, Germany's leading international retailer.
He was previously a non-executive director of Compagnie fide St Gobain until June 2006.
Andrew Bonfield Pascal Cagni Clare Chapman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Current directorships: Appointed to the Board Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in February 2010.
He is Finance Director of November 2010.
He is an independent director in December 2010.
She is currently Group National Grid plc.
He is also a committee of the supervisory board of Vivendi.
member of the Hundred Group of Finance Expertise and experience: Pascal provides the Expertise and experience: Clare brings Directors.
Board with expertise in the field of digital and significant human resources expertise to the Expertise and experience: Andrew brings multi-channel retailing.
He was formerly the Kingfisher Board.
She was previously the significant current finance experience to the General Manager, Vice President of Apple Director General of Workforce, for the NHS Kingfisher Board.
He was previously Chief Europe, Middle-East, India and Africa.
and Social Care and was also a non-executive Financial Officer of Cadbury plc and prior to that His previous experience includes roles at director of TUI Travel plc and Chairman of he was Chief Financial Officer of Bristol-Myers Packard Bell, NEC and Booz Allen Hamilton.
Her previous Squibb from 2002 to 2007, Finance Director He held the position of non-executive director experience also includes Group HR Director of BG Group plc from 2001 to 2002 and Chief on the board of Egg Banking plc, the online of Tesco plc from 1999 to 2006 and HR Vice Financial Officer of SmithKline Beecham Plc banking arm of Prudential plc.
He actively President of Pepsi Cola's West and Central from 1999 to 2000 during an 11 year period conducts strategy consulting and venture European operations from 1994 to 1999. with the pharmaceuticals group.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 30 Governance Kevin OByrne Anders Dahlvig From left to right: CEO B&Q UK & Ireland Non-Executive Director Mark Seligman Janis Kong Current directorships: Appointed to the Board Current directorships: Appointed to the Board Andrew Bonfield as Group Finance Director in October 2008, in December 2009.
He is a director of Oriflame Daniel Bernard and became CEO, B&Q and Kota brands Cosmetics AB, H&M Hennes & Mauritz AB and in 2012 with responsibJMJUZ for the Group's Axel Johnson AB, and is Chairman of The New Vronique Laury businesses in China, Turkey, the UK and Wave Group and a member of the Advisory Karen Witts investment in Germany.
He assumed direct Board of Lund University Business School.
Kevin OByrne leadership of B&Q UK & Ireland in 2013, and is He is also a director of Resurs Bank AB, Pret Anders Dahlvig Deputy Chairman of Kingfisher's joint venture in a Manger Limited and a Non-Executive Director Clare Chapman Turkey, Kota.
He is the Senior Independent of Inter IKEA Systems B. V. Pascal Cagni Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Expertise and experience: Anders brings of Land Securities Group plc.
extensive commercial retailing expertise to the Expertise and experience: Kevin was previously Board.
He was previously Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, a role he held from President of The IKEA Group from 1999 to 2008 to 2012.
He previously worked for 2009, having spent 26 years with the company.
Dixons Retail plc from 2002 to 2008 where Prior to becoming Chief Executive, he was Vice he was Group Finance Director.
Before this President of IKEA Europe from 1997 to 1999 he was European Finance Director at Quaker and Managing Director of IKEA UK from 1993 Oats Limited.
Janis Kong Mark Seligman Audit Committee Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Current directorships: Appointed to the Board Current directorships: Appointed to the Board See pages 33-66 in December 2006.
She is Chairman of Bristol in January 2012.
He is a non-executive director to nd out more Airport and a non-executive director of of BG Group plc, where he is also Chairman Portmeirion Group PLC, NetworkRail and of the Audit Committee.
She is also a non-executive alternate member of the Panel on Takeovers director of Copenhagen Airports A S. and Mergers, is a member of the Regional Growth Fund advisory panel and non-executive Expertise and experience: Janis provides Deputy Chairman of G4S.
important experience to the Kingfisher Board.
She was previously a non-executive director Expertise and experience: Mark provides of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and, substantial expertise to the Kingfisher Board until her retirement in March 2006, was a in the field of finance.
He was a senior adviser director of BAA plc and Chairman of Heathrow at Credit Suisse.
He began his career at Price Airport Ltd for five years as well as being Waterhouse and spent over 30 years in the City, Chairman of Heathrow Express.
Prior to that including senior roles at SG Warburg, BZW and she was Managing Director of Gatwick Airport Credit Suisse First Boston.
At Credit Suisse he and has held a number of operational roles was Deputy Chairman Europe from 1999 to within BAA during her 33-year career with 2005 and later Chairman UK Investment the company.
