Strategic report The betting year 2015 MARCH JUNE THE SIX THE DERBY NATIONS The Six Nations was one of the most exciting in recent history.
England, Ireland and Wales went into the final weekend all equal on six points and it was inevitable the title Frankie Dettori riding the favourite to victory in The Derby would come down to points difference.
What ensued was was never likely to be a good result.
Golden Horns win thehighest scoring weekend of the Six Nations on record, atEpsom was just the first of a string of costly big race with all three teams in contention covering the handicap triumphs as he went on to take the Eclipse, Champion andcosting bookmakers dearly.
Irelands tournament win Stakesand Arc carrying customers with him all the way.
Key events of 2015 JANUARY FEBRUARY APRIL MAY PDC Darts World Super Bowl Grand National Mayweather v Pacquiao Championship The New England Patriots Many Clouds 33 1 victory The Fight of the Century went Gary Anderson may have been dramatic win over the Seattle madeit three great results exactly as our oddsmakers the 5 1 third favourite coming Seahawks turned out to be one inarow inthe biggest race predicted with a points win for into the PDC Darts World of the best sporting results of ofthe year.
We had been Mayweather over Pacquiao and Championship, but some the entire year for Ladbrokes.
sweating ona huge payout a1 million pound plus profit for shrewd customers had taken In-running betting was huge, hadTony McCoys last ever Ladbrokes in the biggest betting 25 1 and bigger in the months asthe result was still in doubt rideon Shutthefrontdoor, been heat in boxing history.
leading up to the tournament down to the last few seconds successful.
In the end, despite Unfortunately, all of that and more sowhile it was not the worst ofthe match.
leading for a long time and went back to political punters result in the book for us, it causing us some concern, fivedays later as a shock Tory wasnt the best either.
majority in the general election costus dearly.
One Glasgow shop customer collected almost a quarter of a million on a 30,000 bet at 7 1.
com SEPTEMBER NOVEMBER THE PREMIER ST LEGER LEAGUE The Ladbrokes St Leger proved to be one of the biggest horse racing stories of the year.
Simple Verse passed thewinning post in first place only to be disqualified by theStewards on the day, seemingly handing the worlds oldest Classic to Bondi Beach.
The story didnt end there:anappeal was lodged and weeks laterthe British Ante-post betting slips around the country were being Horseracing Authority sensationally reversed thedecision tornup as pre-season favourites Chelsea drifted from 5 4 and handed the victory back to Simple Verse.
Ladbrokes to100 1to win the Premier League following a dismal run paid outbackers of both horses, costing us an extra1m, ofform for The Blues.
Conversely, Leicester Citys incredible butthe month-long publicity surrounding the race start saw bookies sweating on some potential huge payouts softenedthe blow.
to fans who had backed them at odds as big as 5,000 1.
JULY AUGUST OCTOBER DECEMBER Wimbledon Challenge Cup Rugby World Cup Fury v Klitschko Ante-post favourites Djokovic Rugby League may not, to some, Despite favourites New Despite Tyson Fury being a andSerena Williams both be considered a mainstream Zealandwinning the Rugby 4 1outsider to beat Klitschko, delivered at Wimbledon and sport, but to its passionate World Cup and Englands patriotic punters in the shops astring of pre-tournament supporters it is number one for earlyexit, recordbreaking made this a small losing result doubles hit bookmakers both the dedication and sporting in-play betting resulted in a forthe books.
excellence of the stars that play.
Afew surprise results helped, Zach Johnsons win in the Open In 2015 we took up the notably Japans incredible play-off saw a 1 million swing in sponsorship of the Challenge Cup, 66 1winover South Africa.
our favour over Racing Post tip, the most prestigious tournament Louis Oosthuizen.
Ithas been a thegolfing year was dominated great success.
Notonly has it by punters favourites Spieth, engaged our northern customers, Dayand McIlroy.
but we gained national television exposure culminating in The Challenge Cup Final, a well watched event with Ladbrokes branding everywhere.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 09
