Our business model What we do Maximising sales Formats Channels Kingsher is a home improvement We believe home improvement is an We want to make home improvement as easy as possible for our customers and company specialising in the sale of attractive retail sector as spending this includes giving them as wide a home improvement products and on the home is a key priority for choice as possible of ways to shop with services.
As well as having local stores with The vast majority of our sales take As a specialist in this area we aim extended opening hours, we increasingly place through our 1,202 stores in 11 to provide a wide product choice offer home delivery and click & collect countries across Europe and in China and expert advice while using our via the internet.
This type of retailing is and increasingly through our international strength and capability to called omnichannel and our most omnichannel presence.
bring new, more sustainable and more advanced business in this area is affordable products to market.
How we do it on the following areas to maximise sales: In the broadest sense, our business Low costs creates value for society in a number Customers The biggest cost in our business is of ways.
We help people to have better We aim to have mass appeal with a buying the products that we sell to our homes for themselves and their families, compelling choice of products and customers.
Our suppliers benefit from and we have a long heritage of helping services so that we can capture a large the huge scale that we can offer them them do this in a more sustainable way.
share of the home improvement market.
as one of the largest buyers of home We operate in the heart of local Our customers are non-professional improvement products in the world.
communities, supporting local projects, non-pro customers who do home The certainty of large scale orders means positively impacting the environment and, improvement jobs for themselves, and they can operate their businesses more importantly, providing local employment.
professional pro customers who do efficiently and these benets are shared Over 79,000 people work in our them for others.
The non-pro customers between the manufacturer and Kingsher businesses and many more work for our are people who do jobs themselves, helping to minimise our costs.
In addition, we contributed people who need help and those who major cost is selling and distribution, 1.7 billion in 2014 15 to the economies want to learn.
The pro category are principally the cost of running our stores, in which we operate through taxes paid light trade and people who help others, the cost of getting products to our stores and collected.
We aim to do more than such as the expert in a family or a group and the cost of our people.
We are minimise our impact: instead, we aspire of friends.
constantly working on a rolling to have a positive one.
We call this programme of cost efficiencies and People sustainable ambition Net Positive and productivity initiatives to minimise Retail is a people business and it we believe this gives us a licence to these costs sustainably.
is particularly true in our sector as operate for the long term.
customers often need help and advice Cash generated Financial value when shopping for home improvement The net result of maximising our sales This section concentrates on the financial products and services.
We aim to recruit whilst minimising our costs is the value that we create that is, the cash we and retain diverse and talented teams optimisation of the cash we generate generate.
Cash is the life-blood of any to serve our customers and we prioritise each year.
Over the last seven years we business as it can be reinvested to keep investment in their training and have generated 6.1 billion of operating a business healthy and growing, and is development as we move towards cash ow from our business model.
We also used to reward the owners who bear creating ONE Kingsher.
have strengthened our balance sheet all the investment risk.
For Kingsher, by eliminating our financial net debt Offer maximising our cash generation in a and we have reinvested 2.3 billion in We use our scale and international reach responsible way means maximising sales modernising and expanding our store to nd the worlds best products and and minimising costs whilst observing network and upgrading our IT and supply make them available to customers in their key behaviours responsibility, honesty, chain infrastructure to underpin our local market.
The rate of innovation in passion, openness and adaptability.
In addition, we have home improvement tends to be slower Thebetter we are at this, the more cash returned 1.4 billion to our shareholders than in other retail sectors, such as we generate and the more value we as dividends and share buybacks.
Over electricals or clothing, and so we aim to create for our people, our shareholders the same period our market value has increasingly deploy our international scale and society at large.
grown from 3.4 billion to 8.2 billion.
and experience to work with suppliers Our strategy for delivering this is to stimulate more innovation and create described on the following pages.
leading, unique and effective products.
Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 10 Strategic Report s G e e n t a e r r e a n t e e s G Customers People Non-professionals: Recruitment, Who do home improvement retention, jobs themselves training, development, Professionals: diversity Who do jobs for others Offer Formats Channels Innovation, Stores, affordability, quality, online, mobile, own unique brands, call centres, sourcing, sustainability catalogues, direct Maximising sales Value for the business: Brand preference Cash retained for a strong balance sheet Licence to operate long term Better Homes, Better Lives Minimising costs Sourcing, cost productivity Value Value for society: Creating employment and a brighter Value for customers: Value for shareholders: future for our people, the environment Relevant, better, sustainable and Healthy annual dividend and and wider communities affordable products and services commitment to return surplus capital when appropriate Creating a licence to operate Creating brand preference long term To view and download the business model go to http: annualreport.
