HOW ARE WE IMPR VING PATIENT SAFETY?
CONNECTED MEDICAL Our connected medical value proposition has gained support from a range of healthcare customers and we have played a key role in the development of wireless infusion pumps.
Building on this track record, we worked with a leading healthcare supplier to incorporate our wireless platform in new areas including patient monitors and high-tech hospital beds.
With our technology acting as a conduit, these devices send data on critically important functions direct to the hospital communications infrastructure securely and with total reliability, even when patients roam around the hospital.
Heartbeat, blood pressure and other critical functions from patient monitors... temperature, weight, moisture levels and other patient data from beds... all this information and more is instantly available to staff, without wires.
For hospitals, access to accurate and real-time data can lead to an improvement in decision making and lower costs, because our proven technology removes the need to overlay several different wireless networks to ensure 100% connectivity.
For patients, the outcome is greater safety, improved treatment and the knowledge that our secure network is protecting their data at all times.
IM MONITORING PATIENTS 24 7 Greg Janke Connectivity Solutions LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 13 OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED EMPLOYEE BUILDING STRONG LEADERSHIP As detailed in the Nomination Committee RETENTION RATE CONTINUED section of the Corporate governance report, it is the Companys aim to have Our Essentials of Leadership programme the appropriate level of diversity to reflect focuses on self-awareness, leading diversity, 89% the diverse nature of the Companys coaching others and driving a collaborative operations.
This includes gender diversity: culture.
Starting with the leadership team, the following outlines the gender profile of including the Chief Executive, this course WORLDWIDE AVERAGE the organisation.
There are three female has now been cascaded down through our HEADCOUNT Directors on the Board of Directors as management team.
RETAINING TALENT 8,593 EXECUTIVE TEAM The continued automation in our factories is lessening our reliance on the number of manufacturing resources required.
12% 88% We continue to retain our knowledge Female Male workers with an 11.25% attrition rate globally.
Our commitment to our engineering and technology teams through LEADERSHIP TEAM career advancement and investment in R&Dallows us to provide an innovative workenvironment for our employees.
17% 83% Female Male CREATING A DIVERSE WORKPLACE Creating an equal, fair and diverse workplace has always been a priority MANAGEMENT TEAM for Laird.
We believe that a balanced workforce will ultimately help us achieve ourstrategic goals.
20% 80% For us diversity comprises differences Female Male in ethnicity, language, gender, age, religion, sexual orientation, physical ability, experience and education.
We operate ALL COMPANY an Equal Opportunities and Human Rights policy and consider this to be our 48% 52% commitment to our employees feeling Female Male respected, valued and able to fulfil their potential.
It is our policy to recruit the most capable person available for each position and applicants are selected solely on the basis of their qualifications and suitability for the role.
