20 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PERFORMANCE MARKETPLACE In a fast-changing retail world, it is crucial that we listen to our customers and understand their needs.
Our Customer Insight Unit CIU analyses responses from 60,000 customers a month.
It combines this feedback with market research to monitor the consumer climate and understand how it is in uencing shopping behaviour.
OVERVIEW it came to our in-store environment, TECHNOLOGY customers told us that our stores are now The UK economy continues to improve.
Technology continues to shape how more exciting and enjoyable places to shop.
Unemployment is falling and house customers shop.
The proliferation of prices are rising.
Last summer, consumer diff erent channels stores, online, tablet, But we also bene ted from the continuing con dence moved into positive territory for mobile is turning shopping into a seamless undercurrent of caution among shoppers.
the first time since March 2005.
Mobile is increasingly the first With consumers focus on clever spending, the more optimistic outlook, there has been port of call for consumers research and the they want to buy once and buy well, and a gradual opening up of purses and wallets.
number of shoppers using smartphones to turn to brands they can trust and whose Rather than increasing their everyday search for clothing increased by more than quality can be relied on, like M&S.
spending, people are looking to spend half over the last year.
com Consumers emphasis on celebrating life on the big purchases they put off in the via mobile were also up 51%.
We have and indulging their loved ones played to downturn.
This spending, however, is adopted a mobilefirst approach to digital our Food divisions strengths.
Our mission accompanied by a healthy dose of caution.
development, ensuring the primary devices in Food is to excite customers with the Consumers still feel bruised by the credit our customers use are at the heart of the newness, quality and diff erence of our crisis: they are looking to save, and spending design.
The pace of change in technology products, and we continued to distinguish remains careful and considered.
continued with the launch of some of ourselves with unrivalled innovation.
Britain the first wearable tech devices.
Our Digital Feelings of stability among UK consumers is fast becoming a nation of foodies and, Labs team made up of product design have also been dented by a year of upheaval in an intensely price focused market, we specialists and data scientists ensure abroad.
From the Middle East to Russia and focused on off ering high-quality, good we stay at the forefront of technological Ukraine, the last 12 months have been value food to our customers.
The team uses the agile tumultuous.
This has tempered peoples we outperformed the market once again.
techniques of the start-up world to help us positivity.
Domestically, the Scottish There is a sense of discovery in buying food test and validate new ideas and concepts independence referendum and the recent at M&S, and our customers trust us when it and apply the learnings as quickly and general election had similar eff ects.
People comes to scouring the world for the best effi ciently as possible.
For example, the like certainty, and there is always uncertainty there is.
We excelled during events such team was able to develop our popular around the outcome of such events.
as Christmas and Valentines Day.
And we Cook with M&S app for the Apple Watch extended our events beyond dates in ahead of its UK launch.
UK the calendar: our summer-long food campaign saw us promote our barbecue, We saw more con dence among our grill and world food ranges throughout customers this year.
They told us that they are feeling secure, stable and cautiously the season.
INTERNATIONAL Although clothing sales were down year-onConvenience continues to drive growth in year, customers were investing more in our the European food market, with demand in better and best products.
People told us France particularly strong.
This presents they were excited to shop with us.
They good growth opportunities for our particularly loved the colours and vibrancy international Food off er and we opened six of our Spring Summer 2015 collections.
This standalone Food stores in Paris this year renewed con dence was re ected in fewer in convenient city centre and transport promotions than last year.
Following the popularity of our convenience store shopping within the food online stores on Chinas leading websites market means there is intense competition and in response to the expanding Chinese for a limited number of sites.
In order to childrens clothing market, we launched a help us address this challenge we have put dedicated Kidswear store on Tmall.
com, in place a Simply Food surveying team to which resulted in exceptional year-on-year identify and secure the best located sites growth.
We continue to target the growth of and we also bene t from our longstanding the middle class and the expanding lingerie franchise partnerships with the likes of BP market in India with our Lingerie & Beauty and SSP.
Customers in our smaller stores stores.
Our overseas shoppers see M&S as a told us they wanted greater choice when respected brand and they like the fact that they shopped.
We responded by increasing we are rmly grounded in our Britishness.
the ranges available in those stores.
When 21 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 CONSUMER CONFIDENCE INDEX Last summer, consumer con dence moved 5 into positive territory for the first time in almost a decade as people felt more secure about the macroeconomic environment.
Although it has 0 uctuated since, con dence has remained consistently higher than in previous years.
There -5 remain regional diff erences throughout the UK.
But wherever they are, consumers are looking for both value and quality.
-10 -15 Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar 2013 2013 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 2015 INSPIRATION Customer Insight Our customers Products & Channels Our ranges were Brand & People Our new M&S logo tell us they want an inspiring shopping positively received by the fashion press this year.
emphasises the heritage and quality for which experience every time they enter Customers feedback about the quality and we are known.
It is just one of the ways that we an M&S store or visit our website.
style of our clothing ranges has improved, and have inspired customers this year.
At Christmas, They also want to see ranges that they have noticed the better t of our clothing.
we carried out random acts of kindness all are creative and exciting.
We seek With our Food ranges we want to delight our across the UK.
The strategy forged a warm to inspire our customers with every customers and we independently test all our connection between our people and our product they buy from us, be it a products for taste and quality, ensuring our customers at a special time of year.
products are always a cut above the rest.
Read more on p26-27 INNOVATION Customer Insight We know our customers Products & Channels Over a quarter of our Brand & People Store presentation is crucial: look to M&S for innovative ideas.
In a Food products were new this year.
And our we have great products and we want to crowded retail market, they want to know clothing ranges were constantly refreshed showcase them at their best.
So this year that when they shop with us they will with wearable interpretations of the latest around 5,000 colleagues trained in get high-quality products trends.
As the UK market leader in lingerie, The M&S Way, supported by an innovative that are only available at our bra t service is popular with our online learning tool to promote consistent M&S and are better than customers, however one in four will not go visual merchandising standards across ever before.
into store for a bra t. So our team of our GM ranges.
Our marketing campaigns software engineers developed a digital constantly break new ground.
Our digital Bra Fit tool gives Adventures In Food ads used new customers an accurate and convenient way photography techniques to showcase our of measuring themselves in the privacy of food innovation with dancing fruit and their own home.
A INTEGRITY Customer Insight Our customers tell us that Products & Channels Traceability is key.
Due Brand & People Since we started our they trust us to do the right thing.
At M&S, we to our close relationship with our suppliers, we Shwopping initiative in 2012, customers have pride ourselves on the high levels of integrity can pinpoint the very herd that produces any shwopped 10.6 million clothing garments for in our products and in our particular batch of our milk.
This year, a third of Oxfam, worth 7.3 million to the charity.
In a competitive our food products came from Gold and Silver Behind the Barcode initiative ensured that and challenging food sustainability standard producers, in line with colleagues in our International stores were up market, customers know our Plan A target.
Today, 64% of our food and to speed when it came to brand awareness that we will not cut corners clothing products have a Plan A quality, up and the service standards that make M&S a when it comes to the from 57% last year.
The quality either relates to world-class retailer.
quality and provenance the materials that the products are made from of the food that we sell.
or to the manufacturing process.
IN TOUCH Customer Insight To stay relevant, our Products & Channels It is crucial that we are Brand & People We pride ourselves on the customers tell us we need to stay in touch in touch with our customers through every connections we have with the communities with them, so we constantly talk to them and channel available.
com uses bespoke in which we work staying in touch with the monitor their spending habits.
As well as content to communicate with our customers communities where we operate is central analysing responses from 60,000 customers 24 hours a day and is regularly updated to take to Plan A.
Whether its through the volunteer a month, our CIU looks at 600 million unique into account customer feedback.
Social media is work of our store colleagues, through our customer transactions a year.
We use the an increasingly important way of communicating partnerships with local charities, or via data to help us give our customers a great and wehave a social media audience of community-based initiatives like the Big Beach experience every time they over 2.6million via platforms and websites Clean-Up, we aim to be a force for good in shop with us.
such as Twitter, Instagram and Facebook.
the towns and cities where we have stores Read more on p28.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
