Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee Chairman Annual Statement DEAR SHAREHOLDER Our KPIs and how they link to our strategy and to remuneration On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the are set out on pages 16 to 17.
The Committee believes that Remuneration Report for the period ended 3 October 2015, the alignment of Remuneration Policy with our five strategic which details the amounts earned in respect of that period and pillars continues to incentivise and drive results that generate sets out the Remuneration Policy for the Directors of Marstons.
sustainable value creation for our shareholders.
The annual The Committee met five times during the period and details of bonus scheme targets profit growth and returns on our the Committee membership is shown overleaf.
investment in the business, through CROCCE and Group profit measures.
The LTIP incentivises over the longer term through PERFORMANCE sustainable growth in: earnings per share EPS and return Our Executive Directors have delivered a strong set of results on investment, both drivers of shareholder value measured aligned with our strategy.
Underlying profit before tax is up by relative Total Shareholder Return TSR : and free cash 10.2% to 91.5 million and underlying earnings per share have ow, which enables continued investment in the business and also increased this year.
Our Executive Directors and our people debt servicing.
have made excellent progress in transforming our pub portfolio into an optimal estate and our new-build investment continues to deliver strong returns with the average profit per pub up to 100,000 and return on capital up to 10.8%.
2014 15 key decisions and incentive payouts Average base salary increases awarded to the Executive Directors in 2015 were circa 2%, in line with average salary increases across the Group.
Peter Dalzell was awarded an additional 3.5% increase in base salary to reect his span of responsibilities for the entire pub estate, to align his salary with the other Executive Directors and the market, and recognise his contribution to the long-term success of the Company.
Marstons underlying profit before tax increased by 10.2% for the year and return on capital exceeded target.
The Executive Directors will receive 40% of their maximum annual bonus entitlements.
On a straight-line vesting basis a bonus level of 45% would have been payable but, taking into account the affordability of bonus payments across the Group, and to reafrm their commitment to a responsible approach to executive pay, the Committee exercised restraint and awarded bonuses of 40% of salary.
The 2012 LTIP award vested at 41.9%, as a result of EPS growth from 2012 to 2014.
Further details are set out on page 43.
The Committee has discretion to withhold or reduce awards but not to increase them and, when reviewing the outturn of an award, has regard to the financial performance of the business for the financial period in which the award vests.
For the 2012 award the Committee has taken into account a further 12 months of performance to provide additional assurance that the vesting of the award is appropriate.
39 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors Remuneration Report c ontinued The 2014 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT applies to the Company for the period ended 3 October 2015.
I am pleased to report on the consistently strong level of We committed last year to review the requirements relating to support and engagement from shareholders.
This is evidenced clawback provisions for variable pay.
Being mindful of emerging by the voting outcomes at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
practice in this area we have amended the rules of the 2014 We were delighted that the resolution seeking approval of LTIP and the deferred bonus plan so that clawback provisions the Annual Report on Remuneration was supported by over apply to the LTIP and annual bonus awards for 2014 15 and 99% of the votes cast.
We would welcome your feedback on subsequent years.
Details of these provisions are provided on this years report.
If you wish to contact me please email: page 44. remunerationchair@marstons.
We will continue to engage with our major shareholders as the Remuneration Policy is reviewed and developed over the next year and beyond.
Neil Goulden Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Membership Responsibilities focus for 2015 16 Neil Goulden Setting the framework and policy for Executive Chairman Directors remuneration.
Continue to review variable pay and associated performance metrics.
Ensure they remain challenging and aligned with the Rosalind Cuschieri Determining the remuneration packages for the until27January2015 Executive Directors and Chairman.
Companys strategy and interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders.
Catherine Glickman Monitoring the level and structure of from 1December2014 remuneration for senior management and Review of current Remuneration Policy for next shareholder approving bonuspayments.
Robin Rowland binding vote at the 2017 AGM.
This policy will not take effect Noting any major changes in employee benefit until the start of the 2017 18 financial year.
structures throughout the Group and ensuring that Executive Director remuneration practice is The Committee remains committed to a responsible consistent with any such changes.
Executive pay decisions including salary, bonus and long-term incentives are considered in the Attendees Terms of reference context of wider all-employee salary and benets reviews as Ralph Findlay Full terms of reference of the Committee can be well as the Groups performance.
The Group People found in the Investors section of the Companys Director and external website www.
co. uk advisers may be invited to attend meetings.
Notes This Report has been prepared on behalf of the Board and has been approved by the Board.
The Report complies with the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the 2014 Code and the Financial Conduct Authority Listing Rules.
To reect the requirements of the current remuneration reporting regulations this Report is presented in two sections: the Annual Report on Remuneration provides details on the amounts earned in respect of the period and how the policy will be operated for the period ended 1 October 2016: and the Directors Remuneration Policy sets out the current Remuneration Policy as approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
