Strategic Report Strategy Focused on growth Shareholder value Sustainable profitability Relationship building To deliver sustainable shareholder value by To maintain a strong market position and To develop relationships with key improving the long-term operating grow the business profitability in all the stakeholders, customers and installers.
What we have achieved What we have achieved What we have achieved Substantial increase in share price 48% growth in operating profit Strengthened customer during the year.
Increase in operatingprofit 98% customer service KPI.
14% growth insales of new Market share gains.
Opening of Design Space office in products in the core business.
Our future targets Our future targets Our future targets To make strategic investments for To deliver strategic growth initiatives.
To promote integrated organic growth and acquisitions.
To improve product mix To have a progressive andpromotion of new To focus on installer training, dividendpolicy.
To deliver sustainable EPS and To improve operational To be an employer of choice.
Left Loci Street Furniture 18 20 Key Performance Indicators page 18 Risks page 20 Middle Brentford Marketplace, Essex Right Trustone Paviors, Fellstyle M Marshalls plc arshalls plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Organic expansion Brand development Effective capital structure and controlframework To invest in selective synergistic acquisitions To strengthen and extend the Marshalls and organic expansion in existing and related brand by focusing on innovation, service and To maintain efficient and effective business markets and product categories to expand new product development.
controls and to ensure that the capital the business.
structure remains aligned with the Groups corporate growth objectives.
What we have achieved What we have achieved What we have achieved Revenue growth of 8% to Superbrand status.
Net debt reduced to 11.5 million.
Full integration of Marshalls brand.
Efficient portfolio of bank facilities Significant growth in key focus with extended maturities and Improved integration in areas and smaller UK businesses.
Increased capacity whilst Continued focus on working Established the new Marshalls maintaining operational flexibility.
Opened sales office in Dubai.
Our future targets Our future targets Our future targets To target growth areas such To maintain the Groups To maintain a flexible capital asWaterManagement, Street market-leading position.
structure that recognises cyclical Furniture, Rail and New BuildHousing.
risk, focusing onsecurity, efficiency To focus on innovation, customer and liquidity.
To target a net debt to EBITDA ratio To maintain a national network of To increase technical R&D.
ofbetween 1 and 2 times over the manufacturing and distribution sites.
To maintain the highest health business cycle.
To extend global reach into specific andsafetystandards.
To operate tight control over targeted areas such as the Middle business, operational and East and North America.
Left Street Furniture Customer Showroom 24 46 Sustainability page 24 Remuneration page 46 Middle Cordara, Iberian Oak Right York Minster M Marshalls plc arshalls plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
