Corporate Governance Board of Directors and Secretary Andrew Allner Martyn Coffey Jack Clarke Alan Coppin Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director R N A R N Term of office Term of office Term of office Term of office Joined the Board in July 2003: Joined the Company and appointed Joined the Company and appointed Appointed in May 2010.
Last re-elected appointed as Chairman in May 2010. tothe Board in September 2013. tothe Board on 1 October 2014. in May 2015.
Also chairs Lastre-elected in May 2015.
Formally elected in May 2015. the Nomination Committee.
Length of service Length of service Length of service Length of service 12 years 6 months 4 years 6 months 2 years 3 months 1 year 3 months 5 years 7 months asChairman Independent Independent Independent Independent Yes on appointment as Chairman No No Yes Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Significant current listed company Wide Executive leadership experience: Chartered Accountant.
Joined Marshalls Significant cross-sector governance Board experience, as Chairman and as previously Divisional Chief Executive from AMEC Foster Wheeler plc, where he andmanagement experience, including aNon-Executive Director: previously Officer of BDR Thermea Group BV, a was Executive Vice President and Director previous Non-Executive directorships at Non-Executive Director of AZ Electronic leading manufacturer and distributor of Change Management.
He has extensive Berkeley Homes plc, Capital and Regional Materials SA until 2014 and CSR plc ofdomestic and industrial heating experience in managing international plc and Carillion plc.
Previous Executive roles andhot water systems operating operations, having previously served as of the Princes Foundation for the Built include Group Finance Director of in70countries and with a turnover CFO of AMECs 850 million power and Environment.
Alan is a Companion of RHMplc, taking a lead role in its of1.8billion, formed in 2009 from process division and its US$1.5 billion theChartered Management Institute.
flotation inJuly 2005 on the London themerger of Baxi and fide Dietrich environment and infrastructure division.
Stock Exchange, and CEO of Enodis plc.
Prior to the merger, he He has extensive M&A experience.
Also held senior Executive positions wasChief Executive of the private Previous experience includes senior with Dalgety plc, Amersham equity-owned Baxi Group.
Also held finance and operational management International plc and Guinness plc.
the position of Managing Director of roles with Halliburton and Mobil Oil.
Pirelli Cables where he spent 14 years Holdsan MSc Civil Engineering and Chartered Accountant, former partner inthe UK, Australia and North America.
Graduate of the Holds a BSc in Mathematics.
External appointments External appointments External appointments External appointments Chairman of The Go-Ahead Group plc Officer of the Construction None.
Crown Representative in the Cabinet and Fox Marble Holdings plc, and ProductsAssociation.
Office Efficiency and Reform Group, Senior Independent Director and Trustee and Chairman of the Campaign Director of the Mineral Chairman of the Audit Committee Board for the RAF Museums, Patron of ProductsAssociation.
the Windsor Leadership Trust, Chairman of Sports Ground Safety Authority and Non-Executive Director of Eurocell plc.
Independent Panel Member of Public Appointments for the Department ofMedia, Culture and Sport.
Marshalls plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Mark Edwards Tim Pile Janet Ashdown Cathy Baxandall Non-Executive Director   Group Company Secretary A R N A R N A R N Term of office Term of office Term of office Term of office Appointed in May 2010.
Last re-elected Appointed in October 2010.
Formally Appointed in July 2008. in May 2015.
Lastre-elected in May 2015. elected in May 2015.
Length of service Length of service Length of service 5 years 7 months 5 years 3 months 9 months Independent Independent Independent Yes Yes Yes Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Chartered Accountant with a strong Executive Chairman of Cogent Elliott, Non-Executive Director of SIG Plc and In addition to her role as Company operating background gained in the the leading independent marketing amember of its Audit, Remuneration, Secretary, Cathy is General Counsel to USA, Europe and Asia.
CEO of AIM agency: extensive cross-sector Nomination and Governance Committees.
theMarshalls Group and has responsibility Altitude, a leading supplier of cabin leadership and business experience, Janet is also a Non-Executive Director for compliance and risk management.
interiors for Boeing and Airbus aircraft particularly in marketing and financial ofCoventry Building Society and a Shealso sits on the Marshalls pension on the worlds leading airlines.
services and formerly Chief Executive member of its Remuneration and Risk scheme trustee board.
She has previous Officer of Sainsburys Bank.
Previous Committees and was also recently experience as Company Secretary and Formerly CEO of the Baxi Group and Non-Executive Director roles include appointed to the Board of the Nuclear Group Counsel with Silentnight Group, VicePresident of the Construction Cancer Research UK.
Thistle Hotels plc and Jacuzzi UK.
Qualified as a solicitor with Clifford Janets Executive career included 30 years Chancebefore becoming a partner with BP plc, most recently as Director, inanational law firm, specialising BPOil UK Limited, and Head of UK Retail inbanking and corporate law.
Between Graduateofthe University of Oxford.
2010and 2012 she was CEO of Harvest Energy andiscurrently Chair of Trustees ofthecharity Hope in Tottenham.
External appointments External appointments External appointments External appointments Chief Executive of AIM Aviation Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director of SIG Plc, Charity Trustee and Board member Holdings which trades as AIM Altitude TheRoyalOrthopaedic Hospital, Coventry Building Society and the ofIlkley Literature Festival, the Open and its group of companies, and Immediate Past-President of the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority.
College of the Arts and the Bedales Chairman of Atlas Fine Wines.
GreaterBirmingham Chambers Grants Trust Fund.
ofCommerce and Director of theLibrary of Birmingham.
Key A Member of the Audit Committee R Member of the Remuneration Committee N Member of the Nomination Committee C Chairman of Committee Marshalls plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
