Strategic Report Business Model How we do business Marshalls principal goal is to create value through creatingbetter spaces.
We place a strong emphasis on product innovation and service delivery initiatives.
How we operate Sourcing Manufacture The Groups main raw materials are cement, sand, The Group manufactures and supplies landscape, aggregates, pigments, fuel oil and utilities.
We use driveway and garden products from a range of the best materials we can source.
Supply chain materials, being principally concrete and natural relationships include the ethical sourcing of stone.
Marshalls has a world-class Manufacturing, natural stone from India, China and Vietnam.
TheGroup also has extensive reserves of UKnaturalstone.
Setting the standards Distribution Marshalls is a benchmark for excellence, and Due to the scale of our operations, and our network continues to be widely regarded as a leader in its of regional centres, 97 per cent of our customers field.
Marshalls is proud of its status as market areless than 2 hours away.
Thiscontinues to be leader, and is dedicated to retaining and akey competitive advantage.
consolidating its position and being the supplier ofchoice for hard landscaping materials for Public Sector and Commercial and Domestic customers.
"Quality and service Customers We set industry leading standards of product Our customers range from Domestic homeowners quality, availability and ""on-time delivery."
We are to Public Sector and Commercial.
We seek to committed to producing new products that exceed the expectations of customers in all better any existing market offering.
"M Marshalls plc arshalls plc 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Trust Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information How we add value Leadership Our resources Our brand Our values Our people Our customers Homeowners Commercial Our strengths Customer service Product innovation Technical expertise Industry leading standards New and innovative products World-class Manufacturing, Innovation and Development team Quality, availability and Machinery design and installation ""on-time"" delivery Skilled engineers and technicians Our value creation Shareholders People Customers Communities The business Progressive Employee Centre of business Business in the Re-investment dividend policy engagement model Community R&D, capital expenditure Targeting 2 times Promote Quality products and Responsible business dividend cover over development and exceptional service practices Drive sustainable business cycle personal growth growth Living wage company Excellence M Marshalls plc arshalls plc 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Sustainability"
