Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information OUR Strategic Pillars in action Operating a high 1 quality pub estate BUILDING PUB-RESTAURANTS CONTINUED GROWTH OF THE FRANCHISE MODEL In our Destination business, we have opened over 130 pub-restaurants since 2009, We pioneered the introduction of offering family dining at reasonable prices.
These pubs generate high turnover, franchise-style agreements into the with target sales of 25,000 per week and a food sales mix in excess of 60%.
Our view remains that the We have an experienced site acquisition team and a well-established site selection franchise operating model improves process.
As a consequence this expansionary investment has generated consistent the customer experience, attracts returns and we have extended our trading geography to include southern England quality franchisees to Marstons and and Scotland.
New pub investment creates significant value for shareholders as enhances earnings in our community demonstrated in the pub estate valuation that took place in the financial year.
In 2015, we introduced We opened 25 pub-restaurants in 2015, creating 1,250 jobs, and expect to open at franchise-style agreements into least 20 per annum for the foreseeable future, including our first new-build Taverns a further 80 pubs.
This year our pub in 2016. most successful franchisees have generated turnover levels similar to BROADER INVESTMENT IN PREMIUM PUBS those in the Destination estate and AND ACCOMMODATION the first multiple franchisees have In addition to the investment described above, we believe there is fur ther been appointed.
oppor tunity to grow both our Premium pub business and accommodation.
In 2015 The franchise model now operates in we successfully converted two pubs from the existing estate to our Revere format 550 pubs and it remains our intention and opened three lodges adjacent to new-build pub-restaurants.
Organic room to convert the remaining pubs in the income has been consistently strong with sales growth exceeding 50% over Taverns estate to this model over the the last three years and we anticipate similar trends in the future with growth next few years.
We are also evaluating in leisure and business visitors.
Looking forward, we expect to continue this the potential for franchise-style expansion with two Premium bars and at least five lodges opening per annum.
agreements in the Destination estate.
INVESTMENT IN AREAS LESS EXPOSED TO COMPETITOR OVER-SUPPLY We are operating in a market where there is currently a high level of investment in new supply, particularly in branded casual dining.
It is estimated that in 2015 around 2,000 new outlets will open in the UK eating-out sector in a market that is growing moderately.
Our investment is targeted in areas that are less exposed to this intense competition, particularly in market towns where there is unlikely to be significant additional investment over and above a new pub or lodge.
The Farmhouse, Mackworth DISPOSAL OF SMALLER WET-LED PUBS core pub estate We disposed of 117 pubs and other assets during the year generating proceeds of 70 million.
The disposal programme is substantially complete, although a normal level of estate churn will continue.
c. 1,600 Since 2013, when we announced an acceleration in our disposal plans, we have reduced the size of the pubs estate from 2,050 pubs to a core 1,600 pubs.
average profit per pub Importantly, average profit per pub, a good indicator of pub quality, has increased to around 100,000 per pub, up around 40% since 2012.
100,000 11 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 OUR Strategic Pillars in action continued Operating a range of pub brands 2 and formats Around 78% of profits from our pubs are now generated by managed or franchise-style pubs in which Marstons has direct control over the retail offer ensuring that we are better able to deliver consistent service, standards and value across the estate.
This proportion will continue to increase as we build more pubs and convert most of the remaining tenanted pubs tofranchise-style agreements.
We operate a pub estate that caters for a broad range of customers, with exible operating models.
As a consequence we ensure we have the right consumer offer, accompanied by the most appropriate operating model to maximise sales and profits for each individual pub.
The key elements of this are as follows: DESTINATION 360 PUBS PREMIUM PUBS AND BARS 37 PUBS Our Destination pubs offer family dining Our Pitcher & Piano bars and Revere at reasonable prices, with excellent pubs offer premium food and drink in service in a relaxed pub environment.
attractive town centre and suburban We operate two principal brands locations.
Marstons Two for One, and Milestone Rotisserie.
The food sales mix of this business is 58%.
Pen Y Bont, Mold Pitcher & Piano, Swansea TAVERNS 859 PUBS LEASED PUBS 341 PUBS MARSTONS INNS Our community pubs include franchised These distinctive pubs benefit from We offer high quality accommodation pubs, managed pubs and tenancies.
a greater degree of independence in 44 pubs within the Destination and Over the next two to three years we and committed licensees.
In total, we have expect that most of our Taverns pubs The leased model, with longer-term around 800 rooms including three will be operated under our franchise assignable agreements, attracts lodges which opened during the model.
Typically, these are wet-led pubs skilled entrepreneurs who build financial year.
although food sales represented 17% of value through developing their own sales in 2015. businesses.
We contribute through our expertise in attracting the right lessee, dealing in a fair manner and providing business support.
Goodfellowship Inn, Hull Penny Hedge, Whitby 12 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Offering value for money, great food 3 and drink, and category innovation GREAT FOOD VALUE As described on page 11, the sector is seeing an unprecedented level of new Our customers value a great experience outlet expansion and competition and it is therefore critical that we maintain a and great value for money, and quality food offer that has broad appeal to all age groups and demographics.
reward us for getting the offer right Traditional pub favourites, such as sh and chips, will always be staple classics through higher frequency of visits and on our menus but it is also important that we continue to develop and evolve increasing spend per head.
Value is not our food offers and introduce new tastes and avours.
In 2015 we continued the dened by price alone we do not aim rollout of Pizza Kitchen which now operates in 40 pubs, and introduced burrito to offer the lowest prices in the market bars.
Our new better burger and pizza concept in Revere is proving extremely but also reects ambience, service popular with ver y encouraging initial trading.
We expect to maintain this pace of and amenity.
We monitor customer food development for the foreseeable future.
feedback through a range of formal and informal mechanisms.
40 pizza kitchens operate in our pubs To read more about our approach to food, visit our website www.
co. uk GREAT DRINKS premium beers We aim to ensure that our drinks range appeals to a broad audience, whilst introducing new brands and styles reecting current market trends in beer, wines and spirits, as well as non-alcoholic drinks.
55% In our pubs, premium beers now account for over 55% of beer sold.
Through of total beer sales our Masters of Cask initiative in Taverns we are aspiring to be regarded as the best place locally for beer range and quality.
In other drinks categories we have also made good progress.
We now sell 15 million glasses of wine and coffee sales continue to grow with 5 million cups of coffee sold last year.
In our Revere pubs, cocktails now account for 9% of drinks sales, demonstrating the importance of offering a premium drinks experience to our customers.
5m cups of coffee sold 15m glasses of wine sold To read more about our approach to alcohol and responsible retailing visit our website www.
co. uk 13 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 OUR Strategic Pillars in action continued Leadership in 4 the uk beer market Recent trends in the UK beer market have seen consumers seeking a wider choice of beers with local provenance and taste, including craft beers.
The growth of the UK eating-out market has also seen a shift to premium beers and a preference for quality.
In addition, we saw growth in the off-trade, with the strongest growth in the premium bottled ale segment.
We have benefited from these trends with our wide portfolio of beers from five breweries, a national distribution network and local approach to our beer brands.
Almost one in five premium bottled ales and around one in five premium cask ales Our Classic Ales and Golden Ales mix packs in the UK are Marstons brands.
Over the last 10 years, our mix of premium ales feature some of our most popular bottled ales has increased by 30% to around 70% of sales and the mix of sales to the off-trade and are available to buy in supermarkets and has increased by 25% to 55%.
CATEGORY LEADERSHIP As recognised category leaders, we work hard with our customers to improve the overall performance of the category and through the publication of the annual 200,000 Cask Ale Report and the Premium Bottled Ale Report, provide valuable insight into current and future trends.
Our role as category leaders has been recognised across HOBGOBLIN facebook the industry, with our beers receiving 24 awards, the Publican National Cask Ale followers Supplier of the Year and the Marketing Week award for the Pedigree campaign in the year.
Our marketing activity reects the inherent character of our brands.
Hobgoblin, our largest brand, is famous as the Unofcial Beer of Halloween.
In addition, the brand has benefited from high visibility at music festivals throughout the summer and has a prominent social media standing, with 200,000 Facebook followers and over half a million views of our 2015 Halloween campaign.
Regionally, we support local brands through sponsorship of events including the New Forest Show, the Henley Regatta and the Keswick Jazz Festival.
INNOVATION Innovation is also key to maintaining our competitive advantage.
During the year we introduced 25 new beers into the market including Hobgoblin Gold, which has achieved annual volumes of around 20,000 barrels since launch, and recent launches of Pedigree New World, Shipyard IPA and the Revisionist craft range have also proved popular.
We continue to seek appropriate additions to the portfolio.
During the period we completed the acquisition of Thwaites beer division, including the Wainwright and Stunning performance for Hobgoblin Gold Lancaster Bomber brands, for a total cash consideration of 25.2 million before sincelaunch working capital.
The acquisition is consistent with our strategy to focus on popular premium ale brands and provides further opportunities for growth in the developing free trade market.
25 new beers launched last year 14 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Our People 5 Marstons The Place to Be Marstons employs around 13,500 people and although many businesses claim that people are our most important asset, itisthe case that nothing makes a bigger difference to our business than our people.
We want Marstons to be The Place to Be for our customers and for all our employees.
Following the appointment of a Group People Director earlier this year we have reviewed and reinvigorated our approach to ways of working, aiming to modernise and build on the excellent values and culture the business has developed over many years.
There are three key components to our People Strategy: investment in training and development, recruit the best people and keep people at the heart.
INVESTMENT IN TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT We have a strong, caring and 581 collegiate culture at Marstons.
Apprenticeships completed We take time to listen, understand and take action.
Our people are trusted and empowered to play their part in exceeding our customers expectations and in turn we RECRUIT THE BEST 1,250 support thedevelopment of their PEOPLE skills and careers in partnership.
new jobs Differentiation is essential in our We are committed to training: this industr y and we recognise that the year oneinfour employees received way our people think, feel and act will accreditedtraining, covering a wide make Marstons stand out.
As such, we range of skills from pub to Wines aim to recruit, retain and develop the & Spirits Education Trust, finance, very best people, who can truly deliver Char tered Management Institute, best practice, bring fresh thinking and brewing and degree courses.
have the passion and drive to help our Around 60% of our people are below business go from strength to strength.
the age of 25 and this year we have 581 completing apprenticeships in addition to the 1,147 completed in the last three years.
COMMUNITY PEOPLE AT THE HEART Our pubs are often regarded as the hub of a community and, as such, we want to People come first at Marstons support our customers and the causes that are important to them.
Thats why our making people feel good is what were employees work hard to raise funds for worthy, local charities throughout the year.
all about, whether thats our team, our Its our way of giving back and helping to make a difference locally.
By keeping people at the heart of the business we ensure they are engaged and loyal in all they do.
We act as one team, HEALTH AND SAFETY proud of our history and always striving The health and safety of our employees, customers and the general public is for success.
treated with the utmost importance.
A description of our systems and policy are available on our website.
To read more about our people, our community involvement and our approach to Health and Safety, visit our website www.
