Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 OUR BUSINESS MODEL Beer, pubs & rooms Creating value through a vertically integrated business model Our markets are complex and fast-moving but our core But we need to move with the times.
Thats why youll see us business model is simple and has stood the test of time.
selling premium beers to supermarkets, creating innovative food Wemake good beer and we run good pubs.
The benets of menus and gaining a foothold in the hotel business.
This attracts our  model include greater opportunities: customers to our establishments and meets the demand for costefciencies, and reduced operating risks.
more innovative products and services but we never lose sight of our core model.
PUBS Beer Rooms We operate pubs and bars under different ownership models We have a permanent range We offer accommodation managed, franchised, tenanted of 23 cask beers and brew in around 800 rooms in and leased over 40 guest ales every year pubs or standalone lodges.
In 2015 we opened three How this adds value lodges and expect to open This maximises our operating vein2016.
exibility and ensures that we How this adds value are best placed to apply our Our own-brewed beers How this adds value consumer insights throughout reect and strengthen Budget accommodation is the business.
We invest in our regional provenance, a growing market, and we newbuild pubrestaurants which increase brand awareness at are able to make the most meet increasing demand for home and increase footfall in of well-positioned pubs informal dining, and align our pubs and bars.
our community pubs to the Visitors also contribute to changing needs of todays trade in the pub.
WHAT WE STRONG Engaged Valued and Strong NEED TO Research and colleagues recognised community Development SKILLS, and lessees brands relationships NURTURE INNOVATIVE SPIRIT through wow for our and MARKET INSIGHT model to work: the right culture 8 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Who benefits?
Customers our people Pubs and menus to suit all occasions 13,500 people employed Of fer good value for money and O ver 1,8 00 accredited qualications premium experiences achievedbyour people Continual food development Awardwinning employee and innovation recognition scheme Government Community Over 350 million tax generated Par tnered with over 70 0 pubs to r aisec60 0,00 0 in Give Back week Signed up to UK Government Public HealthResponsibilit y Deal pledges Pub is the Hub sponsor Responsible drinking promotions THE Environment SUPPLIERS Year on year reduction in aver age We have a loyal, tr usted supplier base, energyuse and CO emissions per pub manyof w hom are family owned and enjoy 2 through investment in technology, aclose working relationship with us design and behaviours O ver 97 % of waste produced in our breweries is recycled Investors 111.3 million dividends paid in the last three years For more infor mation about how we maximise 54% increase in shareholder value our value creation by following our str ategy see page 10 since2012 Accredited member of FTSE4Good An index that measures a companys environmental, social and governance practices.
Ways of Working WOW We know that if our people feel good, they will operate at their best which in turn results in consistent, quality products and services we can be truly proud of and thatdifferentiate us in our competitive markets.
People come first at Marstons making people feel good is what were all about, whether thats our customers, our employees or our suppliers.
We work as one team, ensuring our people feel empowered to play their part in exceeding our customers expectations.
Listening, understanding and responding in the right way is important to us as it demonstrates that we care, not just about what we do but the way we do it.
Our people are proud of our heritage, passionate about the future and continually strive to make Marstons a success.
