78 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE OTHER DISCLOSURES DIRECTORS REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS APPOINTMENT AND RETIREMENT OF DIRECTORS Marks and Spencer Group plc the The membership of the Board and Company is the holding company of the biographical details of the directors The directors may from time to time appoint Marks & Spencer Group of companies the are given on pages 34 and 35 and are one or more directors.
With our rich heritage, M&S is one incorporated into this report by reference.
appoint any person to be a director so long of the most recognisable brands in the UK Details of directors bene cial and nonas the total number of directors does not retail sector and is regularly voted as one bene cial interests in the shares of the exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
Our business is driven Company are shown on pages 68 and 74.
Under the Articles, any such director shall by a desire to inspire and innovate: to act Options granted under the Save As You Earn hold offi ce only until the next AGM and shall with integrity and to stay in touch with our SAYE Share Option and Executive Share then be eligible for election.
The Articles customers, shareholders and employees Option Schemes are shown on pages 70 also require that at each AGM at least onealike.
These are our corporate values and to 71.
Further information regarding third of the current directors should retire they underpin everything we do.
They are employee share option schemes is given as directors by rotation.
All those directors what make the M&S diff erence across the in note 8 to the financial statements.
who have been in offi ce at the time of the 59 territories in which we operate.
two previous AGMs and who did not retire Alan Stewart stepped down from the Board at either of them must retire as directors The Directors Report also the Management as Chief Finance Offi cer on 10 July 2014 and by rotation.
In addition, a director may at Report for the year ended 28 March 2015 left the Company on 23 September 2014. any AGM retire from offi ce and stand for comprises pages 26 to 82 and page 127 of Helen Weir was appointed Chief Finance re-election.
However, in line with the UK this report, together with the sections of the Offi cer on 1 April 2015.
Vindi Banga, who Corporate Governance Code 2012, all Annual Report incorporated by reference.
joined the Board on 1 September 2011, was directors will stand for annual election at As permitted by legislation, some of the appointed Chairman of the Remuneration the 2015 AGM.
matters normally included in the Directors Committee following the retirement of Report have instead been included in the Steven Holliday at the AGM on 8 July DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Strategic Report on pages 1 to 25, as the 2014.
Vindi was also appointed Senior The Company has procedures in place for Board considers them to be of strategic Independent Director following the managing con icts of interest.
Speci cally, these are: retirement of Jan du Plessis on 4 March director become aware that they, or their 2015.
Richard Solomons joined the Board Future business developments connected parties, have an interest in an as a non-executive director on 13 April throughout the Strategic report existing or proposed transaction with 2015 and was appointed a member of the Marks & Spencer, they should notify the Research and development p21 Nomination Committee with immediate Board in writing or at the next Board eff ect.
Miranda Curtis, who joined the Risk management on p23-25 meeting.
Internal controls are in place to Board on 1 February 2012, was appointed ensure that any related party transactions Details of branches operated by the a member of the Audit Committee on involving directors, or their connected Company can be found on pages 28 and 29 4 March 2015.
Robert Swannell, who joined parties, are conducted on an arms length of the Directors Report.
the Board as Chairman on 4 October basis.
Directors have a continuing duty to 2010, was appointed as a member of the Both the Strategic Report and the Directors update any changes to these con icts.
Report have been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon The appointment and replacement of DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES applicable English company law, and the directors is governed by the Companys The Company maintains directors and liabilities of the directors in connection Articles, the UK Corporate Governance offi cers liability insurance which gives with that report shall be subject to the Code the Code, the Companies Act 2006 appropriate cover for any legal action limitations and restrictions provided by and related legislation.
The Articles may be brought against its directors.
For information on our approach amended by a special resolution of the has also granted indemnities to each of its to social, environmental and ethical shareholders.
Subject to the Articles, the directors and the Group Secretary to the matters please refer to our Plan A Report, Companies Act 2006 and any directions extent permitted by law.
Qualifying thirdavailable to view online at given by special resolution, the business of party indemnity provisions as fide ned by marksandspencer.
the Company will be managed by the Board section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 Other information to be disclosed in the who may exercise all the powers of the were in force during the year ended Directors Report is given in this section.
The Company may by ordinary 28 March 2015 and remain in force, in resolution declare dividends not exceeding relation to certain losses and liabilities INFORMATION TO BE the amount recommended by the Board.
which the directors or Group Secretary DISCLOSED UNDER LR 9.8.
4R Subject to the Companies Act 2006, the may incur to third parties in the course of Page Board may pay interim dividends, and also acting as directors or Group Secretary Listing Rule Detail reference any xed rate dividend, whenever the or employees of the Company or of any 9.8.
4R 1 2 financial position of the Company, in the associated company.
5-14 A B Not applicable N A opinion of the Board, justi es its payment.
4R 4 Long-term 54-55 incentive and schemes 66-67 79 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 PROFIT AND DIVIDENDS VARIATION OF RIGHTS at the 2015 AGM.
It is the Companys present intention to cancel any shares it buys back, The pro t for the financial year, after Subject to applicable statutes, rights rather than hold them in treasury.
taxation, amounts to 661.2m last year attached to any class of share may be varied 662.9m.
The directors have declared with the written consent of the holders of at The directors were granted authority at dividends as follows: least three-quarters in nominal value of the the 2014 AGM to allot relevant securities issued shares of that class, or by a special up to a nominal amount of 136,089,559.
Ordinary shares m resolution passed at a separate general This authority will apply until the conclusion Paid interim dividend meeting of the shareholders.
At this years AGM, of 6.4p per share shareholders will be asked to grant an last year 6.2p per share 104.5m RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS authority to allot relevant securities i up to Proposed final dividend ATTACHING TO SHARES a nominal amount of 137,372,598.67 and of 11.6p per share ii comprising equity securities up to a Subject to the provisions of the Companies last year 10.8p per share 191.2m nominal amount of 274,745,197.33 after Act 2006, any resolution passed by the Total ordinary dividend of deducting from such limit any relevant Company under the Companies Act 2006 18.0p per share securities allotted under i, in connection and other shareholders rights, shares may last year 17.0p per share 296.7m with an off er of a rights issue, the Section be issued with such rights and restrictions 551 amount, such Section 551 amount as the Company may by ordinary resolution The final ordinary dividend will be paid on to apply until the conclusion of the decide, or if there is no such resolution or so 10 July 2015 to shareholders whose names AGM to be held in 2016 or, if earlier, on far as it does not make speci c provision are on the Register of Members at the close 27 September 2016. as the Board as fide ned in the Articles of business on 29 May 2015. may decide.
Subject to the Articles, A special resolution will also be proposed the Companies Act 2006 and other SHARE CAPITAL to renew the directors powers to make non shareholders rights, unissued shares pre-emptive issues for cash in connection The Companys issued ordinary share are at the disposal of the Board.
with rights issues and otherwise up to a capital as at 28 March 2015 comprised a nominal amount of 20,605,889.80.
A special single class of ordinary share.
Each share POWERS FOR THE COMPANY ISSUING resolution will also be proposed to renew carries the right to one vote at general OR BUYING BACK ITS OWN SHARES the directors authority to repurchase the meetings of the Company.
The Company was authorised by Companys ordinary shares in the market.
During the period, 15,566,772 ordinary shareholders, at the 2014 AGM, to purchase The authority will be limited to a maximum shares in the Company were issued in the market up to 10% of the Companys of 164 million ordinary shares and sets the as follows: issued share capital, as permitted under the minimum and maximum prices which will Companys Articles.
No shares have been be paid.
918,578 shares under the terms of the bought back under this authority during 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme the year ended 28 March 2015.
This standard at prices between 347p and 352p.
authority is renewable annually: the 14,602,805 shares under the terms of the directors will seek to renew this authority United Kingdom Employees Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme at prices between 203p and 405p.
45,389 shares under the terms of the INTERESTS IN VOTING RIGHTS ROI Employees Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme at prices between 258p Information provided to the Company The information provided below was and 405p.
pursuant to the Financial Conduct correct at the date of noti cation: however, Authoritys FCA Disclosure and the date received may not have been Details of movements in the Companys Transparency Rules DTRs is published within the current financial year.
It should issued share capital can be found on page on a Regulatory Information Service be noted that these holdings are likely to 119 in note 24 to the financial statements.
and on the Companys website.
As at have changed since the Company was 28 March 2015, the following information noti ed.
However, noti cation of any RESTRICTIONS ON has been received, in accordance with change is not required until the next TRANSFER OF SECURITIES DTR5, from holders of noti able interests noti able threshold is crossed.
There are no speci c restrictions on the in the Companys issued share capital.
transfer of securities in the Company, which Ordinary % is governed by its Articles of Association Noti able interests shares of capital Nature of holding and prevailing legislation.
The Company Blackrock, Inc 81,834,738 5 Indirect 4.97% & CFD 0.04% is not aware of any agreements between The Capital Group Companies, Inc 66,681,922 4.049 Indirect Interest holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities The Wellcome Trust 47,464,282 3.01 Direct Interest or that may result in restrictions on Noti cations were also received from William Adderley and Majedie Asset Management Limited during the year to voting rights.
disclose that they no longer held a noti able interest.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 80 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE OTHER DISCLOSURES CONTINUED DEADLINES FOR EXERCISING The 1.325bn Credit Agreement dated Executive and members of the Board at VOTING RIGHTS 29 September 2011 between the key points in the year to all head offi ce and Company and various banks contains distribution centre employees and store Votes are exercisable at a general meeting a provision such that, upon a change management.
Additionally, many of our of the Company in respect of which the of control event, unless new terms are store colleagues can join the brie ngs business being voted upon is being heard.
agreed within 60 days, the facility under by telephone to hear directly from the Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, this agreement will be cancelled with business.
These types of communication or in relation to corporate members, by all outstanding amounts becoming are supplemented by our employee corporate representatives.
The Articles immediately payable with interest: and publications including Your M&S magazine, provide a deadline for submission of proxy Plan A updates and DVD presentations.
forms of not less than 48 hours before the The amended and restated Relationship More than 3,500 employees are elected time appointed for the holding of the Agreement dated 6 October 2014 onto Business Involvement Groups BIGs meeting or adjourned meeting.
However, originally dated 9 November 2004 as across every store, distribution centre and when calculating the 48-hour period, the amended on 1 March 2005, between head offi ce location to represent their directors can, and have, decided not to take HSBC and the Company and relating to colleagues in two-way communication and account of any part of a day that is not a M&S Bank, contains certain provisions consultation with the Company.
which address a change of control of the continued to play a key role in a wide variety Company.
Upon a change of control the of business changes.
SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS existing rights and obligations of the CHANGE OF CONTROL parties in respect of M&S Bank continue The 20th meeting of the European Works and HSBC gains certain limited additional Council EWC established in 1995 will There are a number of agreements to which rights in respect of existing customers take place in September 2015.
This Council the Company is party that take eff ect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the of the new controller of the Company.
provides an additional forum for informing, Where a third-party arrangement is in consulting and involving employee Company following a takeover bid.
Details place for the supply of financial services representatives from the countries in the of the signi cant agreements of this kind are products to existing customers of the European Community.
The EWC includes as follows: new controller, the Company is required representatives from France, The The 400m Medium Term Notes issued by to procure the termination of such Netherlands, Czech Republic, Slovakia, the Company on 30 November 2009, the arrangement as soon as reasonably Greece, Bulgaria, Slovenia, Romania, Croatia, 300m Medium Term Notes issued by the practicable whilst not being required Hungary, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Poland, Company on 6 December 2011 and the to do anything that would breach any the Republic of Ireland and the UK.
The EWC 400m: Medium Term Notes issued by contract in place in respect of such has the opportunity to be addressed by the the Company on 12 December 2012 to arrangement.
Chief Executive and other senior members various institutions MTN and under the of the Company on issues that aff ect the Where a third-party arrangement is so Groups 3bn euro Medium Term Note European business.
This includes the terminated, or does not exist, HSBC gains EMTN programme contain an option Directors of International and Multi-channel certain exclusivity rights in respect of such that, upon a change of control and the Director of Plan A, who all have an the sale of financial services products event, combined with a credit ratings impact across the European Community.
to the existing customers of the new downgrade to below sub-investment controller.
Where the Company Directors and senior management regularly level, any holder of an MTN may require undertakes a re-branding exercise with attend the national Business Involvement the Company to prepay the principal the new controller following a change of Group BIG meetings.
They visit stores and amount of that MTN.
control which includes using any M&S discuss with employees matters of current The $500m US Notes issued by the brand in respect of the new controllers interest and concern to both employees Company to various institutions on business or vice versa, HSBC gains and the business through meetings with 6 December 2007 under Section 144a of certain termination rights exercisable local BIG representatives, speci c listening the US Securities Act contain an option at its election in respect of the groups and informal discussions.
The such that, upon a change of control Relationship Agreement.
business has continued to engage with event, combined with a credit ratings employees and drive involvement through a The Company does not have agreements downgrade to below sub-investment scheme called The BIG Idea.
On a quarterly with any director or employee that would level, any holder of such a US Note may basis the business poses a question to require the Company to prepay the provide compensation for loss of offi ce or gather ideas and initiatives on a number of employment resulting from a takeover principal amount of that US Note.
areas including how we can better serve except that provisions of the Companys our customers.
Several thousand ideas are The $300m US Notes issued by the share schemes and plans may cause put forward each time and the winning Company to various institutions on options and awards granted to employees employee receives an award and the 6 December 2007 under Section 144a of under such schemes and plans to vest on chance to see how this is implemented the US Securities Act contain an option a takeover.
such that, upon a change of control event, combined with a credit ratings EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT Share schemes are a long-established and downgrade to below sub-investment successful part of our total reward package, We remain committed to employee level, any holder of such a US Note may encouraging and supporting employee involvement throughout the business.
require the Company to prepay the share ownership.
In particular, around Employees are kept well informed of the principal amount of that US Note.
24,000 employees currently participate performance and strategy of the Group in Sharesave, the Companys all employee through personal brie ngs, regular Save As you Earn Scheme.
Full details of all meetings, email and broadcasts by the Chief schemes are given on pages 70 to 71.
81 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 We have a well established interactive age, marital status, sexual orientation ESSENTIAL CONTRACTS OR wellbeing website designed exclusively or religion.
All decisions relating to ARRANGEMENTS for M&S employees.
It gives any employee employment practices will be objective, The Company is required to disclose any the opportunity to access a wealth of free from bias and based solely upon work contractual or other arrangements which information, help and support.
We cover all criteria and individual merit.
The Company it considers are essential to its business.
areas of wellbeing, from healthy eating and is responsive to the needs of its employees, We have a wide range of suppliers for the exercise to help in overcoming issues such customers and the community at large.
We production and distribution of products as stress, financial challenges, achieving a are an organisation which uses everyones to our customers.
Whilst the loss of, or positive work-life balance and problems talents and abilities and where diversity disruption to, certain of these arrangements with sleeping.
Using this service, employees is valued.
We were one of the first major could temporarily aff ect the operations can access our personal support teams, companies to remove the default of the Group, none are considered to be such as counselling, as well as take part in a retirement age in 2001 and have continued essential, with the exception of certain calendar of wellbeing events and initiatives.
to see an increase in employees wanting to warehouse and logistic operators and work past the state retirement age.
Our providers of services relating to the Employees are able to interact with one oldest employee is 88 years old and joined Companys e-commerce platform.
another, post information about clubs and the business at age 80.
In April 2015 the groups in their area and can gain access Company once again featured in The Times GROCERIES SUPPLY CODE to information about corporate projects, Top 50 Employers for Women, highlighting OF PRACTICE which link to their personal health, via our how equal opportunities are available for employee social media platform, Yammer.
The Groceries Supply Chain Practices all at M&S.
Market Investigation Order 2009 Order We maintain contact with retired staff and The Groceries Supply Code of Practice through communications from the EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES GSCOP impose obligations on M&S Company and the Pension Trust.
MemberIt is our policy that people with disabilities relating to relationships with its suppliers of nominated trustees have been elected should have full and fair consideration for groceries.
Under the Order and GSCOP, M&S to the Pension Trust board, including all vacancies.
During the year, we continued is required to submit an annual compliance employees and pensioners.
We continue to demonstrate our commitment to report to the Audit Committee for approval to produce a regular Pensions Update interviewing those people with disabilities and then to the Competition and Markets newsletter for members of our final salary who ful l the minimum criteria, and Authority and Groceries Code Adjudicator.
pension scheme and have a fully interactive endeavouring to retain employees in the website for members of the fide ned M&S submitted its report to the Audit workforce if they become disabled during contribution M&S Pension Savings Plan.
Committee on 14 May 2015 covering the employment.
We will actively retrain and period from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015. adjust their environment where possible to EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES In accordance with the Order, a summary allow them to maximise their potential.
We of that compliance report is set out below.
The Group is committed to an active equal continue to work with external organisations opportunities policy from recruitment to provide workplace opportunities through M&S believes that it has complied in full and selection, through training and our innovative Marks & Start scheme and by with GSCOP and the Order during the development, performance reviews and working closely with JobCentre Plus.
No formal disputes have promotion to retirement.
It is our policy Marks & Start scheme was introduced into arisen during the reporting period.
Four to promote an environment free from our distribution centre at Castle Donington allegations regarding potential breaches discrimination, harassment and in 2012 13, where we work with Remploy to of GSCOP were made by suppliers during victimisation, where everyone will receive support people with disabilities and health the relevant period, but all complaints have equal treatment regardless of gender, conditions into work.
colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, TOTAL GLOBAL M&S GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2014 15 The disclosures required by law relating to the Groups greenhouse gas emissions are included in the table below.
For full details of calculations and adjustments, as well as performance against 2006 07 voluntary baseline, see our 2015 Plan A Report.
2014 15 2013 14 % 000 tonnes 000 tonnes change Direct emissions scope 1 167 168 -1 Indirect emissions from energy scope 2 367 340 8 Total statutory emissions scope 1 2 534 508 5 Transport, energy, waste and business travel scope 3 58 59 -2 Total gross location-based emissions 592 567 5 Carbon intensity measure per 1,000 sq ft of sales oor 30 30 L Green tariff s and carbon off sets 592 567 4.4 Total net marketplace emissions 00 Calculated based on operational control in accordance with 2014 DECC DEFRA using Guidelines WRI WBCSD GHG Reporting Protocols Revised edition and 2014 Scope 2 Guidance.
Increase caused by higher UK grid electricity carbon intensity.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 82 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE OTHER DISCLOSURES CONTINUED M&S operates systems and controls to This cannot be achieved by merely that the financial statements and the ensure compliance with the Order and reviewing the final document at the end Remuneration Report comply with the GSCOP including the following: of the preparation process.
The Board Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the ensured that its requirements were clearly Group financial statements, Article 4 of the The terms and conditions which govern communicated from the outset to each IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible the trading relationship between M&S of the departments involved in the for safeguarding the assets of the Group and those of its suppliers that supply production of the Annual Report.
and the Company and hence for taking groceries to M&S incorporate GSCOP: reasonable steps for the prevention and The Board has advised that the narrative New suppliers are issued with information detection of fraud and other irregularities.
reports should contain the key information as required by the Order: The directors are responsible for the needed by investors and other users of the maintenance and integrity of the M&S has a Code Compliance Offi cer as report and should avoid being promotional Companys website.
Legislation in the required under the Order, supported by in nature.
Furthermore, the narrative UK governing the preparation and our in-house legal department: and reports in the front and the accounting dissemination of financial statements may information in the back of the report should Employee training on GSCOP is provided, diff er from legislation in other jurisdictions.
be consistent and the teams involved in its including annual refresher programmes production work closely together to achieve Each of the directors, whose names and and new starter training.
For an independent opinion, the Board functions are listed on pages 34 and 35 of also requested the Audit Committee review the Annual Report, con rm that, to the best POLITICAL DONATIONS the Annual Report and provide feedback.
of their knowledge: No political donations were made during The Committees opinion on whether the The Group financial statements, which the year ended 28 March 2015.
M&S has a report is fair, balanced and understandable have been prepared in accordance with policy of not making donations to political is on page 49.
IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true organisations or independent election The directors are also responsible for and fair view of the assets, liabilities, candidates or incurring political expenditure preparing the Annual Report, the financial position and pro t of the Group: anywhere in the world as fide ned in the Remuneration Report and the financial Political Parties, Elections and Referendums The Strategic Report and the Directors statements in accordance with applicable Act 2000.
Report contained in this report include law and regulations.
Company law a fair review of the development and requires the directors to prepare financial GOING CONCERN performance of the business and the statements for each financial year.
Under In adopting the going concern basis for position of the Group, together with a that law, the directors have prepared the description of the principal risks and preparing the financial statements, the Group and Company financial statements uncertainties that it faces: and directors have considered the business in accordance with International Financial activities as set out on pages 1 to 22 as Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by The Annual Report, taken as a whole, well as the Groups principal risks and the EU.
Under company law, the directors is fair, balanced and understandable, uncertainties as set out on pages 23 to 25. must not approve the financial statements and provides the necessary information Based on the Groups cash ow forecasts unless they are satis ed that they give a true for shareholders to assess the Groups and projections, the Board is satis ed that and fair view of the state of aff airs of the performance, business model and the Group will be able to operate within the Group and the Company and of the pro t strategy.
level of its facilities for the foreseeable or loss of the Group and the Company for future.
For this reason the Board considers that period.
In preparing these financial DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION it appropriate for the Group to adopt statements, the directors are required to: TO AUDITORS the going concern basis in preparing its Each director con rms that, so far as Select suitable accounting policies and financial statements.
he she is aware, there is no relevant audit then apply them consistently: information of which the Companys AUDITOR Make judgements and accounting auditors are unaware and that each director Resolutions to reappoint Deloitte LLP as estimates that are reasonable and has taken all the steps that he she ought to auditor of the Company and to authorise prudent: have taken as a director to make himself the Audit Committee to determine their herself aware of any relevant audit State whether applicable IFRSs as remuneration will be proposed at the information and to establish that the adopted by the EU have been followed, 2015 AGM.
Companys auditors are aware of that subject to any material departures information.
disclosed and explained in the financial ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING statements: and The Directors Report was approved by a The AGM of Marks and Spencer Group plc duly authorised committee of the Board Prepare the financial statements on a will be held at Wembley Stadium, London on of Directors on 19 May 2015 and signed going concern basis unless it is 7 July 2015 at 11am.
The Notice of Meeting is on its behalf by inappropriate to presume that the given, together with explanatory notes, in a Company will continue in business.
booklet which accompanies this report.
The directors are responsible for keeping DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES adequate accounting records that are The Board is of the view that the Annual suffi cient to show and explain the Report should be truly representative of Companys transactions and disclose, at Amanda Mellor the year and provide shareholders with the any time and with reasonable accuracy, Group Secretary information necessary to assess the Groups the financial position of the Company and London, 19 May 2015 performance, business model and strategy.
the Group and to enable them to ensure
