Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 A clear strategy our strategy supports our overall aim our aim is to make Marstons The Place to be for: Our customers Our people Our investors We want our customers to visit us and We want to recruit and retain the We want to attract the highest quality then come back time and time again best people in the industry investment in our sector In order to achieve this aim, we remained focused on the following five strategic pillars: Our five Why this is How are we How we are strategic pillars important progressing measuring this The new-build programme remains The three-year transformation New-builds completed Operating a high our key growth driver.
Our 134 new of our pub portfolio towards an Underlying earnings per share quality pub estate pub-restaurants generate high optimal estate is now largely 1 CROCCE levels of profitability and valuation complete.
In2015 we opened 25 uplifts that create significant pub-restaurants and disposed of Average profit per pub shareholdervalue.
See pages 16 17 Whilst new-build, food-led pubs Around 78% of profits are from Free cash ow Operating a range remain our core growth driver, our managed or franchise-style pubs.
Like-for-like sales versus market of pub brands strategy has evolved to capitalise upon Theremainder operate under the Destination and Premium 2 andformats other opportunities for expansion model most likely to maximise sales Average profit per pub where the returns are attractive.
See pages 16 17 Customers are looking for a premium In 2015 we continued to develop and No.
of main meals served Offering value for experience in an informal setting evolve our food offers: with 20 more Like-for-like sales versus market money, great food at any time of the day and our offer Pizza Kitchens and the introduction of Destination and Premium 3 anddrink, and needs to keep attracting them.
burrito bars and Reveres new better categoryinnovation burgers and pizzas.
See page 17 Consumers seek a wide choice of Our growing portfolio of premium, Market share of premium Leadership in the UK beers with local provenance and craft and regional beers is supported cask ale beermarket taste.
Our portfolio of market-leading by significant distribution capabilities Market share of premium 4 brands focuses on the growth and a local approach to our brands.
bottled ale segments of the market.
See page 17 If our people feel good and enjoy what Were in the early stages of Employee engagement Our people - Marstons they do, our customers will feel the implementing a new People Strategy - The Place to Be See page 17 benets, enjoying and buying more of across the business that aims to 5 our products more frequently.
recruit, retain and develop the very best people.
FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE UNDERPINS OURSTRATEGICGROWTH To ensure our growth is sustainable and profitable we remain focused on maximising the return from our capital.
CROCCE Cash Return on Cash Capital Employed is a key measure for all strategic investment and an important remuneration measure.
For more on how we reward our Direc tors based on our KPIs see page 39 10
