STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 81 Directors report The directors present their report with the audited consolidated Incorporation by reference financial statements of the Group prepared in accordance with Certain laws and regulations require that specific information International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted should be included in the Directors report.
The table below by the European Union and the Companies Act 2006 and shows the items which are incorporated into this Directors Company audited financial statements prepared in accordance report by reference: with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 and the Companies Act 2006 for the year ended 31 December 2015.
There are no significant events affecting the Group since the end of the year requiring disclosure.
Information incorporated into the Directors report by reference Location and page Likely future developments in the Groups business Strategic report pages 1 to 47 The Corporate governance report Board of directors and Corporate governance report pages 49 to 55 Research and development Note 8 to the Groups consolidated financial statements page 109 and Chief Financial Officers review page 37 Policies on financial risk management, including the extent to which financial Note 3 to the Groups consolidated financial statements instruments are utilised to mitigate any significant risks to which the Group is exposed page102 Greenhouse gas emissions Corporate responsibility report page 43 Employee information Corporate responsibility report page 46 Employee involvement Employment of disabled persons Statement of the amount of interest capitalised by the Group during the year with an Note 19 to the Groups consolidated financial statements indication of the amount and treatment of any related tax relief page 116 Details of long-term incentive plans Directors remuneration report pages 60 to 80 Details of any arrangements under which adirector of the Company has waived or Nothing to disclose agreed to waive any emoluments from the Company or any subsidiary undertaking Details of allotments for cash of ordinary shares made during the period under review Note 34 to the Groups consolidated financial statements page 132 Contracts of significance to which the Company is aparty and in which adirector is Nothing to disclose materially interested Contracts of significance between aCompany and acontrolling shareholder Not applicable Contracts for the provision of services to the Company by acontrolling shareholder Not applicable Details of any arrangement under which ashareholder has waived or agreed to waive Nothing to disclose dividends Agreements related to controlling shareholder requirements under LR 9.2.
2 A Not applicable Statement of directors interests Directors remuneration report page 77 A statement of how the Company has complied with the Code and details of any nonCorporate governance report page 49 compliance Details of directors service contracts Share capital and control page 83 and Directors remuneration report pages 67 to 68 Related parties disclosures Note 17 to the Groups consolidated financial statements page 114 Share buyback disclosures Chief Financial Officers review page 38 and note 34 to the Groups consolidated financial statements page 132 82 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors report continued The authorisation of any conflict matter, and the terms of Dividends authorisation, are regularly reviewed by the Board.
The directors recommend the payment of afinal dividend of 9.80p net per ordinary 5p share 2014: 9.50p, to be paid on 6 May 2016 to those members on the register at close of business on Political donations 29 March 2016.
An interim dividend of 4.60p 2014: 4.25p was No political donations were made during the year 2014: None.
If the final dividend as recommended is approved the total ordinary dividend for the year will amount Share capital and control to 14.40p net per ordinary 5p share 2014: 13.75p.
As at 31 December 2015, the Company held 350,966 treasury Dividends are paid to shareholders net of anon-refundable tax shares with anominal value of 5p each, and the Companys credit of 10%.
Shareholders liable to higher rates of income tax issued share capital excluding shares held as treasury shares will have additional tax to pay.
consisted of 775,167,523 shares with anominal value of 5p each.
As at 15 February 2016, the Company held 332,722 treasury shares with anominal value of 5p each, and the Companys Dividend reinvestment plan issued share capital excluding shares held as treasury shares The Company operates aDividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP consisted of 775,185,767 shares with anominal value of 5p each.
which enables shareholders to buy the Companys shares on The issued share capital of the Company at 31 December 2015 theLondon Stock Exchange with their cash dividend.
Further and details of shares issued and cancelled during the financial information about the DRIP is available from Computershare, year are shown in note 34 to the Groups consolidated theCompanys registrars.
During 2015, the Company made the DRIP available to The Company operated ashare buyback programme during the shareholders for the dividends paid in May 2015 and October year until 4 September 2015, and details of the shares bought 2015.
The Board currently intends to continue to make the DRIP back in 2015 under that programme are contained in the Chief available to shareholders in 2016, and the date by which relevant Financial Officers Review on page 38.
DRIP elections must be received is disclosed on the financial calendar page on our website.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Articles.
Acopy of the Articles is Directors available for inspection at the registered office.
The holders of The directors of the Company in office during the year and up to ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys report the date of signing the financial statements were: Sir Nigel Rudd and accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the appointed to the Board as anon-executive director from Company, to appoint proxies to exercise full voting rights and 1 March 2015 becoming Chairman from 23 April 2015, Mr S G to participate in any distribution of income or capital.
Young Chief Executive, Mr G S Berruyer, Mr P G Cox retired from the Board on 31 January 2015, Mr C R Day appointed to the There are no restrictions on transfer, or limitations on holding Board as anon-executive director on 1 October 2015, Ms A J P ordinary shares and no requirements for prior approval of any Goligher, Mr P E Green, Mr P Heiden Senior independent director transfers.
There are no known arrangements under which from 1 January 2016, Ms B L Reichelderfer, Sir Colin Terry financial rights are held by persons other than holders of the retired as Chairman on 23 April 2015, Mr D R Webb, and Mr D M shares and no known agreements or restrictions on share Williams retired from the Board and his position as Senior transfers or on voting rights.
Shares acquired through Company independent director on 31 December 2015. share plans rank pari passu on an equal footing with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
All directors will be submitted for election or re-election at the annual general meeting AGM.
Details of any unexpired terms of Rules about the appointment and replacement of Company the directors service contracts are in the Directors remuneration directors are contained in the Articles which provide that report.
Membership of committees and biographical information a director may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the is disclosed on pages 50 to 51 and in the AGM notice.
shareholders or by the existing directors, either to fill avacancy or as an additional director.
Changes to the Articles must be The directors benefit from qualifying third-party indemnity submitted to the shareholders for approval by way of special provisions for the purposes of Section 236 of the Companies Act resolution.
The directors may exercise all the powers of the 2006 pursuant to the Articles in effect throughout the financial Company subject to the provisions of relevant legislation, year and up to the date of this Directors report.
The Company the Articles and any directions given by the Company in also purchased and maintained throughout the year Directors generalmeeting.
No indemnity is provided for theCompanys auditors.
The powers of the directors include those in relation to the issue and buyback of shares.
At each AGM, the shareholders are Conflicts of interest requested to renew the directors powers to allot securities in The Company has aprocedure for the disclosure, review, the Company up to the value specified in the Notice of Meeting authorisation and management of directors conflicts of and to renew the directors powers to allot securities, without interestand potential conflicts of interest, in accordance with the application of pre-emption rights, up to the value specified theprovisions of the Companies Act 2006.
In deciding whether to inthe Notice of Meeting in accordance with the Articles.
The authorise aconflict or potential conflicts the directors must have Company also seeks authority at each AGM from shareholders regard to their general duties under the Companies Act 2006. to purchase its own shares up to the limits set out in the Noticeof Meeting.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 83 Share capital and control continued Substantial shareholdings The Group has significant financing agreements which include At 15 February 2016, the Company had been notified under the change of control provisions which, should there be achange Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR of the following of ownership of the Company, could result in renegotiation, substantial interests in the issued ordinary shares of the withdrawal or early repayment of these financing agreements.
Company requiring disclosure: These are aUSD 600 million note purchase agreement Percentage of total dated June 2010, aUSD 900 million syndicated revolving voting rights credit agreement dated September 2014, and two USD attaching to the 300 million bilateral credit facility agreements, both dated issued ordinary Direct voting Indirect voting share capital of September2015.
rights m rights m the company There are anumber of other long-term commercial The Capital Group 114.6 14.78% agreements that may alter or terminate upon achange of Companies, Inc. control of the Company following asuccessful takeover bid.
Harris Associates L. P. 41.3 5.32% These arrangements are commercially confidential and their BlackRock, Inc. - 40.3 5.20% disclosure could be seriously prejudicial to the Company.
First Pacific Advisors, 39.1 5.04% Agreements with the Companys directors or employees LLC providing compensation in the event of atakeover bid: FMR LLC 38.1 4.91% Director Contractual entitlement Standard Life 22.2 3.8 3.34% Investments Ltd Mr S G Young None except that provisions in the Companys Legal & General Group plc 23.7 3.06% share plans may cause options and or awards One voting right per ordinary share.
granted to employees under such plans to vest on atakeover.
These holdings are published on aregulatory information service and on the Companys website.
Mr D R Webb None except that provisions in the Companys share plans may cause options and or awards granted to employees under such plans to vest Statement of directors responsibilities on atakeover.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements Mr P E Green Mr Green may terminate his employment in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
within six months and would be entitled to compensation from the Company for loss of Company law requires the directors to prepare financial office.
The compensation would be annual statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors remuneration plus the value of benefits for the have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance unexpired notice period less 5%.
In addition, with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as provisions in the Companys share plans may adopted by the European Union, and the parent company cause options and or awards granted to financial statements in accordance with applicable law and employees under such plans to vest on United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom a takeover.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework Non-executive None.
directors All other There are no agreements that would provide employees compensation for loss of employment resulting from atakeover except that provisions in the Companys share plans may cause options and or awards granted to employees under such plans to vest on atakeover.
84 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors report continued Under company law the directors must not approve the financial the director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken statements unless they are satisfied that they give atrue and fair as adirector in order to make himself or herself aware view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of of any relevant audit information and to establish that the the profit or loss of the Group and the Company for that period.
Companys auditor is aware of that information.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in required to: accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the CompaniesAct 2006. select suitable accounting policies and then apply themconsistently: Fair, balanced and understandable make judgements and accounting estimates that are The directors as at the date of this report consider that reasonable and prudent: the Annual Report, taken as awhole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for state whether IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 business model and strategy.
The Board has made this have been followed, subject to any material departures assessment on the basis of areview of the accounts process, disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company adiscussion on the content of the annual report assessing financial statements respectively: and its fairness, balance and understandability, together with the notify its shareholders in writing about the use of disclosure confirmation from executive management that the report is exemptions, if any, of FRS 101 used in the preparation of fair, balanced and understandable.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Going Concern records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys The directors have formed ajudgement, at the time of approving transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial statements, that there is areasonable expectation the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable that the Group and the Company have adequate resources them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors to continue in operational existence for aperiod of at least remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 12 months from the date of this report.
For this reason, the and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the IAS regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the Group and Company financial statements.
the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking In reaching this conclusion, the directors have considered: reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are also responsible the financial position of the Group as set out in this report for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
andadditional information provided in the financial Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and statements including note 3 Financial risk management, dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation note 28 Bankand other borrowings and note 30 in other jurisdictions.
Derivativefinancial instruments : the resources available to the Group taking account of its Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in financial projections and considerable existing headroom the Board of directors on pages 50 to 51, confirm that to the best against committed debt facilities and covenants: and of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in the principal risks and uncertainties to which the Group is accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give atrue and exposed, as set out on pages 26 to 29, the likelihood of them fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit arising and the mitigation actions available.
of the Group: and By order of the Board the Strategic report and this Directors report include afair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with adescription of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
M L Thomas Company Secretary Each of the persons who is adirector in office at the date of this report confirms that: 22 February 2016 so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and
