e r u t l u c d 8 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Group strategy Business model 1 We deliver strong and sustainable Technology Operations shareholder returns over the long term through leading positions in aerospace, defence and energy markets, secured on thebasis of our intellectual property and proprietary manufacturing capabilities.
We develop and manufacture components 2 and sub-systems to enhance the Installed performance of airframes, engines and base other high value industrial plant.
Revenue comes from successfully executing original KNOWLEDGE equipment programmes often sole-source Field knowledge and maximising revenue from the enhancing intellectual 4 aftermarket opportunities that flow from property and enabling thewear and tear associated with the harsh continuous improvement environments in which our products operate.
High quality services and support and close relationships with operators 3 deliver the field performance data needed to improve existing products and create next Aftermarket generation technologies.
1 Winning new programmes, often on asole-source basis, through technology andoperations excellence.
Shareholders Returns 2 Delivering Meggitt content onto new platforms generates revenue and provides aftermarket access.
3 Supporting the customer through the product lifecycle delivers additional revenue-generating opportunities through maintenance, repair and Airframers, engine manufacturers, oil and Airlines, armed forces, distributors, overhaul and mid-life product gas platforms and processing vessels integrated MRO providers 64,000-plus platforms carry Meggitt products modifications and upgrades.
4 Reinvesting returns into new technologies, capital equipment and people.
Strategy Our strategy centres on outperforming our chosen markets by realising competitive advantage at every stage of our business model.
We operate in high-growth markets where smart engineering and the ability to Customer navigate the complex regulatory and certification environment associated with our focus safetyand mission-critical products is essential.
We target our technology investments in attractive segments where Meggitt hasor candevelop leading positions.
We invest in operations excellence as a core GROWTH competitive strength and in the people and culture needed to deliver our strategy, through the Meggitt Production System.
This all-embracing operating system is rooted Operations Technology in realising the potential of every employee from factory floors to functions at every excellence level.
Our organisation maximises the value of our products throughout their lifecycles, with strong programme management integrating the efforts of our dedicated original equipment and aftermarket teams to meet the exacting needs of ourcustomers.
Meggitts strategy by market and capability is outlined in the Market review see page 10 and Meggitt divisions see page 13.
indd 8 07 03 2016 04:15 n a e l p o e P REINVESTMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 9 Investment cycle We develop technology for applications with product life-cycles As our products are developed in line with our customers measured in decades.
Products must perform without fail in technology goals, we have performed strongly in recent bid environmental extremes, requiring replacement or overhaul, cycles, securing positions on key platforms and refreshing the generating strong returns from our initial investment over long-term aftermarket pipeline.
In the near-term, our business manyyears.
is focused on the delivery of new development programmes and the transition of new products to full run-rate manufacturing, Our business model requires significant cash investment in the the source of sustainable growth over the long term.
For our wheels and brakes business, we often supply equipment free of charge to the original equipment manufacturer.
We deliver strong positive cashflow within our civil aerospace and military end-markets during the in-service phase, resulting in a cumulative cash break-even period between years 11 and 18 typically, with a shorter cash break-even in the energy market where up front investments are lower.
Cumulative cash flow 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 Typical product lifecycle years Development In production Mature Wheels and brakes Civil Military Energy 156768.01 Text 001-047-NEW-06.03.16.
