Strategic Report Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 27 Longer-term viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate In preparing this statement, the following qualifications and Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects assumptions are made: of the Company over a longer period than the 12 months required i th e viability model is based on the Group as at the date by the Going Concern provision.
of this Annual Report with no consideration of any further acquisitions or future disposals of continuing businesses.
A period of three years is believed to be appropriate for this We note future acquisitions would be based on the same assessment since this is consistent with the Groups financing proven business model applied previously, with related cycle, whereby on average the Group has refinanced debt in line bank debt and equity raised to support the acquisition with with this timescale.
sufficient headroom to cover business risks: and The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation ii fi nancing arrangements and bank covenant testing are in line that the Group will continue in operation and meet its liabilities, with the current facility which is committed for the period as they fall due, up to December 2018. under review.
1 F or further details on the economic risk, foreign exchange risk and liquidity risk, and the The Directors assessment has been made by reference to the mitigating actions being taken by management, please refer to the Risks and uncertainties section of the Strategic Report on pages 30 to 35.
Groups financial position as at 31 December 2015, its prospects, the Groups strategy, the Boards risk appetite and the Groups principal risks and their management, all of which are described in the Strategic Report.
The Directors assessment of the Groups viability is supported by comprehensive and detailed analysis and modelling.
The model underpinning this statement is stress-tested, proven and is frequently used by management when determining working capital requirements for transactions and corporate restructuring.
The model includes three years of forecast data from the Groups business assets and incorporates agreed sensitivities 1 for economic risk, foreign exchange risk and liquidity risk each of which have been considered both individually and in combination by the Board, together with expected achievable mitigating actions, from the working capital model to create severe, but plausible, scenarios.
