Melrose Industries PLC Strategic Report 14 Annual Report 2015 Our strategy in action Improve Transformers Investments have also been Brush The Transformers business made in the development had a much-improved year, of a new robotic generator Despite a difficult trading environment for with sales finishing well ahead maintenance fleet, to deliver Brush with the ongoing slowdown in the Oil of 2014. rapid and detailed internal inspections of generators & Gas sector, operational improvements have Investments in research and without the time-consuming continued to be made, with the expectation development have led to the disassembly process launch of 132 kV transformers, that the business will be well placed to take previously required.
Four of supporting the demand for advantage of new opportunities and any uplift Brushs maintenance teams large transformers from a range are now equipped with the in market conditions.
of industries, including energy new technology, with further and transport, whilst upgrades roll-outs planned for 2016. in manufacturing and testing facilities have led to reductions In collaboration with in lead times by up to a fifth.
eu providers, Brush has taken steps to open service locations Switchgear in Oman and Singapore, to Steps have been taken Generators Furthermore, efforts have increase Aftermarket offerings to realise cost reductions, Resources have been applied been spent in reconstructing in the Middle East and Asia.
complemented by strategic to research and development, the new-build sales force, The first project for the efforts to target processes.
with a prototype 270 MW large with nine new sales managers Singapore workshop took air-cooled generator having and directors recruited from place in autumn 2015, with Aftermarket been produced during the year.
across the US, Europe and operations expected to Investments in a state-of-the-art Asia.
The new team has been The newly-built Chinese factory commence in Oman in 2016. balance pit at Brushs Pittsburgh in place since October 2015 commenced operations in facility commenced in 2015, and consists of strong industry 2015, with delivery of its first with completion expected professionals, with established 1 Total revenue generator expected in 2016. in early 2016.
The investment networks and a drive to allows Brush to offer technology succeed.
which can help to dramatically 261.1m improve machine reliability, 2014: 324.3m whilst also reducing repair times and complementing 2 Headline operating profit Brushs current Aftermarket offerings.
2 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
Strategic Report Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 15 Elster 20122015 Prior to its sale in December 2015, Melrose continued to seek operational improvements in the Elster businesses.
Since acquiring Elster in 2012, Operational highlights during Melrose reorganised the group the year prior to the disposal into three separately-managed include a number of significant business units, Elster Gas, manufacturing footprint Elster Electricity and Elster projects, product launches Water, and invested heavily and the continued roll-out of to improve each of them.
Over the three years of 1 B efore exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
ownership, Melrose achieved: 1 an increase in headline operating profits of 88%: 1 improvements in headline operating margins of nine percentage points, a 70% improvement: 1 average headline operating profit conversion to cash pre capex of 91%: and the acquisition of Eclipse, a manufacturer of gas combustion components and systems to complement Elsters expertise in industrial gas combustion applications.
Melrose Industries PLC Strategic Report 16 Annual Report 2015 Our strategy in action Sell As part of the terms of the The disposal of Elster Disposal of Elster disposal, the Elster-related represents an excellent pension obligations remained outcome for Melrose In July 2015, Melrose announced the disposal with Elster and, in addition, shareholders and another of the Elster business, a world leader in Honeywell assumed the milestone in our track record.
FKI UK and McKechnie UK Through investing heavily measuring and improving the flow of natural defined benefit pension plans.
and improving operational gas, electricity and water, to Honeywell In total, as at the date of the performance we have International Inc. for cash consideration disposal, pension liabilities created substantial value of 3.3 billion.
The shareholders of Melrose with a net accounting deficit for shareholders, more than of 112 million were transferred doubling their money in three approved the disposal on 21 August 2015 to Honeywell.
I am pleased that we and, following receipt of necessary regulatory are able to deliver this return Following the sale and in approvals, the sale was completed in to shareholders earlier than accordance with the Melrose December 2015. we had originally anticipated strategy, Melrose returned and have every confidence approximately 2.4 billion of the that Elster will continue its sale proceeds to shareholders, success story under the the equivalent of 240 pence ownership of Honeywell.
The sale and Return of Capital represents another Christopher Miller, Chairman successful investment period for Melrose.
3.3bn Cash consideration 1.5bn Net cash generated 2.3x Increase in equity value 33% Average annual equity return Strategic Report Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 17
