Melrose Industries PLC Strategic Report 08 Annual Report 2015 Market overview This section details the market trends and external factors affecting the growth of Melrose and its existing business, Brush, and explores how both Melrose and Brush are responding to these trends and factors.
Melrose Market environment Business response for Melrose Given this background, Melrose is content to watch developments carefully Melrose invests in international and to wait for the right opportunity manufacturing companies and to arise to acquire a business.
Melrose is therefore directly and indirectly recognises that it may face strong impacted by events occurring in the competition from a range of market global economy.
The world economy remains very The Board notes that, as the uncertain and generally there has been economic outlook appears more an increase in nervousness amongst uncertain, valuations of businesses most economic commentators, many can decrease, potentially making of whom are concerned that growth acquisition opportunities more exciting.
will be harder to achieve over the near Given that the Group has recently term.
This caution applies to most reduced significantly in size, as a major economies of the world.
result of the successful sale of Elster and Return of Capital to shareholders, Some major themes are driving the uncertain world economic backdrop these concerns, including the wellcould be an opportunity for Melrose documented events in the Oil & Gas to find its next successful acquisition sector, the slowing growth in China at an attractive price.
Furthermore, and the persisting recessions in Brazil the Board is confident that the and Russia.
Other economic concerns necessary funding will be available exist and this uncertainty is leading to finance this.
to weaker business investment across the globe.
Manufacturing companies are not immune to these concerns and some are more acutely affected than others, such as those closely aligned to the Oil & Gas sector.
See Chairmans statement 06 for further discussion on market conditions Strategic Report Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 09 Brush Brush Turbogenerators is the External factors Business response worlds largest independent Some Brush businesses have strong UK During a challenging year, operational revenue streams, principally Transformers, improvements have continued to be manufacturer of electricity the customers of which are regulated made, with the expectation that Brush generating equipment for the by Ofgem, the UK Government regulator will be well placed to take advantage power generation, industrial, for gas and electricity markets.
of new opportunities and any uplift in market conditions.
Oil & Gas and offshore Brush has seen increased consolidation sectors.
within its customer base, whereby current Prior to the completion of the factory in or potential customers have acquired China, Brush supplied generators to its Current market trends generator manufacturing businesses.
Chinese customers from its European Slow growth in the global economy has factories.
The newly-constructed impacted growth in power generation.
In China, the Governments Energy Chinese plant will supply both local Advances in technology are resulting Development Strategy Action Plan and international customers.
The factory in the development of larger, more underpins the move away from coal-fired produced and successfully tested its efficient turbines, often in excess of energy generation in favour of a gas-fired first generator in November 2015, with sizes traditionally supplied by Brush.
This switch is anticipated to expected delivery in the second quarter be reinforced in the Chinese Governments of 2016.
Exceptionally low Oil & Gas prices are th 13 Five-Year Plan, which is expected to having a negative impact on Oil & Gas be finalised in March 2016.
It is anticipated Brushs product development of larger, investment projects, predominantly that this, together with lower gas prices air-cooled generators is expected to in the upstream sector of the industry, globally, will assist in stimulating growth position the business well in future years.
to which Brush has exposure through in gas-fired energy generation.
Chairmans statement 06 Business review 10 Brush offices Wirksworth Loughborough Plzen Pittsburgh Ridderkerk Blackwood Changshu Houston Dubai Bogot Kuala Lumpur Singapore Brisbane
