Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 BOARD of Directors 59 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 BOARD of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 The members of the Board during the year and at the date of this report are as follows: Sir John Sunderland, Nick Varney, Andrew Carr, 1 2 3 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Sir John was appointed Chairman of Nick has over 25 years experience in Andrew is a qualified chartered Merlin Entertainments in December the visitor attractions industry and was accountant and was appointed Chief 2009.
He has been Chairman of the appointed Chief Executive Officer of Financial Officer of Merlin Entertainments Company throughout the year and Merlin Entertainments in 1999.
He has been a Director of continues in this role as at the date has been a Director of the Company the Company throughout the year and of this report.
throughout the year and continues in continues in this role as at the date of this role as at the date of this report.
As previously announced, Sir John is currently Chairman of Andrew will retire at the end of October Cambridge Education Group, Chancellor Prior to Merlin, Nick was Managing 2016 and Anne-Francoise Nesmes will be of Aston University and an Associate Director of Vardon Attractions and a appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Member of BUPA.
He is also an adviser main board Director of Vardon plc.
In Officer in August, allowing for an to CVC Capital Partners.
1999 Nick led the management buyout appropriate transition period.
of Vardon Attractions to form Merlin Previously, Sir John was Chairman of Entertainments.
In 2005 he initiated Prior to Merlin, Andrew was Financial Cadbury Schweppes from 2003 to 2008 the process which led to its acquisition Director of Vardon Attractions and and Chief Executive Officer from 1996 to by Blackstone and subsequent rapid played a key role in the management 2003.
Sir John was also President of the expansion, taking the Company to buyout of Vardon Attractions to form CBI from 2004 to 2006, President of the its 2013 Listing on the London Merlin Entertainments in 1999 and in Chartered Management Institute from Stock Exchange.
the subsequent business, including two 2006 to 2007 and President of the Food follow-on buyouts, the acquisitions of and Drink Federation from 2002 to 2004.
LEGOLAND, Gardaland and The Before joining Vardon Attractions, Tussauds Group and the Listing of Nick held senior positions within Sir John was a Non-executive Director of Merlin Entertainments on the The Tussauds Group then a part of the Rank Group from 1998 to 2006 and London Stock Exchange.
Pearson plc, including Marketing Director a Director of the Financial Reporting of Alton Towers and Head of Group Council from 2004 to 2011.
Before joining Vardon Attractions, Marketing.
He started his career in Andrew trained, and was subsequently FMCG marketing first with Rowntree Sir John was a Non-executive Director of head of a regional Corporate Finance and then Reckitt & Colman.
Barclays Bank PLC from 2005 to 2015 and Department, at KPMG.
60 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 BOARD of Directors Yun Rachel Chiang, His executive career included roles Trudy Rautio, 4 8 Non-executive Director as Chief Executive of Thomson Travel Non-executive Director Group plc, Executive Chairman TUI Rachel was appointed a Non-executive Northern Europe, Director TUI AG Trudy was appointed a Non-executive Director of Merlin Entertainments with and as Director, Passenger & Cargo Director of Merlin Entertainments effect from 1 January 2016 and continues business at British Airways.
He is a former with effect from 1 October 2015 in this role as at the date of this report.
Non-executive Director at Whitbread plc, and continues in this role as at the trustee of the childrens charity Whizz-Kidz date of this report.
She has extensive experience of the and a member of the development board Asian consumer and property markets, of the University of York.
Trudy retired on 1 May 2015 from having held a number of senior executive the position of Chief Executive Officer and non-executive roles in the region.
of Carlson, a privately held global hospitality and travel company.
Trudy Fru Hazlitt, 6 Rachel is currently Partner and founding had been a senior executive with Non-executive Director member of the private equity activities of Carlson since 1997, having served as Pacific Alliance Group PAG, one of the Executive Vice President and Chief Fru was appointed a Non-executive regions largest Asia-focused alternative Financial and Administrative Officer Director of Merlin Entertainments in 2014. investment managers with over $11 of Carlson preceding her appointment She has been a Director of the Company billion in funds under management across as CEO.
throughout the year and continues in this Private Equity, Real Estate and Hedge role as at the date of this report.
She currently holds Non-executive Prior to joining Carlson, Trudy served as positions with Hong Kong-listed Sands Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Fru was formerly Managing Director, China a majority-owned subsidiary of Officer of Jostens, Inc. and served as Commercial, Online and Interactive at Las Vegas Sands and Hong Kong-listed Vice President of Finance for ITV, and previously Chief Executive Pacific Century Premium Developments Minneapolis-based Pillsbury Co.
Officer at GCap Media plc and Virgin PCPD which specializes in the Radio.
Prior to that Fru spent six years at development and management of Yahoo!
where her roles included Trudy is the Chair of The Rezidor premium property and infrastructure Managing Director, UK and Ireland, and Hotel Group Board, and also serves projects in the Asia Pacific region.
Sales and Marketing Director, Europe.
on the Board of Directors for Cargill, The Donaldson Company, Inc. and She is now a Governor of Downe House Securian Holding Company.
School and has also served as a NonCharles Gurassa, 5 executive Director on the Boards of Senior Independent Betfair Plc and Woolworths Plc.
Sren Thorup Srensen, Non-executive Director 9 Non-executive Director Charles was appointed Senior Sren was appointed a Non-executive Independent Non-executive Director of Ken Hydon, 7 Director of the Company in 2013, Merlin Entertainments and Chairman of Non-executive Director representing KIRKBI.
He has been a the Remuneration Committee in 2013.
Director of the Company throughout He has been a Director of the Company Ken was appointed a Non-executive the year and continues in this role as throughout the year and continues in Director and Chairman of the Audit at the date of this report.
this role as at the date of this report.
Committee of Merlin Entertainments in 2013.
He has been a Director of Sren is currently the Chief Executive Charles is the Non-executive Chairman the Company throughout the year and Officer of KIRKBI, following his of Channel 4 and Genesis Housing continues in this role as at the date appointment in March 2010.
Sren was Association, Deputy Chairman at EasyJet of this report.
formerly a Partner, Chief Financial Officer plc and a trustee of English Heritage and and member of the Group Executive the Migration Museum.
He is a former Ken is currently a Non-executive Director Board of A. P. Moller - Maersk Group Chairman of Virgin Mobile plc, LOVEFiLM, of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Prior to this Phones4U, MACH, Tragus, NetNames, he was CFO of Vodafone Group Plc.
Ken he was Managing Partner of KPMG Parthenon Entertainments and Alamo was also a Non-executive Director of Denmark, having been a Partner at National Rent a Car and former Deputy Tesco Plc from 2004 to 2013, a NonKPMG since 1997.
Outside the KIRKBI Chairman of the National Trust.
executive Director of Royal Berkshire Group, Sren is currently Non-executive NHS Foundation Trust from 2005 to Chairman of Topdanmark A S and holds 2012 and a Non-executive Director of Non-executive Director positions at Pearson Plc from 2006 to 2015.
LEGO A S, TDC A S and Falck Holding A S. 61
