Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 TEAM MERLIN THE MERLIN WAY CAPTURES THE ESSENCE OF HOW TEAM MERLIN ARE ALIGNED WITH OUR ULTIMATE GOAL OF DELIVERING MEMORABLE EXPERIENCES TO OUR GUESTS.
OUR PEOPLE STRATEGY UNDERPINS THIS GOAL, DRIVING OUR AMBITION TO BE THE BEST COMPANY TO WORK FOR IN OUR INDUSTRY: NURTURING OUR GLOBAL LEADERS: GIVING OUR TEAM THE SKILLS TO BE THE BEST AT WHAT THEY DO: AND REWARDING GREAT PERFORMANCE.
OUR SUCCESS IS DEMONSTRATED BY THE OUTSTANDING EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SCORES RETURNED BY OUR ANNUAL EMPLOYEE SURVEY.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 TEAM MERLIN Employeeengagement Other engagement initiatives Merlins success rests with Team Merlin, our extraordinary We continue to promote strong communications across all our people who have an absolute passion for what they do, offices and attractions.
These include quarterly team briefs from delivering memorable experiences to our visitors.
the Executive team, attraction team briefs, newsletters and good, old-fashioned noticeboards.
Or as we put it, living The Merlin Way.
The Merlin Way values capture the All our people can play a full part at Merlin through a number of essence of Merlin.
These include: what we do, We CARE and we do FOR THE LOVE OF FUN it all FOR THE LOVE OF FUN.
These - this encourages everybody values are the reason why so many of to embed their love of fun into our employees love working here to the way we work, so that its at keep on giving our visitors the most the heart of everything we do.
magical, memorable experiences STAR - our online global every day, everywhere.
recognition scheme where employees can send Stars to Our People Strategy underpins how the Group meets its recognise colleagues who live The Merlin Way, or just to say objectives, keeping our people engaged and focused on our Thank You for a job well done.
In 2015, they sent more than customers.
Wherever they work and whatever their role, our 100,000 Stars worldwide - the most ever!
job is to make sure that our people feel that theyre working for Spark an Idea - another online service that lets our colleagues the best - and certainly most magical - company in our sector.
share their ideas, however big or small.
For example, Trading Most importantly though it is our shared vision of doing it all Ambassadors at one LEGOLAND resort now put LEGO FOR THE LOVE OF FUN!
Minifigures on their name badges to trade with visitors.
Our visitors love it - and it boosts our Minifigure sales, too!
Awards The Merlin Way Film Competition - this gives our people the The Sunday Times 25 Best Big chance to make a short video demonstrating just how they Companies to Work For survey make The Merlin Way come to life.
This year Madame has ranked us 15th for 2015 and Tussauds London beat more than 100 other entries were in the top 25 again for 2016. from across the globe!
The Job Crowd also named us as one of the top five companies for graduates in our sector.
The Wizard Wants to Know During the summer, we ran The Wizard Wants to Know, our annual online employee survey.
We invited everybody to tell us what they think and to make suggestions - its our chance to find out just how engaged our employees really are.
Were excited that our people, everywhere, completed the survey, and thrilled that again, 95% of our respondents said that they enjoy working here.
We think these scores are truly awesome!
Our employee engagement score is one of Merlins Key Performance Indicators, measuring whether our teams think we are a Great Place to Perform, a Great Place for Customers, and a Great Place to Work.
This year were really proud that our engagement score has increased again and that its way above our 80% target.
We continue to believe that The Merlin Way sits at the heart of these great results.
The Merlin Way: our special potion of Merlin values that wins the hearts and minds of our employees to deliver memorably fun experiences to our guests.
37 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 TEAM MERLIN Talentanddevelopment Merlins future growth depends on recruiting and developing the Team Merlin of the future.
Were an entertainment company, dedicated to giving our guests unforgettable experiences, so we seek out people who have a genuine love of fun and a natural ability to inject magic into the lives of our guests whenever they visit one of our attractions.
Once recruited, its our commitment to develop and promote people within Merlin by offering amazing careers.
We carefully nurture their talents, providing them with training to do a great job and supporting their development to enable them to take full Colleagues at LEGOLAND Billund making it FUN advantage of the fantastic opportunities available.
We encourage employees to move across disciplines, brands, and countries to Diversity build their own unique careers like many hundreds of employees Our people are the single biggest reason for our success, so before them.
Fundamentally we believe Merlin offers a world of were always striving to make life at Merlin better for all of them.
opportunities: whatever they want from their next role, we Diversity is a crucial part of this.
Weve designed our strategy to strive to offer it in Merlin!
give us the best people for every role, regardless of gender, race, disability, sexual orientation, or any other factor.
We want to Recruitment make sure that, wherever possible, everyone has the same As Merlin grows each year, we need an access to every opportunity.
You can read more about our ever greater variety of roles and skills disability work in our Being a Force for Good section on page 54. and offer an increasingly wide range of opportunities.
We have been working In 2015 we continued our work to promote gender diversity, closely with our recruiters to give them where our Women at Merlin W@M programme has been the skills, knowledge and creativity they a great success.
It helps us give women the support and need to find and select candidates who opportunities they need to achieve their ambitions and have the right skills and attitudes for develop into senior roles.
We have now expanded the long and successful careers with us.
network by opening up some of our W@M workshops and webinars to women working at lower grades across Technology plays a key role in our hiring strategy and application the world.
There are now 108 women making up 33% of process so we continue to put special emphasis on our social our senior leadership teams, while 3,925 or 49% of our media activities and how we present our internal employer permanent colleagues are women.
brand and values to the outside world.
In developing markets, we continue to build relationships that will help us improve Each of our Operating Groups has now set up Diversity our campaigns there.
These dont just focus on achieving a gender balance, but on improving our diversity overall.
To Welcome to Team Merlin - our new induction support this, weve launched an Unconscious Bias programme In 2015 we launched our brand new induction, Welcome to for our senior leaders globally.
It trains them to recognise and Team Merlin.
Were now confident that, wherever in the world avoid unconscious bias, so that Merlin remains an inclusive our new people join us, they have a clear, consistent and fun place to work, where every single employee can flourish.
induction into our magical business.
The induction has proved hugely successful globally, with some outstanding feedback.
We also introduced our global Senior Leader Induction.
This brings together our new leaders from around the world for an exciting five days.
Sessions provide insights into the whole Merlin business, our Operating Groups, Merlin Magic Making and other key functions.
The induction gives our new leaders a fabulous opportunity to network and a valuable chance to improve their understanding of our strategy, The Merlin Way, and their role as a Merlin leader in fulfilling our strategy and enhancing our culture.
Colleagues at Falls Creek on the slopes!
38 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 TEAM MERLIN Training And finally, at any time our teams can access Merlins School of Whether customer facing, in a management role or a support Magic, our online training resource run with the renowned function at any of our attractions, or in a position at one of our Ashridge Business School.
corporate offices, our goal is to allow everyone to have the right skills to be the best at what they do and fulfil their potential in  their career with Merlin.
A key component of this is the wealth When you rely on your people as much as we do, its essential of training we provide.
Aside from the initial induction, there are to provide compensation and benefit programmes which are opportunities specific to an individuals role and an abundance competitive and which support our business and culture.
of specialist training to further enhance their careers.
Share plans Accelerate We continue to make great Accelerate is our fast track graduate programme which provides progress towards our goal tailored roles for Marketing and General Management positions of helping as many of our and is structured to support individuals at every step of their colleagues as possible to Merlin career.
This was demonstrated in 2015 when all of our take an equity stake in Merlin.
2013 intake moved into permanent roles and a number of We call this Owning a Piece Accelerate alumni were promoted into senior positions across of the Magic and its an the Group.
Reflecting our global scale, the 2015 intake included important way of making super-talented recruits from across the UK, North America, Team Merlin even more Germany, China, Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea and Australia.
Leadership development programmes Early in the year we launched our second Employee Sharesave Weve got lots of other brilliant leadership development offer.
It gives our permanent colleagues a chance to build up a programmes, including partnering with the IMD Business School holding of Merlin shares by saving over a three year period in Switzerland to provide our senior executives with exceptional and buying shares at a discount.
This opportunity was spread leadership development.
Our flagship XCalibre programme, internally with a huge multi-media campaign, which included which we run with Kingston University is for leaders with bags videos from our CEO, webinars, face to face briefings, intranet of potential.
Theres the Merlin Leadership Programme, which updates, posters and table-top teasers.
Were thrilled that, we run globally, as well as our Bootcamps - development centres so far, almost 38% of our permanent colleagues worldwide specifically for our General Management, Finance and HR team have enrolled in the Sharesave plans.
Bootcamps combine personal development and competency assessment to help us identify and nurture the We also made more than 400 share awards to colleagues at talent already working here.
executive, senior and middle management levels under our long term incentive plans.
Merlin employee exchange programme Originally launched in the UK, the Merlin Employee Exchange Other benefits initiatives Programme is now a global success story.
Through job swaps We continue to harmonise our local benefit structures or placements, the programme gives our people the chance to one country at a time and run a number of programmes to work in other attractions around the world.
Linked to individual support our teams.
For example, weve increased our focus on employees Personal Development Plans and Merlins succession pensions particularly in the UK, to reflect the age profile of planning strategy, this programme lets those involved develop our employees and ensure we apply latest legislation.
Weve new skills, forge new relationships and benefit from new also extended our employee healthcheck programme to experiences, all of which help prepare them for the next step support the physical wellbeing of our people.
Nearly 60 placements took place in 2015.
Weve seen a big jump in the number of colleagues moving to new countries to support our business growth, and things havent slowed down this year!
These moves have directly supported our Midway and LEGOLAND attractions as they step up their development.
Our international mobility programme is invaluable in helping us move our greatest assets safely, securely and comfortably.
