Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Report Introduction Disclosure Sectiontitle Pages This section of the Annual Report and Accounts includes Relationship Corporate Governance 62 to 65 additional information required to be disclosed under the Agreements Report Companies Act 2006, the DTRs, the Code and the Listing Rules.
additional details Internal Controls Audit Committee Report 70 to 75 Certain information required to be included in the Directors Report is included in other sections of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Financial Instruments Note 4.3 to 135 to 138 the Accounts These sections provide an overview of the strategy, development and performance of the Companys business in the year ended and as at 26 December 2015 together with information on the approach of Share Capital and Note 4.5 to 141 to 142 Movements therein the Accounts the Company to Corporate Governance and the constitution, work and effectiveness of the Board and its principal Committees.
Subsidiary and Note 5.8 to 150 to 154 Associated the Accounts The following sections are therefore incorporated by reference Undertakings into this Directors Report: The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 57.
The Corporate Governance Statement on page 58.
The section entitled Board of Directors on pages 59 to 61.
Directors The Corporate Governance Report on pages 62 to 65.
The names of the persons who, at any time during the financial The Health, Safety and Security Committee Report year, were Directors of the Company are: on pages 66 to 69.
The Audit Committee Report on pages 70 to 75.
Name The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 96.
The Nomination Committee Report on page 97.
Sir John Sunderland Nick Varney The Company is required to provide disclosures and information Andrew Carr in relation to a number of additional matters which are covered elsewhere in this Annual Report and Accounts.
These matters Charles Gurassa and cross-references to the relevant sections of this Annual Ken Hydon Report and Accounts are shown in the following table: Miguel Ko Fru Hazlitt Sren Thorup Srensen Disclosure Sectiontitle Pages Dr. Gerry Murphy Future Developments Strategic Report 2 to 57 Rob Lucas Research and Merlin Magic Making 32 to 35 Development Trudy Rautio Employee diversity Team Merlin 36 to 39 and engagement Miguel Ko, Dr. Gerry Murphy and Rob Lucas were Directors from Greenhouse Gas Being a Force for Good - 51 to 57 the start of the financial year until the conclusion of the 2015 Emissions Corporate Social AGM.
Trudy Rautio was appointed a Director with effect from Responsibility The Merlin Way 1 October 2015.
Disabled persons Being a Force for Good - 51 to 57 Corporate Social Rachel Chiang was subsequently appointed a Director with effect Responsibility The Merlin Way from 1 January 2016.
98 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Report Each Director in post at the time of the AGM other than  Miguel Ko, Dr. Gerry Murphy and Rob Lucas offered themselves The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by for re-election at the 2015 AGM of the Company and their a special resolution of its shareholders passed at a general re-election was approved by shareholders.
All Directors other meeting of its shareholders.
than Miguel Ko, Dr. Gerry Murphy and Rob Lucas remained in office at the end of the financial year.
 The Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company  including, subject to obtaining the required authority from the The Articles of Association of the Company permit it to shareholders in general meeting, the power to authorise the issue indemnify the Directors of the Company or any Group company of new shares and the purchase of the Companys shares.
Since its shares were listed on the London Stock Exchange on against liabilities arising from or in connection with the execution 13 November 2013, the Directors have not exercised any of of their duties or powers to the extent permitted by law.
The the powers to issue or purchase shares in the Company.
Company has not given any specific indemnity in favour of the Directors during the year but the Company has purchased Relatedparties Directors and Officers Liability Insurance during the year, The only material agreements with related parties during the which provides cover for liabilities incurred by Directors in year were as follows: the performance of their duties or powers.
LEGOLAND Licence and Co-operation Agreement LCA : This agreement was entered into on 24 August 2005 with No amount was paid under any Directors indemnity or the KIRKBI and sets out the rights granted to the Group to use Directors and Officers Liability Insurance during the year other the LEGO and LEGOLAND brands in connection with the than the applicable insurance premiums.
development, operation and promotion of the Groups present and future LEGOLAND businesses.
It includes certain  requirements for the Group to develop LEGOLAND A Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of attractions, certain operational requirements for those shareholders in a general meeting following nomination by the attractions, and the nature of royalties due to KIRKBI for the Board or a member or members entitled to vote at such a use of the rights.
The LCA includes rights for KIRKBI to meeting or following retirement by rotation if the Director terminate the LCA on a change of control of Merlin but only chooses to seek re-election at a general meeting.
if this would result in a Licensee as defined in the LCA being controlled by a LEGO competitor or an inappropriate party.
In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director to fill a vacancy The LCA defines an inappropriate party as any person or or as an additional Director, provided that the individual retires entity other than a financial institution where one-third of its at the next AGM.
A Director may be removed by the Company revenue is derived from the manufacture and sale of tobacco, in certain circumstances set out in the Companys Articles of armaments and or pornographic material.
Association or by a special resolution of the Company.
All Relationship Agreements with each of KIRKBI, Blackstone and Directors will stand for re-election on an annual basis, in line CVC: the Blackstone and CVC Relationship Agreements with the recommendations of the Code.
ended when they ceased to be shareholders in March 2015: more details on the KIRKBI Relationship Agreement are Specific details relating to KIRKBI and their rights to appoint provided in the Corporate Governance section on page 62.
Directors are set out in the Corporate Governance section on page 62.
There were no contracts of significance during the year to which the Company, or any of its subsidiary undertakings, is a party and  in which a Director is or was materially interested.
The Articles of Association do not contain any restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company other than customary restrictions applicable where any amount is unpaid on a share all the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts is fully paid.
Each ordinary share in the capital of the Company ranks equally in all respects.
No shareholder holds shares carrying special rights relating to the control of the Company.
99 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Report Changeofcontrol Subsequentevents The only other significant agreements to which the Company is On 24 February 2016 the Group invested $34.4 million a party that takes effect, alters or terminates upon a change of 24.6 million in Big Bus Tours Group Holdings Limited, the control of the Company following a takeover bid, are: leading global owner-operator of Hop On Hop Off City Tours.
The consideration will be settled in cash and will provide Merlin i a Multi-currency Facilities Agreement entered into by the with a minority equity holding and an investment in loan notes.
Group dated 25 February 2015 which replaced the Groups existing debt facilities.
This includes provisions in relation to Goingconcern a change of control or the sale of all or substantially all of The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial the Groups assets, the occurrence of which will, after a resources to continue operating for the next twelve months and negotiation period, give the lenders under the Agreement that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis the right to accelerate outstanding loans and terminate in preparing the financial statements.
The outstanding senior unsecured facilities comprise approximately 648 million in floating rate term The Directors have satisfied themselves that the Group is in a debt and a 300 million revolving credit facility, both to sound financial position and that it has access to sufficient cash mature in 2020. funds and borrowing facilities and can reasonably expect those facilities to be available to meet the Groups foreseeable ii an Indenture dated as of 19 March 2015 in relation to an cash requirements.
issue of 500 million 2.75% fixed rate notes due in 2022 the notes under which, in the event of a change of control The process followed by the Group in the preparation of the of the Company and a ratings event, the holders of the Viability Statement is set out in the Risks and uncertainties notes may have the right to require that those notes be section on page 42. repurchased at 101% of their principal nominal amount plus any accrued and unpaid interest.
Auditinformation So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware.
The Directors Further details on the Groups banking facilities are shown in have taken all reasonable steps to ascertain any relevant note 4.2 to the financial statements.
audit information and ensure the auditors are aware of such information.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office  or employment resulting from a change of control.
As recommended by the Audit Committee, a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG LLP as auditors to the Company will BranchesoutsidetheUK be proposed at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Merlin Entertainments plc has no branches outside the UK.
 Dividend The Strategic Report, Corporate Governance Statement and An interim dividend of 2.1 pence per share was paid on Report and the Directors Report were approved by the Board 24 September 2015 to shareholders on the Register on 14 August on 24 February 2016.
A final dividend for the year ended 26 December 2015 of 4.4 pence per share will be recommended for payment to For and on behalf of the Board shareholders.
The final dividend will be proposed to shareholders for approval at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Armstrong Politicaldonations  No political donations were made during the year.
