Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 OUR STRATEGY and business model MERLINS BRANDS MIDWAY With 47 sites, SEA LIFE is the Madame Tussauds heritage worlds biggest aquarium brand, and the breathtaking artistry built around the notion of Amazing of the figures at our 19 sites Discoveries, and home to a variety differentiate it from other of creatures from shrimps and wax attractions.
Famous Fun starfish to seahorses, rays, sharks is the heart of the and seals.
SEA LIFE campaigns experience, where visitors actively on a variety of conservation are encouraged to interact issues prioritised around breeding, with all the historical and rescue and protection of the celebrity figures from marine environment.
13 LEGOLAND Discovery The nine Dungeons are a Centres are the ultimate unique mix of dark, historical LEGO indoor playground, horror and irreverent with over two million bricks humour delivered through under one roof.
With Playful set piece shows performed Learning at the heart of the by live actors, rides and experience, they create a spine chillingly themed sets.
fun filled and interactive Scary Fun is the goal, environment where children delivered daily to families, and parents are inspired teenagers and young adults.
At DreamWorks Tours - Shreks Adventure!
guests play their part in a unique Each of our four Eye and interactive DreamWorks observation attractions experience, where the choices offers the ultimate viewing they make decide the outcome.
experience, unparalleled and At the heart of this are the different every time, giving a  RevealingPerspective of you experience in the the locations landscape company of your favourite and iconic landmarks.
6 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 THEME PARKS With Playful Learning at the heart of the experience, our six LEGOLAND resorts across Europe, North America and Asia offer a unique LEGO themed experience for families with children aged two to twelve years, including highly themed accommodation and based on interactivity, imagination and family fun.
Alton Towers Resort is the Insane fun is on offer at UKs number one theme THORPE PARK, the UKs park resort, set in 500 acres third biggest theme park and of beautiful Staffordshire acknowledged thrill capital countryside.
Boasting two for teenagers, young adults themed hotels, The Enchanted and older families.
The Village lodges and an indoor resort now includes the waterpark, it invites families, unique THORPE SHARK teenagers and young adults Hotel, offering bite-sized alike into a world of rooms in a stunning Fantastical Escapism.
Heide Park is Germanys Wild Adventure is at the third biggest theme park heart of Chessington World with rides and attractions of Adventures Resort, with appealing to all ages, set in exotic themed lands and four lands of Extraordinary rides mixed with amazing Adventure.
The resor t creatures from around the attracts visitors from all over world.
Guests can stay in Germany and beyond, who the heart of the adventure can stay in the Heide Park at our Safari and Azteca Adventure Hotel or adjacent resort hotels.
Gardaland Resort is Italys leading theme park.
Located on the edge of Lake Garda, it boasts rides for all ages set in a beautifully landscaped Jousting, knights, princesses, and themed world.
Big falconry, staged scenes by Fantasy Adventure is Madame Tussauds and the all around, including Castle Dungeon all make at the Gardaland Hotel Warwick the Ultimate and adjacent SEA LIFE.
