MERLIN MAGIC MAKING IS THE UNIQUE RESOURCE THAT SITS AT THE HEART OF EVERYTHING MERLIN DOES.
THIS SPECIALIST IN-HOUSE TEAM EMPLOYS OVER 300 PEOPLE IN ITS BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, CREATIVE, PRODUCTION AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT TEAMS.
MERLIN MAGIC MAKING CONSTANTLY RAISES THE BAR IN INNOVATIVE THINKING.
MERLIN MAGIC MAKING Finds new business opportunities all over the planet.
Creates the highest class visitor attractions and compelling propositions.
Takes creative ideas and produces amazing content for our attractions.
Delivers them at market leading speed and value.
FINDING THE MAGIC 2016 IS SET TO BE EVEN BUSIER The Midway pipeline roll out was successfully delivered for 2015, with seven businesses opened across three continents.
2016 development is set to be even busier.
We have already secured seven new Midways scheduled to open this year, with three in China, two in the USA and two in Europe, with our first adventure in India also underway as we target a 2017 opening for Madame Tussauds in New Delhi.
As we look to continue our growth in line with our strategy and to capitalise on our new relationship with China Media Capital, we have strengthened our Asia team.
32 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 MERLIN Magic Making CREATING THE MAGIC Our Midway roll out continued apace in 2015, starting with SEA LIFE Michigan and followed by the cluster of three attractions in Orlando, two new LDCs in Osaka and Istanbul and, last but not least, the amazing new DreamWorks Tours - Shreks Adventure!
Across our existing businesses, 2015 has been yet another huge success, led by a new dive-coaster, Oblivion, in Gardaland and two new LEGO Friends lands in our LEGOLAND resorts.
Our creative and innovative pipeline looks even stronger as we look forward into 2016.
We have some amazing projects near completion across the whole Group, including at THORPE PARK, Alton Towers, SEA LIFE Sydney Aquarium and the LEGOLAND parks in California and Billund.
WE HAVE PROACTIVELY TEAMED UP WITH SOME OF THE BIGGEST IP HOLDERS IN THE WORLD In 2016 we will see a As Intellectual Property IP becomes even more prevalent across the whole industry, we continue to strengthen our fully integrated Virtual Reality portfolio, proactively teaming up with some of the biggest IP roller coaster experience at holders in the world to produce some ground breaking magic.
Alton Towers, which will lead DreamWorks Animation, the BBC, Derren Brown, LEGO, Star Wars, and Horrible Histories are just the highlights to a mesmerising visit to of the stellar line up we have in 2016. outer space We will look even further into these relationships and drive new IP opportunities by proactively seeking out partners for true co-creation.
The next generation of these partnerships can be seen with the new Derren Brown Ghost Train experience at THORPE PARK see page 35.
OUR UNIQUE BLEND OF MATCHING TECHNOLOGIES OLD AND Ohand in our spare time we have a couple of ideas on our own IP frontwatch this space!
NEW TOGETHER Technology continues to feature heavily in our thinking, with our unique blend of technologies old and new, ensuring that we produce innovative, exciting and immersive experiences for our guests to enjoy.
In 2016 we will see a fully integrated Virtual Reality roller coaster experience at Alton Towers, which will lead to a mesmerising visit to outer space, as well as ground breaking ride technology being introduced into our LEGOLAND parks.
33 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 MERLIN Magic Making DELIVERING THE MAGIC During a breathtaking 2015 we have been working on over 50 major projects, in eleven countries.
These projects represent a total capital investment of nearly 240 million - another record!
All of our Midway roll out businesses have started the build process and our existing estate projects are nearing completion for a great 2016.
Hotels development is in really good shape.
In 2016 we will see the launch of a new 100 room hotel in Gardaland and a further Castle hotel launched at LEGOLAND Deutschland to complement the existing offering.
We have further strengthened our projects team with a number of key appointments in 2015, introducing more specialists to ensure we can continue to successfully deliver the magic.
PRODUCING THE MAGIC To support our innovative thinking we are ensuring that our Overall 2015 has been a real success, 2016 is beginning to shape technology stays at the forefront of our production processes.
up really well and we are looking forward to pushing ourselves to new heights in our delivery to our guests.
In wax production we have been using 3D printing technology to help us create bodies for our figures and have used a variety of 3D mapping techniques to improve the quality and quicken the process of producing wax heads.
In 2016 we will see LEGO model demand continues to rise, with the opening of our new parks in Dubai and Japan, our expansion of the LEGOLAND the launch of a new 100 Discovery Centre chain and the great new features we plan for our existing LEGOLANDs.
To meet this demand we are starting room hotel in Gardaland to implement our hub strategy, where we plan to have three main geographic production hubs Asia, Europe, North America and a further Castle hotel over the next few years.
This starts with our brand new Merlin Magic Making production hub in Florida that opens in the first launched at LEGOLAND quarter of 2016 and the expansion of our very successful hub in Malaysia.
Deutschland Merlin Animal Welfare continues to be at the forefront of the care and wellbeing of the wonderful creatures in our care.
We have new training programmes in place that are enhancing the skills of our animal care teams and we are working with a number of external conservation partners to make sure that we are leading the industry when it comes to the collection and display of animals.
The team have been heavily involved in projects as diverse as banning the use of cyanide in the wild to creating sustainable animal collection methods.
34 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 MERLIN Magic Making  PARK We are co-creating a worlds first entertainment experience - with What are the well known Intellectual Property, Derren Brown.
able to marry the mind bending talents of Derren to that of the Merlin Magic Making creative team, to create a unique entertainment that has not been seen before.
In the great Merlin Magic Making tradition, we are using a mix of How are we innovative technology, standard show-based entertainment and doing it?
new ride design, to create a visitor experience that will be absolutely unique, not just to the theme park market, but to any entertainment experience.
Work on construction is completed and we are in the process of adding that special magic that will deliver a world class attraction.
If you want to have your socks blown What will the off, see you at THORPE PARK in 2016. results be?
