ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Business Model PageGroups business model has proved itself through economic cycles and as the business has expanded into a global enterprise.
At its core is a focus on organic growth.
Recruitment is a fast-paced and PageGroup offers its consultants dynamic business.
Our agility gives a well-defined and varied career us the confidence to respond quickly in recruitment.
This includes a to the opportunities and challenges clear development structure with as they appear.
significant opportunities for the most talented.
We regularly move Agile and experienced Career responsive directors into development markets where structure they can add the most value and guide the business through the challenges of Team a market cycle, A focus on profit-led while allowing team-based Organic compensation us to retain and performance Global motivate key rather than Growth management senior talent.
the individual mobility promotes positive corporate behaviour and consistent quality of service for Productivity-led both clients and Experienced expansion candidates.
management pool Our operational metrics focus on Experience through economic productivity, by team, discipline and cycles and across geographies and geography.
This bottom-up approach disciplines reduces our learning aligns expansion criteria throughout curve, maximises scalability and is the Group, focusing and optimising crucial for placing resources where investment on key priorities.
they will add the most value.
1 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Our Competitive Advantage Brand Scale Culture Our true competitive advantage is the combination of these three factors and the balance we have achieved in the business over the past 39 years.
Brand Scale Culture Page Executive, Michael Page and Our scale enables PageGroup to PageGroups culture is unique in Page Personnel are brands which commit to markets through cycles the sector and has ingrained values inspire high levels of confidence, giving clients the confidence to build of how to do business properly, trust and assurance of quality long-term relationships with us.
It ethically and to make decisions for service.
Our consistent commitment also enables a broader client offering the long term.
to the markets in which we operate with participation from multiple It is a global culture that delivers a and level of expertise enables these disciplines, even in some of our consistent approach both internally brands to resonate strongly in newest markets.
and externally, while being accepting their marketplace.
The ability to offer diverse of the particular character of each The digital revolution has reshaped expertise across a broad range of local market.
The global nature of the recruitment sectors marketing complementary specialisms and the culture is aided by a high degree and delivery channels, and we are geographies enhances our offering of management mobility.
and the candidate pools we can It is reinforced through our However, high quality candidates will access.
Our scale enables us to consultant training programmes, only continue to place key decisions build an unrivalled skillset and the processes by which we do on their future in the hands of level of experience, equally business, and our team-based consultants who have substance available to the smallest and largest approach which is at the heart of behind their online marketing profile.
It also encourages We are trusted by our clients and Our strong financial standing has us to challenge ourselves with candidates to remain committed, to also been increasingly important confidence, and to respect the provide a high quality service and to for many clients who prefer not successes of our colleagues.
be there for the long term.
to work with the smaller market players, particularly in times of economic uncertainty.
Temporary staff also derive comfort from our financial strength that their salaries will be paid.
See page 13 for a case study See more on our culture in on one of our High Potential Our Employee Value Proposition Markets in 2015 on page 25 2 PB
