ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Q&A with Steve Ingham, CEO Q.
How do you use technology effectively in the business?
At a high level, technology delivers speed and efficiency deliver on their targets.
Managers can track against targets set, for teams, boosting productivity.
It also drives candidate enabling them to manage performance effectively down to an acquisition and gives management the tools to drive sales individual level with a sales focus.
Our greatest assets are our people.
This real time data allows Efficient use of technology to carry out the recruitment process us to manage them more effectively on a day-to-day basis and effectively allows the teams to spend more time working with our develop them more quickly into great recruiters.
We can quickly clients and candidates to better deliver on their requirements.
It identify a training need, for example, where a consultant making minimises the time they spend on administration, whether that 100 business development calls, but not generating enough be searching, loading vacancies on job boards, or compliance.
new jobs, clearly needs training around the content of their In turn, this maximises their exposure talking to candidates calls to ensure success.
They benefit from the training via new and clients with a system focused on streamlining processes, skills and increased remuneration, the Group benefits from a resulting in an increase in productivity.
motivated workforce and improved productivity.
Technology also gives us easy access to visual KPI information.
These are on each managers homepage and each consultant has their own KPIs, against which they monitor their progression.
These can be tailored to each consultant daily, to ensure they are focusing on the relevant task needed to 19 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Q.
What do you consider the outlook to be for such as LinkedIn and social media have 2016 and what do you consider to be your on your business?
A. LinkedIn is another significant channel for us to acquire A.
We are cautiously optimistic over the outlook for 2016. candidates and clients, as well as an opportunity to build our There are macro-economic challenges in a number of our larger brands.
Technology, including CV boards and networks like markets and the current cycle is proving to be unpredictable in LinkedIn, has driven a perception that everyone has equal nature.
We have limited visibility of the economic outlook and as access to every candidate.
Our skill at PageGroup is putting such we will continue to focus on driving profitable growth, as the human initiative and contact back into that process, which we have throughout 2015.
Managing the business through this is crucial in such a candidate driven market.
We know more economic volatility will be our key challenge for 2016, though I about our candidates than any publicly available data ever will: am highly confident that we have the best management team in their motivations: requirements: skills: personality: culture: style: place to do this.
We were also very proud to receive an award from LinkedIn Q.
How far can someone go in their career at in 2015, where we were named as globally the Most Socially PageGroup?
More people engage with our content and presence on LinkedIn than any other recruiter.
As an organically grown business, there is plenty of Meaningful and relevant content allows us to interact everyday opportunity to progress rapidly within PageGroup, from with our potential and returning customers, providing the insight consultant to the senior leadership team, and we have many they need to help them, but also helping us increase our brand examples of this across the Group.
As far as myself, and all the awareness and to build affinity so that we are their recruiter Chief Executive Officers before me are concerned, we started of choice.
out as consultants and worked our way through the business.
This is also true of every member of the senior operational management team: none were recruited in.
Do you anticipate further special returns To facilitate this progression, we have a clearly defined talent to shareholders in 2016?
development training roadmap, supporting the professional A.
We continue to operate a policy of financing the activities development of all our staff at every stage of their career.
and development of the Group from our retained earnings and to operate while maintaining a strong balance sheet position.
How is PageGroup developing its Directors We first use our cash to satisfy our operational and investment requirements, and to hedge our liabilities under the Groups to become senior leaders of the future?
We invest a significant amount of resource to succession We then review our liquidity over and above this requirement to planning, talent development and talent retention.
As well as make returns to shareholders, firstly by way of ordinary dividend.
offering a competitive remuneration package, we also run Our policy is to grow this ordinary dividend over the course of executive coaching schemes, internal and external mentor the economic cycle, in line with our long-term growth rate: we programmes, 360 degree feedback assessments, Personal believe this enables us to sustain the level of ordinary dividend Development Plan development and a Global Directors payments during a downturn as well as increasing it during more Academy in which we partner with an external leadership prosperous times.
Cash generated in excess of these first two priorities will be All this investment generates the necessary skills with which our returned to shareholders through supplementary returns, using consultants of today can become the leaders of tomorrow.
special dividends or share buybacks.
In 2015, after consultation with our shareholders, we made a supplementary return of 16p per share.
We will continue to monitor our liquidity in 2016 and will make returns to shareholders in line with the above policy.
