Directors report The directors of Micro Focus International Interests in share capital plc the Company present their report Directors and their interests and the audited consolidated financial The directors of the Company who served during the year reported on and up to the date statements of the Company for the year of signing this report are shown below.
Directors of the Company Strategic report The Group is required by the Companies Executive Act 2006 to present a fair review of the Kevin Loosemore Executive Chairman business during the year to 30 April 2015 and of the position of the Group at the end Mike Phillips Chief Financial Officer of the financial year along with a description Stephen Murdoch Chief Operating Officer until 20 November 2014 of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group.
In addition, the Group is also Non-executive required to present the future developments David Maloney Senior independent non-executive director and Deputy of the Company.
The information that fulfils Chairman until 25 September 2014 these requirements can be found on pages Karen Slatford Senior independent non-executive director 4 to 33 of the strategic report.
Tom Skelton Corporate governance Tom Virden The Group is required to produce a Richard Atkins corporate governance statement pursuant Prescott Ashe appointed 20 November 2014 to the Financial Conduct Authority FCAs David Golob appointed 20 November 2014 Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The information that fulfils this requirement Karen Geary appointed 8 January 2015 can be found in this directors report and in the corporate governance section on pages 38 to 41 which is incorporated into David Maloney retired from the board at the Details of the interests of the directors this directors report by reference.
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and their families in the ordinary shares on 25 September 2014 having served on of the Company, as disclosed in the register Dividends the board for over nine years.
On completion of directors interests, are given in the The board has in recent periods had a of the acquisition of TAG, Prescott Ashe remuneration report on pages 48 to 69. dividend policy to award a level of full a Managing Director of Golden Gate Capital year dividend covered approximately two and David Golob Partner and Chief None of the directors had a material interest times on a pre-exceptional earnings basis.
Investment Officer at Francisco Partners in any contract of significance to which the Following the completion of the acquisition joined the board as non-executive directors.
Company or a subsidiary was a party during of TAG, unless the performance of the To ensure an appropriate balance between the financial year, as disclosed in note 38 Enlarged Group were to fall significantly independent and non-independent directors, Related party transactions.
below the boards expectations, the board Stephen Murdoch stepped down from has implemented a progressive dividend the board at completion whilst remaining The Company maintains insurance cover policy but has suspended further returns as Chief Operating Officer of the Micro for all directors and officers of Group of value or share buy-backs until such time Focus product portfolio.
Karen Geary was companies against liabilities which may be as the Enlarged Groups target net debt appointed as a non-executive director on incurred by them while acting as directors level of 2.5x Facility EBITDA is achieved.
8 January 2015 which increased the number and officers of Group companies.
of independent non-executive directors For the year ended 30 April 2015 the from four to five, namely, Karen Slatford, During the financial year reported on and directors recommend payment of a final Tom Skelton, Tom Virden, Richard Atkins as at the date of this report qualifying third dividend in respect of the financial year of and Karen Geary.
party indemnities are in force under which 33.0 cents per share, which, taken together the Company has agreed to indemnify the with the interim dividend of 15.4 cents per directors to the extent permitted by law share paid in January 2015, gives a total and by the Articles of Association of the dividend in respect of 2015 of 48.4 cents Company the Articles against liabilities per share which is 10% higher than the they may incur in the execution of their full year dividend paid last year.
Subject to duties as directors of the Company.
shareholder approval, the final dividend will A copy of the Articles is available for review be paid on 2 October 2015 to shareholders at the registered office of the Company.
on the register on 4 September 2015.
Dividends will be paid in Sterling based on an exchange rate of 1 $1.56, equivalent to approximately 21.2 pence per share, being the rate applicable on 7 July 2015, the date on which the board resolved to propose the final dividend.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 70 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Further education and training Substantial shareholding Continuing education, training and At 30 April 2015 the percentage interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company, development are important to ensure the disclosable under the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules that have been notified future success of the Group.
The Group to the Company are shown in the table below.
supports individuals who wish to obtain relevant and appropriate further education Changes in disclosable interests between 30 April 2015 and 7 July 2015 as notified qualifications and reimburses tuition fees to the Company are shown below.
Training needs of all employees are also analyzed during the Disclosable shareholdings to 30 April 2015 annual and half yearly appraisal process, at which time a training plan is agreed as part Ordinary % Percentage of each individuals on-going development.
shares of 10 of issued Name of holder pence each capital At appropriate times throughout the Wizard Parent LLC 86,595,711 39.86 course of a year, the directors are briefed Artemis Investment Management LLP 8,117,983 3.74 on recent changes to legislation, regulations and codes of practice which are relevant to their duties and the operations of the Groups business.
Where appropriate the directors are provided with copies of the Disclosable shareholdings notified between to 30 April 2015 and 7 July 2015 underlying documentation and or written summaries of the principal changes.
Ordinary % Percentage shares of 10 of issued The board has undertaken a formal Name of holder pence each capital and rigorous process for the evaluation FMR LLC 10,861,754 5.00 of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
Further information with regard to the evaluation Employee involvement can be found in the corporate governance Employment policy The Group believes it is important that report on pages 38 to 41.
The evaluation Equal opportunities employees are aware of the Groups business included an assessment of directors The Group operates an equal opportunities strategy and the objectives which are in place training and development requirements.
Full consideration is given to all job to assist them to focus on working towards applicants, irrespective of gender, age, marital these goals.
Communications at the time of status, disability, sexuality, race, colour, Share option schemes key announcements, including presentations religion, ethnic or national origin or any other The directors remain committed to the by directors to all employees, together with conditions not relevant to the performance principle that selected employees should be briefings throughout the year, are part of the of the job, who can demonstrate that they able to participate in the Groups progress communication and consultation program.
have the necessary skills and abilities.
through share-based compensation The program is designed to provide schemes.
Details of the Groups share-based employees with awareness of the financial All employees accept the commitment compensation schemes are given in note 35. and economic factors affecting the Groups within this policy that the Group will not performance and also to provide employees allow discrimination or harassment by with information on employment related employees or others acting on the Groups matters which may be of interest.
behalf, in respect of sex, age, marital status, race, colour, nationality, disability or religious In addition, regular meetings are held or political beliefs.
with staff and managers, both to raise issues and to assist with the two-way Disabled employees flow of information.
The Group also has With regard to existing employees and an online process which enables employees those who may become disabled, the to express views and suggest improvements.
Groups policy is to examine ways and means to provide continuing employment under its existing terms and conditions and to provide training and career development, including promotion, wherever appropriate.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71 Directors report continued Statutory and other disclosures Share capital Deadlines for voting rights Greenhouse Gas emissions GHG The Company has a single class of share Full details of the deadlines for exercising All disclosures concerning the Groups capital which is divided into ordinary shares voting rights in respect of the resolutions GHG as required to be disclosed under of 10 pence each.
In November 2014 a to be considered at the Annual General the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report Return of Value was made to all shareholders Meeting the AGM to be held on and Directors Report Regulations 2013 amounting to $131.6m in cash 60 pence 24September 2015 are set out in the Notice are contained in the corporate social per share, by way of a B C share scheme, of Meeting which accompanies this report.
responsibility report on pages 29 to 33. which gave shareholders other than certain overseas shareholders a choice between Dividends and distributions receiving the cash in the form of income Financial instruments Subject to the provisions of the Companies or capital.
The Return of Value was The exposure of the Group to financial risks, Act 2006, the Company may, by ordinary accompanied by a share consolidation including the use of financial instruments and resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to whereby each ordinary share existing before policies for hedging and the exposure to price, members but no dividend shall exceed the the Return of Value was consolidated into credit, cash flow and liquidity risk, can be amount recommended by the board.
The 0.9285 of a new ordinary share to maintain found in note 27 to the financial statements.
board may pay interim dividends and any broad comparability of the share price and fixed rate dividend whenever the profits of return per share of the ordinary shares before the Company, in the opinion of the board, Research and development and after the creation of the B and C Shares, justifies its payment.
All dividends shall be All expenditure on research is expensed as further details of which can be found in note apportioned and paid pro-rata according incurred.
Shares held in treasury were consolidated to the amounts paid up on the shares.
expenditure from the point that all the in the same way as all other shares.
During relevant criteria are met.
The capitalized cost the year 631,400 shares were transferred is then amortized over the useful life of the Transfer of shares out of treasury to meet the Companys software.
During the year to 30 April 2015, Subject to the Articles, any member may obligations under its employee share plans.
$162.3m was charged to the consolidated transfer all or any of his or her certified statement of comprehensive income shares in writing by an instrument of Rights and obligations 2014: $57.8m in respect of research transfer in any usual form or in any other and development expenditure.
This charge attaching to shares form which the board may approve.
The is after net amortization of development Voting in a General Meeting of board may, in its absolute discretion and amortization of approximately $0.1m 2014: the Company: without giving any reasons, decline to nil consisting of $19.5m 2014: $18.4m of register any instrument of transfer of a capitalized development expenditure offset On a show of hands, every member certified share which is not a fully paid share by $19.6m 2014: $18.5m of amortization present in person and every proxy provided that, where any such shares are and impairment of previously capitalized duly appointed by a member shall admitted to the Official List maintained by development expenditure.
have one vote: and the UK Listing Authority, such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to On a poll, every member who is prevent dealings in the shares of that class Political donations present in person or by proxy shall from taking place on an open and proper The Groups policy is to make no donations have one vote for every share of basis.
The board may decline to recognize or contributions to political parties 2014: $nil.
which he or she is the holder.
any instrument of transfer relating to shares in certificated form unless it is in respect No member shall be entitled to vote at of only one class of share and is lodged any general meeting or class meeting in duly stamped if required at the Transfer respect of shares held by him or her if any Office accompanied by the relevant share call or other sum then payable by him or certificate s and such other evidence as her in respect of that share remains unpaid.
the board may reasonably require to show Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
the right of the transfer or to make the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some other person on his behalf, the authority of that person so to do.
In the case of a transfer of shares in certificated form by a recognized clearing house or a nominee of a recognized clearing Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 72 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information house or of a recognized investment Amendment to the Articles Powers of the directors in exchange the lodgement of share Any amendments to the Articles may be relation to share capital certificates will only be necessary if and made in accordance with the provisions The business of the Company will be to the extent that certificates have been of the Companies Act 2006 by way of managed by the board who may exercise issued in respect of the shares in question.
all the powers of the Company, including The directors may also refuse to register the power to authorize the issue and or an allotment or transfer of shares whether Appointment and replacement market purchase of the Companys shares fully paid or not in favour of more than subject to the provisions of the Companys of directors four persons jointly.
Subject to the Articles Memorandum of Association, the Articles, Directors shall be no less than three and and the CREST Rules as defined in the the Companies Act 2006 and any ordinary no more than 11 in number.
Directors may Uncertificated Securities Regulations, resolution of the Company.
There were two be appointed by the Company by ordinary as amended, and apart from any class occasions in the year under review when resolution or by the board.
A director of wholly dematerialized security, the shareholders delegated powers to the appointed by the board holds office only board may permit any class of shares in directors in relation to share capital: until the next AGM and is then eligible for the Company to be held in uncertificated election or re-election by the shareholders form and, subject to the Articles, title At the AGM held on 25 September 2014 annually thereafter.
to uncertificated shares to be transferred the directors were granted the powers by means of a relevant system.
to allot equity securities with a nominal The board may from time to time appoint value of up to 6,300,069 and to make one or more directors to hold employment Repurchase of shares market purchases of the Companys or executive office for such period subject The Company obtained shareholder shares: and to the Companies Act 2006 and on such authority at the last AGM held on terms as they may determine and may 25September 2014 to buy back up At a General Meeting held on 27 revoke or terminate any such employment.
to 14.99% of issued share capital.
At October 2014 to facilitate the acquisition that time this amounted to 20,921,657 of TAG and the Return of Value the The Company by ordinary resolution, of ordinary shares, and the authority remains directors were granted the powers to which special notice has been given and the outstanding until the conclusion of the next allot equity securities with a nominal board, by unanimous decision, may remove AGM on 24September 2015.
The minimum value of up to 8,659,572 shares.
any director before the expiration of his or price which must be paid for such shares her term of office and the Company may is now 10 pence and the maximum price elect or the board may appoint another Shares held in the Employee which may be paid for each Ordinary person in place of a director so removed Benefit Trust Share is an amount equal to the higher from office.
Where the trustee of the Micro Focus of i 105% of the average of the middle Employee Benefit Trust the Trust holds market quotations for an ordinary share The office of director shall be vacated if: shares in the Company and the beneficial as derived from the London Stock Exchange interest in those shares has not been Daily Official List for the five business days i he or she in writing resigns or offers to transferred to a beneficiary of the Trust, immediately preceding the day on which resign and the directors accept such offer: the trustee may not vote in relation to the Company agrees to buy the shares those shares at any meeting of shareholders concerned: and ii the higher of the price ii an order is made by any court claiming of the Company.
of the last independent trade of any that he or she is or may be suffering ordinary share and the highest current from a mental disorder: bid for an ordinary share as stipulated by Article 5 1 of Commission Regulation EC iii h e or she is absent without permission 22 December 2003 implementing the of the board from meetings for six Market Abuse Directive as regards months and the board resolves that exemptions for buy-back programs his or her office is vacated: and stabilization of financial instruments 2273 2003.
Following the Return of Value iv h e or she becomes bankrupt or and associated share consolidation the limit compounds with his or her creditors on the number of shares to be purchased generally: is 19,425,758 shares.
v h e or she is prohibited by law from being a director: or vi h e or she is removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 73 Directors report continued The strategic report does not contain any PwC have indicated their willingness to Significant agreements information about persons with whom continue in office and a resolution that they The following significant agreements the Company has contractual or other be reappointed will be proposed at the AGM.
contain provisions entitling the arrangements which are essential to the counterparties to exercise termination business of the Company as, in the view of or other rights in the event of a change Going concern the directors, there are no such arrangements.
of control of the Company.
The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the Company and the Group On completion of the acquisition of TAG Branches have adequate resources to continue in 20November 2014 the Enlarged Group had The Group continues to operate overseas operational existence for the foreseeable new debt facilities of $2,000.0m comprising: branches or representative offices in Chile, future, and therefore it is appropriate Denmark, Finland, Hong Kong, Mexico, to maintain the going concern basis a syndicated senior secured tranche Portugal, South Africa, Sweden, the USA in preparing the financial statements.
B term loan facility of $1,275.0m Term and the Peoples Republic of China.
Loan B, with an interest rate of 4.25% Post balance sheet events above LIBOR subject to a LIBOR floor of Annual General Meeting There have been no material events from 1.00%, amortizing at 1.00% per annum, The notice convening the AGM of the 30April 2015 to the date of this report.
with an original issue discount of 1.00% Company together with the explanatory and a seven year term: notes on the resolutions proposed at the AGM accompanies this report.
The meeting a syndicated senior secured tranche C will be held at The Lawn, 22-30 Old Bath term loan facility of $500.0m Term Loan Road, Newbury, Berkshire RG14 1QN on C, with an interest rate of 3.75% above 24September 2015 at 3pm UK time.
LIBOR subject to a LIBOR floor of 0.75%, amortizing at 10.00% per annum, with Independent auditors and an original issue discount of 1.5% and disclosure of information a five year term: and to auditors So far as they are aware, the directors at a senior secured revolving credit facility the date of this report confirm that there of $225.0m Revolving Facility, with an is no relevant audit information that is, interest rate of 3.50% above LIBOR on information needed by the Companys amounts drawn and 0.50% on amounts auditors in connection with preparing their undrawn thereunder and an original report of which the Companys auditors are issue discount of 0.5%.
unaware and that the directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken The only financial covenant attaching as directors in order to make themselves to the new facilities is an aggregate net aware of any relevant audit information and leverage covenant which is applicable in to establish that the Companys auditors circumstances where more than 35.0% are aware of that information.
of the Revolving Facility is outstanding at a fiscal quarter end.
In March 2015, the Group made a voluntary repayment of $150.0m of the Term Loan B Facility with the result that the total facilities available to the Group are now $1,850.0m.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 74 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information The directors report includes a The directors are responsible for keeping Statement of directors fair review of the development and adequate accounting records that are responsibilities performance of the business and the sufficient to show and explain the Companys The directors are responsible for preparing position of the Group, together with transactions and disclose with reasonable the Annual Report, the Directors a description of the principal risks accuracy at any time the financial position Remuneration Report and the financial and uncertainties that it faces.
of the Company and the Group and enable statements in accordance with applicable them to ensure that the financial statements law and regulations.
By order of the board, and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, Company law requires the directors as regards the Group financial statements, to prepare financial statements for Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also each financial year.
Under that law the responsible for safeguarding the assets of directors have prepared the Group financial the Company and the Group and hence for statements in accordance with International taking reasonable steps for the prevention Jane Smithard Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Company Secretary adopted by the European Union, and the 7 July 2015 parent company financial statements in The directors are responsible for the accordance with United Kingdom Generally maintenance and integrity of the Companys Micro Focus International plc Accepted Accounting Practice United website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Registered office: Kingdom Accounting Standards and governing the preparation and dissemination The Lawn applicable law.
Under company law the of financial statements may differ from 22-30 Old Bath Road directors must not approve the financial legislation in other jurisdictions.
Newbury statements unless they are satisfied that Berkshire RG14 1QN they give a true and fair view of the state Each of the directors, whose names and Registered in England of affairs of the Group and the Company functions are listed in the board of directors Company number: 5134647 and of the profit or loss of the Group for section within corporate governance on that period.
In preparing these financial pages 38 to 41, confirm that, to the best statements, the directors are required to: of their knowledge: Select suitable accounting policies The Group financial statements, which and then apply them consistently: have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, give a true Make judgments and accounting and fair view of the assets, liabilities, estimates that are reasonable and financial position and profit of the prudent: and Group: and State whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company financial statements respectively.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 75 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 76 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Consolidated financial statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 77
