ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Being a responsible corporate citizen is not only the right thing to do, it is good for the long-term health of our business.
We are responsible to our stakeholders Our candidates The communities Our clients Our people Society at large in which Our suppliers we operate Our shareholders Our obligations to these stakeholders To ensure we have To contribute To minimise and To make PageGroup the highest ethical positively to the mitigate our the best place to work standards communities environmental we operate in footprint To maintain the highest standards of corporate governance Workplace Marketplace Governance Community Environment We have identified five categories as being key to our CSR efforts and over time we will look to build metrics and targets to monitor our performance within each category.
We have worked to better codify these existing elements, to help We fulfil our obligations in a them be more scalable and have delivered consistently across our sustainable way global network.
Our organic business model, together with our focus on team This work categorised our CSR elements into the five elements culture and career development, has helped to develop long-term of Workplace, Marketplace, Governance, Community and sustainability within the business.
We have procedures in place to Environment.
Our CEO, Steve Ingham, the Executive Board track and report our broader CSR efforts on a more formal and Director, is responsible for CSR matters.
From time to time the documented basis and with reference to industry best practice on Board reviews the outputs which encompass all of the ESG topical Environmental Social Governance ESG principles.
areas relevant for our business.
The development of these CSR elements is continuing in nature and the Company will report its Many of the key elements which make up responsible management progress under these CSR categories in future years.
in our business have been firmly in place for many years.
21 PB Categories P a s s i o n f ANNUAL REPORT 2015 The quality and integrity of our people is fundamental to our In 2015 we continued these initiatives resulting in OpenPage, reputation as both an employer and as a business.
People are Women@Page and the recently launched Pride@Page being at the centre of everything we do and form the basis of the recognised with a number of national awards in the UK.
These proposition we offer to clients and candidates alike.
We therefore awards, including the award for Most Effective Diversity and place great value on ensuring that our workplace environment, Inclusion Strategy in the Recruiter Investing in Talent Awards our employees wellbeing and their work-life balance are as good 2015, recognised our continued efforts at promoting equal as we can make it.
opportunities and inclusion in the workplace both as an employer and as a provider of services.
We strive to ensure that PageGroup is a great place to work and employ a broad range of initiatives aimed at maintaining Over one-third of employees participated in the Global Corporate employee commitment to the business and increasing overall Challenge 100 Day Journey for improved health and well-being.
We conduct regular temperature checks through Additional detail on these initiatives, and our other efforts focused our global employee survey which in 2015 received record levels on ensuring a positive workplace, can be seen on pages 21 to of engagement.
Respondents highlighted an improving work-life 24. balance, while effective teamwork and a respectful, appreciative working environment were cited as particular strengths.
Gender diversity % % The feedback from the 2015 global employee engagement survey At 31 December 2015 has been used to refine our employee value proposition, in which continuing the good work to improve work-life balance and Board Directors 5 71 2 29 supporting health and wellbeing will be priorities.
Such initiatives Senior 247 79 66 21 have helped us to win numerous awards including Top Employers Management Europe 2016 by the Top Employers Institute, with individual Total employees 2,813 48 3,022 52 awards for Germany, France and Spain.
We have received similar awards for our teams in Asia and Hong Kong as well as in the UK.
We enjoy a diverse cultural and ethnic profile within the business % % and now have a 48:52 male female gender balance globally.
Our diversity programmes, OpenPage and Women@Page, At 31 December 2014 were recognised in 2014 with four national awards in the UK.
Board Directors 5 71 2 29 These awards, including the award for Best Diversity Initiative Senior 251 79 67 21 in the Chartered Institute of Personnel & Development People Management Management Awards 2014, recognised our success in retaining female employees and for helping women return to work after Total employees 2,739 49 2,839 51 maternity leave.
INVESTING IN TALENT AWARDS 2015 WINNER 22 PB o r p e o p l e ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Highest ethical standards in our Highest standards of marketplace engagement corporate governance Key to the sustainability of our business is our reputation At PageGroup we are committed to high standards for integrity.
We are mindful that our contact with of governance and believe it underpins sustainable candidates is always highly sensitive and often at critical performance.
The Board is collectively responsible for the points in their career.
Similarly, we assist clients with Groups financial and operational performance as well finding the right team to ensure the continuing success of as promoting the success of the business.
These are important responsibilities so we fulfils its responsibilities by directing and supervising the demand high ethical standards and confidentiality from Companys strategies and policies.
both our consultants and our suppliers.
Set out in the Corporate Governance section are We actively seek feedback from clients to help improve details of the activities undertaken by the Board and its our service.
We investigate and respond to any issues Standing Committees during 2015.
These include a raised with us.
We operate an external whistleblowing detailed bottom-up project reviewing and measuring the line for employees to raise any concerns that they may significant risks facing the business and putting in place have.
We again achieved our target in 2015 of no issues processes to monitor and mitigate them.
These risks are requiring Board notification, no material regulatory discussed on pages 37 to 39. breaches and no fines.
In 2014 we revised our supplier code of conduct.
In 2015 we began incorporating this into our agreements with all of our key suppliers, as well as continuing to drive a programme of efficient procurement.
During 2016 we will consider the provisions of the Modern Slavery Act.
We continue to improve our transparency and dialogue with all stakeholders and increased engagement with shareholders.
We held another well received Investor Relations event in September, where analysts and investors had the opportunity to meet our regional leadership teams.
23 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Positive contributions Minimise environmental to communities footprint As a business which has people at the centre of We are conscious that the day-to-day running of our everything we do, it is essential that we make a business will inevitably have environmental consequences, positive impact on the communities where we operate.
particularly in terms of energy consumption and business We value the significant impact altruistic activities can travel.
We have in place processes to monitor our CO2 have on our employees personal and professional emissions from air travel and seek to minimise any development and encourage all staff members to unnecessary journeys.
For example, we look to alternative actively support charities, not-for-profit organisations methods such as video conferencing to assist in the and community based activities.
management of the business wherever possible.
All members of staff are encouraged to take a Our operations are office-based.
As such, we believe Corporate Social Responsibility day annually where we have a relatively low impact on the environment in they can volunteer their time to support community or comparison to many other global businesses.
In many regions these efforts are coordinated rented or serviced offices in all locations and consequently and teams or offices join together on an activity.
rely heavily on our landlords for  facilities.
We continue to include environmental criteria In the UK we have raised over 1m for our charity when considering the location and specification of partners over the last nine years.
To raise these funds new properties and our programme for collecting GHG our UK employees have donated their time and money emission data also continues with an increased number in a variety of ways, whether it is a bake sale or a of properties returning more accurate data, and a single triathlon.
We also run a schools CSR programme, resource now responsible for ensuring timely collation of visiting schools and colleges to provide young adults that data.
Globally, PageGroup has many longstanding charity commitments: such as See pages 17 and 18 for our GHG reporting for 2015. our work with the Leukaemia and Lymphoma Society in the USA, the RSPCA in Australia or Habitat for Humanity in Indonesia and Singapore.
Across Europe offices have conducted clothing drives, donating clothing and blankets to aid refugees, while in the UK our partnership with Smart Works helps job seekers with access to professional attire donated by our employees.
Additionally, PageGroup actively promotes tax-efficient payroll-based employee donations which we then match.
24 PB g n i n r a e l p u e v i g A r t e e v a e m N t h a t s d i v t e u r s o s s b e e a r g e o t ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Providing a Great Place to Work: Our Employee Value Proposition Our EVP Employee Value Proposition defines the unique set of rewards from which our employees benefit in return for their skills, capabilities and the results they bring to PageGroup.
It provides our employees with a clear career and reward structure and is core to why they are proud and motivated to work here.
We work hard to provide our most ambitious people with new opportunities and challenges to build rewarding careers with us for the long term.
The EVP covers five elements: More detail on our community activities in 2015 are included in Passionate About Your Progress the CSR review on page 24.
We are passionate about our peoples career progression.
Consultants who join us know that one day they can be our future A Team thats Diverse managers, directors and managing directors.
We promote a diverse, open and inclusive working environment The culture is one of meritocracy and there is strong company which leverages our global footprint, rich in diverse people, talent and peer group recognition for achievements.
We score highly and ideas.
Our OpenPage philosophy comprises: Age is just in our employee surveys for encouraging pride, fun, passion and a number: Disability doesnt hold you back: Sexual orientation commitment to the job.
doesnt matter: Families and carers come first: A multicultural workforce thrives: and Women succeed at work.
Never Give Up Learning This programme has helped lower turnover, increase the We are renowned for our first class investment in developing number of new mothers returning to work, and increase senior talent.
We have customised our programmes to offer the right representation of both ethnic groups and females across the training to suit different cultures and working environments.
We are also an outspoken industry advocate for Training encompasses initial induction, a trainee academy and a ensuring recruitment activities follow best practice.
management and leadership development programme.
At all levels we deliver a programme that fully adapts to the Rewards and Health Made Fun skill-set needed and that will engender self-development and Celebrating success and making the job fun is part of our personal growth.
We believe reward and recognition of top talent is key to motivating and getting the best from our consultant teams.
Proud to Give Something Back Recognition of a job well done and being an active team Giving back is part of the PageGroup culture.
We have a strong contributor is an essential part of the quarterly review process.
commitment and drive towards giving something back to the This is combined with team celebrations and high-flier events for communities in which we live and work.
We encourage staff to be proactive in seeking projects within their Our Feel Good programme for well-being and health includes own community and making a telling contribution.
active promotion of a variety of services such as gym membership, health workshops and an online health This approach enriches our working lives and ensures we are coaching platform.
engaged with the world around us and in which we do business.
25 PB a r n p o r i u s o s y a P s P o r m o e u t d h i n t n o g u f b g i a e v c d e k a m h t l a e h d n a s d r a w e R ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Our International Mobility Programme PageGroup has a proud history of growing organically We regularly campaign for employees to move to specific locations over many years, successfully taking our brand into new where we are growing our business and every year we have more countries and diversifying across new disciplines.
than 100 international moves across all regions.
We have grown our business with confidence through moving Not everyone is suited to such an international career and the some of our most talented employees to new countries and cities cultural and market differences between regions can be significant.
where they will have the most beneficial impact on the business.
With nearly 30 years of international growth we have the experience Moving to new places and accepting international assignments to know who is likely to be best suited to a particular market profile.
has become an intrinsic part of the PageGroup culture and what We also keep track of the skills and experience of our identified attracts many consultants to the business.
top talent and look to ensure they have the breadth of international Our global Unlock Your Potential relocation programme matches experience necessary in order to take senior leadership roles when an individuals ambitions, talents and skills to the needs of the these become available.
business by supporting them to move within the Group to where we see good opportunities.
We pride ourselves on ensuring they and their families are supported through their move and have every opportunity to settle quickly in their new location.
