ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Review Over these pages, I will take you through where we see our I would like to welcome you to our competitive advantage: how this relates to our strategic plan: and Strategic Review, where we have then following on from this, how we approach our investment plan in our markets.
We continue this year to provide linkage as to how outlined how we see current market we measure performance, through our KPIs both financial and dynamics, together with PageGroups non financial together with the related risks.
These risks then directly relate to the three elements financial, strategic, people of business model and strategy.
the performance criteria of our current executive remuneration plan.
Global Vision At PageGroup we have a clear strategic vision: to be the leading specialist recruiter in the markets in which we operate.
We have sought to achieve this by developing a significant market presence in major global economies, as well as targeting new markets where we see the greatest potential for long-term growth in gross profit at attractive conversion rates.
We offer our services across a broad set of disciplines and specialisations, solely within the professional recruitment market.
Steve Ingham Our origins are in permanent recruitment, but nearly 25% of the CEO PageGroup business is now temporary placements, where local culture and market conditions make this attractive.
We focus in particular on opportunities where our industry and market expertise can set us apart from the competition.
That enables us to offer a premium service which is valued by clients and attracts the highest calibre of candidates.
Strategic Framework PageGroup is focused on delivering against three key objectives to achieve its strategic vision and sustainable financial returns.
These are 1 to look for organic and diversified growth: 2 to position the business to be efficiently scalable and highly flexible to react to market conditions: and 3 to nurture and develop our people, driving our meritocratic growth model.
Our consistent business model has organic growth as its cornerstone.
As set out on page 1, key elements of our business model are derived from this team-led approach, with great value placed on structured career development and the value that experienced management brings to the business.
At PageGroup we have a clear strategic vision: to be the leading specialist recruiter in the markets in which we operate.
7 PB K R O W T A L ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Our Value Proposition Our value proposition is centred around expertise and specialism, and for this to be delivered in a consistent manner and supported by high quality processes.
As shown in the chart below, when these elements are brought together, the potential for a successful outcome for both client and candidate is maximised.
Such successes enhance our reputation: bring greater repeat business: and turn candidates into clients and vice-versa.
Clients Leads to... Sector expertise Repeat business Appropriate candidate Greater exclusivity shortlist Future candidates Professional high quality service Specialist industry and market knowledge Global reach, with deep local knowledge Consultants Leads to... Team-based structure and Rapid career promotion Expertise in premium candidate sourcing compensation Career opportunities Access to jobs across entire Reward and recognition PageGroup Experienced advocate for client and candidate Consistent process Consistent, high quality processes Candidates Leads to... Professional high quality Career-long relationship service Peer recommendations Market understanding and Future client client profiling Career advice People and Management Due to this constant depth of talent that is available to the business, Our business model provides us flexibility and agility, which the senior executive team can flex the business exposure to any together with the significant loyalty of the management team, of our markets, both up and down, according to prevailing market allows the business to progress, even in uncertain markets.
Our conditions and take decisions as to where PageGroup can achieve consultants quickly come to understand that we can offer more the greatest return on investment from allocation of management than a long term and fulfilling career in recruitment.
our star performers to expand their horizons through career moves to both new disciplines and new regions, allowing them to broaden their experience, but also their value to the Group.
They know how greatly we value the experience acquired throughout their career, and as such our management team has some of the longest tenure and experience in the industry.
Moreover, the mobility of our people greatly enhances the flexibility of our business model.
8 PB E D O M R U O ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Review Market Dynamics Strategic Plan Professional recruitment has always been highly sensitive to In 2013, PageGroup put in place a Strategic Plan which defined prevailing economic conditions, together with client and candidate its aspirations within various markets.
It has provided a disciplined confidence.
Market liquidity can change rapidly, whether in terms framework to focus investment plans on geographies with the of availability of jobs and candidates, or candidate confidence in greatest long-term potential, and to help structure the career taking the next step in their career.
It can also be very localised, moves of the rising stars in the business.
A portion of the Directors whether by geography or discipline, and differ between temporary remuneration is also linked to the performance against milestones and permanent placements in the same market.
within this Plan, and its overall achievement.
PageGroup therefore has a well-balanced business profile, An essential part of the development of this Plan was to review the in order to mitigate the exposure to any one revenue stream.
markets in which PageGroup operated, and to identify which had This strategy requires us to operate in very diverse markets, the greatest potential and likely future impact on Group revenue.
each with a particular recruitment culture, such as the degree Set out on page 11 is an explanation of these categorisations and to which temporary placement opportunities are acceptable to our approach to these different markets.
Other aspects of this culture include the degree of Our market categorisation has provided the business with a outsourced recruitment undertaken, as opposed to in-house by framework within which investment decisions can be judged, HR departments.
and guidance as to where management expertise and fee earner In a number of geographic regions, such as Latin America or headcount is best placed.
These decisions are continuously Greater China, our potential markets are very large yet relatively reviewed in order to best align them to the business needs and immature.
This provides significant market share opportunities, the prevailing market environment, which is often fast moving and but also business development challenges.
New markets can take highly dynamic.
time to crack, but the advantages of being an early participant and building scale can be considerable.
Operational Efficiency PageGroup views certain key features as defining a particular PageGroup is very aware of the need for high levels of operational recruitment market profile, as set out in the table below and efficiency in a recruitment business, and especially one with such a categorised by the proportion of roles filled through a recruitment global footprint.
Central to the strategic objective of scalable growth agency market penetration.
and flexibility through the cycle is for this to be achieved while controlling the fixed asset base.
The challenges to achieving a significant market position vary across markets, as does their attractiveness to PageGroup.
We have a relentless focus on sharing best practice across the These features, when taken together with PageGroups historic Group as a way to enhance the quality and consistency of the success in a particular market, helped define the Strategic Plan service offering.
In this way we can capture and leverage skills and to identify which geographies would have the highest potential and expertise for the benefit of the whole Group.
We are then for long-term success.
also able to centralise many of the support functions into regional service centres, while maintaining the robustness of the operational platform.
Emerging Developing Mature 0-15% 15-30% 30-70% Over 70% Market penetration Well developed markets Limited international Few well-established with many international Highly competitive Competition operators present regional players operators France, Australasia, LatAm, SE Asia Germany, China UK, US Examples Holland, Spain, Italy 9 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Market Drivers of PageGroup Performance As well as the influence of the general macro-economic environment on business activity, there are a number of specific market-based drivers which can materially impact PageGroups financial performance.
These are split into elements which affect market liquidity and those which influence gross profit and consultant productivity.
It is the nature of the professional recruitment market that strong market conditions will see drivers in both elements rapidly align, and this has a dramatic impact on PageGroups overall performance and conversion margins.
Impact Comment Financial Impact Often highly discipline geography-specific, especially at midpoints in the cycle Mainly visible through as client confidence grows.
This is a key driver of most other elements, as improvement in gross profit, Candidate shortages the quality of a recruiter is most clearly demonstrated through their ability to but a buoyant market helps to source difficult-to-find candidates.
drive productivity, principally through reducing the time to hire.
A major influence on market liquidity where macro-environment is sufficiently Candidate confidence stable, candidates will look to progress their careers, which helps to drive job liquidity.
Group average historically moves within a 10% range over the cycle Notable influence Fees rates 19.5%-22%.
on both gross profit and also conversion rate.
Productivity, especially in permanent Reflects level of candidate shortage and liquidity within a particular discipline Wage inflation recruitment, is significantly or geography, plus macro-economic conditions.
enhanced as these market drivers positively align.
As candidates become scarcer, companies reduce the number of interviews Time to hire and shorten the decision making process in order not to lose preferred candidates.
Our 2015 Achievements As well as progress in headcount and market presence, there has PageGroup made good progress against its three strategic been a strong focus on operational flexibility across the Group.
With additional disciplines rolled out in both the technology upgrade and our new Page Recruitment System was Michael Page and Page Personnel brands, the business continued rolled out to 85% of our fee earners, ahead of our target of 80%.
to grow its market presence in core target areas.
This will offer significant benefits to consultants in their day-to-day Growth was in temporary as well as permanent recruitment activities and provide for expansion flexibility and efficient future segments, further diversifying the service offering.
At the end of upgrades, together with lower maintenance costs.
2015, the fee earner and total headcount was at record levels for Finally, further work on YourPage, our Employer Value Proposition the Group.
This was achieved together with the continued best programme has looked to provide greater clarity of individual operational support ratio to date, reflecting operational efficiencies career paths, and to increase retention of identified talent at key delivered within the business.
career points and in key markets.
10 PB Gross Profit and Productivity Market liquidity ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Review How we categorise the markets Large, In 2013, PageGroup categorised each of its markets around the globe based on criteria such as the potential for future growth.
This High Potential growth potential was assessed on a combination of: expectations for economic growth: size of the existing PageGroup operations relative to the market: and competitive landscape.
The outcome was three categories as set out in the table to the Substantial, high potential markets right, into which the 35 geographical markets in which we operate for recruitment.
Typically underwere placed: five markets were identified as Large, High Potential developed, but where PageGroup markets.
These include the large economies of the US, Germany and Greater China, together with the regions of Latin America and has a successful track record, and South East Asia.
Typically under-developed from a recruitment confidence in its ability to successfully perspective, each satisfied key criteria, including: scale operations.
Positive PageGroup track record: Ability to adapt PageGroup culture to local culture: Ability to hire and retain local consultants: Ability to roll-out disciplines and open offices: Germany, Greater China, Attractive conversion rate potential: and Latin America, South East Large-scale economies.
Six historically successful geographies were categorised as Large, Proven, reflecting the fact that PageGroup had, within the last economic cycle, operated substantial businesses in each.
While currently below peak levels, they have a proven track record, and, as a group, the potential to return to historic high levels Sustained investment through cycle - albeit with a different mix of headcount and disciplines.
Finally, the remaining businesses were categorised as Small and Medium, High Margin.
This reflects the fact that each individually will not have the scale or potential to be a significant contributor to gross profit.
However, they each offer the prospect of attractive margins and include countries with some of the highest Create a market leading network of fee rates and conversion margins in the Group.
Within this category offices, management and headcount.
are three markets Japan, India and Africa that all have the longc.
40% of Group gross profit fee term potential to achieve Large, High Potential status.
Investment Approach The market categorisation provides an investment framework for Gross profit growth of 9%, strong the business.
Investment comes in a range of forms including growth in the US, development of the headcount, new offices and infrastructure, marketing spend and German temp business.
Conditions minimum levels of market presence through the economic cycle.
Continue investment in new headcount and management team, while improving conversion rates.
11 PB 2016 2015 STRATEGIC INVESTMENT EXAMPLES CATEGORISATION PLAN RESULTS PLAN APPROACH ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Large, Small and Medium, High Margin Proven Have been or could be significant Large markets in which PageGroup profit contributors for PageGroup, CATEGORISATION is already proven with a strong track but not likely to be in excess of record and a significant presence.
UK, France, Australia, Japan, Middle East, Africa, EXAMPLES the Netherlands, Italy India, Canada, Turkey and and Spain.
Investment reflects gross profit Respond to market conditions, focus INVESTMENT APPROACH growth and market conditions.
Collectively return to 2007 peak levels Investment responsive to market of operating profit & conversion rates: conditions.
Expected to represent STRATEGIC equivalent to c. 45% of Group gross c. 15% of Group gross profit fee PLAN profit fee earners.
Gross profit records in eight Continued roll-out of new disciplines countries, improving profitability.
Conditions difficult in the Middle RESULTS East.
Utilise capacity to drive productivity, Focus on growth and improving 2016 improving conversion rates in the PLAN conversion rates.
12 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Large, High Potential Markets Maximising Growth Markets: Large, High Potential Markets a case study USA 13 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 2015 was a record breaking year for our Large, High Potential Germany enjoyed 14% growth in 2015 and by the end of the Markets, both as a whole and for three of the constituent regions, year we had just under 275 fee earners, a five year compound namely the US, Greater China and South East Asia.
Our Large annual growth rate of 15%.
Page Personnel Germany and Michael High Potential Markets now account for nearly 31% of the Group, Page Interim each had a record year, as our temporary business up from 23% five years ago, with 50 offices and nearly 1,500 fee saw 35% growth in the year, to account for over one third of earners.
We have also seen an improvement in our conversion Germanys Gross Profit.
We are now beginning to see a return rate for these markets, with conversion in 2015 of 14.8%, an from the significant investment we made in our German temporary increase of over two percentage points from 2014.
Our Latin America region, where we are the market leader, was Greater China saw 11% growth in 2015 with a five year impacted by Brazil, which saw a decline of 23% in Gross Profit compound annual growth rate of 20%, during which time it over 2014 due to the political and economic uncertainty in the became PageGroups third largest market.
Our offices in Hong country.
However, the other five countries Mexico, Argentina, Kong, where we are clearly the largest international recruiter Colombia, Chile and Peru collectively saw growth of 29% and all with the broadest penetration of the market, and Taipei, had enjoyed record years.
Mexico, which grew over 30% in the year, record years but we saw good growth in all our locations as we is now approximately two thirds the size of Brazil.
continued to build on our market-leading capabilities.
We saw in In our South East Asia region, Malaysia and Indonesia enjoyed 2015 a lower dependency on multinationals as we focused on record years but tougher market conditions in Singapore and a gaining greater penetration of the domestic market.
Our Page slowdown in the fourth quarter in Malaysia limited growth over Personnel businesses in China saw 17% growth in the year, with 2014 to less than 2%.
The five year compound annual growth 80% growth for our temporary business.
rate, however, remains robust at 20%, with fee earner headcount nearly tripling in the last five years.
TOTAL 50 1,447 12% 9% 14% Fee earners Fee earners Gross profit Gross profit Offices 2015 2009-15 CAGR 2015 vs 2014 2010-15 CAGR USA 8 255 8% 19% 16% The US had a record breaking year in 2015, up 19% and enjoyed Stamford and New Jersey offices both saw 2015 growth of over a five year compound annual growth rate of 16%.
From a lower base, temporary recruitment grew 20% in closed the year with 255 fee earners in eight offices.
This is up 2015 and represents a significant potential market across all of from 175 fee earners in 2010, a compound growth rate of 8%.
Our New York office, which saw 26% growth, is our largest office We continue to focus on our staff retention in the region and to and has a strong presence in the Financial Services sector, with continue to diversify our business to increase the proportion of our our Finance, Legal and Marketing disciplines also making strong fee earners operating outside New York and outside the traditional contributions to the gross profit of the office.
This growth has led disciplines.
The implementation of our new PRS operating system us to move office locations to give the opportunity to invest in our and a move towards shared services with the UK emphasised fee earner headcount and maximise this growth opportunity.
Our the continued development and improvement of the infrastructure new location adds c. 50% to our New York fee earner capacity.
needed to support front office growth and further raise our conversion rate.
Our Chicago office had a record year, up 13% and has laid a We have significant scope for growth in our current locations and strong platform for future growth in a market with huge potential.
while we have no plans to open new offices this year, we see the Boston, whilst flat for the year, has turned a corner under new US as a significant opportunity for growth going forward.
Los Angeles, which nearly doubled in 2015, and a strong and increasingly experienced management team and we has further potential.
Our Houston office suffered from the tough are starting to achieve sufficient scale in our operations to drive market conditions in the Oil and Gas market, but our consultants future profitability.
adapted to develop new skills and new market knowledge.
