ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Framework Business Model Agile and Career We have had a consistent business model for 39 years responsive development founded on the principle of team-based service delivery and structure reward, rather than by individual consultant.
The reward model is structured to ensure a focus on profit rather than Team just revenue generation, which helps drive operational profit-led efficiencies throughout the business.
compensation Organic Global Management experience and resource mobility are both Growth management valued highly.
They are also key to achieving organic growth, mobility with PageGroup able to offer its consultants a structured path throughout a highly rewarding career.
Productivity-led Experienced See page 1 for more on our business model expansion management pool Objectives Talent Diversified Scalable Sustainable and skills organic and flexible development growth growth capacity Diversification helps The ability to respond Our business is reliant on The combination of to mitigate the cyclical quickly to changing having the experience to these objectives has nature of the recruitment market conditions is manage the challenges enabled PageGroup to markets, which for us critical to managing and identify the deliver strong cash flows is combined with high the business efficiently opportunities across our and have the financial operational gearing throughout economic local markets.
strength to prosper given our permanent cycles.
through economic Our scalability is recruitment bias.
We ensure that we dependent on having Our broad-based always have the ability to the right people available It also gives the resilience capabilities enable us flex our capacity up and to grow the business to cope with market to capitalise on market down, while maintaining and nurture the next downturns without opportunities across a core presence in each generation.
damaging the businesss the globe, avoiding market to service clients long-term prospects.
over-reliance on any one properly and retain geography or discipline.
management experience See page 21 for more on our business sustainability to enable a quick recovery.
5 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategy Our strategy aims to fulfil our vision of being the leading specialist recruiter in each of the markets in which we operate.
Our service offering is spread across a broad set of disciplines and geographies, focusing on opportunities where our industry and market experience can set us apart from the competition.
Operating in 35 geographies and in highly diverse cultures, we have established three categories into which we have grouped each of our markets based on criteria including the size of the opportunity and the potential for future growth.
This structure has provided a clear investment framework for the business.
We categorise our markets as follows: Large, High Large, Proven Small and Medium, Potential Markets These are large markets where we High Margin are already proven with a strong Typically under-developed Markets which are, or could be, track record and a significant markets, but where we have significant profit contributors with presence.
a successful track record and attractive conversion margins, but confidence in our ability to scale are unlikely or not yet proven to our operations substantially.
be able to grow to more than 300 fee earners.
See page 11 for more on our strategic plan How We Measure Our Performance PageGroup measures itself against a range of financial and non-financial performance metrics, and monitors a number of related risk indicators.
Our full KPIs are set out on pages 15 to 18.
Set out below are those metrics which have been identified as being aligned with the categories identified by the Remuneration Committee as appropriate for the assessment of the Executive Directors and senior team, and embodied in the executive remuneration policy and plans currently in force.
They encompass a broad range of areas, focused on financial performance, strategy and people development.
KPIs Risks Remuneration - Gross profit growth - Macro downturn EPS growth: Financial - three year: cumulative - Conversion rate - FX on reported rates - Gross profit diversification - Business model - Strategic plan milestones Strategic - Fee earner headcount - Delivery of operational - IT transformation efficiencies - Fee earner: operational support - Management experience - Management development - Leadership development People - Employee index - Attraction retention - Retention succession See the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 79 6 PB
