Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance 38 Directors report Introduction Board to be independent and the chairs of Results and dividends The Directors submit their report for the the Boards standing committees are The results of the Group for the year ended financial year ended 31 December 2015. shown on pages 36 to 37.
31 December 2015 are set out on pages This report includes information required to 72 to 139. be disclosed under the Companies Act In addition to the Directors holding office as 2006 the Act, the UK Corporate at 31 December 2015, Wong Hong Ren An interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 2.08p per share was Governance Code the Code, the served as a Director and the Group Chief Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Executive Officer of the Company until he paid on 2 October 2015.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 4.34p per Listing Rules.
Certain information required stepped down on 28 February 2015. to be included in this report is set out in Except for Wong Hong Ren and Aloysius share 2014: 11.51p, which, if approved at the annual general meeting in May 2016, other sections of the Annual Report, which Lee Tse Sang, who was appointed as a are cross-referenced and incorporated Director and the Group Chief Executive will be paid on 13 May 2016 to shareholders on the register on 18 March herein.
In particular, the Corporate Officer with effect from 1 March 2015, all Governance Statement on pages 42 to 46 Directors served on the Board during the 2016. and the Directors remuneration report on entire year.
Political donations and expenditure pages 49 to 64 form part of this report.
Director shareholding The Company operates a politically neutral Details of the Directors shareholdings at policy with regard to political donations and Disclosure Section Pages the year-end are shown on page 59.
No donations were made by Viability statement Strategic Report 30 changes to these shareholdings have the Group for political purposes and the Future developments Strategic Report 6-9 occurred between 31 December 2015 and Group did not incur any political expenditure the date of this report.
See the Greenhouse gas Corporate 27-28 emissions Responsibility Corporate Responsibility review on page 28 Appointment and removal of Directors for details of the Companys non-political Financial instruments Note 22 to the 109-119 A Director may be appointed to fill a casual financial statements charitable activities.
vacancy or as an additional Director by an Internal controls Corporate 45 ordinary resolution of shareholders.
In Financial instruments Governance addition, the Directors may appoint a An indication of the Groups financial risk Statement Director to fill a casual vacancy or as an management objectives and policies in Charitable activities Corporate 28 additional Director, provided that the respect of the use of financial instruments Responsibility individual retires at the next annual general and exposure of the Company to price risk, Policy on payment Directors 54 meeting.
credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk for loss of office Remuneration Report are set out in Note 22 to the consolidated Changes to share Note 29 to the 128 In line with the Code, which provides that all financial statements.
capital financial statements directors of FTSE 350 companies should Greenhouse gas emissions stand for election or re-election by Strategic Report All disclosures concerning the Groups shareholders every year, all members of the The Act requires the Directors to prepare a greenhouse gas emissions can be found in Board will retire and seek election or restrategic report that provides a fair review of the Corporate Responsibility review on election at this years annual general the Companys business, including an pages 26 to 28. meeting.
The eligibility requirements for analysis of the development and directors to be appointed at a general performance of the Companys business Employee involvement and disabled meeting are specified in the Companys during the year and position of its business persons Articles of Association.
at the end of the year and a description of The Group operates in over 20 countries the Companys strategy and business and employs over 10,000 employees A Director may be removed by the model.
This report is found on pages 14 to worldwide.
We value highly the rich ethnic Company in certain circumstances as set 33, and certain information required to be and cultural diversity of our people.
We are out in the Companys Articles of Association disclosed in this report has been included an equal opportunities employer and our or the Directors appointment agreement, within the Strategic Report as noted above.
objective is to ensure that no employee or including by an ordinary resolution of the other worker or job applicant receives less Company, upon being given written notice Board of Directors favourable treatment, directly or indirectly, to resign signed by all of the other Directors The names and biographical details of the on the grounds of age, disability, gender or in the event the Director becomes Directors holding office as at 31 December reassignment, marital or civil partner status, prohibited by law from acting as a Director.
2015 including identification of the pregnancy or maternity, race, colour, Chairman, Senior Independent Director, the nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion other Directors who are considered by the or belief, sex or sexual orientation.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance 39 Further, our policies encourage the Business Reporting 2014 published by the ordinary issued share capital during the year employment, training and advancement of Financial Reporting Council.
Cash flow are shown in Note 29 to the Companys disabled persons, having regard to their forecasts for the Group have been prepared financial statements.
particular aptitudes and abilities, provided for a period in excess of twelve months Rights attaching to shares that they can be employed in a safe from the date of approval of these Rights and obligations attaching to the working environment.
Suitable employment consolidated financial statements.
These Companys ordinary shares are set out in would, if possible, be found for any forecasts reflect an assessment of current the Companys Articles of Association, a employee who becomes disabled during market conditions and show that the Group copy of which can be obtained from the course of employment.
will be able to operate within the current Companies House or from the Companys committed debt facilities and continued investor relations website at www.
The Group values the engagement of its compliance with the financial covenants millenniumhotels.
com corporate investors employees and endeavours to keep applicable to the Company.
Each ordinary employees informed about matters of management has considered various share in the capital of the Company ranks concern to them and the performance of mitigating actions that could be taken in the equally in all respects.
the Company, whether through event that market conditions are worse than management presentations, regional the current assessment.
Such measures The voting rights attached to the intranet sites and other communications.
include further reduction in costs and in Companys ordinary shares are not Likewise, the Group seeks to consult with capital expenditure, among others.
restricted and there are no restrictions on employees on a regular basis so that their the transfer of the Companys shares aside views can be taken into account.
The On the basis of the exercise as described from certain restrictions which may from above and the available committed debt Group operates an HM Revenue & time to time be imposed by laws and Customs approved Save as You Earn facilities, which are described further in regulations, such as insider dealing laws.
In Note 21 to the financial statements, the Scheme in the UK, a long term incentive addition, pursuant to the Companys share plan, executive share plan and deferred Directors have a reasonable expectation dealing code, the Companys Directors and that the Company and Group as a whole share bonus plan for certain levels of persons discharging managerial executives globally.
The primary aims of have adequate resources to continue in responsibility are required to seek approval operational existence for at least 12 months these plans are to incentivise and engage to deal in the Companys shares.
our employees and align their interests with beyond the date of signing of these accounts.
Accordingly, they continue to the Groups performance.
Further details on None of the Companys shares carry employee benefits are set out in Note 23 to adopt a going concern basis in preparing special rights with regard to control of the the financial statements of the Company the consolidated financial statements.
Neither the Companys and Group.
management nor its Directors are aware of Future developments The Groups strategy and business model Amendment to the Companys Articles any agreements between shareholders that of Association could result in restrictions on the transfer of including proposed future developments can be found in the Strategic Report on The Companys Articles of Association may shares or voting rights.
only be amended by special resolution of its pages 14 to 33.
Employee share schemes shareholders in accordance with the Act.
The Company has in place a discretionary Research and development Whilst we continue to review ways to Significant agreements employee benefit trust EBT, the There are no significant agreements to Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc improve our service and product offering, the Group did not conduct significant which the Company is a party that take Employee Benefit Trust 2006, which is effect, are altered or terminate upon a funded by loans or gifts in order to acquire research and development activities during the year.
change of control of the Company following shares for the potential benefit of a takeover bid.
Details of shares held by the Branches EBT at 31 December 2015 are set out on Share capital and related matters The Company did not have any branches page 128.
During 2015 no shares were The Companys issued share capital at outside the UK during the year.
released from the EBT in respect of share 31 December 2015 consisted of schemes for employees.
The trustee of the Going concern 324,730,301 fully paid ordinary shares of EBT has the power to exercise all voting In assessing whether the Group is a going 30 pence each.
The shares are traded on rights in relation to the Companys shares concern, the Directors follow a review the Main Market of the London Stock held within the EBT, but abstains from process consistent with the principles set Exchange.
out in the Guidance on Risk Management, shares were issued under employee share Internal Control and Related Financial and plans.
Further details of the changes to the Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance 40 Directors report continued Payment for loss of office endeavours to ensure that any issue of trustee of the Groups UK pension plan, The Company does not have agreements voting securities for cash other than and qualifying third-party indemnities to the with any Director or employee that would pursuant to an employee or executive share directors of its European subsidiary provide compensation for loss of office or option scheme which takes place while the companies.
The indemnities do not apply in employment resulting from a takeover bid.
Company is on the Official List of the the event the relevant Director is proved to However, all of the Companys employee London Stock Exchange, is carried out in a have committed a criminal offence or share plans contain provisions relating to a manner that provides CDL with an otherwise where indemnification is change of control pursuant to a general opportunity to acquire additional ordinary prohibited by law.
These indemnities remain offer, scheme of arrangement or similar shares at the time of such proposed issue in force as at the date of this report.
On such a change of control, options for cash in such amounts as are necessary In 2015, the Company purchased and and awards granted to employees under to enable it to maintain its voting rights in the Companys share plans may vest and the Company at the same percentage level maintained Directors and Officers liability insurance, which coverage has been become exercisable, subject to the as is held immediately prior to such issue.
satisfaction of any applicable performance These pre-emption rights are put to a vote renewed for the current year.
of shareholders each year and most recently were approved at the Companys No claim was made under any such indemnity or insurance policy during the Further details about payments to be made annual general meeting in May 2015. year.
to Directors for loss of office can be found Controlling shareholder independence in the Directors remuneration report on disclosure Annual general meeting page 54.
As of the date of this report, CDL is the The 2016 annual general meeting will be Power of Directors controlling shareholder of the Company.
As held at the Chelsea Harbour Hotel, Chelsea required under Listing Rule 9.2.
2AR 2, the Harbour Drive, London, SW10 0XG on The Directors may exercise all the Companys powers that are not required by Company and CDL have entered into the 5 May 2016 at 10.00am.
The Chairmans Amended and Restated Co-operation letter and the Notice of Meeting along with the law or the Companys Articles of Association to be exercised in a general Agreement dated 14 November 2014 the this report, with notes explaining the Co-Operation Agreement, which is business to be transacted at the meeting, meeting.
In particular, the Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company to intended to ensure that the Companys will be sent to shareholders.
controlling shareholder complies with the borrow money, issue shares, appoint and At the meeting, resolutions will be proposed remove directors and recommend and independence provisions set out in Listing Rules.
The Co-Operation Agreement allows to declare a final dividend, to receive the declare dividends.
Annual Report and Financial Statements, to CDL to appoint up to five Directors to the At the Companys annual general meeting Board.
As at the date of this report, CDL approve the Directors remuneration report, to re-elect all Directors, to re-appoint KPMG in May 2015 and in accordance with the has appointed three Directors.
Companys Articles of Association, the LLP as auditors, and to renew the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan and Directors were authorised to allot new The Company confirms that during the year shares pursuant to Section 551 of the Act it has complied with the independence Sharesave Plan for 10-year periods.
In addition, shareholders will be asked to up to a total nominal amount of provisions included within the Co-Operation 32,468,540 and to disapply the preAgreement and, in so far as it is aware, CDL renew both the general authority of the Directors to issue shares and to authorise emption provisions contained in the Act in has complied with such provisions as well.
order to allot shares for cash up to a the Directors to issue shares without Directors indemnities applying the statutory pre-emption rights.
In addition, The Articles of Association of the Company the Directors were authorised to make this regard, the Company will continue to permit it to indemnify the Directors of the adhere to the provisions in the Pre-Emption market purchases of up to 10% of the Company or any Group company against Companys issued share capital.
All of Groups Statement of Principles.
liabilities incurred by them in relation to or in these authorities remained in effect as at connection with their duties, powers or 31 December 2015 and shareholders will office, to the extent permitted by law.
The be asked to renew them at the annual Company has provided each of its Directors general meeting in 2016. with a qualifying third-party indemnity, as defined in section 234 of the Act.
In The Co-Operation Agreement between the addition, the Company has provided Company and City Developments Limited qualifying pension scheme indemnities to CDL, the Companys controlling the directors of Millennium & Copthorne shareholder, contains a provision that Pension Trustee Limited, which acts as requires the Company to use all reasonable Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance 41 Essential contracts Statement of the Directors as to The Group has contractual and other disclosure of information to the auditor Each Director who held office as at the date arrangements with numerous third parties in support of its business activities.
Whilst the of approval of this Directors report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is termination of some of these contracts might cause temporary disruption, none of no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the the arrangements is, individually, considered to be essential to the Groups Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken in order to make business.
himself or herself aware of any relevant Re-appointment of auditor audit information and to establish that the KPMG LLP has expressed their willingness Companys auditor is aware of that to be reappointed as auditor of the information.
Upon the recommendation of Approval of Directors report the Audit & Risk Committee, resolutions to The Directors Report and Corporate reappoint them as auditor and to authorise Governance Statement were approved by the Directors to determine their the Board on 18 February 2016. remuneration will be proposed at the 2016 annual general meeting.
By order of the Board Significant holdings Jonathon Grech As at the date of this report, the Company Company Secretary had received formal notification, under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the 18 February 2016 following significant holdings in its shares the percentages shown are the percentages at the time of the disclosure and have not been re-calculated based on the issued share capital as at the date of the report.
# of ordinary Notified Significant shareholder shares Interest % Nature of holding City Developments Limited 212,006,624 65.3 Indirect holding through various subsidiaries International Value Advisers, LLC 19,490,496 6.0 Investment advisor Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 16,459,003 5.1 Discretionary investment manager on behalf of multiple managed portfolios
