Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance 36 Board of Directors As at 31 December 2015 4 1 2 3 N 1 Kwek Leng Beng Kwek Leng Beng has been the Chairman of Millennium Kwek Leng Beng has distinguished himself in property Chairman of the Board and Chairman & Copthorne Hotels plc since its incorporation.
He is investment and development, hotel ownership and of the Nominations Committee also the executive chairman of City Developments management, financial services and industrial Limited, chairman and managing director of Hong enterprises.
He leads a business empire worth over Leong Finance Limited and City e-Solutions Limited US$32b in diversified premium assets worldwide and and the chairman of Hong Leong Asia Limited.
comprising companies traded on six of the worlds stock markets.
Mr Kwek heads a worldwide staff of Mr Kwek holds an honorary doctorate in Business over 40,000 across a range of businesses in AsiaAdministration in Hospitality from Johnson & Wales Pacific, the Middle East, Europe and North America.
University in the US and an honorary doctorate from Oxford Brookes University in the UK.
He also serves as a member of the INSEAD East Asia Council.
2 Aloysius Lee Tse Sang Aloysius Lee Tse Sang was appointed to the Board Mr Lee was previously the Chief Executive Officer Group Chief Executive Officer and as Group Chief Executive Officer on 1 March of South Beach Consortium Pte Ltd. a joint venture from 1 March 2015 2015.
He is a non-executive director of Millennium & established by City Developments Limited and other Copthorne Hotels New Zealand and CDL Investments parties to create a mixed-use real estate development New Zealand Limited, both of which are listed on the in Singapore.
Prior to that, Mr Lee held senior New Zealand stock exchange, having been appointed leadership positions at Shui On Land, Hong Kong on 1 April 2015, and he was appointed as a nonTelecom, Star Cruises and Singapore Airlines.
He executive director of First Sponsor Group Limited, is a fellow of both the Chartered Management Institute which is listed on the Singapore Exchange, on 2 April and the Chartered Institute of Marketing, and earned 2015.
Mr Lee serves as president and chairman of the a masters degree in business administration from the board of Grand Plaza Hotel Corporation, which is University of Hong Kong.
He also holds management listed in the Philippines, after his appointment on qualifications from Harvard University and the 15 May 2015.
ANR 3 Nicholas George Nicholas George was appointed to the Board in Mr George was a founding partner of KGR Capital, Senior Independent Director June 2009.
A chartered accountant by profession, a leading Asian funds of hedge funds, that was sold to Mr George sits on the board of GK Goh Holdings a LGT Capital Partners in 2008.
He has over 30 years of company listed in Singapore and Aberdeen New Dawn experience in investment banking and was a managing Investment Trust which is listed on the London Stock director of JP Morgan Securities previously Jardine Exchange.
He also sits on the boards of euNetworks Fleming in Asia from 1993 to 2002 and a managing and Nutmeg Savings and Investments.
director of HSBC Securities in Asia from 2002 to 2003.
4 Kwek Eik Sheng Kwek Eik Sheng was appointed to the Board in April Mr Kwek holds a Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical Non-Executive Director 2008.
He has been with the Hong Leong Group of and Electronics Engineering from Imperial College of companies in Singapore since 2006 and joined City Science, Technology and Medicine and a MPhil in Developments Limited in 2009, where he currently Finance from Judge Business School, Cambridge serves as the Chief Strategy Officer.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance 37 Committee membership: A Audit & Risk Committee N Nominations Committee R Remuneration Committee 5 6 7 8 9 N 5 Kwek Leng Peck Kwek Leng Peck was appointed to the Board in including City Developments Limited, Hong Leong Non-Executive Director February 1995, prior to the flotation of the Company Finance Limited and China Yuchai International on the London Stock Exchange.
He also serves as an executive director for directorships on most of the listed companies within Hong Leong Asia Limited and is the non-executive the Hong Leong Group of companies in Singapore, chairman of Tasek Corporation Berhad.
NR 6 His Excellency Shaukat Aziz Shaukat Aziz was appointed to the Board in June As an Executive Vice President, he held several senior Independent Non-Executive Director 2009.
He was elected as Prime Minister of Pakistan management positions in Citibank, including head of and served between 2004 and 2007, having previously institutional banking for Central Eastern Europe, the held the post of Finance Minister for five years.
Middle East and Africa and later for Asia Pacific, followed by Chief Executive of Citibanks global wealth After graduating from Gordon College, Rawalpindi management business.
A renowned public speaker on in 1967, Mr Aziz earned a masters of business economic and geopolitical affairs, Mr Aziz is a member administration degree from the Institute of Business of several boards of directors and the advisory boards Administration, University of Karachi.
An internship of various commercial and non-profit entities around at Citibank marked the beginning of a 30 year career the world.
NR 7 Susan Farr Susan Farr was appointed to the Board in December Accsys Technologies plc.
A specialist in business Independent Non-Executive Director 2013.
She has been a business director of Chime development and marketing, Ms Farr previously held Communication Limited formerly Chime a number of senior management positions at Vauxhall Communication plc since 2003, a position now held Motors, the BBC and Thames Television.
She is also on a part time basis.
She also serves as a nonthe former chair of The Marketing Society and the executive director of British American Tobacco p. l. c. Marketing Group of Great Britain.
Dairy Crest plc and AR 8 Gervase MacGregor Gervase MacGregor was appointed to the Board over the last 25 years, first as an auditor of Independent Non-Executive Director and in December 2014.
He has been a partner of BDO international five star hotels and more recently Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee LLP since 1991, where he is currently the head of with investigations and disputes in the sector.
international advisory, risk and quality services, specialising in forensic investigations and expert Gervase MacGregor is a fellow of the Institute of witness services.
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and a graduate of the University of Liverpool and he has Prior to joining BDO LLP, Mr MacGregor worked as a masters degree from HEC in Paris.
a petroleum geologist in the North Sea, Australia and West Africa.
He has experience in the hospitality sector ANR 9 Alexander Waugh Alexander Waugh was appointed to the Board in June Independent Non-Executive Director and 2009.
Mr Waugh has commercial experience in event Chairman of the Remuneration Committee management, the media industry and is the founder of a successful publishing business.
Mr Waugh is also a well-known author, literary critic and composer.
He is Honorary President of the Shakespeare Authorship Coalition and Senior Visiting Fellow at the University of Leicester.
