Marketplace Good growth opportunities Customers are always looking for better value and improved service levels.
Our role is to be the experts in providing quality services and the best outsourcing solutions for them.
As a people business, we do this by having the right people, supporting them, and ensuring they have the right skills and do things the right way.
We continue to see major opportunities to help clients in both the public and private sectors shift from outsourcing single services to benefit from the cost and efficiency advantages of more integrated FM.
Economic climate 1 13 1 12 2 13 11 2 and marketplace 12 11 3 Although the UK economy gathered 10 momentum during 2014 and is 10 outperforming countries in mainland 3 Europe, there remain risks to the Major markets: Major markets: 9 9 4 economic situation.
Growth in Revenue Sales pipeline outsourcing has remained relatively flat 8 5 over the last year.
In general terms, our industry is slow to enter recession but 8 6 4 7 also slow to emerge, due to the long-term 5 nature of outsourcing contracts.
6 7 The total UK FM market is valued Public sector 0.8bn 36% Public sector 4.3bn 44% at 125bn.
At present, an estimated 1 Central and other government 7% 1 Central and other government 4% 75bn is outsourced, 45bn of which represents our principal addressable 2 Local government 7% 2 Local government 18% market, defined as contracts worth over 3 Social housing 11% 3 Social housing 15% 500,000 per year.
We hold a 4% share 4 Healthcare 6% 4 Healthcare 5% of this market.
We expect demand for 5 Education 5% 5 Education 2% FM services to grow by up to 2% annually until 2017, up on the 1.2% annual growth Private sector 1.5bn 64% Private sector 5.4bn 56% from 2007 to 2013.
The market is 6 Finance and professional services 17% 6 Finance and professional services 17% fragmented and dominated by around 7 Manufacturing 10% 7 Retail 7% 120 large providers, with the 12 largest 8 Retail 12% 8 Manufacturing 6% accounting for 34% of the market.
9 Property management 5% 9 Transport and logistics 10% The markets for individual service lines 10 Technology and communications 6% 10 Property management 10% are in general led by different specialists sources: management consultancy: 11 Utilities 3% 11 Technology and communications 1% MTW Research.
12 Leisure 4% 12 Utilities 3% 13 Transport and logistics 7% 13 Leisure 2% Mitie Group plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial To support this programme we measures, but looked at how many Market trends clients are benefiting from integrated commissioned another independent Outsourcing remains a key government research report, Delivering the vision of energy strategies that deliver better strategy, as both central government working environments, greater an integrated workplace, which found and local authorities continue to adopt that large corporate organisations are employee engagement and an enhanced austerity measures.
This focus on reputation, in addition to cost and gradually bringing property, HR, FM costs is creating opportunities for and IT together to provide Workplace carbon savings.
outsourcing, which is well-established Services that recognise new working as a proven route to greater efficiency.
Private sector practices and the importance of people.
Government procurement is still driven by Mitie remains focused predominantly This represents an opportunity for the FM price and not quality, which means that on the private sector, and this has been sector to provide new service solutions we are selective about the contracts we the primary source of our growth over that focus more on supporting people at are prepared to bid for in the public sector.
The market drivers work and less on the buildings in which The perception of outsourcers is negative in the private sector are broadly similar they work.
in some quarters, due to significant to those in the public sector including bad press in recent years.
The task for To share our research findings and discuss the need to reduce costs by outsourcing those at the quality end of the market, a range of other industry challenges and non-core activities, while maintaining including Mitie, is to remain vigilant and opportunities, we have held a number of and where possible improving service.
to consistently promote the benefits roundtables and discussion dinners that We provide services to a wide range of and quality we bring to our clients and brought together small groups of property companies in sectors including finance their customers.
Through forums and professional services, manufacturing like this, our clients can share and discuss and leisure.
Our performance for the year As an industry, FM continues to move their own experiences, innovations and has again been led by the private sector, from single services to bundles of best practice with their peers from which accounted for 64% of revenue, and services, with many contracts now seeing other organisations.
we expect this trend to continue through the integration of multiple services across the coming year.
Another roundtable discussion looked at how property and FM data could be For both public and private sectors, value Public sector used for strategic decision making around is the watchword and the lack of inflation We focus on the justice, local government a property estate and to improve the means that most organisations are and health sectors, where we continue delivery of FM services.
Following this operating in a zero price rise environment.
to see a good range of long-term event, we released a strategy guide In light of the ongoing debate around opportunities.
We are highly selective Using data to reshape the workplace minimum wage versus living wage, we about the areas in which we bid and which recognised how the rise in use of expect employee wages will continue to rigorously review pricing and risk transfer.
technology has been accompanied by be a key area of focus during contract In 2014, the public sector accounted for a rapid increase in data.
Our view is that great 36% of revenue, including 7% from central FM and property professionals the work deserves decent pay.
Our policy and other government.
opportunity to capture basic property is to offer clients the choice of paying data on rent, business rates and utility We still foresee selected opportunities in either current market wage rates, which costs, but also dynamic information on a the public sector over the medium term.
may include the minimum wage, or an vast range of factors, such as how people All governments, across the world and alternative outsourcing model to adopt are using and moving around the building, in the UK, will continue to face pressure a geographically appropriate, fair wage.
that can help determine the efficiency in three key areas: the growing cost of We are uniquely placed to see the and value of each building.
With access healthcare and an ageing population: the challenges that many of our people face to a single view of data across an estate, need to reduce public debt and spending in the service industry, and we believe that the guide highlighted how property deficits: and high expectations of the fair wages are critical in motivating and and facilities directors can use this quality of public services.
rich source of information to improve we believe the range of outsourcing As part of our Executive Relationship the management of workplaces and opportunities will increase as the private Programme, we continued to develop influence the quality and cost of long-term sector looks to support the public sector Mitie Debates, which aim to more closely occupancy decisions insight that adds in innovative new models that can understand trends in the market, and help real value to an organisation.
support them with their challenges.
to inform and shape the way we work with Energy is another key area that impacts our clients and plan for their future needs.
an organisations ability to manage costs and this topic was also explored.
Our strategy guide, Taking an integrated approach to energy investigated how it is becoming harder to make significant savings via traditional efficiency Mitie Group plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
