The Mitie business Creating value... Understanding Advising and Motivating and client needs designing services managing people We get to know our clients strategy We use our extensive knowledge Our fundamental skill is in getting and what they need from their people and experience of property, workplaces the best out of a large and diverse and their property, so we can help and services to advise our clients on workforce and supply chain, allowing them to achieve their goals.
We apply fresh a client to focus on their core objectives.
thinking to create innovative ways to Our ethos of share ownership makes live and work.
across the breadth of our offer managing our clients facilities and looking after their people We provide a wide range of facilities Hard FM Security management FM services across the UK, Ireland and Europe.
These are delivered as integrated FM contracts, in bundles or as single services, depending on client requirements.
Our property management business provides repair and maintenance services in the social housing markets.
And we provide high quality homecare in the UK, delivering a wide range of services to people who require help and support due to illness, disability or infirmity.
Integrated FM Catering and front of house Cleaning and environmental services Facilities Property Healthcare Management Management 1.9bn 273m 91m Mitie Group plc 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Creating value... Technology and Delivering value for Mitie systems that provide clients, people, communities data and management and shareholders information We make sure that our people have the We provide a service that helps our clients run their right technology and systems do their job organisations more efficiently.
We engage with local properly.
To manage and deliver services, communities to recruit apprentices, develop careers we analyse and act on our own and our and inspire people, to benefit society as a whole.
clients data to provide the best service In return we are able to deliver sustainable profit and most efficient solutions.
that creates value for our shareholders.
Integrated FM Hard FM Catering and front of house across the breadth of our a Advice a Maintenance a Catering a Strategy a Compliance a Events a Management a Projects a Reception offer managing our clients facilities a Data a Energy a Helpdesk a Property consultancy and looking after their people a Care and custody Security Cleaning and environmental services a Manned guarding a Cleaning a Systems a Landscaping a Vetting a Waste Management a Document management a Pest Control Property Management Healthcare a Housing maintenance a Homecare a Painting a Complex care a Insurance claim response management More on our operational performance: Page 16 Mitie Group plc 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
