14 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our business model Creating sustainable value.
1 Our people Recruit Induct and train Retain Recruit the right people at all levels Induct and train our new people to see Retain our people by helping them build of the organisation.
them through what can be a steep and a career that works for them.
We employ more than 44,000 people We look to recruit people who share our the organisation, offering a compelling who are vital to the successful running of our values of Passion, Respect, Innovation, reason to join our fantastic business: and business.
In a highly competitive market serving Drive and Engagement, and who wish to Focus on team engagement, helping to guests with increasingly high standards and progress within the organisation: retain our people by helping them build a expectations, our people are the key Induct and train our new people to support career that works for them.
We can use our differentiating factor in giving them a great them through what can be a steep and scale to offer flexibility in the workplace as experience, each and every time they visit and pressurised learning curve.
This involves well as a fantastic and varied career path.
in helping us to gain a competitive advantage.
strict compliance training to ensure our We encourage our people to make the Our approach to people is therefore to: high standards are maintained, but also most of working for our brands, but also to welcoming them into a supportive develop and build a career with us.
We offer Recruit the right people at all levels of environment so that they feel prepared nationwide opportunities across a range of the organisation.
We recruit our people when serving guests for the first time.
formats and functions including front of to be great at hospitality, with a focus on Where possible we look to promote to house, back of house and in our Retail personality rather than experience.
house manager and beyond from within Support Centre.
2 Our practices Safety Suppliers Technology Our approach to s afety is our first We work with our suppliers to deliver Our practices rely o n us staying relevant and most important priority i n operating the best products a t the best value t o in our approach to technology.
Our practices refer to the way in which we These principles are paramount in everything Our approach to systems and technology approach all of our key activities, including we do, and are reflected in performance is increasingly important to the way in which compliance with legislation: how we conduct measures at all levels of the organisation.
This includes appropriate ourselves in interacting with our various technology in our pubs and restaurants, both We work with our suppliers seeking to deliver stakeholders: and how we utilise equipment front and back of house, as well as the wider the best value to our guests.
Our approach to and technology.
Consistent and faultless support to the business in terms of management supply chain management is to utilise our scale adoption of these practices gives us the information and use of data for decision-making.
through volume suppliers where appropriate, foundation to be able to operate outstanding In the year we completed our investment in new but to also work in partnership with smaller pubs and restaurants for our guests to enjoy.
EPOS systems to enable greater efficiency within specialist suppliers such as local farmers, our operations by speeding up order taking and Our first and most important priority in when it benefits the product and gives the bill payment, improving business controls, and carrying out these practices is safety.
We best quality and value to our guests.
Outside allowing our retail teams to spend more time set ourselves the highest standards to ensure of products we also work closely with building with our guests.
We also fully recognise the that our businesses are safe for our people and maintenance contractors and technology importance of enhancing our investment in our to work in and our guests to eat and drink in.
suppliers to deliver value and standards digital capability to understand, communicate throughout the wider business.
and interact with our guests.
3 Our guests Our aim is to delight our guests through each and evolving needs.
These offerings vary We have dedicated teams of employees focused and every one of the 140 million meals and across our range of brands.
For example, on making all of these propositions available at 430 million drinks we serve each year.
This is the we have an outstanding range of cask ales great value for our guests.
Through this focus output of having the right people in place and by in Nicholsons and Ember Inns, live sport with we aim for our guests to leave us having had a adopting the right practices, and ensures that high-value food and drink in our Heartland pleasurable and memorable experience, and we are able to welcome guests into a clean, estate, family roast dinners at the likes of one that they will highly recommend to friends safe and friendly environment.
Toby Carvery and Country Pubs, and special and family to broaden our guest base further.
occasion dining in Miller & Carter and Browns.
Beyond this, we need to offer brand This takes place at some of the most outstanding propositions that meet our guests wide-ranging locations across the country.
Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 15 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our business model focuses on Through delivery of these the principle that by operating priorities, we can deliver our with the best people and with the strategic goals and deliver further best practices, we will deliver value to our stakeholders.
outstanding experiences to our guests and generate sustained value to our various stakeholders.
1 Our people 3 Our guests Induct and train Recruit Retain 3 Our guests Safety Technology Suppliers 2 Our practices Shareholders Suppliers See TSR chart on See CSR section on page 68 page 26 Creating value for all our stakeholders Environment Employees See CSR section on See CSR section on page 26 page 29
