Board of Directors Roger Matthews Ruby McGregor-Smith CBE Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Chairman of the Nomination Committee Chair of the Results and Investment Committees Member of the Remuneration Committee Ruby joined Mitie in December 2002 and was appointed as Chief Executive Roger was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Mitie in December in April 2007.
Ruby has extensive experience within the support services 2006 and was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman in July 2008.
He was sector where, prior to joining Mitie, she held a range of senior roles, primarily previously Non-Executive Chairman of Pertemps Network Group Limited at Serco Group plc.
Ruby is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and LSL Property Services plc and held the roles of Group Finance Director of Michael Page International PLC, appointed to the board in May 2007, and of J Sainsbury plc, and Group Managing Director and Group Finance Director is also a member of their Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
She is of Compass Group PLC.
a Non-Executive Director of the Department of Culture, Media and Sport.
Rubys charitable and community interests include acting as Chair of the Confederation of British Industrys Public Services Strategy Board, Chair of the Womens Business Council, and Business Ambassador for UK Trade and Investment.
Suzanne Baxter David Jenkins Group Finance Director Senior Independent Director Member of the Results and Investment Committees Chairman of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees Suzanne was appointed as Group Finance Director of Mitie Group plc in April 2006.
Suzanne is a Chartered Accountant with a wealth of experience David was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in March 2006 and is in the support services sector.
Prior to joining Mitie, Suzanne specialised in currently the Senior Independent Director.
David was previously a senior mergers and acquisitions related transaction support and held a number partner with Deloitte LLP in London having spent over 20 years in Assurance of commercial and operational roles with Serco Group plc.
Suzanne is and Advisory Services.
He is Chairman of Development Securities PLC and a Non-Executive Director of WH Smith PLC, where she is also Chair of a Non-Executive Director of Renewable Energy Systems Holdings Limited.
the Audit Committee and member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
She is Chairman and a member of the Counsel of the Business Services Association, a policy and research centre of excellence for the support services industry, and Chair of the Business in the Community BITC South West Strategic Advisory Board.
She was previously Deputy Chairman of Opportunity Now, a part of the BITC organisation, with a focus on gender diversity in the workplace.
Mitie Group plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Larry Hirst CBE Crawford Gillies Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Member of the Audit Member of the Audit Nomination and Remuneration Committees Nomination and Remuneration Committees Larry was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in February 2010.
Until his Crawford was appointed as a Non-Executive Director to the Board in retirement from IBM in 2010, Larry was Chairman of IBM EMEA and held a July 2012 and was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from number of other senior positions during his 33 year career with IBM.
Larry is November 2013 to September 2014.
He spent 25 years with Bain & Co. the a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of international management consultancy, where he was Managing Director ARM Holdings plc, he is also Chairman of the Imperial College Data Science Europe.
He was appointed to the Board of Barclays plc in April 2014 and Institute Advisory Board.
His community interests include acting as an is Senior Independent Director of Standard Life plc.
Crawford is also the Ambassador to Everywoman, Black British Business and POWERful Women.
Chairman of Scottish Enterprise and Control Risks Group.
Jack Boyer Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees Jack was appointed as a Non-Executive Director to the Board in June 2013 and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in October 2014.
He is Chairman of Ilika plc and a Non-Executive Director of Laird PLC where he chairs the Remuneration Committee.
He also sits on the board of the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council and is Deputy Chair of the Advanced Materials Leadership Council.
A serial entrepreneur, he previously founded and was CEO of companies in the engineering, telecommunications and biotechnology sectors.
He has been an investment banker at Goldman Sachs and strategy consultant at Bain & Co. Mitie Group plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
