Our strategy A strategy for 1 sustainable and People People are the lifeblood of our business, profitable growth the single factor that makes the difference between Mitie and our peers.
Every year, we make a significant Our strategy is to deliver sustainable, profitable growth.
investment in attracting, retaining and developing the best people in the industry You can find details on our progress against a range at all levels.
This ensures that our people of financial KPIs on page 32. have the expertise to do a great job and are motivated to put the client first by The strategy is enabled by a focus on six key elements: carrying out their tasks efficiently and effectively.
In 2014, for example, our FM business launched a Key Accounts programme, which aims to develop our 1 4 most senior account directors and future leaders.
Working in partnership with People New markets and services the Manchester Business School, we have conducted three intensive courses Develop the best talent at every Develop our service capability focusing on strategic intent, customer level of our business.
in our current markets and in relationships and commercial acumen.
markets that offer attractive In addition, 120 middle and senior growth opportunities.
managers completed structured personal development through the Mitie Academy.
We have also continued to actively support the Governments 2 5 apprenticeship programme.
Clients Risk Provide world-class services to Manage risk and protect attract new clients and retain our business and brand.
and expand contracts with existing clients.
3 6 Operational excellence Responsibility Deliver market-leading, Take a long-term view innovative services with by acting responsibly.
Mitie Group plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial 2 Clients Everything we do is focused on our clients.
Client focus means creating a clear Over 800 Mitie apprentices have gained nationally recognised We are all about service excellence and simple message that resonates for mark our progress as much by client one client and one client alone.
This is qualifications at levels 2 and 3, working in our Environmental, Total satisfaction and retention rates as by uniquely tailored and demonstrates a our own financial performance.
Our FM real understanding of where they are, Security Management and Gather & Gather businesses.
contract retention stands at above 90%.
the pressures they are under and how We are working hard to make sure that the services we provide can be linked At the year end, we employed 69,557 our track record in all sectors, for all together in ways that unlock potential people.
We recognise the value of client contracts, reaches those same and deliver new benefits.
training and motivating all of our people.
E-learning is an important tool in our development programmes and in 2014 Mitie clients stay with us because we we designed and launched Career prove our value.
Often, our relationships Pathways e-learning support, which helps begin with a contract to provide a single all of our people learn how to move ahead service.
Then, as the client experiences in their careers.
We have also expanded the value we bring to the business, the our national employee roadshows, relationship evolves into a bundle of Secured revenue KPI which several thousand of our managers services or a fully integrated contract % attended during the year.
Our employee which sees us deliver a raft of different discount programme, Mideals, remains services under a single agreement.
2011 81 a really important benefit to all of our In addition to initiatives such as the Key 2012 83 people and we have expanded the range Accounts programme which although 2013 85 of rewards it offers.
part of our People strategy also delivers 2014 84 tangible benefits to clients we strive to 2015 85 create a culture that always puts client Description: focus at the heart of how we work.
We are focused on long-term recurring revenue streams.
At the start of each financial year, we calculate the In the complex outsourcing marketplace, percentage of budgeted revenue that is already contracted.
it is clear that one size will never fit all.
Comment: So we treat each client as unique: as an At the start of the financial year, 85% of budgeted revenue opportunity to create a tailored service for 2015 16 was secured, our highest level ever and a or a bundle of services that meet their reflection of the success of our strategy to focus on long-term secured revenue.
Management retention Single, bundled and Order book KPI KPI KPI % integrated contracts bn % 2011 89.5 2011 42 58 2011 6.8 2012 82.5 2012 41 46 13 2012 8.6 2013 97.1 2013 41 33 26 2013 9.2 2014 89.2 2014 40 29 31 2014 8.7 2015 87.9 2015 38 30 32 2015 9.0 Single Bundled Integrated Description: Description: Mitie is a people business and we pride ourselves Our forward order book shows the total value of Description: on creating and nurturing outstanding managers.
future revenue secured by contractual agreements As a substantial portion of our revenue was historically and it is a key part of our focus on building long-term Monitoring how successful we are in retaining our generated through single service contracts, one of recurring revenue.
our opportunities for growth is through expanding people is an important measure for us.
our relationships with existing clients by providing other Target: Target: services.
We have seen a trend in the market towards We aim to grow our order book at least in line with Maintaining a management retention rate of over 80%.
bundled and FM contracts over the past few years and revenue growth.
Comment: we are well positioned to meet the demands of this trend Comment: Our management retention rate was 87.9% for the year, due to our broad range of services.
We measure the Our order book grew by 3.4% during the year to 9.0bn.
percentage of revenue that is generated by these types of contracts in order to measure how well we are performing in this area.
Comment: 62% of revenues are attributable to bundled and integrated FM contracts.
Mitie Group plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our strategy 3 4 Operational excellence New markets and services Technology is also a key driver for Our current and future performance will Helping clients operate more efficiently is our core skill.
It is why clients choose efficiency improvement.
Our teams be driven by our experience and expertise have a long track record of deploying in our core FM markets.
However, our to work with us and why we have grown so consistently.
However, we innovative tools to enhance performance, skills are also relevant to adjacent sectors from remote surveillance systems to our where we can connect strategically with know that there is always a better way of working a better way to deliver Miworld portal which enables clients to customers and offer them efficient and monitor and manage all their buildings quality services.
operational excellence and the best way to stay ahead of the competition.
and equipment in one place, in real time.
Technology-led solutions have become a Management information, data and During 2014, we launched a number of key differentiator to our offering.
We have technology is an increasingly critical part new technology-led initiatives, including continued to invest in niche areas that give of our service offering, and we continue the security industrys first all incident us different capabilities and enable us to to invest in this area.
This brings constantly expand the breadth of what together our recorded security incidents we do for our clients.
Our team continually seeks out new and and police crime data in an online, better ways of working.
That means UK-wide registry to provide the most For example, our acquisition of Procius, concentrating on what matters most up-to-date intelligence and analytics.
a leading pre-employment screening and to customers, listening to feedback and vetting company with over 3,000 clients being innovative to meet ever-increasing across all sectors.
It means efficient security business with additional niche delivery, using standard processes, capability in a high margin sector, and will key performance metrics and knowing drive its growth as one of the countrys exactly who is doing what, where and largest providers of pre-employment when.
And it means being effective, screening, competency management with clearly defined roles and a culture and criminal records checking services.
of continuous improvement supported The year also saw the acquisition of by sharing best practice, such as how we use management information Source8, which has added a valuable real estate, technology and risk and technology.
management consultancy offer to our portfolio, complementing the services we already provide to our clients.
Source8 brings strong growth potential to Mitie, supported by a high quality management team.
Headline operating profit margin Organic revenue growth KPI KPI % % 2011 5.7 2011 2.1 2012 6.2 2012 5.4 2013 6.1 2013 5.0 2014 6.0 2014 5.2 2015 5.7 2015 4.9 Description: Description: Our headline operating profit margin provides us with Mitie has historically tracked and reported organic revenue a good indicator of the efficiency of our business.
growth as a key measure of its success.
Organic growth is calculated by using revenue as reported in the Accounts, Objective: based on the continuing businesses and excluding the Margin increases over the medium-term.
impact of material acquisitions or disposals made during Comment: the performance period.
Our headline operating profit margin was 5.7%.
Objective: Grow revenue organically every year.
Comment: Mitie achieved 4.9% organic headline revenue growth across the group in 2015.
The operating margin in our FM business improved, however the overall group margin was impacted by pricing pressure in our Property Management and Healthcare businesses.
Mitie Group plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial 5 6 Risk Responsibility Risk management is not a nice to have Since its establishment in 2013, the Our business is about more than but an essential aspect of how we work.
delivering great service to clients and Foundation has supported careers Our approach to risk management is events at more than 122 schools, meeting shareholder expectations.
As a based on an enterprise-wide framework very large employer, we touch the lives of and successfully helped 42 people through which we identify, mitigate into employment during the year.
countless people, directly and indirectly.
and manage our significant risks at We have a huge opportunity to use our We encourage our people to take part both an operational and strategic level.
in Foundation events when possible, expertise and resources to support local Risk management informs every single communities and minimise our impact on with over 200 joining the Mitie London decision we take, including our exits from the environment.
This year was one of our Revolution, a 192 mile cycle ride that our M&E engineering construction and most successful years to date for the way raised over 28,000 for a new Business Asset Management businesses, both of in which we succeeded on both counts.
Development Academy with our which were completed during the year.
education social enterprise partner, Youth employment is an issue that really Working Knowledge.
Health and safety is a key risk for Mitie matters for us.
Mitie started out as a and we are pleased to see the number small business in 1987, and we have not We continue to actively promote diversity of reportable health and safety incidents forgotten these roots it is important and were named as one of The Times reduce again this year.
However, we will that we continue to support young Top 50 Employers for Women for never be complacent about the well-being people and give them opportunities to the fifth consecutive year.
We also of our people and continue to focus on fulfil their potential.
We currently have successfully completed the Business continual improvement.
Ethical matters over 2,000 apprentices in training in the Community Gender and Race and behaviours also influence our risk across our businesses.
In November, we Benchmark 2014, earning two gold profile and we encourage the highest entered into a partnership with Mosaic, and one silver awards.
In 2014, HRH The Prince of Wales mentoring In terms of the environment, weve set for example, we produced One Code, a charity.
This will provide ex-offenders an ambitious target of reducing our new code of conduct that promotes our with transferable skills through a series carbon footprint by 35% by 2020, from values and enables our people to do the of workshops and training programmes, a 2010 baseline.
This year CO emissions 2 right thing at all times.
ultimately leading to a work placement remained constant at 0.63 tonnes with Mitie.
This scheme is overseen by per employee.
the Mitie Foundation, our charitable arm, which focuses on creating opportunities for people of all backgrounds to join the world of work by raising aspirations and unlocking potential.
More on our financial performance: Page 32 Reportable accidents Carbon dioxide emissions KPI KPI per 1,000 employees tonnes per employee 2011 3.1 2011 0.74 2012 3.4 2012 0.71 2013 3.1 2013 0.64 2014 2.6 2014 0.63 2015 2.3 2015 0.63 Description: Description: The health and safety of our people is critical to our Emissions are calculated using the Defra guidance on how business.
Reportable accidents are those defined as to measure and report GHG emissions and apply the 2010 fatalities, major injuries or resulting in over seven days guidelines for company reporting.
The rate of CO e 2 absence or restriction from work.
emissions per Mitie employee is calculated using the average number of people employed during the year.
Objective: In line with our Work Safe Home Safe!
employee Objective: engagement programme, our objective is to embed safe Understand and minimise the environmental impact working behaviours and ensure every employee goes of our operations.
home safely at the end of their working day.
Comment: Comment: Emissions per employee are 20% lower than the baseline.
Our reportable accident rate shows a significant improvement on the 2014 rate, with an 11.5% reduction in the number of reportable accidents.
We will maintain our focus on continual improvement in health and safety risk management to fulfil our Work Safe Home Safe!
Mitie Group plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
