Who we are Integrated packaging and paper Group Mondi is an integrated packaging and paper Group with a dual listed company structure primary listing on the JSE Limited for Mondi Limited and premium listing on the London Stock Exchange for Mondi plc.
Group structure Business unit % of Group revenue Return on capital employed Products Containerboard Packaging Paper Sack kraft paper Europe & 25.5% International Division Speciality kraft paper 29% Pulp Read more on pages 52 to 55 Corrugated packaging Fibre Packaging Industrial bags Europe & 13.9% International Division Extrusion coatings 27% Read more on pages 56 to 58 Advanced materials Consumer Packaging Consumer goods Europe & 10.7% packaging International Division 19% Read more on pages 59 to 61 Uncoated fine paper Uncoated Fine Paper Pulp Europe & 25.6% International Division 16% Read more on pages 62 to 65 Pulp South Africa Division Uncoated fine paper Read more on pages 66 to 69 30.1% White-top kraftliner 9% 4 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements What we do Mondi is integrated across the packaging and paper value chain from managing forests and producing pulp, paper and compound plastics, to developing effective and innovative industrial and consumer packaging solutions.
Culture and values With around 25,000 employees and operations across more than 30 countries, our people and our culture really matter.
Were connected, guided and inspired by our culture and values.
Our people are dynamic, entrepreneurial and empowered, with a real passion for performance.
We show we care by being respectful and responsible.
We act with integrity, encouraging honesty and transparency in all that we do.
Our approach to sustainability For us, sustainable development makes good business sense and is part of the way Read more about our approach tosustainable development on we work every day.
We have a clear approach to sustainable development, which pages 44 to 51 links our material issues to a comprehensive set of commitments, against which we measure our progress.
Our future relies on the responsible stewardship of the natural resources we need to source, manufacture and market our products.
Thats why we believe in engaging proactively and collaborating with key stakeholders on global issues and their local consequences.
We play our part by creating value in our communities, looking for ways to achieve more from less, increasing resource and process efficiencies and communicating the value of the sustainable product solutions we offer.
We have been included in the FTSE4Good Index Series since 2008 and the JSEs Socially Responsible Investment SRI Index since 2007.
Our customers and the industries we work in Many of our customers are leaders in their industries and their products are household Read more about our products on pages 8 to 11 names around the world.
Our innovative technologies and products can be found in a variety of applications including hygiene components, stand-up pouches, super-strong cement bags, clever retail boxes and office paper.
Our key customers are in industries such as automotive: building and construction: chemicals: food and beverage: home and personal care: medical and pharmaceutical: packaging and paper converting: pet care: and office and professional printing.
Market positions #1 #1 #2 Kraft paper and Industrial bags Virgin containerboard industrial bags producer in producer in Europe producer in Europe North America #1 #3 #1 Containerboard Corrugated Commercial release producer in packaging producer liner producer in Europe emerging Europe in emerging Europe #1 #2 #1 Uncoated fine paper Extrusion coatings Hardwood pulp, whiteproducer in Europe producer in Europe top kraftliner and uncoated fine paper producer in South Africa Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 5
