Our products Touching the lives of millions worldwide Every day Packaging Paper Fibre Packaging Our virgin and recycled containerboard is used Innovation and design improvements extend the tomake corrugated packaging, primarily designed benefits of our corrugated packaging well beyond toprotect our customers products along the value traditional boxes to fully customised trays and wraps, chain and display them in-store.
Sack kraft paper, multi-piece solutions, point-of-sale displays and which we offer in brown, white and  shipping containers.
Industrial bags are a coated grades, is the main component of industrial strong, lightweight and sustainable choice for cement bags.
Our speciality kraft paper is used to make and building materials and agricultural, chemical and everythingfrom heavy-duty industrial packaging, food products.
Our innovative range of industrial bags toretail shopping bags, and attractive food packaging is available globally and optimised for high-speed filling for supermarket shelves.
and easy handling, including open-mouth bags, pasted valve bags, water-repellent bags and bags suitable for food contact.
Our extrusion coatings portfolio comprises high-quality barrier solutions used in several industries for applications such as food packaging, building insulation, wrappers and case linings as well as automotive and protective clothing.
8 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements We offer a broad range of packaging and paper productsdesigned for a multitude of consumer and industrial end uses.
The scope and expertise of our  operations help us to create customised packaging solutions for particular needs oftenin collaboration with our customers.
Consumer Packaging Uncoated Fine Paper Our consumer goods packaging products help Our extensive range of office papers is designed brands communicate with customers, extend shelf toachieve optimal print results on laser, inkjet and life and improve end-user convenience.
Our high-performance professional high-quality laminates and barrier materials on reels, printing papers are dedicated for offset presses, capable of handling a variety of printing techniques.
high-speed inkjet presses and the latest digital print We also offer a wide variety of tailor-made converted technologies.
With our wide range of high-quality flexible packaging solutions such as stand-up papers we aim to provide customers a one-stop-shop pouches, spouted pouches, re-closable plastic bags, solution for their needs.
paper-based bags and microwaveable packaging.
Advanced materials is ourrange of components for personal hygiene products, films and release liners for labels, tapes, graphic arts and many other applications.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 9 Our products Bringing our products to life We are Customer focused Every day E-commerce packaging Corrugated Packaging Otto, a large multi-channel retailer, attaches great importance to the shopping experience of their customers, who are influenced by the packaging used.
At the same time material usage needs to be as efficient as possible.
A close and strategic partnership with Mondi has enabled Otto to successfully optimise their corrugated e-commerce packaging solutions to differentiate themselves from the competition whileimproving customer loyalty.
PRO HYBRID Industrial Bags We collaborated with Knauf Belgium to develop a bag that offers all the advantages of a plastic bag, yet is fillable on conventional paper bag filling PRO systems.
The resulting HYBRID bag is among our next generation of water-repellent bags.
Its outer layer of polyethylene protects powdery products such as building materials and cement against wet weather and moisture seepage.
PRO Trials show that gypsum packaged in HYBRID and stored outdoors enjoys a shelf life twice as long as that stored in standard paper bags.
10 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Innovative Sustainable Every day Every day Advantage PERGRAPHICA Uncoated Fine Paper Kraft White Print Sack Kraft Paper Weve introduced new grades of sack kraft paper PERGRAPHICA is an example of a Mondi that combine the strength of standard sack kraft Green Range product that helps our customers paper with the excellent printability of smooth go green.
This portfolio of premium design papers machine-finished paper.
Production of these is Forest Stewardship Council FSC certified innovative paper grades is possible with our statefor responsible forestry, carries the EU Ecolabel of-the-art paper machine at Mondi tt Czech and isproduced exclusively at Mondi Neusiedler Republic.
With Advantage Kraft White Print Austria, an ISO 14001-certified mill.
It is the and Advantage Semi Extensible White Print, only design paper brand included in the WWFs customers enjoy new branding possibilities and Check Your Paper list of third-party audited, decreased total package costs.
environmentally friendly pulp and paper products checkyourpaper.
X Air Liner CCK BarrierFilm Release Liner Extrusion Coatings Weve developed the industrys first siliconised Multiple award-winning BarrierFilm is completely structured clay-coated kraft paper liner: aluminium free, unlike many other barrier films X Air Liner CCK.
Adding a structure to a liner used in food packaging.
By removing aluminium creates an air egress that improves product as a component, we reduced the packagings performance by preventing bubbles from forming carbon footprint while still maintaining its highduring the application of a self-adhesive graphic quality barrier properties.
One customer reported X arts product.
In addition, Air Liner CCK shows that switching to BarrierFilm for their convenience higher heat resistance in comparison to polyfood packaging reduced their packaging carbon coated liners, allowing higher converting speeds footprint by as much as 25%.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 11
