Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements DLC executive committee Meeting schedule and attendance The committee met nine times during the year.
Composition Members Committee Meeting attendance throughout the year member since nine meetings in the year David Hathorn, chairman May 2007 9 Andrew King May 2007 9 John Lindahl August 2011 9 In 2015 we continued to seek Peter Oswald May 2007 9 out opportunities for value- 1 Ron Traill June 2008 8 enhancing growth and cost 1 optimisation through capital When the date was changed Ron Traill was unable to attend one meeting due to prior business commitments.
investments, acquisitions and Other regular attendees asset rationalisation.
We continue to see greater opportunity for Business unit managers value-enhancing growth through Representatives from corporate functions, each of whom present on relevant topics capital investment in our existing operations, and our completed Key responsibilities projects have delivered an Day-to-day management of the Group within the limits set by the Boards, including incremental operating profit implementation of operational decisions contribution of approximately Strategy implementation, including an annual strategy session with the heads of each 100million over the past business unit twoyears.
Risk identification and the management and mitigation of those risks David Hathorn Monitoring financial, operational and safety performance, in particular monitoring the Chairman of the DLC executive committee achievement of budgets, forecasts and targets Policy implementation Shareholder engagement We believe in having an open and constructive dialogue with our shareholders and prospective investors, with our principal communication being managed through the integrated report and Annual General Meetings.
While the joint chairmen maintain responsibility for ensuring there is effective communication with shareholders, it is the chief executive officer and chief financial officer who undertake the active engagement and dialogue with institutional shareholders, analysts and fund managers.
All contact with investors is strictly controlled in terms of timing and content such that no information is made available on a selective basis and to ensure a common awareness and interpretation of strategic objectives, matters of governance and the Groups performance.
The programme of communication is based primarily around the financial reporting calendar.
The main events that took place during 2015 are detailed on page 112 with in excess of 40 additional ad hoc meetings taking place throughout the year.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 111 Corporate governance report Events during 2015 February April August October Preliminary Investor roadshows Half-yearly results Interim management results announcement in the US New York statement Investor roadshows and Boston in South Africa Johannesburg, Pretoria and Cape Town Capital Markets Day In November 2015 Mondi hosted a Capital Markets Day in London that was attended by 76 analysts March May September November and investors.
The day was focused on providing Investor roadshows Interim management Investor roadshows Capital Markets further insight into Mondis business, with updates in South Africa statement in Europe London, Day London on each business unit: our growth strategy: our Johannesburg, Edinburgh capital expenditure programme: and how we plan Annual London Pretoria and and Zurich and execute capital projects.
Presentations were General Meetings UBS conference Cape Town New York Davy given bytheGroup executive committee and chief Avior investor lunch Avior investor Investor roadshows conference executive officers of the Groups business units.
South Africa lunch South Africa in Europe London There are video recordings and copies and Edinburgh ofallpresentations from the day available on the Sun City Merrill Mondi Group website.
Lynch conference Investors are regularly offered the opportunity to meet with the joint chairmen and other directors.
We acknowledge that at times our shareholders may take a different view to us which is why we maintain a regular dialogue as it is important that we explain our reasoning in the context of our strategy.
Some of the key areas of interest expressed by investors remain our strategy, our delivery on material capital expenditure projects and our future capital allocation plans.
The remuneration committee consults with shareholders on remuneration matters when appropriate and responds to remuneration governance questions when raised.
With our focus on delivering value in a sustainable way our Group head of sustainable development also maintains a dialogue on socially responsible investment through focused briefings with interested investors and stakeholders.
Throughout the year responses are given to correspondence received from shareholders and other interested parties on a variety of subjects.
Feedback from the dialogue with shareholders, in particular following the full and halfyearly results roadshows, is provided by the brokers direct to the Boards.
When available, directors also receive analysis of Mondis performance against other companies in the sector with analysts and brokers briefings relating to Mondi and the packaging and paper industry circulated on a regular basis, further enhancing their understanding of investor views.
The investor section of the Mondi Group website is a valuable reference point for shareholders and others interested in our business.
It contains financial reports, trading updates and news about our business operations as well as the share price, governance and sustainability information.
There is current as well as historical information available, together with information for shareholders on managing their shareholding and a section of frequently asked questions.
Many of our shareholders are choosing to receive shareholder information electronically rather than by post.
Information on how to elect to receive financial reports and other communications from Mondi via electronic means can be found in the shareholder information pages 212 to 216.
During 2015, Mondi did not receive any requests for access to records under the South African Promotion of Access to Information Act 2000.
112 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual General Meetings At the 2015 Annual General Meetings all resolutions were passed.
Overall in excess of 62% of the total Group shares were voted.
The directors did however note that the votes against five of the resolutions were higher than for other resolutions.
These resolutions all related to the authority to be given to directors to allot and issue shares of Mondi Limited and of Mondi plc.
The voting was in line with the pattern Mondi has seen at previous Annual General Meetings.
Having engaged with shareholders in this regard over recent years the directors are aware that South African shareholders in particular have concerns about these types of resolution.
We understand from our engagement with shareholders that this is not specific to Mondi and they routinely vote against such resolutions as a matter of policy.
The Annual General Meetings of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc are scheduled to be held on 12 May 2016 in Johannesburg and London respectively, presenting an opportunity for shareholders to question the directors about our activities and prospects.
Directors are available to meet informally with shareholders immediately before and after the meetings.
It is expected that all directors and, in particular, the chairmen of the committees will be present.
Separate resolutions will be proposed for each item of business to be considered at the meetings with the voting conducted by polls.
It is confirmed that each director will be standing for re-election by shareholders at the meetings.
The only item of business for the 2016 Annual General Meetings that is not a regular item is the proposal to renew the Mondi Limited and Mondi plc Bonus Share Plans and Long-Term Incentive Plans, on substantially the same terms.
This is explained in the meeting notices.
The voting results will be announced on the JSE and LSE and made available on the Mondi Group website as soon as practicable following the close of both meetings.
The notices, which include explanations of each resolution, are contained in separate circulars which will be sent to all shareholders in advance of the meetings, in accordance with the corporate governance codes of South Africa and the UK.
Dealing in securities The Boards have adopted a share dealing code for dealing in securities of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc which is based on regulatory and governance best practice in South Africa and the UK.
The code sets out the restrictions placed on directors, senior management and other key employees with regard to their share dealing to ensure that they do not abuse their access to information about the Group pending its public release and availability to shareholders and other interested parties.
The code is reviewed regularly and updated as required to ensure continued compliance with regulation and best practice.
The Boards are monitoring new European regulation in this regard and are working on reviewing and updating procedures and practices in line with this, while still being mindful of the differing requirements under South African regulations.
Regular reminders of the procedures to be followed are issued and periodic training is provided to relevant employees.
All dealings by directors and persons discharging managerial responsibilities and their connected persons are announced to the JSE and the LSE when they occur.
Details of the directors interests in the shares of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc can be found on pages 127 to 130.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 113 Corporate governance report Business ethics The Boards have adopted a Code of Business Ethics, which applies throughout the Group and sets out five fundamental principles that govern the way in which Mondi and its employees conduct business.
Three of the principles are monitored and reviewed by the sustainable development committee human rights, stakeholders and sustainability and two by the audit committee legal compliance and honesty and integrity.
The code incorporates the requirement for the Group to comply with all applicable laws and regulations.
Our legal and governance compliance is managed at business unit level, supported by a central team of relevant professionals who have oversight of compliance, including consideration of the application of non-binding rules, codes and standards.
Regular reports are presented to the Boards, or relevant committees, on compliance matters.
The detailed application of the principles of the code is documented in Mondis policies and procedures, in particular the Business Integrity Policy and the Sustainable Development Policy.
These policies have been rolled out across the Group and regular training is provided to all relevant employees.
Our internal audit team test the implementation of these policies and report to the audit committee on their findings.
The directors believe that the Group has robust compliance systems and procedures in place in relation to the code.
The directors are not aware of any material non-compliance with the code.
The code is available on the Mondi Group website.
Mondi has not been the subject of any legal actions against it for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust or monopoly practices during the year.
Mondi has not received any fines or non-monetary sanctions for material non-compliance with laws and regulations.
114 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015
