Holidays and weekend breaks are precious.
We recognise this and focus our energy on helping our customers get more holiday for their money.
Our customers love the breadth of choice that the world of online travel offers but the process of navigating it to find their ideal holiday at the best price can be frustrating.
We aggregate travel options and prices from hundreds of providers across package holidays, hotels, flights and car hire, so customers can be sure that they are searching a wide range of products as they plan their holidays.
We also offer a wide range of travel extras, such as travel insurance and airport parking.
Useful tools and services Improving the customer journey We have an ongoing programme of investment in The technology and website re-platforming project delivered technology that will make it easier for our customers to for TravelSupermarket in 2015 has been designed mobile first navigate this breadth of choice, and compare holidays on so that customers will be able to use our site across multiple the things that matter most to them.
By introducing new devices desktop, mobile and tablet throughout the process free-to-use tools such as My Suitcase, we make it of researching and booking a holiday.
This will help our straightforward for our customers to store a range of customers access our services whenever and wherever they holiday options in one place and then share and collaborate want to.
We also make it easy to stay up to date with any price fluctuations through our price alerts Market trends and opportunities functionality which enables customers to keep track of Consumers with tight household budgets are looking for the changing prices.
best deal for their holiday.
They are looking to compare the costs of the individual holiday components including flights, My Suitcase hotels and car hire to find the best deal for them.
My Suitcase creates a differentiated holiday planning tool, TravelSupermarket continues to focus on building leading which allows customers to save, compare and share their comparison services for consumers to help them find the best holiday plans before booking.
It increases engagement deal for their holiday and to benefit from this increasing throughout the holiday research and booking process and consumer demand to get more holiday for their money.
allows us to learn more about our customers, which will help us to offer more relevant and personalised travel planning services in the future.
18 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Holidays packaged and independent Our future Value m In 2016, we will: continue our technology investment programme to make sure we offer the best tools and services for 25,727 24,745 23,634 comparing and booking holidays so that we can help our 21,804 customers get more holiday for their money: attract customers to our website and innovative tools such as My Suitcase through a new TV campaign which will increase awareness of our brand and the services we 2012 2013 2014 2015 offer: and est forecast learn more about our customers as they use the Source: Package vs Independent Holidays UK My Suitcase functionality in order to help us offer more April 2015 Market Size and Forecast, Mintel relevant and personalised travel planning services to our customers in the future.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 19
