OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance 89 OTHER DISCLOSuRES The Directors Report is required to be produced by law.
The uKLAs career history of Directors in post as at the date of this Report, and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs and Listing Rules LRs also Board Committees on which they serve, can be found on pages 50 require the Company to make certain disclosures.
and 51. pages 48 to 92 inclusive together with the sections of the Annual Results and dividends Report incorporated by reference constitute a Directors Report that The total profit profit attributable to owners of the parent and has been drawn up and presented in accordance with applicable law, non-controlling interests for the year ended 31 December 2015 and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that Report are was 38.1 million 2014: 12.3 million.
profit before taxation for subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by that law.
the same period was 59.0 million 2014: 31.5 million.
Revenue was 911.8 million 2014: 921.7 million and operating profit was 82.9 million 2014: 54.3 million.
Basic earnings per share from The Company continuing operations was 11.9 pence 2014: 2.7 pence.
Capital and Legal form of the Company reserves at the end of the year were 186.4 million 2014: 187.7 Morgan Advanced Materials plc is a company incorporated in England million.
The total profit of 38.1 million will be transferred to equity.
and Wales with company number 286773.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend at the rate Name change of 7.0 pence per share on the Ordinary share capital of the Company, The Company changed its name to Morgan Advanced Materials plc payable on 27 May 2016 to shareholders on the register at the close from The Morgan Crucible Company plc on 27 March 2013. of business on 6 May 2016.
Together with the interim dividend of 4.0 pence per share paid on 27 November 2015, this final dividend, Annual General Meeting if approved by shareholders, brings the total distribution for the year The Companys 2016 AGM will be held on Friday 6 May 2016 at to 11.0 pence per share 2014: 10.9 pence.
The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED.
A Circular incorporating the Notice of AGM accompanies this Directors Annual Report.
All those who served as Directors at any time during the year under review are listed on pages 50 and 51, with the exception of Statutory disclosures Andrew Hosty and Victoire fide Margerie, who resigned from the Amendment of the Articles of Association Board on 8 January 2016 and 4 February 2016 respectively.
The Companys constitution, known as the Articles of Association Articles, is essentially a contract between the Company and its Powers of the Directors shareholders, governing many aspects of the management of the Subject to the Companys Articles, uK legislation and any directions Company.
It deals with matters such as the rights of shareholders, given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed the appointment and removal of directors, the conduct of the by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
board and general meetings and communications by the Company.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the Directors interests Companys shareholders and are available on the Companys Details of Directors interests and their connected persons beneficial website at www.
interests in the share capital of the Company are listed on page 84.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Directors indemnities The Articles provide that the Company may by ordinary resolution at The Company has entered into separate indemnity deeds with each general meeting appoint any person to act as a Director, provided that Director containing qualifying indemnity provisions, as defined in notice is given of the resolution identifying the proposed person by Section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, under which the Company name and that the Company receives written confirmation of that has agreed to indemnify each Director in respect of certain liabilities persons willingness to act as Director if he has not been recommended which may attach to each of them as a Director or as a former Director by the Board.
The Articles also empower the Board to appoint as a of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The indemnity deeds were Director any person who is willing to act as such.
The maximum in force during the financial year to which this Directors Report relates possible number of Directors under the Articles is 15.
The Articles and are in force as at the date of approval of the Directors Report.
provide that the Company may by special resolution, or by ordinary resolution of which special notice is given, remove any Director before Information required by LR 9.8.
4R the expiration of his period of office.
The Articles also set out the Information required to be disclosed under LR 9.8.
circumstances in which a Director shall vacate office.
The Articles On 3 August 2015, an award over 114,351 Ordinary shares in the require that at each annual general meeting any Director who was Company value at date of award of 400,000, calculated using the appointed after the previous annual general meeting must be proposed share price on 3 August 2015 of 3.4980 was made to pete Raby.
for election by the shareholders.
Additionally, any other Director who This award was granted in accordance with Listing Rule 9.4.
2 2 and has not been elected or re-elected at one of the previous two annual was made in recognition of the loss of incentive awards which he general meetings must be proposed for re-election by the shareholders.
forfeited on leaving his former employer.
The award will vest in two The Articles also allow the Board to select any other Director to be tranches, on the dates given below, subject to pete Raby not having proposed for re-election.
In each case, the rules apply to Directors resigned or been dismissed in specified circumstances.
There are no who were acting as Directors on a specific date selected by the Board.
performance conditions attaching to this award.
This is a date not more than 14 days before, and no later than, the date of the notice of the annual general meeting.
Number of shares subject to award Vesting date Notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, all the Directors will 57,176 31 December 2016 stand for election or re-election on an annual basis in compliance with 57,175 31 December 2017 the provisions of the uK Corporate Governance Code.
Details of the AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 90 Governance OTHER DISCLOSuRES continued Human resources As required under the Regulations, the above report includes the Details of the Groups human resources policies and employee material emission sources from the operations and activities covered by involvement are set out on pages 33 to 35. the Groups Financial statements.
As noted, the reports exclude emissions from Company-owned and leased vehicles and emissions There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or relating to steam supplied by third parties to two sites in China and one employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment in Europe, which are in total estimated to account for less than 1% of whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise total emissions.
The Directors consider that these sources of emissions that occurs because of a takeover bid.
are not material to the total of the emissions.
Research and development The Groups reporting methodology is based on the Greenhouse Gas During the year, the Group invested 25.4 million 2014: 21.7 million protocol with emission factors for standard grid electricity by country in research and development.
The Group did not capitalise any and year from the International Energy Agency together with other development costs in 2015 2014: nil.
factors as published by the uK Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs in order to calculate the CO e emissions included 2 Details of the Groups research and development during the year are in this Report.
Political donations Greenhouse gas emissions No political donations have been made.
Morgan Advanced Materials plc under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors has a policy of not making donations to any political party, representative Report Regulations 2013 the Regulations the Group is required to or candidate in any part of the world.
report its annual greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e in its Directors Report.
Financial instruments 2 Details of the Groups use of financial instruments, together with Morgan has published information on its emissions due to the information on policies and exposure to price, liquidity, cash flow, combustion of fossil fuels and the electricity purchased by the Company credit, interest rate and currency risks, can be found in note 19 on for its own use in its annual EHS report since 2004 and in its Annual pages 124 to 131.
All information detailed in this note is incorporated Report since 2005.
Since 2011 the Groups CO e emissions due to into the Directors Report by reference and is deemed to form part 2 energy consumption have been externally assured by pwC see pwCs of the Directors Report.
The Group has participated in the Carbon Disclosure project CDp since 2006 and in 2015 achieved a Share capital and related matters score of 97B, reflecting the depth and quality of climate change Share capital data Morgan has disclosed to investors and the global marketplace The Companys share capital as at 31 December 2015 is set out in note through the CDp.
The Companys Ordinary shares represent 99.85% of the total issued share capital, with the 5.5% Cumulative The Regulations require the Group to disclose its emissions due to the First preference shares representing 0.04% and the 5.0% Cumulative combustion of biomass and due to process and fugitive emissions which Second preference shares representing 0.11%.
The rights and are in addition to the emissions due to energy use reported on page 27 obligations attaching to the Companys Ordinary shares, and restrictions in the Corporate responsibility section of this Annual Report.
on the transfer of shares in the Company, are set out in the Articles.
2015 2014 Shareholders rights Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e 2 2 The holders of Ordinary shares are entitled: to receive dividends, when Emissions from combustion of fuels declared: to receive the Companys reports and accounts: to attend and operation of facilities and speak at general meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies: and Combustion of fossil fuels 133,100 152,900 to exercise voting rights.
Operation of facilities, including process Details of the structure of the Companys preference share capital and emissions 30,200 35,900 the rights attaching to the Companys preference shares are set out in Electricity, heat, steam and cooling note 17 on pages 122 and 123. purchased for own consumption purchased electricity 239,600 244,500 No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with Intensity measurement regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any Tonnes CO e due to fossil fuels and 2 agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions purchased electricity per m revenue 409 431 on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Tonnes GHGs per m revenue 447 473 Share allotment and repurchase authorities CO e is the amount of CO and the amount of non-CO greenhouse gas with the 2 2 2 The Directors were granted authority at the 2015 AGM to allot shares equivalent global warming potential.
in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any Data is rounded to the nearest 100 tonnes of CO e. 2 securities into shares in the Company up to a a nominal amount of Excludes emissions from Company-owned and leased vehicles estimated at approx.
2 The 2015 and 2014 information regarding CO e due to energy use has been subject with a rights issue such amount to be reduced by any shares allotted 2 to assurance by pwC.
See the Independent Assurance Report on page 32 of this under a.
This authority is due to lapse at the 2016 AGM.
At the 2016 Annual Report and on page 30 of the 2014 Annual Report for further details.
AGM, shareholders will be asked to grant a similar allotment authority.
Electricity from renewable sources at zero tonnes CO per kWh.
Emissions increase 2 by 4,400 tonnes at grid-average rates 2014: 3,100 tonnes.
Excludes steam supplied by third parties to two sites in China and one in Europe.
Constant currency basis and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance 91 A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Directors Transactions, contractual arrangements and powers to make non pre-emptive issues for cash up to an aggregate post-balance sheet events nominal amount representing approximately 10% of the issued share Significant agreements change of control capital as at the last practicable date before the publication of the 2016 The Group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various Notice of AGM, of which up to 5% of the issued share capital would financial institutions.
These facility agreements generally include change be for use only in connection with acquisitions and specified capital of control provisions which, in the event of a change in ownership of the investments.
Company, could result in renegotiation or withdrawal of these facilities.
The Directors did not seek an authority at the 2015 AGM to The most significant of such agreements are the uK 200 million repurchase shares in the capital of the Company.
As at 31 December multi-currency revolving facility agreement, which was signed on 2015, there was no such authority in place.
The Directors do not 17 October 2014, and the privately placed Note purchase and intend to seek an authority to repurchase shares at the 2016 AGM.
Guarantee Agreements signed on 15 December 2007 and 30 June 2010, for which the outstanding loan amounts are uSD250 million Employee share and share option schemes and 20 million respectively.
The Company operates a number of employee share and share option schemes.
Ninety-six employees hold awards under the There are a number of other agreements that take effect, alter Morgan Advanced Materials plc Long-Term Incentive plan, including or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following share options held under the Approved performance Share plan, a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts and joint venture 17 employees hold awards under the Morgan Advanced Materials agreements.
No such individual contract is considered to be significant Bonus Deferral Share Matching plan and 592 employees participate in terms of its potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
in the Companys uK Sharesave scheme.
Details of outstanding share awards and share options are given in note 20 on page 137.
Post-balance sheet events There have been no material events since the year end.
All the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would normally reporting, accountability and audit vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to being Statement of Directors responsibilities pro-rated for time and to the satisfaction of any performance conditions The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the at that time.
Group and parent Company Financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Trustees of The Morgan General Employee Benefit Trust the Trust have absolute and unfettered discretion in relation to voting any shares Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent held in the Trust at any general meeting.
Their policy is not to vote Company Financial statements for each financial year.
If any offer is made to shareholders to acquire their shares, law they are required to prepare the Group Financial statements the Trustees will have absolute and unfettered discretion on whether in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Eu and applicable law to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares held by them.
and have elected to prepare the parent Company Financial statements in accordance with uK Accounting Standards and applicable law Major shareholdings uK Generally Accepted Accounting practice.
As at 31 December 2015, the Company had been notified of the following, in accordance with DTR 5, from holders of notifiable A new uK GAAp accounting framework introduced by the Financial interests representing 3% or more of the issued Ordinary share capital Reporting Council FRC became mandatorily effective for the financial of the Company: statements of uK companies in 2015. under this new framework, the Company is required to prepare parent Company Financial Number of statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2015 on one Ordinary shares % of the new bases permitted by the FRC.
prudential plc group of companies M&G 31,389,883 10.99 AxA Investment Managers SA 23,560,970 8.63 The Company has chosen to adopt FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Ameriprise Financial Inc. and its group 17,271,161 6.05 Framework, which enables the Company to take advantage of the permitted election to utilise the disclosure exemptions allowed Harris Associates 14,410,180 5.04 under FRS 101.
The consolidated Financial statements of the Group Black Creek Investment Managers Inc. 14,320,390 5.01 on pages 97 to 145 are prepared in accordance with Eu-adopted FIL Limited 14,065,279 4.92 International Financial Accounting Standards IFRSs and are unaffected Schroders plc 12,304,156 4.31 by this new accounting framework.
The Company proposes to continue to adopt the reduced disclosure framework of FRS 101 percentages are shown as a percentage of the Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2015, with the exception of AxA Investment Managers SA which is in its future Financial statements.
shown as a percentage of the Companys issued share capital at the time the holding was disclosed.
under Company law the Directors must not approve the Financial Note: As at 7 March 2016, there were no changes to the substantial shareholdings shown statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view in the above table, with the exception of Black Creek Investment Management Inc. which notified the Company on 13 January 2016 that it had increased its interest to 17,325,087 of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and of their shares representing 6.07% of the issued share capital.
profit or loss for that period.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 92 Governance OTHER DISCLOSuRES continued In preparing each of the Group and parent Company Financial Scope of the reporting in this Annual Report statements, the Directors are required to: The Board has prepared a Strategic Report which provides an overview of the development and performance of the Groups business Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
in the year ended 31 December 2015.
Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
For the Group Financial statements, state whether they have been For the purposes of DTR 4.1.
8, this Directors prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Eu.
Report on pages 49 to 92 and the Strategic Report on pages 7 to 47 For the parent Company Financial statements, state whether comprise the management report, including the sections of the Annual applicable uK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to Report and Financial statements incorporated by reference.
any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Company Financial statements.
Each Director holding office at the date of approval of this Directors prepare the Financial statements on the going concern basis unless Report confirms that, so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent information of which the Companys auditor is unaware, and that he Company will continue in business.
has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Companys auditor is aware of that information.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the The Strategic Report, the Directors Report and the Remuneration financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure Report were approved by the Board on 23 February 2016. that its Financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably For and on behalf of the Board open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Paul bOulTON under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible COMpANy SECRETARy & GENERAL COuNSEL for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Remuneration 23 February 2016 Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Morgan Advanced Materials plc Quadrant, 55-57 High Street, Windsor, Berkshire SL4 1Lp The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Registered in England, No.
286773 corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the uK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors as at the date of this report, whose names and functions are set out on pages 50 and 51, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: The Groups Financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Eu, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and The management report comprising the Directors Report and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015
