Corporate governance report The Boards regularly reviewed potential growth opportunities identified by management to ensure we remain on track and are considering opportunities as they present themselves.
Other There are a number of other regular matters that are reviewed by the Boards throughout the year.
Examples during the year have included reviewing the Groups performance against its competitors and receiving feedback on the Mondi Group Leadership Forum.
Board responsibilities Principal responsibilities of the joint chairmen Lead and manage the dynamics of the Boards, providing direction and focus, ensuringtheir effectiveness, consideration of succession and setting the agenda Ensure that the Boards set a clear and appropriate strategy for the Group Ensure high standards of corporate governance and ethical behaviour Ensure effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders Principal responsibilities of the chief executive officer Leads the business with day-to-day responsibility for running the operations and, inparticular, the execution of strategy Chairs the DLC executive committee and leads and motivates the management team Ensures the Group has effective processes, controls and risk management systems Ensures the Boards receive accurate, timely and clear information about the Groups performance The roles of chairman and chief executive are distinct and separate.
Mondi has joint chairmen, Fred Phaswana and David Williams, with the chief executive officer role held separately by David Hathorn.
The joint chairmen maintain a regular dialogue with each other and manage the Boards through mutual agreement.
The division of responsibilities between the joint chairmen and the chief executive officer has been clearly defined and approved by the Boards.
They do however work closely on matters such as the relationships with major shareholders, governments, analysts, media and other external relationships.
The joint chairmen provide support and advice while respecting the executive responsibility of the chief executive officer.
They maintain an effective relationship and have regular interaction through meetings and telephone calls outside the formal board meeting cycle.
This provides opportunities for regular updates on business objectives and priorities.
The main positions held by Fred Phaswana and David Williams outside the Mondi Group are detailed in their biographies set out on page 74.
During the year Fred Phaswana retired as chairman of Standard Bank group and The Standard Bank of South Africa, and at the end of December 2015 David Williams relinquished his non-executive directorship of Meggitt plc.
Both Fred Phaswana and David Williams were independent upon appointment.
With the joint chairmen now having minimal commitments external to Mondi, the Boards continue to consider that they each devote sufficient time to their duties to Mondi, with both having attended all meetings and made themselves available to management and other directors when required.
Anne Quinn is the senior independent director SID, having been appointed to this role in August 2009.
Principal responsibilities of the senior independent director Provides support to, and acts as a sounding board for, the joint chairmen Available as a point of contact for shareholders Available as a trusted intermediary for the other directors, as necessary Chairs a meeting of the non-executive directors at which the performance ofthejointchairmen is considered 82 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Non-executive directors Principal responsibilities of the non-executive directors Offer an external perspective to, and constructively challenge, management Monitor management performance Assist in developing the Groups strategy Ensure the integrity of financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management Determine executive director remuneration The non-executive directors provide a valuable level of independent oversight of the Groups activities and constructive challenge of management.
Their varied business backgrounds enable them to apply diverse knowledge and experience to issues raised with the Boards, particularly when considering the setting of the Groups strategy.
They each actively participate in the decision-making, discussing and tackling issues with a frankness and openness of mind, and dedicate sufficient time to effectively discharge their duties to Mondi.
Non-executive director meetings Non-executive director meetings, chaired by one of the joint chairmen except when their performance is being considered, are held twice a year.
These meetings focus particularly on the performance of the executives although the agendas are driven by the non-executive directors and cover a variety of topics.
One of these meetings is attended by the chief executive officer in order to provide input to the discussions on executive performance and succession.
Company secretaries Philip Laubscher is the company secretary of Mondi Limited and Carol Hunt the company secretary of Mondi plc.
They work together on the coordination of Mondis DLC structure.
Appointed and removed by the Boards and are accountable to the Boards as a whole Both are professionally qualified and have gained experience over a number of years their biographies are on page 110 Report at each board meeting on relevant corporate governance and regulatory matters and changes, including the provision of advice on the performance of directors duties and the continuing obligations of the JSE and LSE Ensure the timely distribution of meeting packs ahead of each meeting Pursuant to the Listings Requirements of the JSE, the Boards confirm that they have reviewed and are satisfied that each of the company secretaries is competent and has the relevant qualifications and experience.
In assessing their competence the Boards have considered the expected role and duties pursuant to the requirements of both South African and UK Companies Acts, governance codes and continuing obligations of the stock exchanges on which Mondi is listed, and considered their respective compliance with each of these.
The Boards have reviewed their performance not only during the last year but since joining Mondi.
The Boards concluded that the company secretaries have each complied with all the requirements of the Companies Acts, governance codes and continuing obligations of the relevant stock exchanges.
While all directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretaries, the company secretaries maintain an arms length relationship with the Boards.
They do not take part in board deliberations and only advise on matters of governance, form or procedure.
Throughout the year they have not only ensured compliance with board procedures, but have provided independent advice to the Boards, in particular the chairmen and non-executive directors, on a range of governance and compliance matters and best practice.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 83
