Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The report highlighted the openness, independent thinking and quality of challenge among directors.
The good balance between reviewing strategic and operational matters while maintaining high levels of corporate governance and effective management of risk were of particular note.
The review of the performance of the joint chairmen, led by Anne Quinn as the senior independent director, incorporated feedback from the non-executive and executive directors.
Consideration was given to the effective leadership of the Boards, how they worked together, their time commitment and the management of meetings.
The positive working relationship between the joint chairmen and the way in which they effectively manage their joint role was noted.
The key actions agreed by the Boards following the 2015 evaluation are: to continue to focus on succession planning, in particular to consider the need for directors with relevant skills and experience to provide support for the Groups future strategic growth: to oversee, through the audit committee, the transition to the Groups new external auditor see pages 99 and 100 for more information : to continue to evaluate growth opportunities in line with the agreed strategy: to receive a bi-annual presentation on the Groups cyber security measures: and to monitor changes in governance and regulation anticipated to be effective in 2016 e. g. the Market Abuse Regulation and ensure appropriate implementation and changes to procedures and policies.
The Boards consider that they continue to benefit from the annual review process, the results from which help guide the future focus of meeting agendas and behaviours.
Committee reports The Boards are supported by the principal committees to which the Boards delegate specific areas of responsibility as described on the following pages and which have authority to make decisions according to their terms of reference.
Work programmes are agreed by each committee that are designed around the annual business calendar and their respective terms of reference.
Each committee reviews its terms of reference on an annual basis and these are available on the Mondi Group website.
The committees are empowered, through their terms of reference, to seek independent professional advice at Mondis expense in the furtherance of their duties.
The committees meet prior to meetings of the Boards to enable the committees to report to the Boards and provide any necessary recommendations or advice relevant for their deliberations.
Only committee members are entitled to attend committee meetings, although the chairmen of each committee can invite, as they consider appropriate, management and advisers to meetings to provide information and insights, answer questions and generally to assist the committees in carrying out their duties.
An indication of the regular attendees is given for each committee.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 87
