Joint chairmens statement Delivering superior performance Mondi has a track recordof creatingshareholder value acrossthe business cycle.
David Williams left Fred Phaswana right 14 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Total dividend A clear strategy drives Mondis strong results and euro cents per share positions the Group for further growth.
The Boards fully support Mondis continued strategic focus on euro 52 cents growing our packaging interests, while at the same 1 52 time investing appropriately in our uncoated fine paper operations.
42 36 Mondis success is based on the disciplined approach we take in seeking opportunities for 28 value-enhancing growth and cost optimisation through capital investments, acquisitions 26 and asset rationalisation.
Combined with a strong financial position and ability to generate cash: a real desire to work closely with customers: passion for performance: and a commitment to sustainable development, this makes Mondi a resilient organisation, and one in which we have every reason to be confident going forward.
A continued focus on good governance 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 1 Based on proposed final dividend of 37.62euro cents per share.
The boards of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc strive to ensure the highest standards of corporate governance and best practice.
Our directors provide governance oversight of the Groups established framework of policies, practices and management systems.
We believe in the values of transparency, integrity and accountability.
Mondis fifth integrated report gives Our commitment to shareholder value a balanced overview of performance We focus on maximising the potential and value of this high-quality business, using our in 2015 and insight into the Groups combined experience to provide appropriate guidance.
We believe in a collaborative yet approach to strategy, governance, systematic approach so we openly discuss strategic decisions, giving both challenge sustainable development and and support as needed to prioritise shareholder value, manage risks and build on creating value in the short, medium Mondis inherent strengths.
Once we have agreed on the right course of action, we hold and long term.
management accountable for clear progress updates and successful execution.
Mondis excellent financial results and strong share price performance provide confirmation that our strategic approach is sound, with the Group continuing to outperform the peer average in 2015.
Read more about our approach to good Five-year total shareholder return TSR governance on indexed to 1 January 2011 pages 70 to 114 Mondi plc Median of comparator group Peer performance range 500 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Given the Groups strong performance in 2015, the boards of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc have recommended a final dividend of 37.62 euro cents per share 2014: 28.77 euro cents per share.
Together with the interim dividend of 14.38 euro cents per share, this amounts to a total dividend for the year of 52.0 euro cents per share, an increase of 24% from 2014.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 15 Index Joint chairmens statement Mondi recognises the importance of regular communication with the investment community and we value the opportunity to share progress and discuss plans with shareholders.
In 2015, the Group held a number of investor and analyst events, including results presentations, roadshows and one-on-one meetings.
In November Mondi hosted a Capital Markets Day in London to give investors and analysts further insight into the business, its growth strategy and capital expenditure programme.
A passion for performance across the business Mondi delivered very strong results in 2015, with underlying operating profit of 957 million, up 25% on the prior year, and a return on capital employed ROCE of 20.5% against the Transparent backdrop of moderate global economic growth.
sustainability reporting Mondis passion for driving productivity, efficiency and margin improvement by focusing We have been included in the FTSE4Good on the things that really matter is a key strength across the business.
There are hundreds Index Series since 2008 and the JSEs Socially of great projects happening across the business all the time.
They are being delivered Responsible Investment SRI Index since 2007.
As of 1 January 2016, the SRI has been replaced by people with a commitment to improvement and include significant achievements in by the new FTSE JSE Responsible Investment delivering excellence in our operations, new ways of engaging our people, successful Index Series and Mondi has been confirmed as ideas for building better relationships with our customers and the communities in which we one of the inaugural constituents.
We continue to report annually to Carbon Disclosure Project operate, innovative new product developments, as well as highly effective approaches to CDP s climate, water, forests and supply chain safety and health.
programmes, and were included in the CDP FTSE350 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index The Group continued to invest in its operations, making good progress on all major capital CDLI for the fifth time since 2010.
In addition, we projects during the year.
We grew our packaging interests through two acquisitions, both once again submitted our annual Communication on Progress CoP report to the United Nations bolstering our customer offering.
Global Compact UNGC asan Advanced Level reporter.
Our integrated approach to sustainability and safety We continued to integrate sustainability into our business decisions and we are pleased with the ongoing progress we are making in a number of areas.
We successfully delivered on the majority of our 2015 commitments increasing awareness around our sustainable development priorities: focusing on resource efficiency: reducing our environmental footprint: adding social value: and working constructively with our stakeholders.
We are now in the process of rolling out our new action areas and approach to sustainable development, including a new set of commitments to 2020.
The safety of our people is a major focus and in 2015 our operations made significant progress in eliminating their Top 5 Fatal Risks.
It is however unacceptable that we Read more about our experienced a fatality at our Syktyvkar logging operations Russia in March.
Our goal approach to sustainable development 2020 on of zero harm is an absolute imperative for the business, and we are fully committed to page 51 makingit a reality.
A highly competent and determined team We always enjoy meeting Mondis people as it gives us such confidence in the future of the Group.
Mondi is a well-run organisation and it is inspiring to see the passion at all levels of the business.
It is not just about the many talented individuals across Mondis operations, but more importantly the way people work together with a genuine desire and determination to get things right.
It has been a demanding year and the constructive way in which everyone engages with each other and with Mondis broader stakeholders has certainly been an important contributor to the Groups superior results.
On behalf of the Boards, we extend our sincere thanks to everyone at Mondi who has worked so hard to make 2015 another successful year.
Fred Phaswana David Williams Joint chairman Joint chairman 16 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Investing in safety In 2013, we invested significantly in our operations to engineer out the Top 5 Fatal Risks and manage the residual risks through robust controls and procedures.
Two years down the line, over 95% of resulting actions in our mills, forests and logging operations have been completed.
The changes made by our operations have been innovative and diverse, from improved guarding of moving and rotating parts on machines to installing camera inspection systems that ensure safe access to recovery boilers.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 17
