16 Strategic report GROuP STRATEGy ThE GROuPS lOnG-TERM STRATEGy IS TO BuIlD ThREE DISTInCTIVE CORE CAPABIlITIES: MATERIAlS SCIEnCE, APPlICATIOn EnGInEERInG AnD CuSTOMER AnD EnD-MARKET FOCuS, AnD TO APPly ThESE TO A PORTFOlIO OF SCAlEABlE GlOBAl BuSInESSES WhERE TEChnICAl ExPERTISE AnD DIFFEREnTIATIOn ARE VAluED TO SOlVE CuSTOMERS ChAllEnGInG PROBlEMS.
ThROuGh ThIS ThE AIM IS TO STREnGThEn ThE GROuP TO DElIVER RESIlIEnT FInAnCIAl PERFORMAnCE AnD FASTER GROWTh, AT All TIMES OPERATInG In An EThICAl AnD SAFE MAnnER.
To support this strategy the Group has set six key execution priorities: ExECuTIOn PRIORITIES IMPlEMEnTATIOn 1 move to a global business The reorganisation to two global divisions and six global business units will improve global co-ordination across and strengthen accountability within each global business unit, structure simplifying the approach to customers and markets and increasing operational focus.
2 improve technical R&D investment will be increased to extend Morgans technical lead and to accelerate new product development.
Additional Centres of Excellence will be established leadership allowing further concentration of development efforts in those areas that can deliver the greatest benefit globally to the Group.
3 improve operational There are a number of opportunities across the global business units to improve operational execution and resource and capital will be allocated to target specific execution improvements to efficiency and effectiveness on a business-by-business basis.
4 drive sales effectiveness The Group will focus on improving a number of aspects of its sales capabilities and process focusing on the sales process and its efficiency, the management of key and market focus customer accounts and distribution channels and deepening the understanding of end-markets and of faster growing segments.
5 increase investment in The Group is aiming to strengthen its leadership capability and deepen functional capabilities across the business, including in sales and engineering.
Senior leaders will people management and be benchmarked externally, new talent introduced and future leadership candidates development identified from within the business.
Performance management will be enhanced for the Groups top management and the structures and targets for incentive schemes will be reviewed.
The Group will invest more in executive training and create clear career paths for its technologists and engineers.
The intake of graduate trainees will be increased from 30 to 50 a year over the next four years.
6 Simplify the business Through the re-organisation of the business the Group will focus on running each business unit on a global basis.
A Morgan business will have sustainable scale in its end-market and be scaleable, operating in attractive growing markets where it has the ability to add value to our customers.
It will have synergies with the rest of the portfolio, be organisationally robust and deliver, or be capable of delivering, strong financial performance.
The Group uses the characteristics of a Morgan business as set out above to test new investment opportunities, to screen its existing businesses for fit with the Group and to identify areas requiring strategic attention and action.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015
