y s g r P o e e l d o o i n v p l h o e c r e P T S h a r Our Business Model We operate a simple success-based business model that creates value for our customers, providers and shareholders How we generate valuematching customers with the right provider We operate through three leading brands, MoneySuperMarket, Scalability MoneySavingExpert and TravelSupermarket, who each have When creating, developing and maintaining our technology, slightly different business models.
We set out in this section the we recognise the importance of scalability.
We are in the second overarching business model for the Group.
year of our technology investment programme, designed to ensure that our websites and apps are robust, flexible, secure Customers are attracted to our websites because we build brands and scalable across our different channels to meet the needs of and services that customers want to use to help them make the our customers and product providers.
This includes our customer journeys that are designed to be as helpful as possible, our expert content and Technology support, our comparison services and our tools and guides.
We We are committed to technology development which provides offer product providers access to significant volumes of informed benefits to both our customers and product providers.
customers who have researched and are ready to take out the Our three-year technology programme focuses on three product they want, enabling providers to target their marketing areasdeveloping our data capability, building a new spend.
technology platform and improving our customer experience and journeys.
Customers will find it easier to use our services We therefore offer a compelling proposition to both our and benefit from greater personalisation, especially important customers and to product providers, encouraging more of both to for customers on a smartphone, helping them to make utilise the benefits of our brands and services.
Whilst we do not informed choices about what products they wish to take out in work with every provider, we try to work with as many providers a straight forward and convenient way.
Product providers will as possible to help our customer make the most of their money.
benefit from increasing numbers of informed customers who have researched and are ready to take out a product and from The diagram below summarises the key drivers behind how the efficiencies as a result of our improved back office systems Group achieves sustainable growth.
It is based on four interand processes.
linking value driversscalability, technology, brand and people.
Through our focus on these areas, we generate value for our Brand customers, providers and shareholders.
Customers have the reassurance of using a family of wellknown and trusted brands and of receiving customer support either online or offline through our customer service centre.
Providers benefit from our brand awareness by enabling them to target their marketing spend in a more efficient manner on increasing numbers of informed customers who have researched and are ready to take out a product.
People Our people are integral to all that we do.
We have hired the most talented people we can find across both our Ewloe and London offices.
We have an outstanding team who are responsible for designing, implementing, maintaining, Sustainable supporting and promoting our websites and apps.
Our people growth are focused on our Customer First programme which means making sure we do the right thing for our customers.
Our core values underpin our Customer First culture and help to ensure that we build trust and grow our business sustainably.
6 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 e h y o t l i d l B i e r b r a a s n l a d c s S r e m o t s u C Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Customers We provide our customers with a free, easy to use, online service Customers want a product so they can compare a wide range of products in one place and make an informed choice when taking out the product most suited to their needs.
In a few simple steps, customers can use any of our trusted brands to help them save money on their We attract customers and providers household bills.
Our services enable our customers to compare through our trusted brands and products by price, product features and service.
services In addition to our comparison services, we help and support our customers to research the product they wish to take out.
This includes expert content, innovative clubs, news and articles, Customers use our services to search tools, guides, video blogs, webchats and the ability to ask the views of other customers in our forums.
We also send emails to for and compare products our customers, enabling them to keep up to date with the latest deals, offers and best buys on a wide range of products.
We help customers to find us through TV and radio advertising, Informed customer selects product editorial comment in the press and on television programmes, and takes out that product with their and through search engines.
We ensure that our customers can chosen provider access our services wherever they are by using our mobile responsive websites.
Provider pays a targeted and cost Providers effective success-based marketing fee Partnering with the Group offers product providers access to large volumes of informed customers who, having researched and compared the market, are actively looking for a product.
This Customer insights help us improve means we are able to offer product providers a targeted, flexible, efficient and cost effective success-based marketing solution.
our service and help providers improve their products Shareholders We have a simple, success-based revenue model which is Customer chooses the right highly scalable.
For the majority of our services, we receive product for them a marketing fee from the product provider for customers who take out a product through us.
Revenue is driven by the number of products taken out through us and the fee rates payable to us by product providers for each product taken out.
Therefore, an Providers have a lowered cost of increase in either the number of products purchased or the acquisition of customers compared fee rates will have a positive impact on revenue.
to other marketing models By delivering value to our customers and product providers, we ultimately drive long-term financial value to our shareholders through the delivery of consistent revenue and earnings growth Shareholders benefit from together with the payment of dividends in accordance with our a growing profitable cash progressive dividend policy.
generative business with a progressive dividend policy Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 7
