Introduction from joint chairmen Dear shareholder Earlier in this report we discussed Mondis ability to deliver strongly across the cycle.
Your Boards remain confident that this will continue, due to the quality of Mondis business, the robustness of the Groups strategy and the Boards and managements commitment to the principles of transparency, integrity and accountability, underpinned by an effective governance framework.
Your Boards continue to apply comprehensive controls to ensure Mondi maintains its proven track record of operational excellence, capital expenditure project delivery and M&A execution.
We pursue a clear and consistent strategy that we believe remains valid and continues to deliver value for shareholders.
Providing effective and responsible leadership for the long-term success of the Group is key and we trust that the following David Williams report will explain how we achieve this.
Fred Phaswana Joint chairmen During the year, as part of our long-term planning, we have considered a number of large capital investment projects.
We have focused on those providing further opportunities for value-enhancing growth in line with our strategy.
Two projects that will enhance our packaging product portfolio include: a 310 million investment in a new 300,000 tonne per annum kraft top white machine at our Ruomberok mill in Slovakia together with related pulp mill upgrades.
In February 2016 we approved this project, subject to obtaining approval for various tax incentives from the European Commission and necessary permitting: and the debottlenecking and optimisation of our tt mill in the Czech Republic, including the replacement of the recovery boiler.
In addition, we reviewed and approved two acquisitions that provide growth and cost optimisation opportunities for our Consumer Packaging business.
To grow our product range in hygiene components and improve our innovation capabilities, we approved the acquisition of Ascania nonwoven Germany GmbH, which completed in November 2015.
To increase our geographic reach, particularly in the US and Asia, we also approved the acquisition of KSP, Co. South Korea and Thailand, a producer of spouted and retort stand up pouches, which completed in December 2015.
We have continued our focus on improving performance, approving the sale of non-core operations in Germany and Malaysia and also of a recycled containerboard mill at Raubling Germany, and supporting the difficult decisions management made to close certain operations in Finland, Italy, Spain, Germany and the US.
Your Boards are confident that the strong and effective governance framework is providing the right level of oversight and challenge to maintain an effective relationship withmanagement in the best interests of our shareholders.
Changes to the composition of the Boards During the year we have made a change to the composition of the Boards with Imogen Mkhize retiring at the end of September after having served almost nine years.
We are grateful to Imogen for her valuable contribution to the Boards and committees since her appointment in 2007 and wish her well for the future.
We have also been pleased to welcome Dominique Reiniche to the Boards as an independent non-executive director.
Dominique joined Mondi at the beginning of October and with her extensive business experience of operating in Europe, her international consumer marketing and innovation experience and strong customer awareness, brings important additional skills that will benefit Mondi as we continue to grow our packaging interests in line with our stated strategy.
The process followed for her appointment is explained in more detail in the nominations committee report onpage91.
This change to the composition of the Boards also provided an opportunity to refresh thecommittee memberships.
72 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Governance and values We continue to operate in a challenging legislative and regulatory environment, so focusing on what is important and considering how best to address these challenges in such a way that we can continue to operate effectively is key.
It is important to us that the Boards and the Group as a whole engage with the spirit of good governance, operate from a robust ethical foundation and demonstrate strong corporate values.
While we invest time inmonitoring operational and financial performance we also review and check the controls, procedures and practices that underpin how we operate as a Group to ensure they are robust.
All the directors attended the Mondi Leadership Forum held in June providing us with a unique opportunity to spend quality time with the Groups top 130 senior leaders and engage with them on how they see the business and what hopes they have for the future.
It also enabled us to evaluate the personal attributes of the Groups future leaders, assisting us when we discussed the executive succession plans.
One of the key governance focus areas this year for the audit committee was the audit tender process which, as announced in October, has resulted in the decision to change the Groups auditors from Deloitte to  from 2017.
More information on the process is given in the audit committee report on pages 99 and 100.
Conclusion We have prepared the following governance report which sets out the detail of how Mondis governance framework works in practice.
We hope that, together with the Strategic report and financial statements, this will provide you with an overview of how weare managing the Group and looking after the interests of our shareholders.
Fred Phaswana David Williams Joint chairman Joint chairman Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 73
