Board of directors Wide ranging experience Experience Fred Phaswana, 71 Fred has a wealth of experience in African and global businesses with well developed strategic and Joint chairman commercial skills having previously been regional president of BP Africa, a non-executive director of Appointed AngloAmerican plc and chairman of Anglo American South Africa, Anglo Platinum, Transnet, Ethos June 2013 Private Equity, the South African Energy Association and the Advisory Board of the Cape Town Graduate Committee memberships School of Business.
Fred retired as chairman of Standard Bank group and The Standard Bank of South Nominations, social & ethics Africa at the end of May 2015.
He was also the former vice chairman of WWF South Africa and Business Qualifications Leadership of South Africa and was the honorary president of the Cape Town Press Club.
MA Unisa, BCom Hons RAU, External appointments BA Philosophy, Politics and Chairman of the South African Institute of International Affairs and non-executive director of Economics Unisa Naspers Limited.
Experience David Williams, 70 David has significant experience in senior financial roles held across a range of multinational companies, Joint chairman with board experience as both an executive and non-executive director.
He retired as finance director Appointed of Bunzl plc in January 2006, having served on the board for 14 years.
He was previously a member of May 2007 the Tootal management board and finance director of Tootal plc.
Until December 2015 David was senior and as joint chairman in independent director of Meggitt plc where he also chaired the audit committee.
Formerly a non-executive August 2009 director of the Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Company, Dewhirst Group plc, Medeva plc, Committee memberships Nominations chairman, GeorgeWimpey plc, Taylor Wimpey plc, Tullow Oil plc and Dubai-based DP World Limited.
remuneration External appointments Qualifications None.
Graduated in economics from Manchester University, chartered accountant UK Experience David Hathorn, 53 David has more than 24 years experience in the packaging and paper industry with strong financial and Chief executive officer commercial experience of the sector.
He completed articles with Deloitte & Touche in Johannesburg in Appointed 1987.
He joined Anglo American plc in 1989 as a divisional finance manager, moving to Mondi in 1991 and May 2007 going on to serve as finance director and then general manager of Mondi Europe until 2000, when he was Committee memberships appointed chief executive officer of the Mondi Group.
He has led Mondi through major change, especially Executive chairman, the demerger from Anglo in 2007. sustainable development, social & ethics At Anglo American plc, David was a member of the executive committee from 2003 and an executive Qualifications director from 2005 and served on the boards of a number of group companies.
Graduated in commerce from the University of Natal, External appointments chartered accountant Chairman of Elemental Minerals Limited.
South Africa Experience Andrew King, 46 Andrew has more than 13 years experience with Mondi in various strategy, business development and Chief financial officer finance roles.
He has played a key role in defining the Groups strategic direction and re-shaping the capital Appointed structure since listing.
October 2008 Andrew completed articles with Deloitte & Touche in Johannesburg in 1994.
In 1995 he joined Minorco, Committee membership part of Anglo American, as a financial analyst, before assuming responsibility for the groups investment Executive management activities, and transferring to their corporate finance department in 1998.
He worked on a Qualifications Graduated in commerce number of group M&A activities before being appointed a vice president of AngloAmerican Corporate from the University of Cape Finance in 1999.
He was appointed Mondis vice president of business development in 2002 and Town, chartered accountant corporate development director in 2004.
He served as chief financial officer of Mondi from June 2005 South Africa to May 2006.
He was then appointed as Group strategy and business development director before becoming the chief financial officer of the Mondi Group in 2008.
74 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Experience Peter Oswald, 53 Peter has over 23 years experience of the sector with detailed knowledge of operations and extensive Chief executive officer: Europe experience in the acquisition, disposal, restructuring and turnaround of businesses.
He began his career &International Division with Deutsche Bank and automotive company KTM.
He joined the Frantschach Group in 1992 as the head of internal audit, later becoming corporate controller.
Appointed January 2008 After serving as chief executive of the bag and flexibles business from 1995 to 2001, he was appointed Committee membership chief executive of Mondi Packaging Europe in 2002, leading its subsequent integration with Frantschach Executive into the new Mondi packaging division.
Having held a number of senior executive roles within Mondi, Qualifications Peterwas appointed chief executive officer of the Europe & International Division in January 2008.
He was Graduated in law from the a non-executive director of Telekom Austria AG between 2008 and 2014 and of MIBA AG between 2014 University of Vienna and in business administration from and 2015.
WU-Vienna Business School External appointments Chairman of the supervisory board of OMV AG.
Experience Anne Quinn CBE, 64 Anne has extensive experience in the natural resources sector.
She spent her early career with NZ Forest Senior independent director Products Limited and the US management consulting company Resource Planning Associates.
She has Appointed wide-ranging oil and gas global experience having joined Standard Oil of Ohio, which was subsequently May 2007 and as senior acquired by BP plc, following which she went on to work for BP in the US, Belgium, Colombia and the independent director in August 2009 UK and held a number of executive positions, including group vice president.
Previously a managing Committee memberships director of Riverstone Holdings Europe, a private equity investment firm specialising in the renewable Audit, nominations, remuneration chairman, sustainable development andconventional energy and power industries and a former non-executive director of The BOC Group plc Qualifications from 2004 to 2006.
BCom from Auckland University External appointments and MSc in management science from the Massachusetts Institute Non-executive director of Smiths Group plc.
Awarded a CBE for services to the natural gas industry Experience John Nicholas, 59 John has business and commercial experience having spent his early career in technology-focused Non-executive director international manufacturing and service companies involved in analytical instruments, fire protection and Appointed food processing.
He became group finance director of Kidde plc on its demerger from Williams Holdings October 2009 and was group finance director at Tate & Lyle plc from 2006 to 2008.
He was a non-executive director of Committee memberships Ceres Power Holdings plc until December 2012, chairing the audit committee.
Audit chairman, nominations At the end of April 2015 John completed his tenure as a member of the UK Financial Reporting Review Qualifications Masters degree in business Panel, which seeks to ensure that the provision of financial information by public and large private administration from Kingston companies complies with relevant reporting requirements.
He had served as a member for six years.
University, chartered accountant UK External appointments Non-executive director of Hunting PLC where he chairs the audit committee and of Rotork p. l. c. where heis the senior independent director and chairman of Diploma PLC where he was previously the senior independent director and chair of the remuneration committee.
Experience Dominique Reiniche, 60 Dominique has extensive business understanding of operating in Europe and has international consumer Non-executive director marketing and innovation experience.
She started her career with Procter & Gamble before moving Appointed to Kraft Jacobs Suchard as director of marketing and strategy where she was also a member of their October 2015 executive committee.
After helping Jacobs Suchard through its acquisition by Kraft, Dominique joined Committee memberships TheCoca-Cola System in 1992, starting in sales and marketing and then holding various roles of Nominations, remuneration increasing responsibility up to general manager France.
From 2002 to early 2005 she was president Qualifications Europe for Coca-Cola Enterprises and from 2005 on she was president Europe for the Coca-Cola MBA from ESSEC Business School in Paris Company and then chairman from 2013 until stepping down in 2014.
Until December 2015 Dominique was a non-executive director of Peugeot-Citroen SA.
External appointments Non-executive director of AXA SA, Chr.
Hansen Holdings A S and Paypal Europe.
Experience Stephen Harris, 57 Stephen has extensive experience in engineering and manufacturing having spent his early career with Non-executive director Courtaulds plc and then moved to the USA to join APV Inc from 1984 until 1995, where he held several Appointed senior management positions.
He was appointed to the board of Powell Duffryn plc as an executive March 2011 director in 1995 and then went on to join Spectris plc as an executive director from 2003 until 2008.
Committee memberships He was also a non-executive director of Brixton plc from 2006 to 2009.
Audit, nominations, remuneration, sustainable development chairman, External appointments social & ethics chairman Chief executive officer of Bodycote plc.
Qualifications Chartered engineer, graduated in engineering from Cambridge University, masters degree in business administration from the University of Chicago, Booth Schoolof Business Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 75
