Directors Report The Directors report sets out Darren Drabble additional statutory information.
Company Secretary Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will be held at The Chester Grosvenor Hotel, Eastgate, Chester CH1 1LT on Wednesday 20 April 2016 at 11.00am.
The notice convening the meeting, with details of the business to be transacted at the meeting and explanatory notes is set out in a separate AGM circular which has been sent to all shareholders at the same time as this Report.
Dividend The Directors recommend a final dividend of 6.6p 2014: 5.69p per ordinary share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015.
If approved by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM, this will be paid on 6 May 2016 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 1 April 2016.
The final dividend, together with the interim dividend of 2.55p per ordinary share paid in September 2015, gives a total dividend for the year of 9.15p 2014: 8.0p per ordinary share.
Issued share capital and control As at 31 December 2015, the issued share capital of the Company was 109,503 comprising 547,512,622 ordinary shares of 0.02p each.
Full details of the share capital of the Company and changes to share capital during the year are set out in note 16 to the Group Financial Statements on page 99.
The information in note 16 is incorporated by reference and forms part of this Directors Report.
At the 2015 AGM, shareholders authorised the Directors to allot up to 363,220,000 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company.
Directors will seek authority from shareholders at the forthcoming AGM to allot up to 364,640,000 ordinary shares.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends when declared, to receive the Companys Annual Report, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
72 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every Restrictions on the transfer of securities holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy, and Whilst the Board has the power under the Articles of entitled to vote, has one vote and, on a poll, every holder of Association to refuse to register a transfer of shares, there are ordinary shares present in person or by proxy, and entitled to no restrictions on the transfer of shares other than: vote, has one vote for every ordinary share held.
Electronic and certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and received not later than 48 hours before the meeting.
A holder of pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct ordinary shares can lose the entitlement to vote and the right to Authority whereby certain Directors, officers and employees receive dividends where that holder fails to comply with a of the Group require the approval of the Company to deal in disclosure notice issued under section 793 of the Companies ordinary shares of the Company.
There are no issued shares in the Company with special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of The Company operates a Share Incentive Plan which entitles all securities and or voting rights.
employees to purchase ordinary shares in the Company using money deducted from their pre-tax salary.
Plan shares are held Authority to purchase own shares in trust for participants by Capita IRG Trustees Limited The Company was authorised at the 2015 AGM to purchase up Trustee.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustee in to 54,538,266 of its own shares in the market.
No shares were accordance with participants instructions.
If a participant does purchased under this authority in 2015.
Directors will seek not submit an instruction to the Trustee, no vote is registered.
authority from shareholders at the forthcoming AGM for the In addition, the Trustee does not vote on any unawarded or Company to purchase, in the market, up to 54,752,150 shares.
forfeit shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
As at the The Directors will only use this power after careful date of this report, the Trustee held 0.03% of the issued consideration, taking into account the financial resources of the ordinary share capital in the Company.
Company, the Companys share price and future funding opportunities.
The Directors will only purchase such shares The Company operates a Long Term Incentive Plan and shares after taking into account the effects on earnings per share and are held by the trustees, Appleby Trust Jersey Limited the interests of shareholders generally.
Appleby, pending vesting of the shares awarded under the Plan.
Appleby does not vote on any shares held in trust.
As at Substantial shareholders the date of this Report, Appleby held 0.26% of the issued As at 31 December 2015, the Company had been notified of the ordinary share capital in the Company.
following holdings of voting rights in its shares under Rule 5 of The Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Full details of the rights and obligations attaching to the Authority: Companys share capital are contained in the Articles of Percentage of ordinary Association.
The Articles of Association may only be amended No.
of ordinary shares share capital voting rights by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No Shareholder voting rights notified notified amendments are proposed to be made to the existing Articles The Capital Group of Association at the forthcoming AGM.
Companies, Inc 37,931,418 6.93 Simon Nixon 37,795,130 6.90 The Relationship Agreement between the Company and Simon Aviva plc 36,447,345 6.66 Nixon, details of which are set out on page 42 terminated in May Standard Life 2015 upon the sale of shares by Simon Nixon which resulted in Investments him holding less than 15% of the ordinary shares in the Holdings Limited 28,421,022 5.19 Company.
Kames Capital 27,356,830 4.99 Ameriprise Financial, All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating Inc and its group 27,061,089 4.94 to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards Blackrock, Inc 25,454,379 4.65 normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control FIL Limited 24,758,460 4.52 subject to satisfaction of any performance conditions at that State Street time.
Save in respect of provisions of the Companys share Nominees Limited 20,581,165 3.76 schemes, there are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported The following changes to the above voting rights have been redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover notified to the Company from 31 December 2015 up until bid.
5 February 2016: Percentage of ordinary The Company has entered into one significant agreement which No.
of ordinary shares share capital voting rights would be terminable upon a change of control: the credit facility Shareholder voting rights notified notified agreement entered into with Barclays Bank PLC and Lloyds Kames Capital 27,728,329 5.06 Bank PLC in December 2015.
Aviva plc 37,324,256 6.82 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 73 Directors Report continued Directors The Directors who served during the financial year were as follows: Director Position Service in the year ended 31 December 2015 Bruce Carnegie-Brown Chairman Served throughout year Peter Plumb Chief Executive Officer Served throughout year Rob Rowley Independent Non-Executive Director Served throughout year Sally James Independent Non-Executive Director Served throughout year Robin Klein Independent Non-Executive Director Retired 30 April 2015 Andrew Fisher Independent Non-Executive Director Served throughout year Genevieve Shore Independent Non-Executive Director Served throughout year Michael Wemms Independent Non-Executive Director Retired 30 April 2015 Robin Freestone Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed 1 August 2015 Simon Nixon Deputy Chairman Resigned 31 December 2015 Matthew Price Chief Financial Officer Served throughout year Graham Donoghue Chief Product Officer Resigned 8 October 2015 Their biographical details with the exception of Michael Wemms, Employees Robin Klein, Graham Donoghue and Simon Nixon are set out on The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its pages 38 to 39.
Further details relating to Board and Committee employees and uses a number of ways to engage with composition are disclosed in the Corporate Governance Report employees on matters that impact them and the performance and Committee Reports on pages 40 to 71. of the Group.
These include formal business performance updates by members of executive management for all The Articles of Association provide that a Director may be employees, regular update briefings for all employees, regular appointed by an ordinary resolution of shareholders or by the team meetings, the Groups intranet site which enables easy existing Directors, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional access to the latest Group information as well as Group policies, Director.
All Directors will retire and offer themselves for and the circulation to employees of results announcements and re-election at the 2016 AGM in accordance with the UK other corporate announcements.
This also helps to achieve a Corporate Governance Code Code.
common awareness amongst employees of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
The Executive Directors serve under rolling contracts that are terminable upon 12 months notice from either party.
The A robust employee engagement survey process is also in place Non-Executive Directors serve under letters of appointment.
to ensure that employees are given a voice in the organisation Copies of service contracts and letters of appointment are and that the Group can take action based on employee available for inspection at the Companys registered office feedback.
All employees are able to participate in the during normal business hours and will be available for Companys Share Incentive Plan and Save As You Earn Scheme inspection at the Companys AGM.
which gives employees the opportunity to purchase ordinary shares in the Company.
This helps to encourage employee The Directors Remuneration Report, which includes the interest in the performance of the Group.
Directors interests in the Companys shares, is set out on pages 59 to 71.
During the year, no Director had any material interest Equal opportunities in any contract of significance to the Groups business.
The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all employees without discrimination and applies fair and Directors powers equitable employment policies which seek to promote entry The Board of Directors may exercise all the powers of the into and progression within the Group.
Appointments are Company subject to the provisions of relevant legislation, the determined solely by application of job criteria, personal ability, Companys Articles of Association and any directions given by behaviour and competency.
the Company in general meeting.
Disabled persons Directors indemnities Disabled persons have equal opportunities when applying for During the financial year ended 31 December 2015 and up to vacancies, with due regard to their skills and abilities.
the date of this Directors Report, the Company has maintained Procedures ensure that disabled employees are fairly treated in appropriate liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
respect of training and career development.
For those employees becoming disabled during the course of their The Company has granted indemnities to each of its Directors employment, the Group is supportive so as to provide an and the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law and opportunity for them to remain with the Group, wherever its Articles of Association.
These indemnities were in force reasonably practicable.
throughout the year ended 31 December 2015 and remain in force as at the date of this Report in relation to certain losses In the opinion of the Directors, all employee policies are deemed and liabilities which the Directors or Company Secretary may to be effective and in accordance with their intended aims.
incur in the course of acting as Directors, Company Secretary or employees of the Company or of any associated company.
74 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Borrowings records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and In December 2015, the Group secured a new three-year the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable revolving credit facility for 100m which replaces the previous accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and facility, with the option of a further 100m under an accordion enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply with facility.
As at 31 December 2015, the Group had net cash of the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for 16.7m with nil draw down under the facility.
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and Political donations other irregularities.
During the financial year ended 31 December 2015, the Group did not make any political donations 2014: nil.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Post balance sheet events Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance There have been no balance sheet events that either require Report that comply with that law and those regulations.
adjustment to the Financial Statements or are important in the understanding of the Companys current position.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Research & development Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the Innovation is important to the future success of the Group and preparation and dissemination of financial statements may to the delivery of long-term value to shareholders.
The Groups differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
research and development expenditure is predominantly associated with computer and internet software systems.
Each of the Directors whose names and functions are set out on Successfully developed software is used to develop new pages 38 and 39 confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: products and to improve and extend the functionality and the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the scope of the Groups operations.
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or Directors responsibilities statement loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report consolidation taken as a whole: and and the Group and Company Financial Statements in the management report, which comprises the Directors accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Report and the Strategic Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and position of the Company and the undertakings included in the Company Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of that law they are required to prepare the Group Financial the Principal Risks and Uncertainties that they face.
Statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Company In addition, the Directors consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements in accordance with UK Accounting Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and Standards, including FRS102-The Financial Reporting Standard understandable and provides the information necessary for applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a Auditor and disclosure of information true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and The Directors who held office at the date of this Report confirm Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit each of the Group and Company Financial Statements, the information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Directors are required to: each such Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought select suitable accounting policies and then apply them to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of consistently: any relevant audit information, and to establish that the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and Companys auditor is aware of that information.
prudent: for the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have Auditor been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: KPMG LLP have indicated their willingness to accept refor the Company Financial Statements, state whether appointment as auditors of the Company.
A resolution applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, proposing their re-appointment is contained in the notice of the subject to any material departures disclosed and explained forthcoming AGM and will be proposed to shareholders at that in the Company Financial Statements: and meeting.
prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 75 Directors Report continued Reporting requirements The following sets out the location of additional information forming part of the Directors Report: Reporting requirement Location Strategic Report Companies Act 2006 s414A-D Strategic Report on pages 1 to 35 DTR4.1.
8R Management Report the Directors Report Directors Report on pages 72 to 76 and the Strategic Report and Strategic Report comprise the management report on pages 1 to 35 Likely future developments of the business and Group Strategic Report on pages 1 to 35 Statement on corporate governance Corporate Governance Report, Audit Committee Report, Risk Committee Report, Nomination Committee Report and Directors Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 71 Details of use of financial instruments & specific policies Note 17 to Group Financial Statements on page 99 for managing financial risk Boards assessment of the Groups internal control systems Corporate Governance Report on pages 44 to 45, the Audit Committee Report on page 52 and Risk Committee Report on page 57 Greenhouse gas emissions Corporate Responsibility Report on page 35 Directors remuneration Directors Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 71 Directors interests Directors Remuneration Report on page 69 The Strategic Report comprising the inside cover and pages 1 to 35 and this Directors Report comprising pages 36 to 76 have been approved by the Board and are signed on its behalf by: Darren Drabble Company Secretary 29 February 2016 Registered office: Moneysupermarket House, St. Davids Park, Ewloe, Chester CH5 3UZ 76 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015
