OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAnCE FInAnCIAl STATEMEnTS Strategic report 17 KEy PERFORMAnCE InDICATORS To support the Groups strategy and to monitor historic performance.
Regional and business The list of KPIs selected is reviewed and performance, the Board of Directors and the management use a range of further benchmarks updated to ensure they remain important to the Executive Committee use a number of financial and other KPIs as part of their planning and success of the Group.
Financial and non-financial and non-financial key performance indicators performance review processes.
In order to performance is reviewed in more detail in the KPIs.
These KPIs are selected as being measure the underlying performance of the Corporate responsibility, Review of operations important to the success of the Group in business, management further analyse the and Financial review sections of this Report.
Progress headline KPIs to exclude the impact of is assessed by comparison with the Groups acquisitions and foreign exchange.
strategy, its budget for the year and against KPI 2015 2014 Why A KPI?
PERFORMAnCE COMMEnTARy Financial KPis Revenue growth 1.1 % 3.8 % Creating consistent long-term Revenue declined in the year due primarily to weak value for shareholders.
demand in China throughout the year and a softening in demand in a number of north America end-markets Focus on higher growth in the second-half of the year.
Group underlying 11.6% 12.2% Creating consistent long-term Full-year margin comprises a first-half margin of 13.0% operating profit value for shareholders.
and a second-half margin of 10.1%, with the second-half margin decline reflecting the lower revenue and a change in Focus on higher growth business mix and the impact of restructuring costs and markets.
To have a culture of operational excellence and cost-efficiency.
Free cash flow 26.3m 40.1m Creating consistent long-term The decline compared to 2014 was due to the increase before acquisitions value for shareholders.
in capital expenditure, up from 33.8 million to and dividends 63.5 million, with significant spend on new facilities in Asia and the 12 million acquisition of a uK freehold.
Effective management of working capital provided a cash inflow of 12.1 million.
Return on 27.1% 27.7% Creating consistent long-term Small reduction in ROCE in the year: lower EBITA Operating Capital value for shareholders.
more than offset the reduction in the asset base, Employed which itself reflected the net effect of the large capital expenditure and the even greater improvement in working capital.
underlying earnings 20.8p 22.1p Creating consistent long-term The 5.9% decrease in underlying EPS reflects the per share value for shareholders.
reduced earnings in the year.
Dividend per share 11.0p 10.9p Creating consistent long-term The 2.6% increase in the interim dividend announced value for shareholders.
at the half-year reflected the strong first-half performance and expectations at that time.
The second-half results and the current macro-economic make the position more challenging, but the Group is confident enough in its current position and its outlook to maintain the final dividend at the same level as 2014, giving a 0.9% increase in the full-year dividend.
non-financial KPis Employee turnover 13.6% 13.8% To find, keep and develop the This is believed to reflect an appropriate level of churn right people.
lost time accident 0.45 0.55 To have a culture of operational A 17% reduction in this measure and the number of frequency excellence and cost-efficiency.
lost time accidents was down 20% to 91 2014: 114. per 100,000 This reflects the focus placed on health and safety at all To find, keep and develop the hours worked sites and across all levels of the Group.
Tonnes CO e per 409 431 To have a culture of operational A 5% reduction driven by a large number of production 2 m revenue excellence and cost-efficiency.
improvement projects at sites in all the Groups regions.
Definitions of the measures can be found in the Glossary of terms on page 166. non-financial KPIs are at constant currency and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology.
lost Time Accident Frequency and CO e information have been subject to assurance by PwC, see page 32 for further details.
2 AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS
