OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAnCE FInAnCIAl STATEMEnTS Strategic report 21 RISK MITIGATIOn external risks Changing political, economic and social environment The Group operates in a range of markets and geographies The Groups broad market geographic spread helps to mitigate around the world and can be affected by political, economic, social the effects of political and economic crises.
or regulatory developments or instability for example the European Key risks and events are monitored at business and Group levels, referendum, China slowdown or issues stemming from oil and with contingency plans in place to manage changing situations.
Financial and treasury controls limit exposure to foreign currency, interest rate, credit and liquidity risk.
Also, the Group seeks to maintain a sufficiently robust financial position to ensure that its debt ratio is within acceptable market tolerances.
Taxation The Group operates within and across a range of fiscal jurisdictions The Groups tax function, working in conjunction with external around the world and can be affected by changes in tax rules, rulings specialists as required, closely monitors fiscal developments and or rates.
For example, the Group is cognisant of the 2015 OECD changes such as BEPS, to ensure that the Groups tax arrangements pronouncement on base erosion profit shifting BEPS and its and practices continue to comply with the requirements of all potential impact on the taxation of global businesses in the short relevant jurisdictions whilst enabling efficient management of the to medium term.
Pension funding risk The Group participates in defined benefit pension arrangements Active management of the pension scheme assets is the primary which are exposed to fluctuating interest rates, investment values means of mitigation.
This comprises management both internally and inflation.
This coupled with the increased longevity of members within the Group but also externally through corporate actuaries could result in funding burdens on the Group in the future.
This is not an exhaustive list of risks and there are many factors that could change including factors outside of the Groups control.
For this reason, a fundamental concept underpinning the Groups approach to risk is that, in addition to the regular review and assessment of risks and controls, each business is required to have an up-to-date and tested business continuity plan and to foster a culture of risk-readiness.
Viability statement In accordance with provision C2.2 of the uK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three year period, taking into account the Groups current position and the potential impact of the principal risks documented on pages 18 to 21 of the Annual Report.
Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 December 2018.
The Directors have determined that a three year period to 31 December 2018 is an appropriate period over which to provide its viability statement.
This is the period reviewed by the Board in its strategic planning process and is considered to be appropriate given the dynamics in the markets in which the Group operate.
To allow the Directors to make this assessment, a business base case has been built up, initially using a detailed bottom up approach and then applying what the Directors consider to be an appropriate set of assumptions in respect of growth, margins, working capital flows, capital expenditure, dividends and all other matters that could have a significant impact on the financial performance and liquidity of the Group.
Assumptions have also been made in respect of the Groups ability to secure additional financing, specifically to replace the Private Placement Senior notes that are due for repayment in 2017, as detailed in note 19 to the Accounts.
The resulting base case provides the Directors with an EBITA, debt and finance charge headroom relative to current bank covenants.
The Directors have made a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and their potential impact and the adequacy of the headroom relative to a severe but plausible combination of these risks.
While the review has considered all the principal risks identified by the Group, the following were focussed on for enhanced stress testing: technological obsolescence: product quality, safety and liability: export compliance: and, the risks from a deep global recession.
The geographical and product diversification of the Groups operations helps minimise the risk of serious business interruption or a catastrophic damage to its reputation.
Furthermore, the spread of the Groups end-markets is such that it is not reliant on one particular group of clients or sector.
Whilst this review does not consider all of the possible risks that the Group could face, the Directors consider that the approach adopted and the work performed is reasonable in the circumstances of the inherent uncertainty involved and that it allows the Board to confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 December 2018.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS
