Corporate governance report Performance evaluation Below are the key actions reported last year and details of the progress we have made against those actions: Action agreed from 2014 evaluation Progress achieved To continue to consider the future need Dominique Reiniche appointed during for non-executive directors with relevant the year.
See her biography on page experience of the product areas and 75 and more information regarding her geographic locations identified as growth appointment on page 91. areas for the Group.
John Nicholas To continue to monitor developments in Detailed presentations were made to review of term of office cyber security and any potential impacts for the audit committee and Boards during During 2015 John Nicholas completed his six-year the Group.
the year focusing on cyber security.
A more detailed review of his performance, page 95 for more information.
including consideration of the governance code requirements, evaluation feedback and To review all committee terms of reference During the year all committee terms of shareholder opinion, was considered against the to eliminate, where possible, any overlap reference were reviewed and updated as time he devotes to his duties at Mondi and his in responsibilities following changes in deemed appropriate by each committee other business commitments.
Feedback from his fellow directors and his contribution to the regulation in South Africa resulting in some and the Boards.
board debate was also taken into account.
It was duties and committee structures being concluded that John remained independent and required by law rather than governance.
able to contribute effectively to Mondi in the best interests of shareholders.
To ensure procedures are in place to meet See the audit committee report on page the new UK governance requirements 93 and the viability statement onpage 43 relating to risk management and going for more information.
2015 internal board evaluation process In line with best practice, we have conducted external evaluations at least once every three years, the last time being in 2013.
In 2015, the Boards determined that an internal evaluation was appropriate, recognising the opportunity this provides to reflect on the activities and performance of the Boards, committees and individual directors, and consider improvements to the operation of the Boards.
The process followed, which was facilitated by the company secretaries, is illustrated below: Reviewed prior One-on-one interviews Results collated Action plan agreed year action plan between joint chairmen and report prepared by the Boards and progress and individual against plan directors completed Questionnaires issued Review of joint Report considered to and completed chairmens by the nominations by directors, senior performance by committee and executives and the SID and other recommendations company secretaries directors completed made to the Boards 86 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015
