Corporate governance report Training and development When new directors join the Boards they undertake an induction.
While there is an outline induction programme in place this is discussed with each new director and is tailored to meet any specific requirements, in particular any committee responsibilities.
The programme generally includes meetings with each member of the executive committee and key advisers in addition to site visits.
The aim is to provide a new director with sufficient background and information about the Group and its performance and to highlight any specific areas of risk or concern.
See below for information regarding the ongoing induction programme for Dominique Reiniche.
Each director has the opportunity to discuss any development needs with one of the joint chairmen during the annual review process when discussions regarding individual performance are held.
In addition, all directors are encouraged to strengthen and refresh their knowledge by attending workshops, seminars and courses relevant to their respective roles, and details of the availability of these are provided regularly.
During the year directors have attended programmes relating to finance and remuneration.
Also, presentations and reports are provided regularly to the Boards that give information on the broader context of the Groups activities and position in the market.
Regular feedback is provided through the sharing of regular analyst and broker reports and briefings.
Dominique Reiniche induction programme Richards Bay, South Africa Following Dominiques appointment in October as a non-executive director, an induction programme that would be managed over the first few months of appointment was agreed.
The primary purpose is to familiarise a new director with the nature of the Groups business and operations, highlighting the key challenges and opportunities as well as the regulatory environment within which Mondi must operate.
Company secretaries Her induction started with a briefing from one of the company secretaries to explain the DLC structure and its implications for the operation of the Boards.
The governance framework within which we operate was discussed and access provided to an online director handbook, containing all key documents of reference for directors including guidance on the duties and obligations for listed company directors.
Joint chairmen and non-executive directors Meetings with her board colleagues were arranged, particularly with the chairmen of committees to which Dominique has been appointed.
Ahead of her first board programme at which there was to be a key audit committee meeting, a meeting was held with the chairman of the audit committee.
Executive committee members and senior management Meetings with each member of the executive committee have been held in order to provide an understanding of the Groups business, markets, operations and material projects as well as risk areas.
In addition, meetings with the Group heads of tax, treasury, health and safety and sustainability were arranged, providing the opportunity to engage with senior management on a one-on-one basis.
Advisers A meeting has been held with the UK audit engagement partner and other sessions, particularly with the remuneration committee consultants, are being arranged in order to provide an independent view of key areas of focus for the Group.
Site visits Dominique has visited our South African operations.
Her visit included both the forestry operations and mills.
Specifically she toured the KwaMbonambi nursery, saw our tree improvement and mechanical harvesting operations and visited the Richards Bay mill.
Further visits to other key operational sites will be arranged over the coming months.
84 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Site visits Syktyvkar, Russia Although the whole board have not had the opportunity to undertake a site visit this year, individual directors have made visits to some of our key assets and operations, providing them with the opportunity for more in-depth reviews and discussions with local management and staff.
Fred Phaswana, joint chairman, visited our mill in wiecie Poland in September and was able to see first-hand the 166 million capital investment project to install a new recovery boiler and replace the coal-fired boilers with a biofuel boiler.
The first phase of this project was commissioned according to schedule in 2015.
The second phase of the project, to provide an additional 100,000 tonnes per annum of softwood pulp and 80,000 tonnes per annum of lightweight kraftliner, remains on track for completion in early 2017.
In August Stephen Harris visited the mill and logging operations at Syktyvkar in Russia.
As chair of the sustainable development committee he focused on safety and sustainability issues at this operational site.
Part of the Boards annual rolling agenda is focused on updating skills and knowledge.
Periodically Mondis South African and UK advisers facilitate sessions on the duties and responsibilities of directors and on corporate governance developments.
Management also provide updates on issues affecting the packaging and paper industry as a whole.
To ensure that the directors are aware of developing trends and future changes in governance and regulation and the likely impact on the Group, the company secretaries report to the Boards at each meeting.
They also brief the directors on government and regulatory consultations for information and to assist the directors with context for their decision-making during board and committee deliberations.
Other corporate function specialists, for example from Group tax and Group treasury, report to the Boards to enable the directors to gain a greater insight into the way Mondi is managed and controlled.
This provides opportunities to question processes, resources and key risks as well as providing context on the wider economic environment.
Although it is recognised that valuable experience can be gained from executive directors accepting appointments as non-executive directors on other boards, it is important to ensure the appropriateness and number of such commitments.
There is a policy in place setting out the parameters regarding such appointments.
A director will retain any fee paid to them in respect of directorships external to Mondi.
Two executive directors hold external directorships, something the Boards consider provides them with broader business experience and skills that will benefit them as individuals and the Group.
David Hathorn was appointed chairman of Elemental Minerals Limited in December, an advanced stage mineral exploration and development company listed on the Australian stock exchange with a primary asset in the Republic of Congo and with its head office in Johannesburg.
The Boards were mindful that David is chairman but were satisfied that the nature of the business, its location and the time commitment expected, would not interfere with Davids role and commitments at Mondi.
It was concluded that the commitment required at this stage in the companys development would be no greater than that of a regular non-executive role.
During 2015 no fees were paid to David.
Peter Oswald also holds an external directorship, being chairman of the supervisory board of OMV AG.
At the time of his appointment he resigned from his other directorship and the two industry association roles he held.
Again, the Boards were mindful of the potential commitment as this was a chairmanship.
However, given the two tier board system and that this is the chairmanship of the supervisory board only, the commitment was not considered to interfere with Peters duties to Mondi.
During 2015 Peter received fees totalling 26,243, representing fees owed from both prior and current appointments.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 85
