Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The effective operation of the Boards is supported by each of the committees listed below: DLC nominations committee: DLC audit committee: DLC remuneration committee: DLC sustainable development committee: and Mondi Limited social and ethics committee.
The committees have been established in line with governance practice and the Boards have delegated certain responsibilities thereby enabling full consideration to be given to all key matters.
The role of each committee is described later in this report.
After each committee meeting, each committee chair reports back to the next board meeting.
This facilitates the communication between directors and ensures that all aspects of the Boards mandate have been addressed.
In addition there is a DLC executive committee that is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group within thelimits set by the Boards.
The matters reserved for the Boards together with the terms of reference of each of the committees are available on Mondis website.
They are reviewed and updated at least on an annual basis.
During 2015 certain of the committee terms of reference were updated in response to changes in circumstances, governance and regulation, in particular those of the audit committee.
The Boards meet six times a year as a DLC board plus at least once each year as separate legal entity boards.
Each board programme is usually held over two days enabling the directors to spend more time together and form a greater understanding of each others characters which in turn aids discussion and challenge in the board room and creates a positive dynamic.
Fred Phaswana generally chairs those meetings held in South Africa and David Williams those held in Europe.
They oversee the distribution of appropriate, accurate and well-presented materials, with meeting packs being circulated electronically a week before each meeting.
They also ensure there is sufficient debate and consultation with management and advisers as well as between the directors themselves during meetings in order that effective decisions are reached.
As appropriate, other senior executives below board level and advisers, are invited to attend and present at meetings, providing the nonexecutive directors with a broader perspective on matters under consideration.
How the Boards spent their time Financial Operational Strategy formulation performance performance and monitoring 40% 23% 16% Governance and risk management Other 16% 5% There is a work programme agreed for the Boards each year which ensures that all matters reserved for review by the Boards are covered by the regular meeting agendas.
There are also additional matters presented to the Boards during the year as the need arises, usually in connection with strategic opportunities that have presented themselves for consideration.
Some of the specific areas reviewed during the year are set out on pages 80 to 82.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 79
