10 Strategic report WhAT MORGAn DOES Ceramic cores for investment casting 5% GROuP ACTIVITIES PRODuCTS of Group revenue in 2015 consumable products used to create intricate internal cooling cavities in aero-engine and industrial Morgan Advanced Materials is a world-leader Morgan Advanced Materials manufactures an gas turbine blades.
in advanced materials, focused on specialist extensive range of products, satisfying a variety ceramics, carbon and composites.
Working at of applications across numerous end-markets.
Piezoelectric sensors and transducers the forefront of materials science, the Group 4% of Group revenue in 2015 products supplies differentiated products to a range of The principal product ranges are: for measurement duties including level, attractive growth markets, satisfying technically flow, vibration and pressure in aerospace, Insulating fibre, brick and monolithics demanding applications and enabling customers medical, industrial and defence 41% of Group revenue in 2015 products to perform more efficiently, reliably applications.
an extensive range of high-temperature and for longer in a wide range of markets.
insulation products used to reduce energy Crucibles for metals processing 4% of consumption in industrial processes.
Group revenue in 2015 comprehensive A Morgan design team will typically range for optimum performance in work with the customer to ensure an BuSInESS STRuCTuRE non-ferrous metal and alloy melting in optimum solution.
foundries, die-casters and metal processing facilities.
Electrical carbon, linear and rotary transfer Operating from approximately 80 manufacturing systems 14% of Group revenue in 2015 facilities, supported by a network of sales offices, high-technology composites 3% of primarily used for transferring electrical and employing approximately 8,800 people, Group revenue in 2015 which are energy in motor and generator Morgan Advanced Materials has a significant combined with the Groups advanced applications within mining, transportation operational presence in all the worlds major ceramics for lightweight armour systems, and power generation markets.
regions, serving customers in more than providing ballistic protection in the form of 100 countries.
personnel body armour or vehicle armour.
Seals and bearings 8% of Group revenue in 2015 carbon graphite and Through 2015 the Group reported through In addition to these principal product ranges, silicon carbide components which deliver three geographical Regions, north America, Morgan also offers application-specific products improved performance, reliability and Europe and Asia Rest of World, each offering for each of its target markets.
These products extended life to pumps and similar the full range of Morgans product and are designed and manufactured to specific equipment used in petrochemical, services.
The Regional management teams customer requirements using a wide range aerospace and water applications.
collaborate closely in terms of product and of structural ceramics, electro ceramics and market development and delivering service precious metals.
excellence, providing an effective single point of contact for customers.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAnCE FInAnCIAl STATEMEnTS Strategic report 11 44% 22% of 2015 revenue of 2015 revenue MARKETS InDuSTRIAl TRAnSPORTATIOn Morgan Advanced Materials designs and Morgan Advanced Materials makes highmanufactures products for use in a broad performance components and sub-assemblies spectrum of challenging processes and to exacting standards for aerospace, automotive, manufacturing environments.
marine and rail applications, including carbon ThE GROuP OPERATES brushes and collectors for trains and highThe Groups advanced materials offer a wide temperature fibre products used for emission In A nuMBER OF range of performance characteristics, including control in vehicles.
MARKET SECTORS: superior insulating properties, dimensional stability, strength and stiffness.
The Group combines its materials science and ThE PERCEnTAGE manufacturing capabilities to offer consistent OF GROuP REVEnuE With these materials, the Group engineers and reliable products in flexible production FROM EACh OF ThESE, components which are highly resistant quantities, from small even one-off runs to chemical and physical wear, corrosion to high-volume.
TOGEThER WITh and extreme heat.
These components ExAMPlES OF ThE are at the heart of many industrial processes Over the years the Group has applied its where they drive optimised process materials know-how to solve engineering PRODuCTS MORGAn efficiency and productivity, alongside challenges and enhance performance for air, SuPPlIES, IS PROVIDED reduced waste, improved safety and lower sea and land transport systems.
On ThE FOllOWInG environmental impact.
Morgans latest earth return brush holder PAGES.
For example, the introduction of a range system for the rail sector is designed to better of bespoke caster tips made from a special overcome the problems of vibration and formulation of Morgans low biopersistent system movement, and movement between Superwool fibre range, has resulted in the the brush and shaft that frequently reduce elimination of all RCF refractory ceramic fibre the quality of brush contact impacting materials from hydros aluminium production performance.
The unit uses a freshly-designed plant in norway representing a major step single-piece casing, in contrast to previous change in health and safety.
Morgan created composite designs, which along with the flange a special formulation of Superwool fibre and brushes is insulated with a high-strength for this application and even modified its powder coating, and can be fitted to new production process to eliminate the possibility vehicles or retro-fitted as required.
of the shot within the fibre creating marks on the aluminium being processed.
Boasting rugged construction from carbon, graphite, and silicon carbon-based materials, Meanwhile, Morgans relationship with AETC Morgans axial and radial seals for the aerospace ltd, one of the worlds premier manufacturers sector offer supreme reliability in engines, of turbine blades for the aerospace and industrial airframes and ground-based turbine engines gas turbine sectors continues to go from operating in severe service conditions.
The seals strength to strength.
new programmes are are ideal for use in a variety of low and high seeing Morgan design and test prototype cores volume sealing applications, including hydraulic to prove that they meet profile tolerances systems, valve and actuator assemblies.
which can be as tight as - 0.08mm.
The cores are made from Morgans proprietary K120 directionally solidified single crystal material which boasts excellent high-temperature stability, making it ideal for use with alloys requiring high-temperature pre-heats.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 12 Strategic report WhAT MORGAn DOES continued 9% 7% 6% of 2015 revenue of 2015 revenue of 2015 revenue PETROChEMICAl ElECTROnICS SECuRITy AnD DEFEnCE Morgan Advanced Materials manufactures Morgan Advanced Materials is known globally Morgan Advanced Materials supplies precisiona range of components ideally suited to the for its range of high-purity, high-specification engineered materials, components and uniquely demanding operating environments components used in semiconductor fabrication assemblies to meet the exacting standards of found in the global petrochemical industry.
the international defence and security markets.
The Groups products and materials are The Group exploits the unique properties Materials technology and manufacturing routinely chosen to fulfil critical applications of its advanced materials to help electronics capability are combined to produce solutions onand off-shore in exploration, drilling and manufacturers meet competing demands that deliver real performance benefits in downstream processing thanks to their of size, functionality and cost.
security and defence applications, from military resistance to chemical and physical wear, hardware to surveillance equipment.
Morgans design teams work closely with customers to design and manufacture intricate In the area of explosive ordnance disposal For example, due to their unique components, achieving explicit electrical and EOD, comfort and freedom of movement microstructure, the Groups zirconia materials thermal properties within restricted size and must be combined with optimum protection exhibit a property known as transformational shape constraints.
using durable piezoceramics for the wearer.
toughening which makes them exceptionally and high-quality dielectric materials, the Group strong and resistant to corrosion and abrasion.
manufactures products for mobile phones, Morgans latest Silverback 4020 Elite EOD The Group uses them to engineer hardlaptops, hD televisions, lighting controls, laser suit combines new technology, cutting-edge wearing parts for pumps, drilling machinery instrumentation, microwave and high-voltage materials and premium-quality garment and specialist fluids handling equipment.
The Groups ceramic metallisation construction.
Innovations to the suit include processes have played a major role in the quick-release technology, which allows the Morgan has also responded to the drive to commercialisation of modern communications, user to get out of the suit, unaided, in less than reduce cost by designing systems with larger signalling and control technologies including 20 seconds, while the ergonomics and design pipe diameters which require fewer devices ultra-high frequency signal transmission.
of the suit afford the user the freedom of overall by enhancing its capability to movement to crouch, crawl and climb as manufacture balls with a bore diameter of In semiconductor and lED substrate required ideal for when forensic evidence up to 250mm for severe service valves from fabrication, the Groups high-purity materials needs to be gathered.
its acclaimed nilcra zirconia-based material and controlled microstructures have brought which delivers exceptional strength and significant yield improvements in specialist Meanwhile its lASA AC914 and AC915 toughness together with erosion and corrosion processes for ion implantation, epitaxy and lightweight combat helmets harness the resistance.
This compares with a previous compound crystal growth.
properties of modern composite materials and maximum bore diameter of 150mm.
a configurable suspension to deliver outstanding Morgans commitment to this sector is amply ballistic performance and comfort.
Between While physical properties are vital, accuracy demonstrated by ongoing investment in them, the helmets offer unparalleled protection and precision on performance cannot be its capability to manufacture semiconductor against blunt trauma and 9mm rounds, compromised either.
Morgans new highprocessing products, meaning it can now alongside exceptional fragmentation protection.
accuracy sensors for the oil and gas extraction precision grind products of up to 500mm They come with an optional visor and mandible sector harness the unique capabilities of its in diameter and 600mm in length and guard to provide even greater high-impact proprietary piezoelectric materials meaning they manufacture complex brazed assemblies protection for the eyes and face.
can provide reliable sensing and monitoring in incorporating its own metallisation inks.
Morgans products for the semiconductor Suitable for applications from custody transfer industry include end effectors for efficient to gas flow monitoring, the sensors draw on wafer handling, inductively-coupled plasma the proven properties of lead zirconate titanate chambers plasma focus tubes, ring spacers and PzT.
With a compact footprint and boasting electrostatic chucks ESCs.
Its proven range of the extremely high sensitivity required high-purity materials are eminently suitable for especially in natural gas applications the use in high vacuum environments because sensors are capable of measuring both high they do not outgas.
and low flow to extreme accuracies.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAnCE FInAnCIAl STATEMEnTS Strategic report 13 6% 6% of 2015 revenue of 2015 revenue EnERGy hEAlThCARE Morgan Advanced Materials has an enviable Morgan Advanced Materials produces a broad Morgan has also launched its own range of reputation in components for power variety of components for use in medical standard brazed ceramic filament supports distribution and generation from both monitoring instrumentation as well as in tools for x-ray and analytical equipment, drawing renewable and traditional sources, as well for treatment and surgery.
on Morgans proven high purity alumina grade as insulation materials for heat management.
The supports are available Medical engineering demands the highest in standard and custom shapes, in small The Group continues to work on diverse standards of precision, accuracy, reliability and large volumes, while a variety of braze energy-related projects from piezoceramics and performance.
Equipment manufacturers materials can be used, including gold nickel, for energy harvesting technologies to and medical professionals choose the Groups gold copper and silver copper eutectic.
high-quality capacitance for high-voltage materials for their exceptional physical Custom designs can incorporate variations systems and even specialist fire protection characteristics.
in pin size, form and material.
systems for offshore wind farms.
Experience over many years has given the Morgans latest ultra-wide bandwidth, Group a good understanding of the uniquely high-sensitivity air-coupled ceramic sensors demanding environment in which equipment for flow metering offer an increase of for the global medical market is developed.
magnitude in sensitivity compared with The Groups capability in materials innovation alternatives.
Based on technology similar and quality manufacturing allows Morgan to that which underpins four-dimensional to produce parts which are optimised to imaging, these sensors enable metering meet precise complex physical and chemical manufacturers to greatly increase flow specifications.
measurement accuracy at low and high flow rates, while also reducing power consumption.
Recent innovations include the introduction of They are ideal for integration into acoustic brazed ceramic-to-metal assemblies for medical anemometry systems and smart metering imaging applications using ceramic insulators.
systems, as well as air-coupled level The assemblies are manufactured with measurement of liquids and solids.
proprietary grades of high-purity alumina ceramic with superior electrical and dimensional In the wind energy sectors, Morgans stability across a wide temperature range.
The market-leading products include a new brush assemblies for imaging components include high gear for users of Vestas V52 to V80 series voltage insulators for cardiothoracic CT wind turbines.
Designed to replace the caliper scanning equipment, anodes and cathodes, holders fitted as standard on these turbines, filament insulators, getters and headers, as well they offer numerous benefits including as ceramic components used in vacuum tubes extended service life, as well as considerably for x-ray equipment.
Morgans materials and longer intervals between brush replacements manufacturing process result in better seals with thanks to a carbon brush wear length double maximum hermeticity for high performance that of the OEM part.
The easy-fit carbon and extended life cycle.
Advanced ceramics also brush holder system also means less time spent allow higher voltages, which result in higher on replacement, reducing maintenance costs.
power and improved image resolution.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS
