Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Following a report from the nominations committee, the Boards reviewed the output from the annual evaluation process and agreed an action plan see pages 86 and 87 formore information.
At every meeting the Boards received country assessments, primarily for Russia and South Africa, providing updates on the local economies and related matters that help provide perspective when considering Group performance and any new proposals.
Other regular governance matters Reviewed delegations of authority and the matters reserved for the Boards as well as the calendar of meetings and rolling agenda.
Reviewed an analysis of the share registers and a market analysis at every meeting in order to stay in touch with the Groups investor profile and views.
Reviewed key Group policies and their continued relevance and implementation, highlighting any areas for improvement or change.
Reviewed the Groups corporate governance compliance, focusing on the South African and UK requirements for listed companies.
Reviewed the continued implementation of the Business Integrity Policy.
Reviewed and approved the matters to be presented to shareholders at the Annual General Meetings and approved the meeting notices.
Received reports at each meeting from the company secretaries which included governance and regulatory updates and details of any potential implications for Mondi.
Risk management The Boards undertook their annual review of the Groups risk management processes, plan and risk tolerance levels supported by the audit committee, with the presentation including details of risk monitoring and mitigation activities, noting that there had been no significant change in the Groups risk profile since the previous year see pages 38 to 42 for more information.
With input from the audit committee, the Boards considered a presentation of IT risks, security and governance with a particular focus on cyber security see page95 for more information.
Reviewed the Group insurances, the presentation providing details of the different insurances in place and the level of cover, enabling the Boards to ensure that there is an appropriate balance of risk between the Group and our insurers.
Strategy formulation and monitoring A strategy review session was held during the year including consideration of where Mondi is today, its strategic focus, options for future growth and detailed business by business strategic initiatives, resulting in continued support for Mondis strategic direction.
As part of our longer-term planning we have been considering a number of large capital projects, focusing on those that would produce superior products at among the lowest costs on their respective cost curves, including: the modernisation of the tt mill: and the optimisation of the Ruomberok mill by utilising surplus pulp capacity to make a kraft top white for the corrugated industry, which we subsequently approved in February 2016.
A number of investment and acquisition proposals were considered as well as the divestment of non-core businesses.
Examples of those approved during the year are: the acquisition of Ascania nonwoven Germany GmbH to strengthen Mondis position as the preferred supplier of hygiene components: the acquisition of KSP, Co. a producer of spouted and retort stand-up pouches, which supports our strategy to develop in high value-added, high-growth markets in our Consumer Packaging business: 30 million investment in the woodyard at the Richards Bay mill South Africa : the divestiture of a recycled containerboard mill at Raubling Germany : and the sale of non-core operations in film manufacturing in Osterburken Germany and Ipoh Malaysia.
Once a year we invite a third party, usually a representative from one of our relationship banks, to present to the Boards on the broader economic environment.
In 2015, BNP presented a review of Global macroeconomic issues.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 81
