Directors Report Activities and results identifies and reviews key business risks.
Each share carries the right to one vote Further detail can be found on page 26. at general meetings of the company.
The directors present their annual report The ordinary shares are listed on the The board also monitors a number and audited financial statements for the Official List and are traded on the London year ended 28 February 2015. of financial and non-financial Key Stock Exchange.
There are no specific Performance Indicators KPIs.
These restrictions on the size of a holding nor The principal activity of the group is multiKPIs are detailed on page 14. on the transfer of shares which are both channel retailing.
The activities are more governed by the general provisions of the As required by the UK Corporate fully explained and reviewed in the Chief companys Articles of Association and Governance Code 2012 the Code, Executives Review on pages 9 to 14. prevailing legislation except as set out pages 4 to 14 provide an explanation of Group profit before taxation from continuing below in the section entitled Voting Rights operations for the 52 weeks ended the basis on which the company generates and Restrictions on Transfers.
No person 28 February 2015 amounted to value and preserves it over the long-term has any special rights over the companys 76.3m 2014, 96.8m.
No geographical its business model and its strategy for share capital and all issued shares are segmentation is provided because, other delivering its objectives.
than small operations in the Republic of Results, dividends and reserves Ireland, Germany and the United States, all Details of outstanding employee share activities take place in the United Kingdom.
The financial statements set out the options and the operation of the relevant groups and company results for the schemes are shown in note 28 on page 77.
Strategic report year ended 28 February 2015 and are The directors have no current plans to contained in pages 54 to 84.
In accordance with the Companies Act issue shares other than in connection with 2006 Companies Act, the company sets An interim dividend of 5.67p per share employee share options.
out in this report a review of the business 2014, 5.67p was paid on the ordinary of the group during the 52 weeks ended Annual general meeting shares of the company on 9 January 2015.
28 February 2015 and the position of the The net cost of this dividend was 16.0m The annual general meeting will be held group at the end of that period to enable 2014, 15.9m.
at 12:30 pm on Tuesday, 14 July 2015. shareholders to assess how the directors The notice convening the annual general have performed their duty under section The directors recommend a final dividend meeting will be sent to members by way 172 of the Companies Act the duty to of 8.56p per share 2014, 8.56p for the 52 of separate circular.
Explanatory notes promote the success of the company.
weeks ended 28 February 2015, the net on each resolution to be proposed at the The report also describes the principal cost of which will be 24.1m 2014, 24.0m.
meeting will accompany the circular.
risks and uncertainties facing the group The dividend will be paid on 31 July 2015. and provides a fair review of the groups Directors Movements in reserves are shown in the business at the end of the financial year.
The biographies of the current directors, Consolidated Statement of Changes in This information can be found within the are shown on page 15.
With regard to Equity on page 57. following sections of this report, and in the appointment and replacement of the Chairmans Statement and the Chief Composition of the group directors, the company is governed by its Executives Review all of which information Articles of Association, the Code and the During the year there were no corporate is incorporated by cross-reference into this Companies Act.
report and is deemed to form part of it.
At the 2015 annual general meeting all Share capital The board oversees the development of of the current directors will retire and will processes to manage risks appropriately.
Details of the companys issued share offer themselves for re-election.
The executive directors and operating capital are shown in note 23 on page 75. board directors implement and oversee The directors who served throughout the risk management processes and report The company has one class of ordinary year and to the date of this report were to the board on them.
The board also shares which carry no fixed income.
as follows:- Andrew Higginson Non-executive Chairman Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE Non-executive Director Angela Spindler Chief Executive Officer Dean Moore Finance Director resigned 30 April 2015 Craig Lovelace Chief Financial Officer appointed 11 May 2015 Ivan Fallon Non-executive Director Fiona Laird Non-executive Director Simon Patterson Non-executive Director Ron McMillan Non-executive Director John McGuire Non-executive Director retired 1 April 2014 Anna Ford Non-executive Director retired 22 July 2014 Lesley Jones Non-executive Director appointed 1 October 2014 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 17 Directors Report Details of directors interests beneficial the company or any subsidiary company against certain liabilities incurred by them and non-beneficial in shares of the either during or at the end of the year.
whilst acting on behalf of the group.
Both company are given in the Remuneration the insurance and indemnities applied Directors and officers liabilities Report on page 47 and are deemed to throughout the financial year ended be incorporated into this report by 28 February 2015 and through to the date The companys Articles of Association cross-reference.
provide that, in so far as the law permits, every director of the company or Major shareholders The powers of the directors are associated company may be indemnified described in the board terms of In addition to the directors shareholdings by the company against liability.
In reference and the Corporate Governance shown in the Remuneration Report on accordance with section 236 of the Statement starting on page 21.
The page 47 and in accordance with Chapter Companies Act, qualifying third party terms of reference for the board and 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency indemnity provisions are in place for the its committees are available on the Rules, the following notifications had directors in respect of liabilities incurred companys website www.
been received from holders of notifiable as a result of their office, to the extent interests in the companys issued share permitted by law.
In addition, the group Other than a contract of service, no capital at 30 April 2015: other director had any interest in any maintains insurance for directors and officers of the group, indemnifying them disclosable contract or arrangements with % of issued Holding share capital INVESCO Asset Management Ltd 37,093,165 13.08 Nigel Alliance OBE 31,489,256 11.11 Schroder Investment Management Ltd 14,096,907 4.97 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 9,379,746 3.31 Tameside MBC re Greater Manchester Pension Fund 9,029,491 3.19 Governance The Pension Fund is required to run the Stakeholder Pension for weekly undertake an actuarial valuation every employees already in the scheme.
As The board is committed to maintaining 3 years and the last valuation took place at May 2015 80% of all employees were high standards of corporate governance.
on 30 June 2012. members of a qualifying pension scheme Further details are contained in the with 1,352 employees being auto-enrolled The company and some of its associated Corporate Governance Statement starting as at the date of this report.
At the date of on page 21. companies are required to indemnify this report the current opt-out rate is 6.7%.
the Trustee company and its officers Charitable and political donations Financial risk management, objectives in respect of certain liabilities incurred by them in the performance of their and policies During the year, the group made charitable donations of 40,818 2014, 48,920.
No obligations relating to the Pension Fund or The group is exposed to certain financial in the administration of the Pension Fund.
political donations have been made 2014, risks, namely interest rate risk, currency nil.
No contributions have been made to This amounts to a qualifying pension risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
scheme indemnity provision as defined non-EU political parties 2014, nil.
Information regarding such financial risks in section 235 of the Companies Act.
is detailed in note 20 on page 73.
The Pension fund The Pension Fund was closed to new groups risk management policies and The company has a defined benefit procedures and the table of principal risks entrants with effect from 31 January scheme The N Brown Group Pension 2002.
New employees joining the group and mitigations can be found on page 26.
Its assets are after 31 January 2002 and existing Change of control administered by a trustee company employees who had not joined the the Trustee which is controlled by a There are a number of agreements that Pension Fund as at that date are entitled board of directors and which includes to join a stakeholder pension scheme take effect, alter or terminate upon a an independent trustee and others who change of control of the company such administered by Prudential Stakeholder represent the interests of pension fund Pensions which provides a defined as commercial contracts, bank loan members including pensioners and agreements, property lease arrangements contribution pension arrangement.
None of these Auto-enrolment are considered to be significant in terms The Trustee has appointed Mercer Limited of their likely impact on the business of to provide various services including The People Pension is the autothe group as a whole.
Executive directors enrolment provider for weekly paid actuarial advice, investment advice, service contracts are terminable by the administration services and fiduciary employees, whilst Prudential auto-enrol company on giving 12 months notice.
monthly paid employees and continue to management services.
18 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Directors Report There are no agreements between the securities or voting rights.
The rights and shares will not be sought at the 2015 company and its directors or employees obligations attaching to the company s annual general meeting.
that provide for additional compensation ordinary shares are set out in the Articles Employee share schemes for loss of office or employment that of Association.
rights of control occurs because of a takeover bid.
No Amendment of the companys Articles relevant events were reported in the year.
The trustees of the N Brown Group plc of Association Employee Share Ownership Trust hold Significant Contracts The companys articles of association may shares on trust for the benefit of the The group has a number of contractual only be amended by a special resolution executive directors and employees of the at a general meeting of shareholders.
The shares held by the trust are arrangements with suppliers both of goods and services and occupies Where class rights are varied, such used in connection with the company s amendments must be approved by various share incentive plans.
The leasehold premises for the purpose of conducting its business.
Whilst these the members of each class of shares trustees currently abstain from voting but separately.
The company currently only have the power to vote for or against, or arrangements are important to the business of the group, individually none of has one class of share.
not at all, at their discretion in respect of any shares in the company held in them are essential to the business of the Powers of the directors group and do not require disclosure under the trust.
The trustees may, upon the recommendation of the company, accept section 417 5 c of the Companies Act.
The directors are responsible for the or reject any offer relating to the shares in management of the business of the Tax status company and may exercise all powers any way they see fit, without incurring any liability and without being required to give of the company subject to applicable The company is not a close company legislation and regulation and the reasons for their decision.
In exercising within the meaning of the Corporation Tax their trustee powers the trustees may take company s articles of association.
Act 2010. all of the following matters into account: At the 2014 annual general meeting, the Auditor directors were given the power to issue the long-term interests of beneficiaries: A resolution to appoint new auditors to the new shares up to a nominal amount of the interests of beneficiaries other than company will be proposed at the annual 10,442,189.
This power will expire on financial interests: general meeting on 14 July 2015. the earlier of the conclusion of the 2015 annual general meeting or 22 July 2015. the interests of beneficiaries in their The auditors fees for both audit and Accordingly, a resolution will be proposed capacity as employees or former non-audit work are given in the audit at the 2015 annual general meeting to employees or their dependents: committee report on page 25. renew the Companys authority to issue the interests of persons whether Voting rights and restrictions on new shares.
or not identified who may become transfer of shares Directors were also given the power to beneficiaries in the future: and issue new shares up to a further nominal None of the ordinary shares in the considerations of a local, moral, ethical, amount of 10,442,189 in connection with company carry any special rights with environmental or social nature.
an offer by way of a rights issue.
This regard to control of the company.
authority too will expire on the earlier of Going concern There are no restrictions on transfers of the conclusion of the 2015 annual general shares other than: The directors have adopted the going meeting or 22 July 2015, and a resolution concern basis in the financial statements will be proposed at the 2015 annual certain restrictions which may from and their opinion is explained on page 14. general meeting to renew it.
time to time be imposed by laws or regulations such as those relating to Liability Statement Approval was also given at the 2014 insider dealing: annual general meeting for a certain All the information contained in the number of shares up to a maximum pursuant to the company s code for Chairmans Statement on page 8, the Chief nominal value of 1,566,328 - to be securities transactions whereby the Executives Review on pages 9 to 14, the allotted pursuant to the authority granted directors and designated employees Directors Remuneration Report on pages to directors set out above without being require approval to deal in the 33 to 49 and the Corporate Governance covered by statutory pre-emption rights company s shares: and Statement on pages 21 to 32 form part regime.
As with the previously mentioned of this Directors Report.
Any liability for where a person with an interest in the approvals, this authority too will expire on the information is restricted to the extent companys shares has been served with the earlier of the conclusion of the 2015 prescribed in the Companies Act.
a disclosure notice and has failed to annual general meeting or 22 July 2015, provide the company with information and a resolution will be proposed at the Directors responsibilities statement concerning interests in those shares.
2015 annual general meeting to renew The directors are responsible for this authority.
The directors are not aware of any preparing the annual report and the arrangements between shareholders that As in previous years, authorisation for financial statements in accordance with may result in restrictions on the transfer of the directors to buy back the companys applicable law and regulations.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 19 Directors Report The directors are responsible for Disclosure of Information to Auditor Responsibility statement the maintenance and integrity of the We confirm that to the best of our The directors are responsible for keeping companys website.
Legislation in the adequate accounting records that knowledge: United Kingdom governing the preparation are sufficient to show and explain the and dissemination of financial statements the financial statements, prepared in companys transactions and disclose may differ from legislation in other accordance with the relevant financial with reasonable accuracy at any time the jurisdictions.
reporting framework, give a true and fair financial position of the company and view of the assets, liabilities, financial Company law requires the directors enable them to ensure that the financial position and profit or loss of the company to prepare financial statements for statements comply with the Companies and the undertakings included in the each financial year.
They are also responsible for consolidation taken as a whole: directors are required to prepare the safeguarding the assets of the company group financial statements in accordance and hence for taking reasonable steps for the Chief Executives Review and with International Financial Reporting the prevention and detection of fraud and Directors Report, taken together, Standards IFRSs as adopted by the other irregularities.
include a fair review of the development European Union and have elected to and performance of the business Each person who is a director at the date prepare the parent company financial and the position of the company and of the approval of this report confirms that: statements in accordance with United the undertakings included in the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting consolidation taken as a whole, together so far as the director is aware, there is Standards and applicable law.
The with a description of the principal risks no relevant audit information of which directors must not approve the accounts and uncertainties that they face: and the groups auditor is unaware: and unless they are satisfied that they give a the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is the director has taken all steps that he or true and fair view of the state of affairs of fair, balanced and understandable and she ought to have taken as a director in the group and parent company and of the provides the information necessary for order to make himself or herself aware profit or loss of the group for that period.
shareholders to assess the companys of any relevant audit information and In preparing the parent company performance, business model and to establish that the groups auditor is consolidated financial statements, the strategy.
directors are required to: By order of the board This confirmation is given and should select suitable accounting policies and be interpreted in accordance with then apply them consistently: the provisions of section 418 of the Angela Spindler Companies Act.
make judgments and accounting Chief Executive estimates that are reasonable and By order of the board 22 May 2015 prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs as Theresa Casey LL.
B Hons Solicitor adopted by the European Union have Secretary been followed, subject to any material 22 May 2015 departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
20 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
