Directors Remuneration Report Other than in certain good leaver Copies of executive directors service favourable than the committee considers circumstances including, but not limited contracts and also non-executive is required to provide reasonable to, redundancy, ill-health or retirement or directors letters of appointment are compensation to the incoming director for on a change of control, no bonus would available for inspection at the companys the awards they will be losing.
Existing be payable unless the individual remains registered office on application to the plans will be used to the extent possible employed and is not under notice at company secretary.
subject to the exceptional limits contained the payment date.
Any bonuses paid to in the plan rules, however, the committee Recruitment of executive directors a good leaver would be based on an retains discretion to agree bespoke assessment of their individual and the arrangements and, if required, to make Base salary levels will be set in company's performance over the period, use of the flexibility provided by the accordance with the companys and pro-rated for the proportion of the Listing Rules to make awards without prior remuneration policy, taking account of the bonus year worked.
shareholder approval when buying out executives skills, experience and their existing entitlements.
There is no intention current remuneration package.
Where it is Deferred bonus share awards will to use this flexibility to offer a golden appropriate to offer a lower salary initially, also normally lapse on cessation of hello unrelated to remuneration lost.
a series of above inflation increases to employment, unless the executive director the desired salary positioning may be is deemed to be a good leaver by the The service contract for a new appointment given over subsequent years subject to Committee.
Awards will vest early on a would be in accordance with the policy for individual and company performance.
change of control subject to the plan rules.
Benefits and pension will generally be With regards to long-term incentive In the case of an internal hire, any provided in accordance with the approved awards, the LTIP rules provide that outstanding variable pay awarded in policy, with relocation expenses and or an other than in certain good leaver relation to the previous role will be allowed expatriate allowance paid for if necessary.
circumstances, awards lapse on cessation to pay out according to its terms of grant.
For an overseas appointment, the benefit of employment.
Where an individual is Fees for a new chairman or non-executive and pension arrangements may be a good leaver, the committees policy director will be set in line with the tailored to reflect local market practice for future LTIP awards will be to permit approved policy.
subject to the overall maximum limits awards to remain outstanding until the end set out in the policy table.
Assistance of the original performance period, when with relocation may be provided where a pro-rata reduction will be made to take appropriate.
Tax equalisation may also account of the proportion of the vesting be considered as may payment of the period that elapsed prior to termination of executive's legal fees in connection with employment, although the committee has the appointment.
discretion to partly or completely disapply pro-rating and the performance conditions The variable pay opportunity will be in in certain circumstances.
On a change of accordance with the companys approved control awards would vest, subject to the policy as detailed above.
However, different extent to which the performance conditions performance measures and targets may have been achieved and, normally, be set for the first year in the case of the pro-rating for time.
The committee has annual bonus and long-term incentives discretion to determine good leaver taking into account the responsibilities of treatment.
In doing so, it will take account the individual, and the point in the financial of the reason for their departure and the year at which they joined.
If it is necessary to buy-out incentive For awards granted under the LTIP, pay, which would be forfeited by reason awards lapse if cessation occurs during of leaving the previous employer, in the financial year in which an award is order to secure the appointment, this granted.
Thereafter awards held by good would be provided for taking into account leavers may vest subject to performance the form cash or shares, timing and without pro-rating.
On a change of control expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting existing awards would not be pro-rated.
any existing performance criteria of the Apart from service contracts, no remuneration being forfeited and such executive director has any material other specific matters as it considers interest in any contract with the company relevant.
Existing arrangements may be or its subsidiaries.
bought out on terms that are no more N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 39
