Directors Remuneration Report On an exceptional basis, and only to The specific strategic targets are The recruitment awards described above the extent necessary to compensate for commercially sensitive but include the were granted pursuant to the exemption awards which were forfeited as a result following: from the need for prior shareholder of taking up her appointment with the approval contained in Listing Rule 9.4.
Further development of the retail space company, Angela Spindler was granted The awards are non-pensionable and strategy: two one-off share awards as detailed in non-transferable other than on death.
the 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration.
The committee considered that the awards Development and delivery of segmented Vesting of the first, over shares worth were necessary to facilitate Angela marketing strategy and multi-channel 520,000 at the time of grant, is subject Spindlers recruitment as chief executive.
offering including international: to employment conditions over two years.
Improving the impact and effectiveness The value of this award is included in the of customer insight through access to single figure for 2013 14.
The second, over and analysis of big data: and shares worth 1,040,000 at the time of grant is also subject to the achievement Delivery of our systems infrastructure of strategic objectives measured over a programme.
Summary of awards Audited The table below summarises each of the executive directors' long-term share awards and the changes that have taken place in the year.
Matching shares equal the growth in RPI over the deferral scheme was introduced in 2010.
Under could be earned subject to employment period.
The matching element of the its terms, executive directors excluding conditions and were subject to a financial deferred annual bonus scheme operated Angela Spindler invest up to 25% of performance condition requiring that for the last time in respect of the finance their base salary into shares and defer growth in the companys EPS must at least directors bonus outcome for 2013 14.
46 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
