Business review: North America Strong bid season and growth from acquisitions David Duke Chief Executive, National Express Corporation Overview of 2015 North America Year ended 2015 2014 31 December m m Change in school bus numbers Overview of 2015 Revenue 683.2 620.2 2015 bid season Our North American business has delivered Operating profit 66.8 59.5 another year of growth in revenue and Number of operating profit.
On a constant currency buses basis revenue grew by 4.0% with operating Regretted losses 100 Revenue US$1,044.3 US$1,003.9 profit increasing by 6.1% to $102.2 million 2014: $96.3m.
Operating profit US$102.2 US$96.3 Exited per up or out strategy 900 We continued to focus on increasing Acquisitions 1,450 Operating margin 9.8% 9.6% profitable growth and improving the quality Conversion and share shift 450 of our portfolio, exiting those contracts Revenue and operating profit at constant currency, thatfall below our minimum return criteria adjusting for Canadian Dollar to US Dollar foreign Organic growth 200 exchange rate movement in the year through an up or out strategy and Change in buses operated growing through acquisitions and for 2015 16 school year 1,100 winningnew business which generate Operational excellence moreattractive returns.
We have had a Our North America operation already We have maintained a relentless focus on successful bidding season, achieving price delivers best in class margins.
Traditionally, costs and the streamlining of operations increases of 5.3% on those contracts up the school bus industry is a capitaland increased operating margin by 20 basis forrenewal and an average price increase intensive, low cash generation business.
points to 9.8%, with the benefits of the up across the entire portfolio of 2.8%.
This Inthe past year we have continued to focus or out strategy helping to offset pressure trend of increasing prices has continued on increasing the return on capital across on drivers wages.
into the current bid season.
By focusing $m on contracts which generate adequate We have added a further 450 buses from 2014 normalised operating capital returns, we have relationship-based new contract wins in 2015 both in School profit 98.0 contracts where our service quality is valued Bus and Transit operations.
We have had by the customer.
Where we are not able to aparticularly successful year in Transit, Exchange movement obtain financial returns above our minimum growing annualised revenues by 45% to CADtoUSD 1.7 criteria, we have exited the contract in around $110 million with three new 2014 normalised operating the2015 16 school year bid season we contracts, an extension to an existing profit at constant currency 96.3 relinquished eight contracts for 900 buses, contract and one bolt-on acquisition.
which has contributed to the 20 basis point Net impact of revenue growth 4.8 In line with our strategy to increase improvement in the operating margin to Acquisitions 5.2 investment in new growth opportunities in 9.8%.
We have continued to cascade buses North America, we have made five small Fuel cost 2.4 where they meet the appropriate age bolt-on acquisitions, with three of those criteria, thereby increasing fleet utilisation.
Other cost inflation 16.0 made in the final quarter of the year.
Over We continue to deliver superior service the period we have added a net 1,100 Cost savings including standards, with 92% of our customers buses, with the new business wins and synergies 8.6 willing to recommend us on the basis of acquisitions more than offsetting the Weather 0.9 quality of service, safety and value.
In 2014 contracts we chose to exit.
we experienced pressures on driver 2015 normalised operating profit 102.2 recruitment with some shortages and wage pressure evident.
During 2015 we reviewed our approach, including starting our targeted recruitment rounds earlier and 40 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION organisations that adopt and apply improved wage packages in highly school bus businesses in the US.
While we continue to experience in the last year has only see some wage pressure we are pleased confirmed our belief that there is real Cash and returns that the success of our new approach is opportunity in the market.
Operating cash flow represented a supported by a 3% improvement in the In 2015, in line with this strategy, we invested conversion of 61% of operating profit with Back to School Survey, with 90% of 82 million in five small bolt-on acquisitions $62 million of operating cash delivered in customers satisfied with the service they that are either close to our existing business theyear.
As previously indicated, we have receive.
Our focus on service standards and we can therefore drive synergies and returned to a constant level of fleet andour customers is also reflected in our operational improvements, or that provide replacement in 2015, in line with industry-leading contract retention rate strategic entry to new markets.
The lower level of cash which remains very high, achieving nearly acquisitions included four school bus conversion when compared with 2014 99% for the last bidding season, excluding businesses and one transit employee reflects the higher level of capital investment those contracts which we have not shuttle business, with all acquisitions in fleet on both new and existing contracts contested as they do not meet our minimum expected to be accretive within the first 12 together with increased working capital from returns criteria.
months after transaction and synergy costs.
growth in new contracts and acquisitions.
We continue to leverage our previous In January 2016 we have acquired another We continue to cascade fleet from our investment in technology in order to achieve business which operates both School Bus exited contracts and actively manage our further improvements in our operations and and Transit contracts and we have an active spare capacity within our fleet in order to services, with further improvements in pipeline of further opportunities.
increase asset utilisation and improve maintenance helping to drive cost We continue to see the transit market as a returns.
This drive for more efficient capital efficiencies and higher service standards, strong business development opportunity deployment has delivered a significant and our ability to monitor on-time and look forward to building on a very improvement in return on assets over the performance is driving higher service successful year in 2015, where we grew past three years rising from 17.2% in 2012 standards for our customers, with a 1% annualised revenues by 45%.
We have delivered over improvement year on year in 2015 to 94.1%.
vehicles are funded either by the Federal $5million of savings through new strategic In 2015 we piloted a Wheres My Bus App government or local authority, resulting in a relationships with suppliers and driven which provides parents with real-time low capital investment requirement and high further efficiencies in maintenance through tracking information and we will continue to returns on capital.
Using our operational increased standardisation of procedures roll this technology out across our business expertise and superior track record of service and headquarter costs through the merger in response to positive customer feedback.
delivery, we will continue to seek further bid of Transit and School Bus corporate We have also built the first full-sized school opportunities in this attractive market.
Alongside disciplined contract bus simulator in the US, in our regional training management and bidding and asset The increasing standardisation of centre in Memphis.
The ongoing focus on management programmes, these measures procedures across the business will help safety is demonstrated by a reduction of 5% have helped further grow our industrydrive further efficiencies.
From maintenance inthe Fatalities and Weighted Injuries index leading operating margin by 20 basis points and purchasing, through to scheduling and accompanied by a reduction in lost time to 9.8%.
We will continue to employ pricing electronic clocking on, we believe there is injuries.
We will continue to strive for higher discipline in order to ensure we deliver an further progress to be made.
We will again safety standards across our business.
approach the upcoming bid season in a disciplined manner, including addressing We were delighted that our commitment to Creating new opportunities theongoing wage pressure the industry is excellence and our pursuit of continuous Last year we highlighted the attractive experiencing.
We will also continue to seek improvement has been recognised with a growth opportunities available in the North further capital-light opportunities through Bronze Award from the Illinois Performance American school bus market and indicated conversions and further improve the quality Excellence Center.
This is a North American our intention to increase our level of of the existing portfolio.
equivalent to EFQM and is presented to investment.
The school bus market remains highly fragmented with over 1,300 private Five small bolt-on acquisitions were madeduring the year complementing ourexisting businesses www.
