Business review: Spain and Morocco Record passenger numbers through revenue management and Morocco Francisco Iglesias Chief Executive, ALSA Overview of 2015 Spain and Morocco Year ended 2015 2014 31 December m m Overview of 2015 Operational excellence Revenue 502.2 538.1 ALSAs continued roll out of its revenue ALSA is widely recognised as an industryNormalised management system RMS, a record year leading operator and in 2015 received an operating profit 71.5 75.0 for passengers and sustained strong award for Best Practice in Occupational growth in Morocco have helped drive Road Safety from the Spanish Foundation increases in revenue, profit and margin in in Road Safety.
In addition ALSA has been Revenue 691.8 667.7 the division.
Total divisional revenue grew awarded a four-star rating by the European by 3.6% to 691.8 million 2014: 667.7m Foundation for Quality Management in a Normalised and normalised operating profit rose by first EFQM assessment, and we are operating profit 98.5 93.1 5.8% to 98.5 million 2014: 93.1m, both working towards achieving a five-star Operating margin 14.2% 13.9% in constant currency.
In Spain, revenues rose by 2.9% driven 2015 has been a record year for the FY2014 normalised results restated to adjust for the impact of bid costs previously treated as exceptional costs bythe implementation of RMSs on our number of passengers that ALSA carries, mainrail-competed routes which is driving with nearly 300 million passenger journeys growth in both revenue and passengers, on our services in Spain and Morocco.
We have delivered improvements in whilst in Morocco we have seen another productivity with higher fleet utilisation, We have continued to see a successful year of strong growth, with revenue growth higher mileage per vehicle and improved response to the RMS implemented on the of 13.8% driven by the upscaling of maintenance standards resulting in a 20% nine corridors experiencing the most operations and services in Tangier, together reduction in breakdowns.
The 2% reduction intense competition from RENFEs with the launch of services in a fourth city, in fuel consumption achieved in 2014 has aggressive rail ticket discounting.
Operating margin rose to 14.2% been delivered again in 2015.
This 2% long haul flows now within the RMS, nearly 2014: 13.9% driven by revenue growth, reduction has been driven by a programme 80% of that sectors passengers and cost efficencies, lower fuel costs and of consumption improvement measures, revenue are benefiting from this more additional income from fuel duty rebates.
including fuel efficient driver training.
For the ALSA still achieves the best inclass margin year as a whole, on those routes with RMS, Our ongoing focus on improving safety for a Spanish bus and coach operator.
we saw a 2% increase in passenger standards has delivered a reduction of 15% During the year only two national franchises numbers and 3% increase in revenue.
in the Fatalities and Weighted Injuries index in our portfolio came up for renewal.
ALSA ALSA remains focused on delivering further in the year, with a strong emphasis on successfully renewed one and has obtained cost efficiencies in order to mitigate the training and driver assessments helping the highest score, pending award, in the impact of lower fares and cost inflation.
In todrive the significant improvement in other.
ALSA also extended the Bilbao 2015 we drove a higher proportion of sales safety performance.
Urban Transport contract by two years through our digital channels and ticketing andwas awarded one of the contracts to machines, with nearly a third of transactions operate part of the Spanish Governments now conducted this way, leading to a small flagship Imserso pension holiday scheme.
reduction in headcount as we look to develop a more flexible sales structure.
With the appreciation of Sterling against theEuro during 2015, reported revenues and profit declined to 502.2 million 2014:538.1m and 71.5 million 2014:75.0m respectively.
38 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION m We also see further opportunities to in new cities, building on our reputation increase our digital capabilities leveraging foroperational excellence and customer 2014 normalised operatingprofit 94.1 the Group expertise in customised service standards.
In 2016 we expect Bid costs in 2014 1.0 e-marketing, with the development of new tocarry more passengers in Morocco apps offering improved functionality, thanin the whole of our Spanish business, Restated operating profit 93.1 together with personalised journey demonstrating the significant growth Lower bid costs in 2015 0.6 planners, content and offers: building on experienced in recent years and the UK Coachs leadership, similar programmes opportunity further expansion in the Like-for-like operating profit will be rolled out across the businesses.
Our continuing focus in2014 93.7 isto ensure we are well placed for the In 2015 we invested in a bolt-on acquisition, Net impact of revenue growth 4.9 upcoming concession renewal process Herranz, a business which operates around Other cost inflation 9.0 which may continue to suffer delays 70 buses through an urban contract as part resulting from legal issues.
We still, Cost efficiencies 6.5 of the Madrid consortium.
This business therefore, do not expect any risk of offers synergy benefits with other contracts Fuel 2.4 significant impact on revenues or profits we operate within the city, with the contract until 2017.
We expect the impact on our 2015 normalised operating profit 98.5 running through to 2024.
We expect this Spanish operating profit to be up to 2-3 acquisition to be accretive within the first 12 million in 2017.
As a high quality, innovative months after transaction and synergy costs and efficient operator, we believe that Cash and returns and we will consider further bolt-on ALSAis well positioned to retain and In 2015 ALSA delivered another strong acquisitions where they meet our strict secure concessions as and when performance, generating operating cash financial criteria.
contracts do come up for renewal.
In of114.6 million with operating cash 2015we have successfully retained the Following recent press reports on the conversion of 116%, with an improvement twosmall intercity contracts which came Portuguese Governments proposed of 9 million in working capital.
We have up for renewal and our industry-leading cancellation of our Porto bus contract invested in a higher level of capital bidding team will continue to focus on amongst others awarded by the previous expenditure year on year, with growth developing high quality bids in order to government we have just received official capital expenditure focused predominantly retain and win new contracts.
We will analyse the arguments on new fleet to support the upscaling of our themain renewals process does begin, used to overturn a previously awarded operations in Tangier and the ongoing wedoexpect there to be pressure on contract and then consider our next steps.
margins, but have already begun We will continue to monitor future prospects programmes to mitigate this through, Creating new opportunities for private sector development in the forexample, further cost efficiencies, Following on from the very encouraging domestic rail market and liberalisation of theongoing roll out of revenue results we have seen with the other bus markets in Europe where we management in Spain and additional implementation of revenue management believe we can leverage our expertise opportunities for growth inMorocco.
onsome of our intercity routes, we are andreputation to enter new markets.
introducing further enhancements to our We continue to see strong growth systems that allow even faster decision prospects in Morocco, where we started making on fares, drawing on real-time travel operations in Khouribga, our fourth city, information and competitor information.
As well as continuing to grow our will look to roll out this enhanced revenue existing operations, we see further growth management process across the whole of opportunities with the addition of services our Spanish business to include both the commuter and regional routes.
Our business in Morocco continues to grow with services now operating in four cities www.
