Business review: UK Coach Record passenger numbers driving strong growth Tom Stables Managing Director, UK Coach Overview of 2015 UK Coach Year ended 2015 2014 31 December m m m Overview of 2015 Revenue 281.2 275.2 UK Coach continues to focus on 2014 normalised operating profit 28.0 deliveringfrequent, value for money Operating profit 32.3 28.0 Net impact of growth and services efficiently and marketing them Operating margin 11.5% 10.2% newroutes 4.2 inan increasingly personalised and targeted way using sophisticated digital Cost inflation 4.2 technologies and techniques.
This has ina47% increase in revenues on the day and Cost efficiencies 3.8 again been complemented by new significantly enhancing our customer offer.
partnership deals that help customers Fuel 0.5 While lower in the first half of the year, we access our services more easily and 2015 normalised operating profit 32.3 have secured new contracts in the last six efficiently and reach new markets.
For example: we won a new three-year contract with British Airways to This approach has delivered another year of Operational excellence provide buses for Heathrow staff together excellent performance, with profit growth of Our customer service strategy has with inter-airport transfer services for both 15.4% to 32.3 million 2014: 28.0m.
This continued to focus on providing frequent passengers and crew: we secured a five-year means that since the difficult year of 2012, coach services at low prices.
Lower prices contract for airport work at Stansted, bussing UKCoach has delivered a 57% increase in were sustained throughout the year and passengers between the car parks and operating profit.
Operating margin has also passenger growth has been achieved terminals: and signed a ten-year contract shown a further increase following on from the through an active pricing strategy that with the University of West London for strong gains in the previous two years, rising optimises revenues by responding to student transportation between campuses.
130 basis points in the year to 11.5% 2014: changing market conditions.
Passenger numbers on the core During the year we have further reduced beensupported by increasing our sales network also grew by nearly 2%.
thelevel of vehicle accidents and employee distribution through the development of injuries and our commitment to high safety existing relationships and the creation of Growth % standards has been recognised with two new partnership arrangements with Passenger yield 1 significant safety awards.
We were delighted companies such as Trainline, Singapore to be presented with the prestigious British Airlines, Webloyalty and RBS.
Passenger volume 2 Safety Council Sword of Honour and Change in core express During 2015 we continued to leverage our National Express has also been recognised revenue 3 enhanced CRM capabilities, with strong by the Royal Society for the Prevention of price initiatives and targeted marketing Accidents with a Gold Award.
We are the Other revenues 1 campaigns where customer first coach operator in the UK to invest in Total revenue 2 communications are more tailored to the DriveCam, a leading safety and driver-aid individual helping to drive record technology, demonstrating our commitment passenger numbers in our core network to driving up safety standards.
The results Total revenue increased by 2.2% to and a very strong year in festivals and from the initial pilot have been very 281.2million 2014: 275.2m.
Of the emails we send to our encouraging, including a reduction in costs.
networkrevenue increased by 3.1% with database, 88% are now targeted compared Alongside the introduction of collision newpartnership arrangements, digital with 69% in 2014 and 18% in 2013. avoidance technology, the roll out of these initiatives, additional routes and our safety measures will we are confident Following the success of Christmas Day enhanced marketing and CRM activities drive a reduction of both accidents and the services, first launched in 2013, we achieved more than offsetting reduced rail associated costs.
We believe this is an significant further growth in 2015 with replacement revenues and lower contract opportunity for real progress in the additional routes and services resulting income during the first half of the year.
44 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION we will launch an enhanced mobile app Cash and returns with greater functionality, including The UK Coach business model has a personalised journey planners and the particularly strong return on capital and ability to track and share journey progress, cash generation, outsourcing the majority together with personalised content and of fleet provision and services to its partner offers which should help drive incremental operators in a capital-light model.
we delivered another strong performance, generating operating cash of 38 million 2016 will see the introduction of an even with cash conversion of 117% of operating more sophisticated RMS across our profit.
Capital expenditure remains primarily network which will significantly enhance our focused on enhancing our retail systems, capability to actively manage pricing on a aimed at delivering improved CRM real-time basisthrough the use of dynamic capabilities, enhanced mobile and online pricing technology.
This will not only drive booking options for customers and a more load factors but also improve route sophisticated RMS.
We will also invest profitability.
We will also complement this further in technology to deliver enhanced with targeted promotional offers and the safety results and lower associated costs.
drive to a greater personalised relationship with customers.
Creating new opportunities Attractive pricing, coupled with improved As well as reviewing our network efficiency, yield management, will allow the division to we also look to add new routes where we continue to grow volume, improve load see growth opportunities.
In 2015 we factors and drive profitability.
We will launched new services serving passengers continue to exploit our enhanced CRM between Kent and Gatwick and new capabilities developing further tailored and services to Bristol Airport which should customised offers for our customers.
drive further growth in 2016 and beyond.
We see significant opportunities to engage By leveraging the strength of our brand, with our customers on an increasingly wewill continue to grow the number of personalised level as we implement further distribution channels to customers, improvements to our digital platforms, together with an ongoing focus on providing improved functionality across all operational efficiency.
We remain our digital channels.
This is driving higher committed to maintaining our competitive conversion rates for online transactions, for position against rail, our key competitor.
example with the introduction of a PayPal payment system which significantly reduces the transaction times for customers.
In 2016 Strong price initiatives and targeted marketing campaigns have helped achieve record numbers in our core Coach network www.
