Business review: Rail Strong progress in the UK and Germany Andrew Chivers Managing Director, Rail Overview of 2015 Rail Year ended 2015 2014 31 December m m Overview of 2015 Operational excellence Revenue 168.4 151.6 National Express Rail division has had Our Rail division is at the forefront of the another successful year with the first full year Groups drive for operational excellence.
Operating profit 0.6 10.1 of the new c2c franchise maintaining its In2015 c2c maintained its position as the Operating margin 0.4% 6.6% position as the most punctual operator, most punctual UK franchise with an annual further success in securing German rail average of 97.1%.
We were delighted to be FY2014 results restated to adjust for the impact of rail contracts and the launch of our first German recognised with the National Rail Award bidcosts previously treated as exceptional items rail services on the Rhine-Mnster Express forPassenger Operator of the Year, RME network.
demonstrating our ambition and content on all our trains and enhancing the capabilitytobe at the forefront of free WiFi services already available, helping to Total revenue in 2015 increased by 11.1% standardsfor customer service.
keep our passengers connected, productive to168.4 million 2014: 151.6m supported and entertained during their journey.
by strong passenger growth of 5.3%.
We have also been awarded a five-star rating Normalised operating profit was 0.6 million by the European Foundation for Quality We have introduced first-to-last staffing at all 2014: loss of 10.1m, with the results in 2014 Management for a second successive our stations which not only enhances service restated to reflect the change in accounting assessment, recording our best ever score, levels for our customers, but also improves treatment for bid costs which had previously demonstrating once again our commitment revenue protection across our network with been treated as exceptional items.
The to achieving the highest operational associated margin benefits.
improvement in operating profitability is standards.
This remains an important alsoafter incurring a significant increase in credential for rail bidding.
Our strong destination-inspired marketing franchise premiums of 29 million under campaigns have helped to drive significant We continue to introduce industry-leading thenew c2c franchise agreement.
incremental growth with off-peak revenues up initiatives, including pioneering the 8%, almost double the average growth rate for The contribution from our German rail introduction of an automatic compensation London and the South East, and weekend business has been minimal given that our scheme for smartcard customers.
We have revenues up 15%, resulting in improving load first services began in mid-December: we seen a very strong uptake of c2c smartcards factors and driving higher profitability.
We also are pleased with the initial response to our since their introduction, with nearly a quarter introduced the largest timetable change in services.
Although we are only in the first few of all season-ticket holders now using ageneration to meet both the significant weeks of trading in a new market, we are them, we believe the highest level for passenger growth we have seen and the targeting a break-even result a full year ahead anytrain operator.
improved London connections required in our of our original plan.
Projected revenues for franchise agreement with the Department for We continue to expand our offering to the existing RME services are expected to be Transport.
We have responded to customer customers and will be the first operator around 72 million in 2016, with later years feedback and amended the timetable to outside the Transport for London boundary benefiting from the operation of the 1 billion address some concerns and are seeking to introduce new contactless payment Rhine-Ruhr Express services from 2018, tointroduce additional trains as quickly as systems next year.
Later this year we will andsubject to further legal challenge the possible to meet the current and projected beintroducing digital media screens and 1.4billion Nuremberg S-Bahn contract.
46 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION In December 2015 we saw a successful start announced as preferred bidder.
The to the operation of services for our first two successful conclusion of this appeal would German rail contracts in North Rhineadd a further 1.4 billion of future revenues Westphalia and we are pleased with the initial over a 12-year period.
With at least 20 response, where we are already seeing an contracts coming to market in the next three improved performance in terms of punctuality years in German rail, we see a strong pipeline relative to other operators.
of opportunities and we will continue to be selective in our bidding approach in order Cash and returns todrive the best returns.
We have already Rail offers a capital-light model with relatively successfully pre-qualified for a further lower margins but high returns on capital.
franchise in 2016 and are currently targeting In2015 our Rail division delivered 8.2 million contracts with revenue of around 3 billion.
In the current year, we c2c is consistently the best performing rail anticipate a higher level of growth capital franchise in the UK and this strength in expenditure than normal as we commence a operational performance is helping to drive programme of further service improvements, growth in new rail markets.
We submitted in line with our bid plan commitments for c2c.
abid to operate the East Anglia franchise Creating new opportunities inDecember 2015, with the award of the We will continue our digital marketing franchise due in the summer.
Should we be approach to increase passenger numbers successful in our bid, we expect to begin and revenue on off-peak services.
This will operating services in October 2016, with the be complemented with the enhanced contract lasting up to ten years.
Beyond this, personalised services we are rolling out this our current focus is on securing smaller, year, including the automatic compensation lower risk German rail franchises where the for delays, Personalised Performance risk is acceptable and meets our capital-light Reports and live journey information investment criteria.
We will, of course, also availablethrough the c2c Live app.
continue to monitor the UK market and consider competitions as they arise and We have had another successful year in willbid for new franchises where they Germany, securing a further 1 billion of meetour strict financial criteria.
In addition, future revenues with the award of two we will continue to monitor the regulatory contracts to operate services on the environment across Europe and may look Rhine-Ruhr Express, in the North Rhinetoenter other markets as they liberalise.
The first of the contracts will commence operations in December Read more about our German 2018, with the second one starting in railbusiness on pages 48 and 49 December 2020, with both contracts running through to 2033.
In addition, we await the outcome of a further appeal for the award of the Nuremberg S-Bahn where we have been In 2015 c2c maintained its position as top-ratedperformer of all UK rail franchises forpunctuality www.
com 47 Business review: Rail continued Building our presence in Europes largest rail market The latest addition to our rail business is inGermany.
National Express became thefirst British company to competitively enter the German rail market when it was awarded two contracts in February 2013 torun services in the North RhineWestphalia region.
With the largest rail market In Europe, the German rail market provides an attractive growth opportunity for National Express.
This market is attractive not only due to its size, but also due to the capital-light nature of some of the rail franchises.
In addition, the bid costs associated with the tendering of rail franchise competitions tend to be lower in Germany than in the UK rail market, with contracts also typically longer than in the UK and margins similar to those in the Our new trains offer more space UK, typically around 3-5%.
forpassengers than other German regionaloperators Services started on Sunday 12 December last year on two lines: the RE7 regional express service between Krefeld and Revenue protection is managed by adedicated team equipped with Rheine and the RB48 regional stopping thelatesttechnology 48 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION 2.6bn projected annual revenue resulting from contract wins in Germany 35 new trains procured One of our new Talent 2 trains in Cologne central railway station service between Bonn and Wuppertal.
This has helped build New team Both lines share the same route between theNational Express profile as the In Britain, when a company takes over Cologne and Wuppertal.
The two services newoperator in the region.
arailfranchise it transfers the existing form part of the Rhine-Mnster Express staffover under TUPE arrangements.
Future growth RME and we expect to carry around InGermany it is different, and as a result Alongside the start of RME operations, 18million passengers per annum.
wehave successfully recruited a whole 2015 has seen further significant newteam to operate our services.
New trains successes, winning two rail contracts To operate the new services, we procured New drivers were trained for nine months tooperate services on the Rhine-Ruhr 35 new Bombardier Talent 2 trains on tobecome fully qualified, and these were Express.
We have also been named as behalf of the regional transport authorities joined by a team of revenue inspectors preferred bidder to operate services on that are responsible for the routes.
They andhead office support staff in Cologne.
In a relatively comprise sets of three and five carriages We now have a team of just over 100 shortperiod of time, we have built a which can be linked to provide extra working for us.
business worth 2.6 billion ofrevenues, capacity during peak hours.
securing our position in the German rail New way of working market through to 2033. and wehave a The trains have been fitted to a different Although the routes are not new services, further 3 billion in our active pipeline of specification to those run by other German the marketing team in Germany has sought future bids.
operators, with more leg room and to differentiate what we do from the electricity sockets under every pair of seats.
Adverts have promoted They are also fully accessible for disabled a very British experience, highlighting the passengers, and each train can carry up new on-board features which passengers toten bikes securely.
Our 2015 Strategic Report, from page 1topage 49, has been reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors on25February 2016.
Dean Finch Group Chief Executive 25 February 2016 www.
