Market overview Understanding trends and opportunities Here we give an overview on how the megatrends are shaping demand for travel and public transport and the opportunities ahead.
In addition population growth in the UK and Economic environment North America will drive further demand for public transport services.
The propensity to travel is generally affected by levels of economic activity, as represented by GDP growth.
Although levels of Opportunity: UK population growth is forecast to grow by 7% transportation and mobility remain relatively stable through the overthe next decade driving the need for further public transport economic cycle, periods of GDP growth generate additional services, whilst the combination of an ageing and increasingly volume demand and pricing benefit.
social and ethnically diverse population will drive the need for newproducts and services to meet changing customer needs.
Opportunity: The UK and North America are showing relatively stable growth whilst the Spanish economy appears to be strengthening, with demand for public transport likely to improveasthe economy grows and employment levels rise.
Global urban population growth is propelled by the growth of cities of all sizes Urban areas smaller than 500,000 Large cities of 5 to 10 million Average GDP growth Cities of 500,000 to 1 million Megacities of 10 million or more Ave 2010-2015 Ave 2016-2017 Medium-sized cities of 1 to 5 million 5,000 5.0 4,000 4.0 3,000 3.0 2,000 1,000 2.0 0 1.0 1990 2014 2030 Modal shift 0.0 Modal shift is the move by individuals from one form of transport to another.
For National Express, the relevant move is from the private -1.0 car to bus, coach and rail travel.
The biggest reason for this is an UK Spain US Germany Morocco Bahrain increase in the cost of motoring, such as insurance pricing, and the increasing use of mobile devices, such as tablets and smartphones, while travelling, although other factors such as environmental Deregulation, liberalisation and outsourcing concerns and congestion can also be important.
Geopolitical and Our markets are created when state provision of public transport is demographic changes in the Middle East are increasing demand transferred to the private sector.
There are different models for this, foraffordable, safe public transport.
Technology and innovation are with examples ranging from the deregulated markets of our UK Bus playing their part, with travel apps providing real-time information as and UK Coach divisions, through the concessions and franchises well as customised targeted offers helping to generate incremental of Spain, Morocco and Rail, to the school bus and transit contracts demand for journeys on public transport.
Digital platforms are of North America.
increasingly providing customers with end to end journey planning This is supported by a trend towards market liberalisation, such and ticketing tools delivering greater convenience for passengers.
asEuropean Union directives focused on opening up rail networks.
Opportunity: The proliferation of real-time travel information and Cost saving is increasingly a factor too, through recognition of the mobile devices improves the customer experience making public superior efficiency of privately operated services.
transport increasingly more attractive compared with the car, whilst Opportunity: The current size of the European public transport the introduction of smartcards and contactless cards not only market is estimated to be approximately 150 billion.
Liberalisation provides greater convenience for customers but help to build of the German and Spanish rail markets present opportunities for stronger customer relationships.
Environment and congestion Urbanisation and demographic changes Environmental concerns continue to have an influence on customer Our services benefit from increasing urbanisation around the world, behaviour.
Bus, coach and rail services are significantly more inparticular driving demand for bus operations.
Existing towns and environmentally friendly forms of transport than the private car or air cities are expanding, in addition to the creation of new centres of travel, reducing both the level of carbon emissions per person travelling population.
Globally, in 2014, 54% of the worlds population lived in and travel congestion.
Society as a whole and individuals are becoming urban centres and it is projected to grow to 66% by 2050, whilst increasingly concerned about the effect of emissions on the environment 73%of the population in Europe and 82% of the population In North and are explicitly choosing public transport as an alternative.
America already live in urban centres.
These trends are driving the Opportunity: Improved access to city centre locations, such requirement for additional transportation services, both within and aspriority bus lanes, for environmentally friendly transport.
between locations, so our Bus, Coach and Rail operations are 6 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Population millions STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Here we put each of our markets into context and highlight the main drivers across all our divisions.
Read more p38 Read more p44 Spain and Morocco UK Coach ALSA holds the market-leading position in the regulated and highly National Express has the only nationwide network of services with segmented bus and intercity coach market in Spain and also other competitors tending to focus on specific regions or corridors.
operates in four cities in Morocco.
Three levels of government Selective competition comes from rail, particularly on discounted regulation apply in Spain: national long-distance coach, regional fares, and from large bus operators and localised services.
Drivers regional coach and city urban bus.
Each concession is exclusive for demand include the level of fare discount to rail, cost of private to the operator, based on compliance with the public service motoring and environmental friendliness.
Intercity competition comes from state-backed rail and also an important driver for longer-term loyalty through consistent low cost airlines.
Bus and coach concessions are awarded through service and high customer safety standards.
competitive public tender, typically every ten years.
Market size Destinations Market size Concessions 300m 900 3.8bn 175 of contested revenues in the UK scheduled coach 175 concessions: 123 intercity coach concessions, 36 urban scheduled coach market marketleader buscontracts, 16 others Revenue growth through competitive pricing, better distribution Concessional renewal and new urban contract wins in Spain channels and greater understanding of customers and their needs andMorocco Longer term implementation of improved retailing systems Revenue management generating passenger and revenue growth in Spain Continuing urbanisation of the Moroccan economy with rapid Read more p46 Rail migration to the major cities The UK rail market is a regulated market and is broadly Read more p40 North America dispersed between UK private train operators and overseas state market participants.
In the past ten years, growth has been driven by passenger volumes with the levels of economic activity National Express is the second largest player in the North American and employment also drivers.
A new framework for future UK school market with a 13% share of the outsourced school bus franchises is seeing franchise durations settle between seven market.
33% of the market is outsourced with recent increases in and 15 years with the introduction of a quality element alongside outsource conversion being driven by pressure on public funding.
Meanwhile the German rail market is liberalising and This trend is likely to continue as school district budgets remain offering growth opportunities.
Typically customers are local school boards where local relationships are key and service delivery is very important.
National Market size Express also operates in the North American public transit market, 8.5bn 9bn 29% of which is outsourced and where there is an increasing demand for accessible public transportation services, for fixed route, of UK franchise revenues per currently accessible German paratransit and employee shuttle services.
annum, with over 6 billion regional and urban market offranchise revenues up for Market size Operates renewal over the next five years based on proposed Department $24bn 21,800 for Transport pipeline school buses c2c rail franchise through to 2029 Bolt-on acquisition opportunities in school bus Submitted bid to operate the East Anglia rail franchise with New business growth from winning contracts in school bidding adecision due in summer 2016 season and through new Transit contracts Our first two German rail franchises commenced operations inDecember 2015 for 15 years with two more commencing inDecember 2019 and December 2020 for 14 years and Read more p42 UK Bus 13yearsrespectively Growth through further bid wins in Germany and the UK The largest five operators represent around 70% of the UK Liberalisation of Spanish rail market a future opportunity deregulated bus market, with the remainder of the market made up of a large number of private operators.
Active competition comes from national and local bus operators, as well as private car and rail.
In the short term the market has been impacted by economic pressures from austerity and local unemployment, but longer term, economic regeneration and environmentally driven public transport present growth opportunities over the car.
Market size Operates 4.8bn 1,677 UK excluding London buses, focused in the West Midlands and Dundee markets Increase passenger volumes through investment in vehicles, technology and people and through delivering high quality services Low barriers to entry flexibility and scale of operations is key Devolved local transport budgets and services to regional combined authorities may present opportunities to enter new regional markets www.
