Our business model and strategy Delivering long-term shareholder value with the right business model and strategy At National Express we believe our business model should start with our customers.
By serving our customers with operational excellence, we are able to create profit and cash, thereby generating shareholder value.
The cash we generate is used to fund investment in the business, which drives further growth enabling us to better serve our customers.
Allied to this, our core values of excellence, safety, customers, people and community inform us as to how we should operate.
1 Community We serve our customers Government 4 2 4 People Driving With operational Funding growth excellence investment Safety 3 To create profit and cash Generating shareholder value 14 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION 1 We serve our customers The customer is at the heart of what we do at National Express, Transporting 867 million passengers a year whether they be fare-paying passengers, government and local By understanding and meeting the needs of our customers in authorities, or the wider community: and our mission is to ourlocal markets, we strive to deliver high levels of customer relentlessly meet their expectations.
Our Vision is to earn the lifetime satisfaction and encourage more passengers to use our services.
loyalty of our customers by consistently delivering frequent, high performing public transport services which offer excellent value.
To create profit and cash, 2 With operational excellence 3 generating shareholder value Not only do our customers require high performing transport Profit and cash services, but they also need high levels of safety.
At National Ultimately delivering operational excellence through excellent Express, safety is our highest priority in whatever we do across customer service drives revenue and profit growth across the thebusiness and is a key tenet of our core values.
High safety Group and generates cash which can then be re-invested back standards also help to drive sustainable growth for the Group intoeach of our businesses to drive further improvements for our through building customer loyalty and winning new business in customers and also fund new business opportunities, driving ourexisting markets and opening up new markets such as the higher returns for our shareholders.
German rail market and the urban bus market In Bahrain.
The Shareholder value quality of our people, our employees, is integral to the provision Through our robust and sustainable business model we aim to ofhigh safety standards with continual training and focus on deliver shareholder value through higher returns with growth in safetystandards atthe core of our operations.
dividends supported by growth in earnings and strong cash flows.
4 Funding investment 4 Driving growth Our strong cash flow generation enables us to fund continual We also use our strong cash generation to invest in new business investment across the business with the provision of new fleet, opportunities which drives further growth in our core markets as technologies and services, driving improvements for our well as developing our position in new markets, such as Germany customers and encouraging further growth in passenger demand.
Our strategy Our Vision Our three strategic priorities Our Vision is to earn the lifetime loyalty of our customers Our focus on operational excellence allows us to deliver longbyconsistently delivering frequent, high performing public termsustainable growth, through the generation of strong transportservices which offer excellent value.
andsustainable cash flows and returns, enabling us to create newbusiness opportunities in both our core divisions and in Our Values newmarkets.
Our five values continue to underpin the Vision and help ustoprioritise what we focus on.
Delivering operational excellence by driving revenue growth and margin progression Community People Generating superior cash and returns A strong cash flow and improving return oncapital Safety Excellence will drive better returns for our shareholders Customers Creating new opportunities through our unique portfolio of international bus, Read more p18 coachandrail businesses Read more p16 www.
