Business review: UK Bus Partnership approach secures groundbreaking Bus Alliance Peter Coates Managing Director, UK Bus Overview of 2015 UK Bus Year ended 2015 2014 31 December m m m Overview of 2015 Revenue 286.4 281.0 UK Bus had a good year, leading the 2014 normalised operating profit 34.0 industry with the signing of a five year Operating profit 37.5 34.0 Net impact from revenue growth 3.0 BusAlliance in the West Midlands and Operating margin 13.1% 12.1% thispioneering approach to partnership is Fuel cost 0.9 driving strong financial results.
Commercial Other cost inflation 4.4 Services.
During 2015 we also achieved revenue growth of 3% has been partially ourhighest ever Transport Focus customer offset by a reduction in concessionary Cost efficiencies 4.0 satisfaction score of 87%, 1 percentage revenues, but has delivered total revenue 2015 normalised operating profit 37.5 point higher than 2014, and 9 percentage growth for our UK Bus division of 1.9%.
Thereduction in concessionary revenues reflects local government austerity In 2015, we reinforced our leadership Operational excellence pressures on Centro leading to a new credentials on smart ticketing with the Nationally there has been a reduction in agreement which has reduced further roll out of the Swift smartcards to all regional commercial passenger numbers reimbursement rates.
We anticipate of our buses and trams, in partnership with as the effects of congestion, reduced petrol afurther reduction in income from Centro.
Swift now provides the industryprices and some changes in shopping concessions in 2016. leading capability of multi-operator, habits appear to have suppressed demand.
multi-modal season tickets, alongside Pay In the West Midlands our commercial Growth As You Go and carnets.
This is the first such % passenger numbers are broadly flat, and card in an ITA and is again a demonstration we believe that the actions we are taking Like-for-like commercial of the strength of our partnership working inpartnership with Centro and the local revenue 3 with Centro.
We continue to see strong authorities in the West Midlands including growth in the use of Swift across our Mileage 0 combining the introduction of premium network, with growth of 172% in the year, services with local authority investment in Underlying commercial revenue 3 and a smartcard transaction every four bus prioritisation are the right ones to Concession and other revenue 1 seconds on our buses.
Total revenue 2 Extending our approach to partnership, We believe our partnership approach is welaunched Transforming Tram Travel akey driver of our success, alongside in2015, with Centro.
This partnership investment in quality service standards Normalised operating profit was strong, contains 50 commitments to improve the andindustry-leading safety.
Building on with growth of 10.3% to 37.5 million 2014: Midland Metro and was recognised at the ouraward winning Transforming Bus 34.0m, reflecting both revenue growth Light Rail Awards for Vision of the Year.
Travel3 partnership with Centro where and cost efficiencies.
The operating margin Towards the end of 2015, Her Majesty The we successfully launched all 83 of our has increased by 100 basis points to 13.1% Queen opened the first of the city centre pioneering commitments we have 2014: 12.1%.
extensions, with services due to extend recently signed an industry-leading Bus toBirmingham New Street soon.
Alliance with West Midlands Integrated Transport Authority ITA for five years.
In Dundee we relaunched our services withnew branding designed by the local We are delighted that our continued focus community.
Our Xplore Dundee services on delivering operational excellence and are leading the way with smartcards superior service standards has been forexample, we are the first operator in recognised with a number of further Scotland to allow users to load travel industry awards, including the National passes onto the widely held National Transport Award for Improvements to Bus 42 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Entitlement Cards.
In line with our approach processes to proactively target vehicles for Creating new opportunities to partnership we hope to shortly launch a repair.
Again, drawing on experience from As mentioned above, building on our West similar Transforming Bus Travel agreement across the Group where its use has Midlands partnership, we have unlocked in Dundee.
alreadydelivered cost savings and local authority funding to complement our safetyimprovements, UK Bus is piloting record investment in new buses during We also continued our strong track record DriveCam and investigating the use of 2015.
On key routes in Birmingham and of improving safety, both for customers and collision avoidance technology to achieve Solihull, the local authorities are investing in employees, resulting in a lower number of similar benefits.
bus priority measures that will significantly injuries and assaults and reduced cost of improve journey times.
A key focus is occupational health, In 2015, our tram service was extended into already strong and when completed this and our Health Bus was recognised by the centre of Birmingham, with the first phase additional priority will increase demand several industry and HR awards.
of the Midland Metro extension opening in further.
We will also deploy further Platinum December and the next phase due to open UK Bus has been awarded a high four-star routes on these corridors.
The new, longer trams have rating by the European Foundation for added nearly 50% additional capacity.
Investment will continue to be targeted Quality Management in its first ever EFQM where it makes the most significant assessment, demonstrating a commitment We have also invested in new services and difference to the business.
As well as more to achieving excellent operational standards.
additional routes responding to changing state-of-the-art Platinum buses, the digital UK Bus is working towards achieving a patterns in demand.
This includes new marketing lessons learned in c2c and UK five-star rating in its next assessment.
express services to Warwick University Coach are being applied to UK Bus.
We androutes into Staffordshire, as well as Finally UK Bus was the first privately arerefocusing advertising spend to digital contracts to serve new business parks and channels and developing an enhanced ownedpublic transport company to distribution centres for companies such as CRM approach to improve targeted introduce the Living Wage Foundation Amazon.
We are currently working on a bid marketing and personalised communication Living Wage for all staff.
for Manchester Metrolink, with submission with customers.
This will be combined with in May, and the seven-year contract, plus a Cash and returns further innovation in pricing to target possible three-year extension, is due to The UK Bus business generates an specific groups, for example off-peak commence in July 2017. excellent return on capital, delivering good travellers and families.
Further progress asset utilisation and profitable returns on onticketing is also targeted with the Despite the regional market challenges investment.
As we highlighted last year, introduction of contactless payment and experienced nationwide, UK Bus provides capital investment has risen significantly in mobile tickets towards the end of this year.
agood opportunity for further growth as 2015, reflecting a record level of investment welook to benefit from the stability of a There are further opportunities for cost in new buses.
This resulted in a lower level five-year Bus Alliance, combined with efficiency, with the continued roll out of of operating cash of 17 million.
Our new investment in new vehicles and technology fuel efficiency measures alongside the Platinum buses in particular are already and a continued focus on cost efficiency.
continued investment in more fuel efficient driving strong growth in passenger volumes.
buses and driver scheduling optimisation We continue to maintain our disciplined software.
Sophisticated data analysis is approach to investment, targeting areas also being applied to our engineering which will deliver the greatest returns.
During 2015 we achieved our highest ever Transport Focus customer satisfaction scoreof87% www.
