Spain conducts employee satisfaction surveys bi-annually and so is excluded.
KPI definition KPI definition Group normalised operating profit.
Free cash flow is the cash flow equivalent Return on capital employed ROCE Safety incidents for which the Group Passenger numbers as measured by the Our employee satisfaction survey is ofnormalised profit after tax.
isnormalised operating profit, divided isresponsible is based on the Fatalities aggregate of passenger journeys across conducted by VaLUENTiS, a company which bytangible and intangible assets.
andWeighted Injuries index used inthe ourfiveoperating divisions.
is widely used as an employee survey provider UKrail industry.
in the UK transport industry.
The survey Our numbers for North America are delivers an employee engagement score for estimated as our School Bus services each individual division, with our score for arenon-ticketed.
North America being partially estimated from data provided by TNS, which conducts the employee surveys in North America.
2015 performance 2015 performance Further progress in Group operating profit, Generated 111 million of free cash, Strong performances in our UK Coach Further reduction in FWI over the past Further growth in passenger numbers driven Our corporate functions have registered driven by strong performances inour 11million ahead of target andALSA operations driving higher 12months reflecting ongoing success by continued investment in fleet, improvement thehighest official engagement score in UKBus and Coach operations returnsfor the Group ofDriving Out Harm safety programme in services and attractive fares theVaLUENTiS database at 806 versus Operating cash flow conversion rate withbig improvements in UK Bus theindustry norm of 671 Growth in operating profit in every division of85%, after significant increase in Invested 112 million of net maintenance Strong performance in c2c with passenger andMorocco maintenance capital expenditure capital, predominantly in growing our growth up over 5% Our UK Coach division has the highest Operating profit margin increased by fleetinour existing operations 56% improvement in the safety score for all UK bus coach operators 110basis points to 10.1% Targeting free cash flow of 100 million per First full year of operations in Tangiers, performancesince introduction annum after returning to more typical levels Invested 36 million in growth capital andservices commenced in a fourth c2c has the second highest score for all ofDrivingOut Harm in 2011. of maintenance capital expenditure expenditure to support growth in Morocco, cityinMorocco trainoperating companies in the UK Rail and revenue management systems 6.4 million passengers in our first year inourUK and Spanish Coach operations inBahrain Why we measure Why we measure We are focused on driving growth in A key part of the Groups strategy is to We are focused on improving return on the Safety is at the heart of our Vision and Passenger journeys are reflective of We run employee surveys to measure the operating profit in order to drive higher maximise the cash generation across all our capital we invest, in order to drive better Valuesand is our priority for both our underlying demand for travel.
National engagement of our people.
Every year we andsustainable returns for our investors.
We view cash generation returns for investors.
Express is targeting increased passenger use the results to influence how we make as a key driver for creating shareholder value.
ridership asalonger-term driver of National Express a great place to work.
We maintain a disciplined approach to High safety standards also help to drive sustainable value.
Our core bus and coach operations are capitalinvestment, and continue to invest sustainable growth through customer strong cash generators, complemented by inthose areas for which we can deliver loyaltyand new business wins.
our capital-light model for rail.
Historical results restated to adjust for the impact of Rail and Middle East bid costs previously treated as exceptional costs 2014 FWI data adjusted to reflect a lower number of responsible accidents than previously recorded www.
