Corporate Governance Other statutory information This section contains additional Forward looking statements are made andJackie Hunt both retired from the information which the Directors are ingood faith, based on a number of Board having not sought re-election at the required by law and regulation to assumptions concerning future events Companys AGM.
On the same day, the include within the Annual Report.
andinformation available to Directors at Board appointed Matthew Crummack a This section, along with the thetime of their approval of this report.
Non-Executive Director of the Company.
information from the Chairmans These forward looking statements should On 3 July 2015 Mike McKeon was letter on page 4 to the Statement be treated with caution due to the inherent appointed a Non-Executive Director of of Directors Responsibilities on uncertainties underlying any such forward the Board and, subsequent to the financial page 100, constitutes the Directors looking information.
The user of this year end, DrAshley Steel was appointed Reportin accordance with the AnnualReport and Accounts should an  Director Companies Act 2006. notrely unduly on these forward looking witheffect from 1 January 2016. statements, which are not a guarantee of The information to be included in the Powers of the Directors performance and which are subject to a Annual Report and Accounts, where Subject to its Articles of Association and number of uncertainties and other facts, applicable under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R, is relevant statutory law and to any direction many of which are outside the Companys setout in this section or otherwise on that may be given by the Company in control and could cause actual events to thefollowing pages: general meeting by special resolution, differ materially from those in these thebusiness of the Company shall be Page statements.
No guarantee can be given of managed by the Directors, who may future results, levels of activity, performance Long-term incentive schemes 126 exercise all powers of the Company or achievements.
Waiver of dividends 155 whichare not required to be exercised Branches outside the UK bythe Company in general meeting.
The Group has branches in Spain.
Strategic Report Appointment and replacement The Company is required by the Results and dividends of Directors Companies Act 2006 to include a strategic The profit on ordinary activities before The rules for the appointment and report in this document.
The information tax from continuing operations for the replacement of Directors of the Company that fulfils the requirements of the strategic year ended 31 December 2015 was are set out in the Articles of Association, report can be found on pages 1 to 49, 124.4 million 2014: 66.5m and a theUK Corporate Governance Code which are incorporated in this report by profit attributable to equity shareholders the Code, the Companies Act 2006 and reference.
Inaccordance with the transferred to reserves.
Code, all the Directors will retire at the 2016 Company status AGM and offer themselves for election or The Company company number: 2590560 The Directors recommend a final dividend re-election.
The Board is satisfied that each was incorporated under theCompanies for the year of 7.645p per ordinary share of those Directors standing for election Act1985 as a limited company on 11 March 2014: 6.95p which, together with or re-election is qualified by virtue of their 1991 and re-registered as a public company theinterim dividend of 3.685p per ordinary skills, experience and contribution to on20 October 1992 as National Express share 2014: 3.35p, paid on 25September the Board.
The Company holds apremium 2015, gives a total dividend for the year of listing on the London Stock Exchanges main 11.33p per share 2014: 10.3p.
Subject Directors conflicts of interest market for listed securities LON: NEX and is a to shareholder approval, the final dividend The Board has a procedure in place to constituent member of theFTSE 250 Index.
will be paid on 20 May 2016 to ordinary dealwith a situation where a Director shareholders on the register ofmembers hasaconflict of interest, as required by Disclaimer at the close of business on 29April 2016. theCompanies Act 2006.
As part of this This Annual Report and Accounts is process, the members of the Board intendedto focus on matters which are Directors prepare a list of other positions held and relevant to the interests of shareholders The Directors of the Company as at the allother conflict situations that may need oftheCompany.
The purpose of this date of the approval of this Annual Report authorising either in relation to the Director AnnualReport and Accounts is to assist are listed on pages 54 and 55, together concerned or his or her connected shareholders in assessing the strategies with their biographical details and persons.
The Board considers each adopted and performance delivered by identification of the Board Committees Directors situation and decides whether to theCompany and the potential for those onwhich theyserve.
approve any conflict situations, taking into strategies to succeed.
It should not be On 28 January 2015 Matthew Ashley was consideration what is in the best interests reliedon by any other party or for any appointed as an Executive Director and ofthe Company and whether the Directors otherpurpose.
Group Finance Director, having fulfilled therole of interim Group Finance Director from 10 October 2014 following the announcement that Jez Maiden would be stepping down as an Executive Director with effect from 31 December 2014.
On 6May 2015, Sir Andrew Foster 96 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Information regarding the Companys ability to act in accordance with his or her Employment policies safeguarding of human rights forms wider duties is affected.
Each Director is The Group strives to meet its business part ofthe People section on page 21 required to notify the Company Secretary objectives by motivating and encouraging and on the Companys website, ofany potential or actual conflict situations its employees to be responsive to the www.
that will need authorising by the Board.
needs of its customers and continually Authorisations given by the Board are improve operational performance.
The Environmental policy reviewed annually.
Group is committed to providing equality Information on the Groups environmental ofopportunity to employees and potential Directors and Officers initiatives, including the mandatory employees.
This applies to recruitment, reporting disclosure on greenhouse liabilityinsurance training, career development and promotion gasemissions, can be found in the The Company recognises the potential for all employees, regardless of physical Strategic Report on pages 22 to 25 personal liabilities that the Directors are ability, gender, sexual orientation, religion, andontheCompanys website, subject to by agreeing to act as a Board age or ethnic origin.
All businesses in the www.
member and believes that it is both fair and Group report diversity data.
reasonable to protect them from innocent Political contributions Full and fair consideration is given to error or omission.
The Company therefore It is the Groups policy not to make political applications for employment received from maintains Directors and Officers liability donations and accordingly none were disabled persons, according to their skills insurance in respect of legal action that made in the year.
However, the Company and capabilities.
The services of any mightbe brought against its Directors which did attend party political conferences existing employee disabled during their operates in certain circumstances.
This does during the year for which total expenditure period of employment are retained not extend to cover the Directors where it is was 13,000 2014: 10,500. wherever possible.
proved they acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Pursuant to the Companys Articles of Financial instruments Employee involvement Association the Company has indemnified its Details of the use by the Company and its The Group encourages employee Directors and Officers in accordance with the subsidiaries of financial instruments and involvement in its affairs.
Subsidiary provisions of Section 233 of the Companies anyrelated risk management objectives companies produce a range of internal Act 2006.
A copy ofthe Articles of andpolicies including hedging policy and newsletters and circulars which keep Association is available forinspection exposure including price, credit, liquidity or employees abreast of developments.
cash flow risk of the Company in connection Senior management within the Group meet with such financial instruments can be found regularly to review strategic developments Directors interests in contracts in the notes to the Consolidated Accounts on and management conferences are held at Except as stated in note 35 to the pages 111 to 171 and are incorporated by Group and business levels to bring our consolidated accounts on page 165, no reference into this report.
senior managers together to share ideas contract existed during the year in relation and develop policy.
Members of the Senior to the Companys business in which any Management Group are also visible within Director was materially interested.
the businesses and undertake a range of Directors interests in shares visits where they meet face to face with The Board of Directors interests in shares employees to gather feedback on safety in the Company are detailed on pages 90 and other issues.
Dialogue takes place and 91. regularly with trade unions and other employee representatives on a wide Directors share options rangeof issues.
Details of Directors share options are provided in the Directors Remuneration Employee views are also sought Report on page 95. throughregular employee satisfaction questionnaires, both within business units Directors indemnities and across the Group.
Following such The Company has entered into deeds of surveys, results are shared with employees indemnity with each of its Directors, which and action plans are put in place to deal are qualifying indemnity provisions for the with issues arising.
The Group encourages purpose of the Companies Act 2006 and innovation from all levels of employees and remain in force at the date of this report.
has a structured programme to encourage suggestions and to recognise employees Accountability and audit through awards.
The Group also has a well Statements of the respective responsibilities developed succession planning process in of the Directors and auditors are set out on place and succession plans are reviewed pages 100 to 105. by the Board annually.
As a key part of this Corporate governance process, the Company focuses on A full report on corporate governance can emerging talent to ensure the Group be found in the Governance section of this hasthe right people being developed to document and the Companys governance meet our future business needs.
Talent statement is on page 56.
Both are management remains an important incorporated by reference into this report.
Post balance sheet events There were no post balance sheet events.
com 97 Corporate Governance Other statutory information continued Major shareholdings As at 23 February 2016, the Company had been notified under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5 of the following interestsinits shares which represent 3% or more of the voting rights in the Company.
These shareholder levels are unchanged from31December2015.
Percentage of Nature of 1 Ordinary shares share capital holding European Express Enterprises Ltd 78,795,062 15.4 Direct Prudential PLC 50,987,079 9.9 Direct Jupiter Asset Management Ltd 26,288,829 5.1 Indirect Schroders plc 26,547,716 5.2 Direct Newton Investment Management Ltd 26,433,003 5.2 Direct 1 The holdings for European Express Enterprises Ltd are included in Jorge Cosmens holdings which are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 90.
The Board may also decide that Companysshares to resolutions to be passed at a general no dividend is payable in respect of those Under the Companys Articles of meeting.
Details of the authorised and default shares and that no transfer of any Association, any share in the Company issued share capital of the Company and default shares shall be registered.
These maybe issued with such rights or details of shares issued during the year restrictions end seven days after receipt by restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, canbe found in note31 to the consolidated the Company of a notice of an approved voting, return of capital or otherwise, as the accounts on page 155. transfer of the shares or all the information Company may from time to time by ordinary required by the relevant Section 793 notice, resolution determine or, in the absence of No shareholder is, unless the Board whichever is earlier.
any such determination, as the Directors decides otherwise, entitled to attend or vote may determine.
either personally or by proxy at a general The Directors may refuse to register any meeting or to exercise any other right transfer of any share which is not a fully The Company has one class of ordinary conferred by being a shareholder if he or paid share, although such discretion may shares with a nominal value of 5p.
At the she or any person with an interest in his or not be exercised in a way which the date of this Annual Report, the issued share her shares has been sent a notice under Financial Conduct Authority regards as capital consisted of 511,738,648 Ordinary Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 preventing dealings in shares of that class shares of 5p each.
which confers upon public companies the from taking place on an open or proper At a general meeting of the Company every power to require information with respect basis.
The Directors may likewise refuse member has one vote on a show of hands tointerests in their voting shares and he any transfer of a share in favour of more and on a poll one vote for each share held.
orshe or any interested person failed to than four persons jointly.
98 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION The Company is not aware of any other makemarket purchases of its own shares The Groups UK Bus business operates the restrictions on the transfer of ordinary andtoauthorise the calling of general Midland Metro tram service and the UK Bus shares in the Company other than: meetings other than Annual General operating subsidiary is party to a contract Meetings on 14clear days notice.
with Centro governing certain aspects of certain restrictions that may from time to such operation.
The contract with Centro time be imposed by laws and regulations Full details will be provided in the contains an event of default on a change for example, insider trading laws : and NoticeofAGM.
If you would like to incontrol of the UK operating subsidiary pursuant to the Listing Rules of the registeranyquestion you may have in which would be triggered on a change in Financial Conduct Authority whereby advanceofthe AGM you can do so at control of the Company if such change in certain employees of the Company agm@nationalexpress.
com or you can control is not approved by Centro.
require approval of the Company to writeto the Company Secretary at National dealin the Companys shares.
Express Group PLC, National Express The Groups UK Coach business performs House, Birmingham Coach Station, Mill anumber of coach and bus services from The Company is not aware of any Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham B5 6DD.
or at certain UK airports and the UK Coach agreements between shareholders that operating subsidiary is also contracted to may result in restrictions on the transfer Material contracts and change provide passenger transport services for certain ofsecurities or voting rights.
of control agreements other third parties.
A number of these contracts There are a number of agreements that contain rights for the counterparties to terminate Resolutions will be proposed at the 2016 take effect, alter or terminate upon a them on a change of control of the relevant AGM to authorise the Directors to exercise change of control of the Company following subsidiary company party to such contracts allpowers to allot shares, or grant rights for, a takeover bid.
Save as disclosed below, certain of which would be triggered by a ortoconvert any security into, shares, and none of these are considered significant.
change in control of the Company.
approve a limited disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights.
Details will be set out in Under the terms of the Companys revolving While no one of these contracts isconsidered the Notice of AGM which will be posted on credit facility, upon a change of control, the significant in the context of the Groups 8April 2016.
Company would have five days to enter into business as a whole, the impact on the Group negotiations with the lenders ifall such contracts were terminated could The Company was granted authority at the to alter the terms.
Following ten days of besignificant.
AGM in 2015 to purchase its own shares up negotiations, if no agreement has been to an aggregate value of 10% of the issued reached, outstanding balances may Directors and employees nominal capital.
The authority was not used become repayable.
service contracts during the year.
The authority is renewed There are no agreements between the annually and approval will be sought at Under the terms of the 1,000,000,000 Euro Company and its Directors or employees theAGM in 2016 for its renewal.
Further Medium-Term Note Programme under which providing for compensation for loss of details will be set out in the Notice of AGM.
the Company issued Medium Term Notes officeor employment whether through MTNs to various institutions on 13 January resignation, purported redundancy or Share schemes 2010 as updated on 2 October 2015, there otherwise that occurs because of a First Names Jersey Limited is Trustee of is a change of control put option such that, takeover bid.
theNational Express Group Employee Benefit upon a change of control event, any holder Trust.
As at 19 February 2016 is held ofany MTN may require the Company to Risks 2,495,467 shares 0.49% of the issued share redeem or purchase that MTN.
A summary of the Companys risk capital of the Company for employee share management framework and an overview schemes.
Further details of the Companys The Company entered into a private of its principal risks are detailed on pages employee share schemes can be found in placement Note Purchase Agreement on 28 to 31 and are incorporated by reference note 7 to the consolidated accounts on 30July 2012 relating to the issue by the into this report.
pages 125 and 126 and are incorporated Company of 78,500,000 4.55% Senior by reference into this report.
The Trustee Notes due 16 August 2021.
Under the terms Auditors may vote the shares held by the Trust at of the Agreement the Company is required Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as its discretion.
to offer to Note holders to repay to them the auditor of the Company and to authorise the entire unpaid principal amount and interest Directors to determine its remuneration will The current Investment Association IA thereon upon a change of control.
guidance on dilution limits provides that the overall dilution under all share plans The National Express Group PLC Long-Term Disclosure of information to auditors operated by a company should not exceed Incentive Plan 2015 the Plan contains The Directors confirm that, so far as they are 10% over a ten-year period in relation to the provisions as a result of which options and aware, there is no relevant audit information Companys share capital, with a further awards may vest and become exercisable of which the Companys auditor is unaware limitation of 5% in any ten-year period on ona change of control of the Company in and that each Director has taken all the steps executive plans.
National Express share accordance with the rules of the Plan.
that they ought to have taken as a Director in plans operate within IA recommended order to make themselves aware of any The Companys UK rail subsidiary, NXET guidelines on dilution limits.
relevant audit information and to establish Trains Limited, which operates the Essex that the Companys auditor is aware of that Articles of Association Thameside franchise, is party to a franchise information.
This confirmation is given and Any amendments to the Companys agreement with the Department for Transport should be interpreted in accordance with Articles of Association may be made DfT.
The franchise agreement contains an theprovisions of Section 418 of the inaccordance with the provisions of event of default on a change in control of the Companies Act 2006. theCompanies Act 2006. franchisee which would be triggered on a change in control of the Company if such By order of the Board Annual General Meeting change in control is not approved by DfT, as The AGM will be held at 2.00pm on well as the right for DfT to charge a facilitation 11May2016 in Hall 9 at the International fee on such change in control.
Similarly, the Convention Centre, Broad Street, licences issued by the Office of Rail and Road Birmingham B1 2EA.
At the Meeting, ORR to NXET Trains Limited inconnection special resolutions will be proposed to with the franchise all contain change of control Sandra Forbes authorise the Directors to issue shares provisions which could result in the licences Company Secretary without applying statutory pre-emption being revoked if the change in control is not rights, to authorise the Company to 25 February 2016 approved by ORR.
