ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD INDEPENDENT NONEXECUTIVE DIRECTORS John Barton Jonathan Dawson, Aged 70.
Became a member of the Board in 2002 and was Senior Independent Non-executive Director appointed Deputy Chairman in 2004 and Chairman in 2006.
Became a member of the Board in 2004.
He is also He is also Chairman of Catlin Group Limited and easyJet plc a non-executive director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group and a non-executive director of SSP.
John previously served plc and National Grid plc and Chairman of Penfida Limited.
as Chief Executive of JIB Group plc, Chairman of Cable and Previous experience includes non-executive directorships of Wireless Worldwide plc, Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc, National Australia Group Europe Ltd, Standard Life Investments Wellington Underwriting plc and Brit Insurance Holdings Holdings Limited and Galliford Try plc, eight years in the plc and as a non-executive director of WH Smith plc and Ministry of Defence and over twenty years in investment Hammerson plc.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Steve Barber Aged 63.
Became a member of the Board in 2007.
Previous Lord Wolfson of Aspley Guise, Chief Executive experience includes almost thirty years in the accountancy Aged 47.
Appointed Retail Sales profession, principally with Price Waterhouse where he was a Director in 1993, became responsible for NEXT Directory in senior partner.
Formerly Finance Director of Mirror Group and 1995 and was appointed to the Board in 1997 with additional Chief Operating Officer of Whitehead Mann.
Founder of The responsibilities for systems.
Appointed Managing Director of Objectivity Partnership, a member of the Audit Quality Forum the NEXT Brand in 1999 and Chief Executive in 2001. and Chairman of Design Objectives Worldwide.
Amanda James, Group Finance Director Caroline Goodall from 1 April 2015 Aged 59.
Became a member of the Board in January 2013.
Joined the Group in 1995, and has led the Caroline is currently an independent non-executive on the management accounting and commercial finance teams Partnership Board of the accountancy firm Grant Thornton UK since 2005.
In 2009 Amanda was appointed Commercial LLP and a Trustee of the National Trust and a member of its Finance Director and was promoted to NEXT Brand Finance Council.
She was a non-executive director of SVG Capital plc, Director in 2012.
Amanda has comprehensive knowledge of a FTSE 250 listed private equity investor, from 2010 to October NEXTs operations and has played a central role in the financial 2014.
Prior to that, Caroline had over thirty years experience management of the business.
in corporate finance and was a corporate finance partner at the international law firm Herbert Smith including five years as David Keens, Group Finance Director Head of the Global Corporate Division.
Joined NEXT in 1986 as Group Treasurer and was Francis Salway appointed to the Board in 1991.
Became a member of the Board in June 2010.
He is seven years in the accountancy profession and nine years in also Chairman of Town & Country Housing Group, Chairman of the UK and overseas operations of multinational manufacturers the Property Advisory Group for Transport for London and a nonof consumer goods, with roles including Group Treasurer executive director of Cadogan Group Limited.
Formerly Chief and Finance Director.
Professional qualifications include the Executive of Land Securities Group plc and past president of Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and the the British Property Federation.
Dame Dianne Thompson Michael Law, Group Operations Director Aged 64.
Joined the Board in January 2015.
Joined the Group in 1995 as Call Centre Manager for significant senior management experience including fourteen the NEXT Directory.
Michael was appointed Call Centre Director years as Chief Executive Officer of Camelot Group.
During her in 2003 and in 2006 took responsibility for Group IT.
In 2010 he was 42 year career, she has worked in marketing for several retail appointed Group Operations Director, adding Warehousing and companies.
More recently she was Chairman of RadioCentre Logistics to his portfolio.
Michael is now responsible for all Systems, and a non-executive director of the Home Office.
She is Warehousing, Logistics and Call Centres within the Group and currently President of the Market Research Society.
was appointed to the Board in 2013.
BOARD COMMITTEES Jane Shields, Group Sales and Marketing Audit Committee Director Steve Barber Committee Chairman Caroline Goodall Aged 51.
Joined NEXT Retail in 1985 as a Sales Assistant in Dame Dianne Thompson Francis Salway one of our London stores.
Jane worked her way through Jonathan Dawson Store Management to be appointed Sales Director in 2000, responsible for all store operations and training.
In 2006 Jane took additional responsibility for Retail Marketing and in 2010 Remuneration Committee was appointed Group Sales and Marketing Director, adding Jonathan Dawson Committee Chairman Dame Dianne Thompson Directory and online marketing to her portfolio.
She was Steve Barber Caroline Goodall appointed to the Board in 2013.
John Barton Francis Salway COMPANY SECRETARY Nomination Committee John Barton Committee Chairman Jonathan Dawson Seonna Anderson Steve Barber Caroline Goodall Dame Dianne Thompson Francis Salway 38 23849.04 8 April 2015 7:29 AM Proof 2
