ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2015 plc STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS MODEL NEXT is a UK based retailer offering exciting, beautifully designed, excellent quality clothing, footwear, accessories and home products.
NEXT is one of the largest clothing and home products retailers in the UK by sales, and a member of the FTSE-100 index.
The Group is primarily comprised of: NEXT Retail, a chain of more than 500 stores in the UK and Eire.
The majority of our stores sell clothing, footwear, accessories and home products: we also operate over 60 large Home Standalone and department style stores.
The predominantly leased store portfolio is actively managed, with openings and closures based on store profitability and cash payback.
Around 60% of Group sales are from NEXT Retail.
NEXT Directory, an online and catalogue shopping business with over 4 million active customers and international websites serving approximately 70 countries.
By embracing the internet, providing exceptional customer service and developing overseas opportunities, over the last ten years NEXT Directorys sales have grown by more than 150% and now represent almost 40% of Group sales.
There are strong synergies between NEXT Retail and NEXT Directory: through efficient stock management and customer service opportunities such as handling Directory collections and returns in-store the Group has been able to successfully develop both parts of the business.
NEXT International Retail, with around 200 mainly franchised stores across the world.
NEXTs franchise partners operate over 180 stores in 37 countries: there are also a small number of stores which NEXT operates directly.
International Retail accounts for around 2% of Group sales.
NEXT Sourcing, which designs, sources and buys NEXT branded products.
Last year, around 40% of the Groups products were procured or produced by NEXT Sourcing.
Further information on the Groups supply chain and NEXTs commitment to ethical trading can be found on page 28.
Lipsy, which designs and sells Lipsy branded younger womens fashion products.
Lipsy trades from around 40 stores, online, and through wholesale and franchise channels.
Lipsy contributes around 2% of Group sales.
Further detail on the performance and development of the Groups businesses can be found in the Chief Executives Review on pages 3 to 21, which forms part of this Strategic Report along with Key Performance Indicators page 23, Risks & Uncertainties page 24, Employees page 27, Social, Community and Human Rights page 28 and Environmental Matters page 29. BUSINESS STRATEGIES AND OBJECTIVES The primary financial objective of the Group is to deliver long term returns to shareholders through a combination of sustainable growth in earnings per share EPS and payment of cash dividends.
Underlying EPS increased by 14.7% from last year.
Over the last ten years EPS has increased by 250%, and the share price has increased by 350%.
This long term value has been created through the pursuit of the following strategies: Improving and developing our product ranges, success in which is measured by sales performance.
Profitably increasing retail selling space.
New store appraisals must meet demanding financial criteria before the investment is made, and success is measured by achieved profit contribution and return on capital against appraised targets.
Increasing the number of profitable NEXT Directory customers and their spend, both in the UK and through international online sales.
Managing gross and net margins through efficient product sourcing, stock management and cost control.
Focussing on customer service and satisfaction levels in both Retail stores and Directory.
Maintaining the Groups financial strength through an efficient balance sheet and secure financing structure.
Generating and returning surplus cash to shareholders by way of share buybacks or, more recently, special dividends.
Further information on the criteria we use to determine the method by which surplus cash is returned can be found in the Chief Executives Report.
