Strategic Report Over the past 40 years NMC has delivered The updated strategy and its subsequent Our strategy significant growth by providing accessible execution has meant that NMCs healthcare top quality healthcare services in the operations have evolved from a single fast growing major cities of the UAE, multi-specialty platform operating under supported by: one brand, NMC, to include additional higher complexity and single specialty Visionary UAE leadership, continuously verticals operating under a multi-brand and developing, diversifying and increasing multi-segment strategy.
In particular, this the competitiveness of the economy new positioning allows the Company to: Positive macro-economic environment Attractive healthcare supply Offer higher quality services demand dynamics to patients and payors Structural growth underpinned Participate in under-supplied market by the phased adoption of segments with higher growth outlook mandatory insurance and per service value Increase expansion and scalability NMCs IPO in 2012 reinforced the potential in the UAE and wider region Companys strategic commitment due to lower capex intensity of single to expanding its capacity in the underspecialty route supplied and fragmented private UAE NMC has reviewed and assessed healthcare market.
This was a major multiple proposed in-organic, organic and milestone in establishing the first partnership opportunities over the past integrated nationwide hub-and-spoke year and continues to be highly selective healthcare network in the UAE private and disciplined in its investment process.
sector with a primary, secondary and tertiary care offering.
The company has completed strategic and value accretive acquisitions to date that NMC successfully executed the organic have all met NMCs stringent investment expansion plan outlined during its IPO, criteria.
These acquisitions include: with four strategic and well-positioned healthcare asset openings in the UAE Clinica Eugin A leading global fertility market during 2013 and 2014, culminating treatment company in 2015 with the partial opening of its Fakih IVF Middle Eastern fertility largest hospital and the centrepiece in services leader the NMCs multi-specialty platform the ProVita Pioneering UAE based 250 licensed bed super specialty NMC long-term ventilated care provider Royal Hospital in Abu Dhabi.
Americare Top UAE provider of home care services With the organic, capacity focused, Dr Sunny Network Highly reputable expansion program approaching UAE based primary care provider completion, NMC initiated a capabilities in Sharjah focused update to its strategy to accelerate the expansion of the Companys clinical offering into higher complexity and value specialties.
This new phase of growth was supported by a new financing facility of up to US$825m, including US$475m earmarked for inorganic expansion to complement NMCs existing capabilities.
12 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 H T W S O U C R O F G S Y E I T T I L I I C B A Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements These acquisitions, coupled with NMCs MULTI-SPECIALTY Group, which operates six medical organic initiatives, have allowed the Group With the partial opening of our 250 centres in Sharjah.
We also added four 2 to establish new strategic verticals within licensed beds super specialty and pharmacies to our portfolio during the the broader healthcare delivery platform quartenery care NMC Royal Hospital year for a total of 15. with  capabilities in 2015 and the subsequent opening and brands: of inpatient services with 75 beds This enhanced multi-specialty healthcare operational in March 2016, we have delivery network of assets across the UAE 1.
Multi-specialty 665 licensed beds completed the major component has elevated NMCs capacity, geographical NMC Healthcare & Dr.
Sunny of the NMC hub-and-spoke network.
presence, service quality and offering 2.
Maternity & fertility 100 licensed beds complexity to further increase NMCs Brightpoint Royal Womens Hospital The addition of NMC Royal Hospital further future growth prospects.
& Clinica Eugin expands our portfolio, bringing the total 3.
Long-term & home care 120 licensed number of hospitals to seven across the Under the NMC brand we will continue beds ProVita & Americare UAE.
This platform is complemented to operate with a multi-segment 4.
Operation & management 205 beds by a network of medical centres and day approach, thus targeting all UAE Sheikh Khalifa Hospital in UAQ surgeries to increase operational reach insurance categories from Basic low- 5.
Products & consumables Around and the addressable market through income expatriate workers, via Enhanced 90,000 SKUs exclusive wholesaler cross-referrals.
We almost trebled our middle-to-high income expatriates all of mainly globally established network of day surgeries and medical the way up to Thiqa or its equivalent and branded healthcare products centres to eleven during 2015, up from UAE nationals.
Our core focus is to and equipment four at the start of 2015, largely driven by provide the highest quality and affordable our acquisition of Dr Sunny Healthcare healthcare services to the maximum The Group now has a capacity of 885 licensed beds and a network of medical centres and day-surgeries.
In addition, NMC operates the 205 bed Sheikh Khalifa Hospital on behalf of the UAE government in the Emirate of Umm al-Quwain.
2 The first four strategic verticals form the Healthcare Division, with the Products & Consumables currently being the only vertical in the Distribution Division.
Stage 1: 2012-2014 Stage 2: 2015-2018 DEVELOPMENT CATEGORY ACQUISITION CATEGORY MBZC Day Surgery Eugin Fertility Brightpoint Maternity Hospital Provita Long Term Care DIP General Hospital Americare Homecare Al Ain Medical Centre Dr.
Sunny Medical Centre NMC Royal Special Hospital Fakih IVF Fertility Licenced beds Licenced beds 410 120 132% growth 16% growth NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13 A P A P C A C I C N A G C I R O N N A I G R O Clinica Eugin S e r h t a n r j e a C h l M a c e i Dubai Speciality Hospital d d i e c a M l C n i e A n l t r A e Deira General Hospital E A Al Ain Speciality Hospital U A Y y m r e T e L Y I r g i T r c C I u a N S n U A y S Strategic Report number of insurance plans and optimum Our strategy number of patients relative to our continued capacity and capabilities.
The increased scale and patient volumes will enhance our ability to widen the service offering and complexity to the long-term benefit of all patients and the wider UAE healthcare market.
MATERNITY & FERTILITY The opening of Brightpoint Royal Womens Hospital combined with the subsequent acquisitions of Clinica Eugin and Fakih IVF confirms the Maternity & Fertility verticals global market position, as one of the leading and Our healthcare network premium international providers of fertility treatment services based on: NMCs capacity focused initial Scale of its global business and cycle capacity strategy completed the only Focused strategic initiative towards raising capabilities and access nationwide multi-specialty hubto care in high growth and undersupplied markets and-spoke healthcare network Segment leading treatment with tertiary care capabilities.
capabilities and success rates Diversity and complexity of service offering across the fertility treatment spectrum Established presence and referral centres across regulatory geographies to facilitate one-stop approach for patients NMC Royal Super Speciality Hospital Fakih IVF 14 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 M a L u r M D A g O C e C N c C Z e B O n M t L e O r I Abu Dhabi Speciality Hospital G E R s e r Brightpoint Womens Hospital Abu Dhabi t n e C l a B c i R d M e M e d h i c Provita a a j r l a S h u i S t e 6 s y n n u S Dubai IP General Hospital r D Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The most recent acquisition of Fakih By providing specialised long-term care, Today NMC has Around 90,000 SKUs sold IVF which completed in January 2016 NMC can contribute towards accelerating across the UAE through its over 1,948 is expected to be highly synergistic with the freeing up of the more expensive and divisional staff, five warehouses with significant potential for cross-referral of comparatively lower quality of life ICU a total of over 500,000 sq feet of storage patients and transfer of best practices beds currently occupied by long-term and 221 delivery vehicles.
Around 98% and technologies within NMCs Maternity acute and sub-acute care patients within of our SKUs are imported and sold & Fertility vertical.
Patients will have NMC and other local international private exclusively in the UAE by NMC to retailers.
access to an integrated continuum of sector and government hospitals.
This care with complementing capabilities integrated solution across the continuum This division has continued to perform and coordinated seamless service of care will allow for a seamless patient well during the year on brand and offerings including local IVF treatments experience with higher quality of life for product line expansions, positive macro of the highest international standards the patients and their families combined environment and growth in the retail at Fakih IVF, international referral to with synergies and enhanced efficiencies space across the UAE.
Clinica Eugin and its wider fertility service for NMC and payors.
Given the limited offering as permitted by its operational availability of long term care facilities in Our strategy in the distribution division and regulatory environment and the UAE, we expect our integrated care remains focused on investing in our hospitals, led by Brightpoint, for antenatal, solution to provide an effective alternative people, logistics and strategic regional delivery and postnatal services.
to sending patients abroad for treatment and global relationships with key and we therefore anticipate a continued principals.
We aim to leverage off these The premium market positioning repatriation of UAE patients back to their key assets against a market back drop internationally and in the UAE of our home country.
of good socio economic drivers and the brands in this vertical, is increasing the on-going positive sector trends following companys overall penetration into the In addition, the acquisitions of Americare the introduction of mandatory insurance Thiqa insurance segment, which is and ProVita extend NMCs access to most recently in Dubai with a wider roll exclusively comprised of UAE nationals Thiqa patients to further diversify NMCs out across the UAE expected in the in Abu Dhabi, where fertility treatment patient population.
With the pharmaceutical segment is covered.
accounting for around 33.1% of sales in ProVita has long-term care assets in both distribution, mandatory insurance roll-out In addition, fertility treatments are the Abu Dhabi and Al Ain with a combined is expected to support future growth.
leading drivers of medical tourism in the total of 120 beds.
UAE and the acquisition of Fakih IVF We continue to explore attractive organic and Clinica Eugin will position NMC as NMC has identified Qatar and Saudi Arabia and inorganic growth opportunities in the destination of choice and a one-stop as priority markets for the long-term the UAE and across the wider gulf region shop with a complete service offering.
care expansion due to the increasing to underpin and accelerate the growth healthcare expenditure in both countries, of the Distribution division.
A roll-out plan for additional fertility high prevalence of chronic and lifestyle centres in the Gulf region is currently diseases, aging population, lack of KEY STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES being executed with a total of five new dedicated long-term care facilities and Following these strategic initiatives assets expected to open during 2016. a substantial number of patients seeking and the creation of its strategic verticals, Three assets will be located in the UAE treatment abroad.
NMC reiterates its commitment to the and one in each of Qatar and Oman.
long-term strategic growth plan and OPERATIONS & MANAGEMENT the following key objectives: LONG-TERM & HOME CARE NMC continued to successfully operate NMC also accelerated its establishment and manage the 205 bed Sheikh Khalifa Accelerate development of Centres of of Centres of Excellence through General Hospital in Umm Al Quwain on Excellence in key specialties within the acquisitions that extend its services along behalf of the UAE government.
multi-specialty vertical e. g. partnership the care pathway.
As a leading provider of with Oxford University affiliate to in-home healthcare services in the UAE, Our experience in the Operation & deliver in-hospital oncology therapy Americare, acquired by NMC in April 2015, Management is leading us to increasingly as well as in newly-established single complements existing in-hospital explore the prospects of expanding this specialty verticals such as fertility healthcare services.
While this evaluation and long-term care through organic, a community-based physician practice of the wider market remains at initial inorganic or partnership initiatives: providing medical care in the comfort stages, our long experience of operating Contribute towards increased of the patients home for a variety of and managing healthcare assets in the healthcare spend retention within conditions and across all ages.
region means we can contribute to the the UAE, through a broader and higher evolution of healthcare delivery outside complexity offering: In August 2015, NMC acquired ProVita, our own assets.
Expand medical specialty offering the UAEs leading provider of long-term to the growing patient population medical care.
Meeting the under-serviced PRODUCTS & CONSUMABLES within the UAE whilst maximising demand for long-term care facilities, NMC Healths Product & Consumables cross-referrals and operational ProVita fills a gap between the short-term or product distribution and wholesale synergies between existing network care offered by NMCs existing facilities business is one of the largest in the assets and verticals: and the in-home services offered by UAE in terms of product portfolio and Selectively pursue in-vertical Americare, furthering our strategy of being sales.
This portfolio of international and consolidation opportunities to grow an integrated healthcare provider with regional brands, sold mainly on exclusive market presence and cross-referral Centres of Excellence across specialities.
basis by NMC to local retailers, has been capabilities and accelerate the patient built over the past 40 years across diverse volume reliant drive towards higher product areas, including key segments complexity value added healthcare such as FMCG, Pharmaceuticals and services: Scientific Equipment.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15 Strategic Report In line with this vision, NMCs large Our emerging Maternity & Fertility Our strategy investment program and its growing verticals background serves as a good continued network of state-of-the-art healthcare example of this evolution, although facilities, we are also increasingly raising it was enhanced with inorganic initiatives the level, quality and focus of our alongside the organic history.
By doing so, we aim acquisitions of Clinica Eugin and Fakih to advance our competitive advantage IVF and gradual evolution towards an through offering better and more increasingly independent vertical not only specialised services for patients.
in the current strategic sense but also potentially in the full operational sense NMCs vision is to ensure all service were underpinned and preceded by delivery is performed around our our in-hospital maternity centres of specialities so we can accumulate higher excellence which evolved and led to the levels of clinical expertise and experience.
opening of Brightpoint Royal Womens Offer fully integrated healthcare In addition, more secondary and tertiary Hospital in 2014, the most advanced solutions within NMCs system to the care surgeries will contribute to higher womens and maternity care hospital benefit of patients and payors.
Today the Maternity includes a leading presence across & Fertility vertical is a global leader.
the continuum of care with the ability We believe successfully operated centres to step-up and step-down patients of excellence in-hospital or as single OPTIMISING RETURNS based on their healthcare needs e. g. specialty verticals will attract and retain Throughout 2015 management worked from super specialty hospital to from highly qualified physicians and surgeons, on enhancing NMCs overall service mix, long-term care to from home-care : by offering: patient concentration, higher market presence and insurance segment Further complement its market number of surgeries and a highly qualified diversification by extending group presence position through selective adoption and experienced peer group as colleagues.
into new and mostly higher value per of a multi-brand approach under the visit patient healthcare specialisation.
broader NMC Health umbrella brand: The recent opening of NMC Royal Hospital, This shift in focus towards raising NMCs Increase participation in the rapidly our super specialty tertiary hospital and capabilities was underpinned by the growing medical tourism market the centre piece of our hub-and-spoke completion of the organic expansion within the UAE by establishing its healthcare network, will raise the medical program and the successful raising of facilities as a destination of choice for capabilities of NMC to a new level and US$825m debt facility in February 2015 medical tourists from the wider region: accelerate the development of our key to support this new stage of our Selectively establish a strategic in-hospital centres of excellence.
presence outside the UAE, with an initial focus on Saudi Arabia and Qatar, Currently we have six in-hospital centres The acquisitions discussed above served through the more scalable and less of excellence: this objective as they expanded the capital expenditure intensive single groups offering and relative competitive specialty verticals, thereby allowing Cardiology advantage, stepped-up group revenue NMC to leverage its expertise and Urology & Andrology per patient through complexity and the reputation behind its key brands Orthopaedics higher value-added services rather than such as Fakih IVF, Eugin and ProVita Ophthalmology only price increases.
This accelerated in attractive markets.
Oncology the healthcare divisions top-line growth Surgery while diluting the distribution business ACCELERATE THE ESTABLISHMENT in relative terms to allow NMC to OF CENTRES OF EXCELLENCE By developing our core competitive increasingly evolve into a pure-play Outpatient services are the largest advantages in quality healthcare around healthcare company which increased contributor to the UAE healthcare market branded, highly identifiable and focused group EBITDA margins and optimised by volume and value, particularly in the specialty centres we are incubating NMCs capital structure and return profile private sector, whose focus is evolving within our hospitals, centres of excellence, as the balance sheet went from being from primary care to secondary and with a potential to evolve into even more under-leveraged up to more reasonable tertiary care.
By definition, inpatient specialised stand-alone single specialty gearing levels.
services are more complex and require assets and networks operating outside high investments in human capital, our hospitals in the future.
Any expansion While any increase in debt carries certain technology and facilities, raising the entry of prospective single specialty centres risks, management continues to see the barriers for providers.
would be less capex intensive than trying 2015 net debt EBITDA levels of 3.7 as to reach all potential target markets highly reasonable and the current capital Historically, both specialist outpatient and exclusively through the multi-specialty structure as more optimised, especially inpatient services in the UAE originated hospital route.
We also believe that when considered within the context in government owned healthcare facilities focused human capital, institutionalised of the historic growth profile of the and the public sector remains the largest experience and a strong brand identity company, the expected growth in 2016 provider of services, particularly for inpatients.
will allow prospective single specialty and declining capital expenditure centres to become expandable in the requirements of the group as the organic The UAEs medical insurance reform UAE and across the wider region in a expansion program announced at the aims to advance the quality and capacity more impactful and competitive manner time of the IPO approaches full completion of care by encouraging more participation than the multi-specialty hospital route.
in aggregate these factors are expected and investment by the private sector, to increase the free cash flow generating resulting in the joint contribution of the ability of NMC in future periods.
public and private sectors for the ultimate benefit of the patient.
16 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements INTEGRATING SUCCESS Integration is a key aspect of all our acquisitions and will remain so in the period ahead as NMC is determined to integrate the success of these highly capable leaders in their respective specialist services and leverage their know-how.
While integration can be challenging, we have mitigated this by focusing in all acquisitions to retain key management personnel, support entrepreneurial drive, retain brands and institutional identity and employee facing policies and procedures.
The focus in NMCs management efforts is on facilitating the continued growth of these institutions by empowering them with the strategic drive of NMC combined with the support and synergistic opportunities presented by being part of a diversified healthcare network with the largest private sector patient base in the UAE.
In addition we are extending their operational capacity and abilities by: financial expertise and funding capabilities project and expansion management capabilities and track-record payor relations, revenue cycle and claim management human capital sourcing centralised procurement and consumables cost optimisation BUILDING CAPABILITIES By providing specialised long-term care, NMC can contribute towards accelerating the freeing up of the more expensive Long term & and comparatively lower quality of life ICU beds currently occupied by long-term acute and sub-acute care patients home care within NMC and other local international private sector and government hospitals.
This integrated solution across Licensed beds the continuum of care will allow for a seamless patient experience with higher quality of life for the patients and their 120 families combined with synergies and enhanced efficiencies for NMC and payors.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17
