Strategic Report In 2015, the Group did various acquisitions Our network of retail pharmacies Our business model and now owns and operates Clinica Eugin is mainly selling pharmaceuticals in Spain, one of the leading fertility treatment prescribed by our doctors to our patients centres globally: Americare Group, the either within, or in the immediate vicinity leading home care provider in the UAE: of, our healthcare services facilities.
Our ProVita, the leading provider of long-term comprehensive care approach maximises medical care, also in the UAE: Fakih IVF, patient convenience and increases the market leader for in-vitro fertilisation revenue contribution to our business.
services in the Middle East and Dr Sunny, a reputable network of medical centres in While we serve both insured and Sharjah.
All acquisitions were completed self-paying patients, the overwhelming during 2015, except Fakih IVF which was majority of our healthcare divisions completed on 31 January 2016. revenue is generated through insured patients.
Usually insured patients have The group also operates a UAE wide product to make a co-payment, which is the distribution and wholesale business.
proportion of the full price of services rendered that the patient pays directly HEALTHCARE DIVISION to NMC when they receive services at Through our healthcare services division our facilities.
NMC then submits claims we provide people in the UAE with to insurance companies to collect the a range of high quality outpatient and remainder of our fees.
inpatient services across our facilities.
These facilities range from the larger Pricing of our healthcare services is specialty hospitals to medical centres, typically negotiated on an annual basis providing care along the care pathway with the insurance companies we work from emergency and short-term health with and may differ between the various to in-home and long-term care.
insurance plans offered in the market.
In contrast, prices of the majority of In addition to our facilities in the UAE, we pharmaceutical products sold in our own and operate Clinica Eugin which is pharmacies are regulated and set by based in Spain.
Through this acquisition the UAE Ministry of Health.
we aim to complement our existing UAE capabilities with those of Clinica Eugins NMC medical facilities are currently covered world-class expertise in IVF technology by the majority of the approximately 49 and service delivery of the highest insurance companies operating in the UAE, international standards.
NMC continues to including the largest market participants.
look for opportunities to transfer medical These companies have either a direct know-how from internationally leading relationship with us or through Third Party organisations to benefit its patients in the Administrators TPAs who currently provide gulf region.
Our Healthcare division also provides operational and management services to third party owned healthcare services assets.
In return for our services, we receive a contracted management fee by the asset owner.
Typically the fee Integrated private healthcare NMC Health plc is a leading integrated private healthcare provider operating across the United Arab Emirates, with a nationwide network of hospitals and operations founded in 1975.
10 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements received is partially tied to a set of Our distribution capabilities are supported and strong financial standing.
Every pre-agreed performance metrics by a network of strategically located individual brand and product has to go incorporating either qualitative and or warehouses and a fleet of vehicles through an approval and registration quantitative operational targets.
ensuring timely delivery to our customers process with local authorities before We currently have one management across the country.
Products are being allowed to be sold in the country.
contract with the UAE Ministry of overwhelmingly sold on credit, with NMC facilitates this process and ensures Presidential Affairs pertaining to payments collected based on agreed local requirements are met.
The majority a general hospital in Umm al Quwain terms.
Our pricing of these products of agreements with our Principals are in the Northern Emirates.
includes a mark-up over the product on exclusive basis.
All agreements are cost to generate a profit and to cover registered with the government.
DISTRIBUTION DIVISION import costs and duties, registration NMCs Distribution Division is now one administration and fees, distribution NMC procurement is on a principal basis.
of the largest in the UAE and it offers expenses, credit costs and, in certain In the majority of cases, NMC takes the products across several segments cases, marketing costs.
Pharmaceutical inventory and collection risk of the product including FMCG, Pharmaceuticals, is the only segment where pricing is that it buys and sells.
Acting as a principal Scientific Equipment and Food.
widely regulated by the UAE Ministry rather than an agent enhances NMCs of Health.
margins at the expense of increasing the NMC counts among its clients UAE Groups risk profile.
Our agreements are Government entities, the largest UAE Only registered domestic distributors, almost exclusively operated on a credit retailers, pharmacies and hospital a locally established company like NMC, basis, with the number of credit days operators.
We supply our customers are entitled by customs authorities agreed with our Principals.
with a portfolio of globally and locally to import products into the country.
established brands and products with Principals suppliers contract NMC as end-user demand in the UAE.
We ensure their distributor to gain access to the our customers receive quality products UAE market through a reputable partner in a timely manner with the required with a long track-record, established support services.
distribution channels and infrastructure Product Distribution Healthcare Services NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11
