Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Directors statements STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are required by Company Law to prepare financial statements for the Group and the Company in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS.
The financial statements are required to present fairly for each financial period the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
In preparing the Group and parent company financial statements the Directors are also required to: Properly select and consistently apply accounting policies: Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and Make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors also confirm that they consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors report and Directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We confirm to the best of our knowledge: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITORS Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors: The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the Directors Report are set out on pages 44 to 47.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the Companys Auditor, each of these Directors confirms that: to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no information that is, information needed by the groups Auditor in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
EY have confirmed that they are willing to be reappointed as auditor for the financial year ending 31 December 2016.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 87 Financial Statements Directors statements continued GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY Going Concern The Group has two diverse operating divisions, both of which operate in a growing market.
Management have undertaken an assessment of the future prospects of the Group and the wider risks that the Group is exposed to.
In this assessment of whether the Group should adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements, management have considered: Operating risk: The management team prepare a Group budget for each financial year and a cashflow forecast for the following 18 months which allows the Board to monitor the financial position of the Group and to consider appropriate risks which the business may face from a financial perspective.
Included in this review are future cashflow, both acquisition costs and subsequent cashflow generation, associated with acquisitions agreed but not completed at the end of the 2015 financial year.
The Board receives monthly management reports covering key operational matters, monthly comparison to budget and updated forecasts on a half yearly basis for the full financial year to ensure that the business is trading in line with its expectations.
Financing risk: The Company has worked to structure its financing facilities for the medium and long term as well as utilising short term facilities to meet the Groups working capital requirements.
In 2015 the Group entered into a structured consortium arrangement of US$825m as new syndicated loan facility, comprising US$350m of term debt and US$475m of delayed drawdown acquisition facilities.
As at 31 December 2015, the Company has utilised all of the US$350m term debt facility available as well as US$164m of the delayed drawdown facility.
Since 1 January 2016, a further US$219m has been utilised from the delayed drawdown facility, leaving US$93m unutilised.
The Group has banking arrangements through a spread of local and international banking groups.
Debt covenants are reviewed by the board each month.
The Board believes that the level of cash in the Group, the spread of bankers and the improved debt facility terms agreed during 2015 mitigates the financing risks that the Group faces from both its acquisitive growth strategy and in relation to working capital requirements.
Customer and Supplier risk: Both the Healthcare and the Distribution divisions have delivered a robust performance in 2015.
All major financial and non-financial KPIs showed good improvement during 2015.
In the Healthcare division, trade receivables are monitored regularly, provisions made where necessary and the Group has no history of significant bad debts.
In the Distribution division, the increase in revenue and product flow has again had the anticipated adverse effect on the Groups working capital position.
However trade receivables are monitored regularly and management maintain a close working relationship with all major suppliers to monitor performance as well as signs of financial risk.
The Board has reviewed a high level budget for 2016 as well as considered growth forecasts for the healthcare sector in UAE, in particular the continued positive impact from the introduction of mandatory healthcare insurance in Dubai, and from the Groups newly opened and newly acquired businesses, and considers the Groups future forecasts to be reasonable.
Impairment risk: The Board has considered the carrying value and useful economic lives of inventories, accounts receivable, property and equipment and intangible assets and concluded that there are no indicators of material impairment of these items and therefore no material cash flow impact associated with any loss in those areas.
In its review, management also considered other areas of potential risk, including regulatory risk, insurance and legal risks and potential areas of material contingent liability and found no matters which are likely to affect the viability of the Group in the medium term.
The Board has reviewed and considered managements formal assessment of the going concern concept of accounting and the cash flow forecast that has been prepared for the period to 30 June 2017 and has concluded that this assessment and forecast indicates that the Group has positive cash flows with sufficient headroom and will comply with all debt covenants.
The Directors therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the financial statements.
88 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Viability In order to protect longer term shareholder value, the Board have always considered how Group performance and its strategic decisions will affect the financial and operational prospects of the Group in the longer term.
This year, as recommended by provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have considered a formal assessment of the prospects of the Group over a longer period than the 12 months review period required under the Going Concern basis of accounting.
Management conducted a formal viability review looking forward for a period of three years.
This period was selected as the most appropriate timeframe over which the future prospects of the Group should be considered given the Groups changing nature and significant growth, the time taken to fully integrate acquired businesses and ramp-up newly opened facilities and the maturity date of current debt obligations.
In its review, management considered the current position of the Group and the following principal financial risks associated with the business: Risks associated with investments The impact of UAE market competition Potential instability associated with the UAE macroeconomic environment The three year review considered the Groups profitability, cash flows, banking covenants and other key financial ratios over the period.
These metrics were subjected to sensitivity analysis which involved flexing a number of the main assumptions underlying the forecasts both individually and in unison, including increases in financing costs and inflationary pressures, reduction in revenues resulting from lower expat residencies in the UAE and insurance reimbursement and an increase in human capital costs.
Where appropriate, an analysis was carried out to evaluate the potential impact of any of these principal risks actually occurring.
Based on the results of this formal assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period of the assessment.
By Order of the Board SIMON WATKINS Group Company Secretary NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 89
