Market overview 1 The oil and gas market in Kazakhstan Kazakhstan is a vast country, the size of western Europe.
Its substantial reserves of natural resources ensure its enormous economic potential.
Kazakhstans oil reserves 3.9 billion MT Kazakhstans gas reserves 3 1.5 trillion m Sweden Finland Russia Norway Estonia Latvia Denmark Lithuania Belarus Ireland United Poland Kingdom Netherlands Germany Kazakhstan Belgium Czech Ukraine Republic Slovakia Moldova Austria Hungary Romania Switzerland France Slovenia Croatia Kyrgyzstan Bosnia Uzbekistan Serbia Bulgaria Georgia Italy Macedonia Azerbaijan Albania Armenia Tajikistan Turkmenistan Spain Greece Turkey Portugal Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 16 16 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures Economic growth and Oil supply and demand Oil price outlook investment in Kazakhstans oil and gas Industry The continued volatility and decline Since 2000, Kazakhstan has experienced According to BPs Statistical Review of significant economic growth mainly World Energy 2015, as at 31 December inoil prices throughout 2015 has led tothe Group taking a number of through economic reform and foreign 2014 Kazakhstan ranked twelfth in the investment.
Exports of crude oil world by oil reserves and twentieth in strategic decisions to mitigate the impact of continued volatility and havegrown significantly and, due to the world by gas reserves.
Kazakhstan Kazakhstan being landlocked, most is the second largest oil producer depressed prices.
As such, Nostrum iswell positioned to withstand ofthe oil from Kazakhstan is currently afterRussia among the former delivered to international markets SovietRepublics and has the Caspian continued low oil prices over the short to medium term and to deliver growth using pipelines, which run through regions largest recoverable oil Russia, to shipping points on the reserves.
Kazakhstans proved oil at a US$50.0 bbl long-term oil price.
andgas reserves were 3.9 billion tonnes and 1.5 trillion cubic metres International investment into the respectively, as at 31 December 2014.
Overview The larger Kazakh oil and gas sector has largely taken the form of joint ventures, The Kazakh government has stated Caspian Region including cooperation with the that it expects oil and gas production state-owned oil and gas company in 2016 to amount to 77 million tons, To date, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan are NCKazMunayGas JSC NC KMG, followed by an increase in oil output the two significant crude oil producing aswell as production sharing to92 million tons in 2020.
Most of this countries in the Caspian region.
It is agreements and direct grants of growth is expected to come from the expected that these countries will exploration production rights to Tengiz, Karachaganak and Kashagan continue to lead the region in crude subsoil users.
oilproduction in the near future, driven Kazakhstan include the Tengiz, by production growth from existing There are three major refineries in Karachaganak and Kashagan fields.
fields and the development of recently Kazakhstan supplying the northern discovered fields.
Turkmenistan and region at Pavlodar, the western Uzbekistan are the predominant gas region at Atyrau and the southern producers in the region.
Russia plays region at Shymkent.
All three major an important role in the region by refineries are either under the control providing a transportation corridor or joint control of NC KMG.
between the Caspian Sea and the Black Sea, however this part of Russia isnot a source of substantial crude.
1 This information has, unless otherwise stated, been extracted from documents, websites and other publications released by the President of Kazakhstan, the Statistics Agency ofKazakhstan, the Ministry of Finance of Kazakhstan, the Competent Authority and other public sources.
Some of the market and competitive position data has been obtained from US government publications and other third-party sources, including publicly available data from theWorld Bank, the Economist Intelligence Unit, the annual BP Statistical Review of World Energy for 2015, as well as from Kazakh press reports and publications, and edicts and resolutions of the Kazakh government.
In the case of statistical information, similar statistics may be obtainable from other sources, although the underlying assumptions and methodology, and consequently the resulting data, may vary from source to source.
Certain sources are only updated periodically.
This means that certain data for current periods cannot be obtained and we cannot assure you that such data has not been revised orwill not be subsequently amended.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 17 Market overview continued The oil and gas market in Kazakhstan Gas supply and demand Transportation Crude oil Increases in Kazakhstans gas An important aspect of increasing Currently over 7,920km of Kazakhstans production are expected to come hydrocarbon production in Kazakhstan 20,238km of pipeline are used in primarily from associated gas at the has been the development of oiltransportation.
The three main Tengiz, Karachaganak and Kashagan transportation infrastructure, as this pipelines are the Uzen-Atyrau-Samara fields.
Most of Kazakhstans gas inturn has raised Kazakhstans export UAS pipeline, the CPC pipeline, and reserves are located in the west of capacity.
thecountry and over half are located Other pipeline routes from Kazakhstan inthe Karachaganak field.
are being considered, such as routes Gas production has increased through the Caucasus region to significantly since 2004 when the Turkeyand routes through Iran and Parliament passed a law prohibiting Afghanistan.
the industrial production of oil and gasdeposits without the utilization ofnatural and associated gas.
Natural gas Macro economic and micro economic changes Most of the gas pipelines in western Macro economic and micro economic The major part of the Groups tax Kazakhstan, with the exception of changes that occurred in the reporting bases of non-monetary assets and , are designed period and their impact on results: liabilities is determined in Kazakh to provide gas to CAC.
Therefore, any change in the With effect from 1 January 2016, has two branches that meet in the US Dollar Tenge exchange rate Kazakhstan reduced export duties south-western Kazakh city of Beyneu results in a change in the temporary for crude oil from US$60 to US$40 before crossing into Russia and difference between the tax bases of per tonne connecting with the Russian pipeline non-current assets and their carrying system.
amounts in the financial statements.
With effect from 1 February 2016, Kazakhstan introduced floating rates During the twelve months to The construction of the 31December 2015, the devaluation of export duties for crude oil based  gas pipeline on average market prices of the Tenge resulted in an increase designed to transport gas from west of the temporary differences on Kazakhstan for use in the southern The average price of Brent crude oil non-current assets which was regions of Kazakhstan and export for the year ended 31 December recognised as a deferred tax toChina, started in 2010.
2015 fell to US$53.6 per barrel, 46% expense for the period lower than the average price the The Bukhara Urals gas pipeline previous year A large proportion of the Companys wasinitially built to supply gas from operating expenses in Kazakhstan Uzbekistan to north-east Kazakhstan In August 2015 the Kazakh Tenge are denominated in Tenge, whereas and Russias southeast Urals region.
abandoned its peg against the US only a small proportion of the Dollar allowing the market to set the  Companys revenues are received price.
In initial response to the inTenge.
As such, the Tenge isatransit pipeline that provides gas change in policy the Tenge devalued from Uzbekistan to Kazakhstans main devaluation has brought about by c. 25%.
Throughout the remainder somecost savings in US Dollar terms southern population centre.
of 2015 the currency continued to Overall, the net cash impact of devalue with the exchange rate at theTenge devaluation was broadly year end being 345.0 per US Dollar neutral a devaluation since the fide-pegging of c. 45% Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 18 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures Major oil and gas projects in Kazakhstan TCO Karachaganak project North Caspian project The TCO joint venture was created in The Karachaganak field is a 280 square The Kashagan field is located off the 1993 with the aim of developing the kilometre gas condensate field located northern shore of the Caspian Sea, Tengiz and Korolev fields that have in north-west Kazakhstan which near the city of Atyrau.
In 1997, estimated recoverable reserves wasdiscovered in 1979.
BG Group and aconsortium of companies signed ofbetween 5.5 billion barrels and ENIare joint operators and each hold a40-year production sharing 8.1billion barrels of oil.
The a29.25% interest in the venture.
participants in the joint venture TheKarachagank field is Kazakhstans The structures consist of 11 offshore areChevron Overseas Company, main gas field, holding an estimated blocks over an area of 5,600 square ExxonMobil, NC KMG and LukArco.
9billion barrels of gas condensate kilometres.
The North Caspian and48 trillion cubic feet of gas.
Operating Company NCOC, a consortium that includes ENI S. p. A. ExxonMobil, Shell, Total S. A. INPEX Corporation and NC KMG owns theproject.
Benchmarking of our business Proven reserves against peers billion barrels Strengths $GYDQWDJHRXV ORFDWLRQ JLYHV access to multiple transportation routes, QYHVWPHQW LQ LQIUDVWUXFWXUH JLYHV the Company complete control of its liquids transportation, QYHVWPHQW LQ JDV SODQW DOORZV Nostrum to produce raw gas in north-west Kazakhstan where Venezuela 297.6 Nigeria 37.2 there is a shortage of processing Saudi Arabia 267.9 USA 33.4 capacity Canada 173.1 Kazakhstan 30.0 Iran 154.6 Qatar 25.4 LJK TXDOLW OLJKW VZHHW FUXGH Iraq 141.4 China 23.7 andcondensate Kuwait 104.0 Brazil 13.2 UAE 97.8 Algeria 12.2 Weaknesses Russia 80.0 Angola 10.5 Libya 48.0 Mexico 10.3 1RVWUXP LV VXEMHFW WR IOXFWXDWLRQV in the market prices for its products, however we do have hedges in place HRORJLFDO ULVNV DUH XQDYRLGDEOH in the oil and gas business 7KH KDUVK RSHUDWLQJ HQYLURQPHQW means temperatures fluctuate significantly between summer andwinter Source: EIA May 2015 DFN RI VLJQLILFDQW SRSXODWLRQ reduces size of skilled workforce Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 19
