Our investment case A simple investment case Nostrum has developed a world-class portfolio of assets in the reserve rich area of north-west Kazakhstan.
The front-loaded investment programme has been thefoundation upon which strong production growth has been built.
Stable financial platform Over 450 million Targeting steady levels with strong cash flows of2Preserves ofproduction and flexibility Nostrum generated US$153.26m With 470 mboe of 2P reserves 2015s average daily production was ofoperating cash flow in 2015. andproduction of more than 14 million 40,391 boe, down marginally on last Inaddition, the Group ended the barrels of oil equivalent per year, year due to one-off repair work on the 1 yearwith over US$165.56m of cash weprovide a unique combination pipeline used to transport Nostrums onits balance sheet.
Nostrum ofsignificant production and reserve gas.
We will target an average daily announced inJanuary that it had upside along with consistent production of over 40,000 boe in 2016 signed a new hedge of 15,000 bopd operational cash flow.
aswe continue the construction of for US$49.16 per barrel, with a ournew Gas Treatment Facility.
The hedge and cashposition give Nostrum the financial flexibility to actively manage the pursuit of our operational goalsaccordingly as the oil price environment fluctuates.
We believe that the prudent management of our liquidity has given us a competitive advantage and leaves us in a strong position despite the challenging oil price environment seen over the lastyear, reflecting our core values ofsimplicity and sustainability.
1 Cash on the balance sheet is defined as cash and cash equivalents including current and non-current investments.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 04 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures With low operating costs, we have been able to maintain an average daily production of over 40,000 boe throughout the challenging conditions of 2015, sustaining positive cash flow and progressing towards our operational target of doubling production capacity.
World-class assets Strong governance Experienced andresponsibility management team We have four licence areas, all located We are committed to achieving We are confident in the ability of in the Pre-Caspian Basin towards the anexcellent standard of corporate ourexperienced and dedicated north of Uralsk.
Nostrums current governance and social responsibility management team, who have producing asset is the Chinarevskoye and are aiming for a positive and expertise in operating in Kazakhstan, field and the three additional licences lasting contribution to the areas in to deliver on our clear strategy.
are all located within 60-120km of which we operate, with a focus on thefield.
delivering long-term shareholder valuefor a sustainable future.
Simple business case, successful model and sustainable strategy We have a clear strategy, based In addition, with our continued We monitor all opportunities for onasolid financial foundation and appraisal of the existing Chinarevskoye acquisitions both within our operating compelling business case.
We field and our three additional licences region of north-west Kazakhstan as willdeliver near-term production we are continually transferring well as further afield within the FSU growth, with preparations to double reservesto the 1P category, aiming that would enable us to expand our production upon completion of for700 mboe of proved reserves over reserve base and facilitate sustained thenew Gas Treatment Facility.
This will allow us production through to the end of our tomaintain production above licence.
100,000boepd up until the end of the Chinarevskoye licence 2031-2033.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 05
