com stock code: NTG Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and the audited accounts for voted on the instructions of the employees on whose behalf the year ended 30 April 2015. they are held.
Shares in the Guernsey Trust are voted at the discretion of the Trustees.
Results No person has any special rights of control over the Companys Profit for the year after taxation was 66,802,000 2014 share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
With regards to the appointment and replacement of An interim dividend of 4.3p per share was paid on the Directors, the Company is governed by the Articles, the UK Ordinary shares on 12 January 2015.
Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act and related The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend legislation.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special of 10.2p per share on the Ordinary shares.
This dividend, if resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of Directors are set approved, will be paid on 22 September 2015 to shareholders out in the Articles.
on the register at close of business on 21 August 2015.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for Principal activities compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs The Company is an investment holding company.
because of a change of control.
The principal subsidiaries are listed in Note 16 to the accounts.
Interests in shares Close company status The following interests in the issued Ordinary share capital So far as the Directors are aware the close company provisions of the Company have been notified to the Company in of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to accordance with the provisions of Chapter 5 of the Disclosure the Company.
and Transparency Rules: Capital structure 30 April 2015 29 June 2015 Details of the issued share capital, together with details of Standard Life 16,608,553 16,608,553 any movements during the year, are shown in Note 23.
The Investments Ltd 12.47% 12.47% Company has one class of Ordinary share which carries no Capital Group 12,465,075 11,987,296 right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote 9.36% 8.99% at general meetings of the Company.
10,514,146 9,467,467 Old Mutual Plc 7.89% 7.11% The cumulative Preference shares of 50p each entitle the Aberforth Partners 6,632,743 6,632,743 holder to receive a cumulative preferential dividend at the 4.98% 4.98% rate of 5% on the paid up capital and the right to a return of 6,536,818 6,536,818 Artemis Investment capital at either winding up or a repayment of capital.
The 4.90% 4.90% Management Ltd cumulative Preference shares do not entitle the holders to any Aviva Plc 6,163,320 6,163,320 further or other participation in the profits or assets of the 4.63% 4.63% Company.
5,307,060 5,307,060 Legal & General 3.98% 3.98% Group Plc The percentage of the issued nominal value of the Ordinary Royal London Asset 4,080,397 4,080,397 shares is 99.255% of the total issued nominal value of all share Management Ltd 3.06% 3.06% capital.
Directors There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor Details of the present Directors are listed on pages 40 and 41. on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the All have served throughout the year except Andrew Page who general provisions of the Articles of Association the Articles was appointed on 2 December 2014.
Tom Brown resigned as a and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any Director on 18 September 2014. agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on Resolutions to reappoint each of the Directors in office at the voting rights.
date of this report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting except for Bob Mackenzie and Jan Astrand, who will Details of employee share schemes are set out in the be retiring from office at the conclusion of that meeting.
Shares held by the Capita Trust are 23963.02 17 July 2015 3:08 PM Proof 7 GOVERNANCE Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2015 42 43 The termination provisions in respect of executive Directors These will be put to an advisory shareholder vote by ordinary contracts are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 45 resolution.
The Directors Remuneration Policy, which sets to 62. out the Companys forward looking policy on Directors remuneration including the approach to exit payments to Directors indemnities Directors and which was approved by shareholders last year, As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, is included for reference purposes.
This policy is subject to a qualifying third party indemnities for each Director of the binding shareholder vote by ordinary resolution at least every Company were in place throughout the year and remained in three years.
force as at the date of signing of this report.
If the Company wishes to change the Directors Remuneration the Companys Articles of Association are available Policy, it will need to put the revised policy to a further vote on the Companys website: www.
com before it can be implemented.
No such changes are proposed this year.
Employee consultation Employees are kept informed on matters affecting them as Power to allot shares employees and on various issues affecting the performance The present authority of the Directors to allot shares was of the Group through Chief Executive briefing updates, granted at the Annual General Meeting held in September announcements on the Groups intranet, formal and informal 2014 and expires at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
meetings at local level and direct written communications.
A resolution to renew that authority for a period expiring at All employees are eligible to participate on an equal basis in the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in the Groups share incentive plan, which has been running 2016 will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The successfully since its inception in 2000. authority will permit the Directors to allot up to an aggregate nominal amount of 22m of share capital which represents Disabled employees approximately 33% of the present issued Ordinary share Applications for employment by disabled persons are given capital and is within the limits approved by the Investment full consideration, taking into account the aptitudes of the Association and the National Association of Pension Funds.
Every effort is made to try to ensure that employees who become disabled whilst already employed The Directors have no present intention of exercising such are able to continue in employment by making reasonable authority and no issue of shares which would effectively alter adjustments in the workplace, arranging appropriate training the control of the Company will be made without the prior or providing suitable alternative employment.
It is Group approval of shareholders in a general meeting.
policy that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be the same as that A special resolution will be proposed to renew the authority of of other employees.
the Directors to allot Ordinary shares for cash other than to existing shareholders on a proportionate basis.
This power to the groups equal opportunity policy is available disapply pre-emption rights has historically been limited on the Companys website: www.
com to a maximum amount representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued share capital in accordance with best Political donations practice guidelines on the disapplication of pre-emption rights No political donations were made by any Group company in issued by The Pre-Emption Group.
A recent change to those guidelines has now introduced Greenhouse gas emissions greater flexibility for companies to undertake non pre-emptive The disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions required issues for cash.
Specifically, the Statement of Principles by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups has been relaxed to allow companies the opportunity to Accounts and Reports Regulations are included in the CSR finance expansion opportunities as and when they arise.
section of the Strategic Report on pages 36 to 38.
The Board would like to have the flexibility that this change affords.
Accordingly, in line with the revised Statement of Remuneration report Principles which have been endorsed by the Investment The Directors Remuneration Report contains: Association, the Company is seeking, in addition to the customary disapplication power up to an aggregate nominal | a statement by Jill Caseberry, Chairman of the Companys amount of 3,330,000 representing approximately 5% of Remuneration Committee on pages 45 and 46: and the current issued Ordinary Share capital which is sought at | the annual report on remuneration, which sets out Resolution 12b, a disapplication power over a further 5% payments made in the financial year ended 30 April 2015 of the Companys share capital provided that the additional on pages 47 to 55. power sought at Resolution 12c is only used in connection 23963.02 17 July 2015 3:08 PM Proof 7 Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG Report of the Directors CONTINUED with acquisitions and specified capital investments which Authority for the Company to purchase its are announced contemporaneously with the issue, or which own shares have taken place in the preceding six month period and are The Directors propose to renew the general authority of disclosed in the announcement of the issue.
the Company to make market purchases of its own shares to a total of 13,300,000 Ordinary shares representing The 2015 Statement of Principles defines a specified capital approximately 10% of the issued Ordinary share capital and investment as one or more specific capital investment within the price constraints set out in the special resolution to related uses for the proceeds of an issuance of equity be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
securities, in respect of which sufficient information regarding the effect of the transaction on the listed company, the assets There is no present intention to make any purchase of own the subject of the transaction and where appropriate the shares and, if granted, the authority would only be exercised if profits attributable to them is made available to shareholders to do so would result in an improvement in earnings per share to enable them to reach an assessment of the potential for remaining shareholders.
Items that are regarded as operating expenditure rather than capital expenditure will not typically be regarded Financial instruments as falling within the term specified capital investment.
Details of the Groups use of financial instruments are given in the Financial Review on pages 24 to 30 and in Notes 21 and The Directors have no present intention of exercising this 36 to the accounts.
authority and confirm their intention to follow the provisions of The Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding Auditor cumulative use of such authorities within a rolling three year In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the period.
The Principles provide that companies should not Company at the date when this report was approved: issue shares for cash representing more than 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital in any rolling three year period, | so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant other than to existing shareholders, without prior consultation audit information of which the Companys auditor is with shareholders.
This limit excludes any Ordinary shares unaware: and issued pursuant to a general disapplication of pre-emption | each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought rights in connection with an acquisition or specified capital to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any investment.
relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Length of notice of general meetings The minimum notice period permitted by the Companies Act This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 2006 for general meetings of listed companies is 21 days, but accordance with the provisions of s418 Companies Act 2006. the Act provides that companies may reduce this period to 14 days other than for AGMs provided that two conditions are A resolution for the appointment of  met.
The first condition is that the Company offers a facility for LLP as auditor of the Company will be proposed at the shareholders to vote by electronic means.
This condition is met forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
This proposal if the Company offers a facility, accessible to all shareholders, is supported by the Audit and Risk Committee.
to appoint a proxy by means of a website.
Please refer to Note  LLP will replace Deloitte LLP as the 6 to the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 120 for Groups external auditor.
Further information on this is given details of the Companys arrangements for electronic proxy in the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee on pages 63 appointment.
The second condition is that there is an annual to 65. resolution of shareholders approving the reduction of the minimum notice period from 21 days to 14 days.
The Directors Report, comprising the Strategic Report, the Corporate Governance Report and the Reports of the Audit A resolution to approve 14 days as the minimum period of and Remuneration Committees, has been approved by the notice for all general meetings of the Company other than Board and signed on its behalf.
AGMs will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, By order of the Board when it is intended that the approval be renewed.
David Henderson It is the Boards intention that this authority would not be Secretary used as a matter of routine but only when merited by the 29 June 2015 circumstances of the meeting and in the best interests of shareholders.
