com stock code: NTG Our strategy Vision Strategy for Growth Group The Group is seeking In both countries in which we operate, The Group continues to seek to to increase returns we aim to be the first choice for LCV maximise shareholder return through through attracting rental, fulfilling all our customers vehicle exploiting the opportunities available to new customers and needs and allowing them to concentrate it through focussing on: improving retention on better service to their customers.
| Quality of our service offering, rates, as well as including gaining feedback from our customers: matching pricing to customer usage.
| Understanding why we win and lose business: The combination of | Identifying the key markets where these factors will drive our offering is most suited: and growth in both the | Ensuring the business is properly UK and Spain.
structured to service our customers.
THREE DRIveRS The three drivers we have identified to achieve this growth are: 2 3 1 Retaining current customers and We previously identified that a Improved information availability the attraction of new customers to number of our customers partnered across the Group allows us to better the Group is a key priority.
During with more than one solution match rates charged to customers the year we have seen an increase provider for their flexible vehicle with their usage.
This enables us to of 14% 2014 21% in the needs, often as a result of vehicle take account of whole life vehicle number of businesses choosing to availability or network reach issues.
running costs when determining partner with us.
This links to our Through improving account pricing for customers.
management processes we have hurdle rates are also in place to seen an increased level of activity avoid us taking on low margin from our existing customers.
This business which constrains ROCE.
links to our customer service and This links to our pricing KPI.
See our Key performance indicators SUCCESS IN THE COMBINATION OF THE ABOVE THREE FACTORS on pages 32 and 33 WILL HELP DRIVE OUR ROCE AND EPS PERFORMANCE.
23963.02 17 July 2015 3:08 PM Proof 7 N B C M E I T I E N S E S R R T R A U P S L E C S Y R P C E N N I D STRATEGIC Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts REPORT for the year ended 30 April 2015 16 17 14% INCReASe IN CuStoMeR NuMBeRS find out more about Northgate plc at: www.
