com stock code: NTG Marketplace Overview Vehicle registrations The Group operates predominantly A key indicator of activity within the LCV sector is through the number of new in the light commercial vehicle LCV vehicle registrations in each year, which have progressed as follows: sector in the UK, Ireland and Spain.
UK Spain LCVs are characterised as vehicles with a weight limit of up to 3.5 tonnes, 2014 322,000 2014 114,000 predominantly used for commercial 2013 271,000 2013 85,000 purposes.
2009 186,000 107,000 2009 2008 289,000 2008 166,000 2007 338,000 2007 276,000 Source: SMMT Source: ANFAC Registrations are on a calendar year basis The registration of new vehicles Whilst the number of new registrations reduced dramatically following the has dropped significantly over the past 200708 recession, with the UK almost six years, the overall size of the vehicle returning to pre-recessionary levels in parc has remained relatively stable, 2014.
The recovery in Spain has lagged resulting in an increase in the average behind but showed significant growth age of vehicles on the road.
Market characteristics 8% LCV operators have to decide how INCReASe to procure vehicles, with the main alternatives being: in average vehicles on hire in both the | Outright purchase of new vehicles: UK and Spain | Contract hire or other long term financing arrangement: | Flexible rental: | Daily rental: or | Acquisition of used vehicles in the secondary market.
The choice of acquisition method will depend upon the operational flexibility required, overall cost and the operators availability of capital.
The market can be segmented based upon this need.
23963.02 17 July 2015 3:08 PM Proof 7 STRATEGIC Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts REPORT for the year ended 30 April 2015 12 13 The main characteristics of each segment are outlined as follows: Characteristics Typical competitors Long term commitment requiring availability of upfront capital to Franchised dealers.
new Operators bear the full risk of operating the vehicle and funding running costs.
The purchaser bears the risk of the residual value of the vehicle.
This can be the cheapest headline cost, but overall holding cost can be higher if vehicles are not fully utilised.
Vehicle failure can also lead to significant costs of business interruption.
Long term contractual commitment typically a minimum of Large companies often backed Contract hire 36 months.
Penalties for early return of vehicles and excess mileage usage.
Varying levels of operational support offered at additional cost.
No contractual or capital commitment coupled with operational Some national companies but Flexible rental flexibility and fleet management support.
Vehicles are supplied fully inclusive of maintenance and without penalty for excess mileage.
Customers have the ability to change the quantity and type of vehicles they have on hire easily.
Flexible rental often provides the best whole life value for operators.
Flexible, satisfying short term requirements at short notice but cost A combination of large Daily rental can be prohibitive for longer term vehicle requirements.
multinationals down to small local operators.
Typically sold directly to owner managed businesses who may have Franchised dealers and some Acquisition capital constraints.
national retailers down to small secondary local operators and individuals market trading via the Internet.
Auction houses selling directly to the trade.
The Group operates in the flexible rental sector, with the emphasis being on educating potential customers that flexible rental, whilst not the cheapest headline cost, can provide the most benefit in terms of overall running costs and operational flexibility.
Northgate is the largest flexible rental provider in the UK and Spain with a market share of over 20% in both countries within that market.
Barriers to entry into the flexible rental sector are low, with new entrants often pursuing aggressive pricing strategies in order to gain market share.
The emphasis of the Group remains on pricing our service commensurate with the level of customer service and operational flexibility provided.
The Groups vehicles which have reached the end of their rental life are also retailed directly within the secondary vehicle market or sold through auction if not of a retail standard.
com stock code: NTG Marketplace CONTINUED Customer segmentation Fleet operators within the LCV sector can typically be characterised as follows: Customer type Common characteristics Share of Northgate business Corporate fleets 100 vehicle fleets Fleet requirements are often balanced UK 33% between a long term core need for vehicles Spain 30% and more flexible, medium and shorter term requirements.
Fleets of this size are often provided through more than one acquisition method.
Some operators will manage their fleet internally whilst others fully outsource to a fleet management provider.
SMEs 5100 vehicle fleets Resource constraints mean that there often UK 46% is not scope for managing vehicle fleets inSpain 44% house.
SMEs therefore often value operational flexibility which makes flexible rental an attractive alternative, particularly as it can provide the lowest whole life cost.
An unwillingness to manage multiple suppliers also allows vehicle providers to take on a greater proportion, if not all, of the customers vehicle requirements.
The operational flexibility, especially for those businesses exposed to seasonal fluctuations or short term uncertainty, makes flexible rental an attractive prospect.
The ability to return a vehicle when it is not needed or swap it for a more suitable alternative is often considered more important than the headline rental cost.
Micro businesses 5 vehicle requirement Availability of capital, coupled with the hassle UK 21% free service that flexible rental provides makes Spain 26% it an attractive alternative to other acquisition methods.
A van is often a key element of trade for a micro business.
Using flexible rental minimises the risk of business interruption through vehicle failure.
23963.02 17 July 2015 3:08 PM Proof 7 STRATEGIC Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts REPORT for the year ended 30 April 2015 14 15 FLeXIBLe Customers are able to flex the quantity and type of the vehicles they have on hire at short notice find out more about the group at: www.
