Directors Report The directors submit their report and the consolidated in both instances to the extent permitted under the audited financial statements of the Group and the audited Companies Act 2006.
Copies of the Companys articles of parent financial statements of the Company for the year association the Articles are available on the Companys ended 31 December 2015. website or at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the This report has been prepared in accordance with The Annual General Meeting.
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
Certain information that In May 2015 the Board approved a policy for the fulfils the requirements of the directors report can be indemnification of directors, officers and other designated foundelsewhere in this document and is referred to below.
beneficiaries and the entry by the Company into an This information is incorporated into this directors report accompanying deed of indemnity.
The policy clarifies that the Company will seek to provide Directors and their interests the maximum indemnification and protection to Group Full biographical details of the individuals who were directors and officers permissible under applicable law, directors of the Company during the financial year ended except in cases of fraud or wilful default, including but not 31December 2015 are set out on pages 66 to 67 of this limited to: i providing compensation for losses suffered in annual report.
the course of acting as a director or officer in the interests ofthe Group ii providing directors and officers with quality Details of each directors interests in the Companys external legal representation and external professional ordinary shares and options held over ordinary shares advisers iii assisting directors or officers with repatriation areset out in full in the directors remuneration report following a third party claim iv continuing to make payment onpages 93 and 94 respectively.
of a directors or officers remuneration and benefits while Dividends such director or officer is under suspension, investigation ordetention by order of a third party v taking reasonable Details of the dividend paid during the year are disclosed inthe notes to the consolidated audited financial statements steps to place any such director or officer in a similar position working in another location or elsewhere in the for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Group which would allow his her employment to continue No dividend is proposed to be paid for the year ended and to compensate for any adverse financial consequences 31December 2015 due to lower revenues as a result they incur as a result of their loss of office or vi maintaining ofdeclining oil prices.
customary directors and officers liability insurance policies.
Auditor The deed of indemnity is intended to cover any insufficiency Each director in office at the date of this directors report in the protection granted to directors and officers under the confirms that a so far as he is aware, there is no relevant Articles which could expose such persons to substantial audit information of which the Companys auditor is liability to third parties, including governmental authorities, unaware and b he has taken all the steps that he ought in particular in jurisdictions where significant uncertainty tohave taken as a director to make himself aware of any exists in relation to the interpretation and application of the relevant audit information and to establish that the law.
The deed of indemnity allows directors, officers and Companys auditor is aware of that information.
other designated beneficiaries to enforce the protection provided for under the Articles without any further action Directors liabilities and indemnities bythe Company being required.
The Company maintains liability insurance for its directors.
All directors are also in receipt of an indemnity from the Political donations Company under the Companys Articles in respect of a The Group has made no political donations during the liability incurred by any director due to the negligence, year2015.
default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the Contributions to non-EU political parties affairs of the Company, or any subsidiary undertaking or b any liability incurred by any director in connection with the No contributions to non-EU political parties were made during the year 2015. activities of the Company, or any subsidiary undertaking, in its capacity as a trustee of an occupational pension scheme, Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 104 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures Financial risk management objectives and policies Transfer of shares Disclosures relating to financial risk management objectives The Articles provide that transfers of certificated shares and policies, including our policy for hedging are set out must be effected in writing duly signed by or on behalf inPrincipal risks and uncertainties on page 61. ofthe transferor and, except in the case of fully paid shares, by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall remain Future developments within the Group the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the The strategic report on pages 2 to 61 contains details of transferee is entered on the Register of Members in respect likelyfuture developments in the business of the Group.
Transfers of uncertificated shares may be Research and development effected by means of the relevant electronic system unless the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 provide The Group is not involved in any activities in the field of research and development.
The directors may refuse to register a transfer of shares Branches infavour of more than four persons jointly.
The Company is registered in England and Wales but has itsplace of effective management and tax residence in the Directors, articles and purchase of shares Netherlands.
As the Group is a global business our interests The Articles were adopted on 19 May 2014 and may only and activities are held or operated through subsidiaries and beamended by special resolution at a general meeting branches and subject to the laws and regulations of many ofthe shareholders.
The directors powers are conferred on them by UK Share capital legislation and by the Articles.
In accordance with the As of 31 December 2015 the Companys issued share Articles the Board has the power at any time to elect any capital was 1,881,829.58 divided into 188,182,958 ordinary person to be a director.
Any person so appointed by the shares each having a nominal value of 0.01, all of which directors will retire at the next Annual General Meeting in 1 arein free circulation.
All of the Companys issued ordinary accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code: shares are fully paid up and rank equally in all respects.
retiring directors may be eligible for annual re-election.
Therights attached to them, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Articles.
The The Company did not repurchase any shares during 2015.
ElianEmployee Benefit Trustee Limited holds shares in The Board has the power conferred on it by shareholders theCompany in trust the Trust for the purposes of the topurchase its own shares and will seek a renewal of that Companys phantom share option plan, and the rights power at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting within attaching to them are exercised by independent trustees.
the limits set out in the notice of the meeting.
As at 31 December 2015 the Trust held 3,354,139 ordinary Employment policies and equal opportunities shares in the Company.
The Group is an inclusive and equal opportunity Share rights employerand complies with all applicable laws governing Without prejudice to any rights attached to any existing employment practices.
The Group has also adopted and shares, the Company may issue shares with rights or implemented policies and procedures which cover the restrictions as determined by either the Company by recruitment, selection, training and development and ordinary resolution or, if the Company passes a resolution, promotion and retirement of its employees.
Nostrum aims to create a workplace that has an open Voting rights atmosphere of trust, honesty and respect.
Harassment or There are no restrictions on voting rights or transfers of discrimination of any kind based on race, religion, national shares in the Articles and at a general meeting every origin, age, gender, disability, sexual orientation or political member present in person or by proxy has one vote for opinion or any other similarly protected characteristic every share held by him.
No member shall be entitled to isnottolerated.
This principle applies to all aspects of vote either personally or by proxy or to exercise any other employment from recruitment and promotion through right in relation to general meetings if any sum due from totermination and all other terms and conditions of him to the Company in respect of that share remains unpaid.
It is the Groups aim that all employment policies are fair andequitable and consistent with the skills and abilities ofthe employee and the needs of the business.
Employees arefree to join a trade union or participate in collective bargaining arrangements.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 105 Directors Report continued Further details are included in Our People on The Company also operates an employee share option pages 38 to 40. plan, further details of which can be found in the Directors remuneration policy on page 100 and the notes to the In accordance with the Groups Code of Conduct the consolidated audited financial statements for the year Companys policy is to fully comply with the UK Equality ended 31 December 2015.
Act2010, which imposes a duty on employers to make reasonable adjustments to help disabled job applicants, Substantial shareholders employees and former employees in certain circumstances As of 31 December 2015, the following significant and prohibits direct disability discrimination, discrimination shareholdings of voting rights in the share capital of the arising from disability, indirect disability discrimination, Company had been disclosed to the Company under harassment relating to disability and victimisation.
Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5 or otherwise.
Where the duty to make reasonable adjustments arises, Number of % of Issued theCompanys policy is to effectively treat the disabled Name Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares person more favourably than others in an attempt to reduce Mayfair Investments B. V. 48,333,300 25.7 or remove that individuals disadvantage.
Claremont Holdings C. V. 32,599,586 17.3 Baring Vostok The Companys policy is to give full and fair consideration Capital Partners 29,050,054 15.4 toapplications for employment made by disabled people.
Disabled job applicants and employees are encouraged to M&G Investment tell the Company about their condition so that the Company Management Limited 10,983,070 5.8 can support them as appropriate.
Employees experiencing Harding Loevner LP 9,442,565 5.0 difficulties at work because of a disability may contact their supervisor or the Human Resources Department to discuss There were no major transactions in the share capital of the any reasonable adjustments that would help overcome or Company or any change in the structure of shareholders minimise the difficulty.
Their line manager or the Human holding 3 or more per cent of the Ordinary Shares in the Resources Department may consult with the disabled reporting period apart from the transfer of KazStroyService person and his or her medical adviser about possible Global B. V. s shareholding as described on page 108 ofthis adjustments.
The Company will consider the matter report, as well as the decrease in the holdings of Claremont carefully and try to accommodate the disabled persons Holdings C. V. from 27.2% as at 31 December 2014 to 17.3% needs within reason.
Support provided by the Company as at 31 December 2015.
Claremont Holdings C. V. also todisabled employees may include training and career notified the Company that it holds a call option over development support.
If the Company considers a 5,191,491 Ordinary Shares which, if exercised, would particular adjustment would not be reasonable it will increase its shareholding by 2.76% to 20.05%.
In addition, explainits reasons and try to find an alternative solution Nostrum received a TR1 notification from VTB Capital in where possible.
April 2015 notifying the Company that it had acquired astake of 3.4484%.
The Company will monitor the physical features of its premises to consider whether they might place anyone with There have been no changes in the interests disclosed to a disability at a substantial disadvantage.
Where necessary, the Company in respect of substantial shareholders in the it will take reasonable steps to improve access.
period between the end of the financial year 2015 and the date of this annual report.
Employee communications and involvement The Group has processes in place for communicating Related party transactions andconsulting with all its employees so that their views Refer to note 32 of the consolidated financial statements canbe taken into account in making decisions which are fora description of related party transactions in the likely to affect their interests and so that employees are reporting period.
made aware of any financial and economic factors affecting the Companys performance.
Employee communications include information about the performance of the Group, on major matters affecting their work, employment or workplace.
The Group has also developed an intranet, which assists in communicating with employees across borders and provides key information to all Group employees.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 106 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures Significant contractual arrangements Company from complying with its obligations under the On 19 May 2014 the Company entered into relationship Listing Rules, provided that this shall not prevent Claremont agreements with Claremont Holdings C. V. Claremont or any other person from: i accepting a takeover offer the Claremont Relationship Agreement and forthe Company made in accordance with the City Code KazStroyService Global B. V. KSS Global the KSS Global aTakeover Offer in relation to their respective interests Relationship Agreement and together with the Claremont in the Company or, where such Takeover Offer is made Relationship Agreement, the Relationship Agreements byway of a scheme of arrangement under Part 26 of the to regulate in part the degree of influence that Claremont Companies Act a CA2006 Scheme, voting in favour of and KSS Global and their affiliates may exercise over the such CA2006 Scheme at the court and related shareholder management of the Company.
The principal purposes of meetings or otherwise agreeing to sell their Ordinary the Relationship Agreements are to ensure that the Sharesin connection with a Takeover Offer: or ii making Company is capable at all times of carrying on its business aTakeover Offer by way of a general offer for all the independently of Claremont and KSS Global and their outstanding Ordinary Shares or by way of a CA2006 affiliates and that all of the Companys transactions and Scheme and fide-listing the Company after such Takeover relationships with Claremont and KSS Global and its Offer has become wholly unconditional or, in the case of affiliates are at arms length and on normal commercial aCA2006 Scheme, after it has become effective f it will terms.
not, and will procure that its affiliates will not, influence the day-to-day running of the Company at an operational level Pursuant to its terms each of the Relationship Agreements or hold or acquire a material shareholding in one or more will continue until the earlier of a the Ordinary Shares significant subsidiaries of the Company: and g it will ceasing to be admitted to the Official List of the Financial exercise its voting rights in such a manner as to procure to Conduct Authority and to trading on the London Stock the extent possible : i at least half of the Board comprises Exchange or b Claremont and or KSS Global together independent directors excluding the chairman of the with any of their affiliates ceasing to be entitled to exercise, Board : ii the Audit Committee shall comprise entirely or to control the exercise of, 10% or more of the rights to independent directors and the Remuneration Committee vote at the Companys general meetings.
shall comprise not less than three independent directors: Terms of the Claremont Relationship Agreement and iii the Nomination Committee and any other committee of the Board to which significant powers, Under the Claremont Relationship Agreement, Claremont has agreed that a it will, and will procure its affiliates to, authorities or discretions are delegated shall at all times consist of a majority of independent directors.
allow the business and affairs of the Company and the Group to be operated in the best interests of the Terms of the KSS Global Relationship Agreement shareholders as a whole b it will, and will procure its Under the KSS Global Relationship Agreement, KSS Global affiliates will, allow the Company and its affiliates at all has agreed that a it will, and will procure its affiliates will, timesto carry on its business independently of Claremont allow the Company and its affiliates at all times to carry on and its affiliates c it will not, and will procure its affiliates its business independently of KSS Global and its affiliates willnot, act in any way which shall prejudice the ability b it will not, and will procure its affiliates will not, act in any oftheCompany and its affiliates to carry on its business way which shall prejudice the ability of the Company and independently of Claremont or its affiliates d it will, and itsaffiliates to carry on its business independently of KSS willprocure its affiliates to, allow the Company to be Global or its affiliates c it will comply with, and will procure managed in accordance with the Corporate Governance its affiliates comply with, the Disclosure and Transparency Code to the extent and on such terms as may be Rules in respect of its interests in the Ordinary Shares d it determined by the Board and to comply with any further will not, and will procure its affiliates will not, take any action amendments or supplements to the Corporate or omit to take any action to prejudice the Companys GovernanceCode as may be adopted by the Board, status as a listed company or its suitability for listing under anditacknowledges its obligations under, and agrees the Listing Rules after Admission has occurred or the tocomplywith, and will procure its affiliates comply with, Companys ongoing compliance with the Listing Rules theDisclosure and Transparency Rules in respect of its andthe Disclosure and Transparency Rules or have the interests in the Ordinary Shares e it will not, and will effect of preventing the Company from complying with procure its affiliates will not, take any action or omit to take itsobligations under the Listing Rules, provided that this any action to prejudice the Companys status as a listed shall not prevent KSS Global or any other person from: company or its suitability for listing under the Listing Rules i accepting a Takeover Offer for the Company in relation after Admission has occurred or the Companys ongoing totheir respective interests in the Company or, where such compliance with the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Takeover Offer is made by way of a CA2006 Scheme, voting Transparency Rules or have the effect of preventing the in favour of such CA2006 Scheme at the court and related Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 107 Directors Report continued shareholder meetings or otherwise agreeing to sell their Change of control Ordinary Shares in connection with a Takeover Offer: or The following are significant agreements the Company ii making a Takeover Offer by way of a general offer for hasentered into which would be affected on a change allthe outstanding Ordinary Shares or by way of a CA2006 ofcontrol of the Company following a takeover: Scheme and fide-listing the Company after such Takeover, Q WKH HYHQW RI D WDNHRYHU RI WKH &RPSDQ DOO RSWLRQV Offer has become wholly unconditional or, in the case of under the Companys employee share option plan shall aCA2006 Scheme, after it has become effective e it will bedeemed to have vested and the Board shall direct not, and will procure that its affiliates will not, influence the ElianEmployee Benefit Trustee Limited to allow each day-to-day running of the Company at an operational level optionholder to exercise his or her options at any time or hold or acquire a material shareholding in one or more from the date of the change of control up to the tenth significant subsidiaries of the Company and f it will exercise anniversary of the date of grant.
Any options that have its voting rights in such a manner as to procure to the notbeen exercised will lapse at the end of this period.
extentpossible : i at least half of the Board comprises independent directors excluding the chairman of the 7KH %RQGV DQG WKH %RQGV FRQWDLQ FKDQJH Board : ii the Audit Committee shall comprise entirely ofcontrol provisions.
If a change of control occurs the independent directors and the Remuneration Committee Company will be required to offer to repurchase the 2019 shall comprise not less than three independent directors: Bonds and the New 2019 Bonds at 101% of their principal and iii the Nomination and Governance Committee and amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date any other committee of the Board to which significant ofpurchase.
powers, authorities or discretions are delegated shall at Greenhouse gases alltimes consist of a majority of independent directors.
Information regarding the Groups greenhouse gas Deed of adherence with Mayfair Investments B. V. emissions for activities for which the Group is responsible On 30 January 2015 KSS Global transferred its 50 million isset out on pages 45 to 47. ordinary shares in the Company as follows: a 48,333,300 Corporate governance statement shares to Mayfair Investments B. V. Mayfair, a company Pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7, certain indirectly owned by KSS Globals three principal parts of the corporate governance statement are required shareholders on the date of the transfer, and b 1,666,700 to be outlined in the directors report.
This information shares to KSS Globals other shareholder on such date.
islaid out in the corporate governance section of this In connection with such transfer, Mayfair entered into Annual Report.
Information regarding the main features aDeed of Adherence with Nostrum pursuant to which oftheCompanys internal control and risk management Mayfair has undertaken to Nostrum to be bound by the arrangements in relation to the financial reporting process KSSGlobal Relationship Agreement in all respects and to can be found in the strategic report and the report of the observe and perform all of the provisions and obligations Audit Committee.
ofsuch relationship agreement previously applicable to or Going concern binding on KSS Global in so far as they fall to be observed The financial position and performance of the Company or performed on or after the date of the transfer.
and the Group and its cash flows are set out in the financial review section of this annual report on pages 48 to 57.
The going concern statement required by the Listing Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code is set out in the notes to the consolidated audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 108 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures Requirements of the listing rules The following table provides references to where the information required by listing rule 9.8.
Listing rule requirement A statement of the amount of interest capitalised by the Group Please refer to note 8 in the financial statements.
during the period under review with an indication of the amount and treatment of any related tax relief.
Any information required by LR 9.2.
18R publication of unaudited Not applicable.
Details of any long-term incentive schemes as required by LR 9.4.
Details of any arrangements under which a director of the company No such waivers.
has waived or agreed to waive any emoluments from the company or any subsidiary undertaking.
Where a director has agreed to waive future emoluments, details of such waiver together with those relating to emoluments which were waived during the period under review.
Details required in the case of any allotment for cash of equity No such share allotments.
securities made during the period under review otherwise than to the holders of the companys equity shares in proportion to their holdings of such equity shares and which has not been specifically authorised by the companys shareholders.
Where a listed company has listed shares in issue and is a subsidiary Not applicable.
undertaking of another company, details of the participation by the parent undertaking in any placing made during the period under review.
Details of any contract of significance subsisting during the period Please refer to the Directors Report.
under review: a to which the listed company, or one of its subsidiary undertakings, is a party and in which a director of the listed company is or was materially interested: and b between the listed company, or one of its subsidiary undertakings, and a controlling shareholder.
Details of contracts for the provision of services to the Company Not applicable.
orany of its subsidiary undertakings by the controlling shareholder, unless: a it is a contract for the provision of services which it is the principal business of the shareholder to provide: and b it is not a contract of significance.
Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has waived Under the trust deed relating to the Phantom share or agreed to waive any dividends, where a shareholder has agreed option plan, the trustee has agreed to waive any to waive future dividends, details of such waiver together with those dividends on shares held under the Phantom share relating to dividends which are payable during the period under option plan.
Board statement in respect of relationship agreement with the Not applicable as the Company does not have controlling shareholder.
acontrolling shareholder within the definition under Listing Rule 6.1.
2A R, however, please see Directors Report for details of relationship agreements the Company has entered into with certain shareholders.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 109 Directors Report continued Important events since the end of the financial year Following a FTSE quarterly market capitalisation review the Company was moved from the FTSE 250 Index to the FTSESmall Cap Index effective as of 21 March 2016.
Major events after 31 December 2015 are disclosed in note 36 to the consolidated audited financial statements.
This report was approved by the Board on 22 March 2016.
On behalf of the Board Kai-Uwe Kessel Jan-Ru Muller Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 29 March 2016 29 March 2016 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 11 0 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures Responsibility statement To the best of the directors knowledge The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and applicable law and regulations.
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and The directors are required by the Companies Act 2006 profit or loss of the issuer and the undertakings included toprepare accounts for each financial year and, with in the consolidation taken as a whole: and regardsto Group accounts, in accordance with Article 4 b the management report includes a fair review of the ofthe IAS Regulation.
The directors have prepared development and performance of the business and the individual accounts in accordance with IFRS as adopted position of the Company and the undertakings included bythe EU.
The accounts are required by law and IFRS to in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with present fairly the financial position of the Company and the adescription of the principal risks and uncertainties that Group and the performance for that period.
must not approve such accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs By order of the Board oftheCompany and the consolidated Group.
The Directors consider that the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, supported by reasonable judgements and estimates, in preparing the financial statements, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
Having taken all the matters considered by the Board and Kai-Uwe Kessel Jan-Ru Muller brought to the attention of the Board during the year into Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer account, and having reviewed the Annual Report including 29 March 2016 29 March 2016 the strategic report, the directors consider the Annual Report and accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable, providing the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The directors have responsibility for: HQVXULQJ WKDW WKH &RPSDQ DQG WKH URXS NHHS accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006: WDNLQJ VXFK VWHSV DV DUH UHDVRQDEO RSHQ WR WKHP WR safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities: and WKH PDLQWHQDQFH DQG LQWHJULW RI WKH FRUSRUDWH DQG 1 financial information on the Companys website.
1 Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 111 Consolidated Group financial statements Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 11 11 2 2 Annual Report 2015
