com stock code: NTG Our business model Flexible rental How we operate We have identified a Operating a fleet of vehicles is both In order to provide the best possible clear market need, and a crucial but potentially costly part of service to customers, as well as our model ensures we many businesses.
Flexible rental allows maximising returns, our business model offer the best solution.
customers to rent the type of vehicle focuses on the process of sustaining they require for the length of time they our fleet of vehicles through its rental need it.
There are a number of reasons life cycle.
why flexible rental may be the best option for our customers fleet needs.
These are shown in the table below.
Factor Explanation Need met by No capital or contractual No capital commitment frees up customers cash for them to invest commitment elsewhere.
No contractual commitment avoids the risk of customers F being burdened with a vehicle they may no longer require.
No mileage penalties Pricing is agreed based upon understanding of our customers business.
Punitive charges are not imposed for exceeding absolute F mileage limits on each vehicle.
No residual market risk Fluctuations in the values of used vehicles would otherwise increase uncertainty to our customers.
We manage the risk of F C residual values through our disposal network.
Ability to flex vehicle size Our customers vehicle needs vary and so flexible rental allows them to change the size and type of vehicle to match the demands F on their business at any given time.
Inclusive of maintenance The costs of maintaining a vehicle can soon mount up, increasing the overall cost of vehicle ownership.
With flexible rental we take F C on the responsibility of servicing and maintenance.
24 7 support Our national networks of branches and workshops provide 24 7 support, with replacement vehicles on hand to keep customers on F C the move.
No early termination costs We recognise that elements of our customers business are unpredictable.
Customers are therefore able to return vehicles as F and when the need arises without being penalised.
C KEY: F Flexible Contract hire Purchase 23963.02 17 July 2015 3:08 PM Proof 7 MANAGE E L B A N STRATEGIC Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts REPORT for the year ended 30 April 2015 18 19 Buy MANAge | Knowledge of our customers enables us to | Network of branches across the UK offer the vehicles they need and Spain | We benefit from our size to negotiate pricing | Delivering flexible, hassle free and trusted directly with manufacturers service to our customers | Purchases are balanced against sales to | Ensuring vehicle availability meets demand optimise the age, condition and utilisation | Maintaining vehicles to a high standard of vehicles through our national networks of maintenance facilities SELL SeLL | Proven process for assessing when a vehicle should be sold | We offer the widest range of vehicles available in the market | Use of optimal disposal routes retail, trade or auction | Established and growing Van Monster retail operation 23963.02 17 July 2015 3:08 PM Proof 7 I A T S U S BUY
