Strategic Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 5.
Our Business Model and Partners get bigger our relative purchasing position also Ocado is a Pure-Play Case Study improves.
The efficiencies inherent in our model Morrisons One Year On Online Operator increasingly outweigh any purchasing disadvantage Ocado is entirely focused on online activities.
We we may have due to our relative small scale today.
are not burdened by a legacy estate of existing 25 year agreement to provide technology, Our Platform Operating Model supermarkets, which are facing declining sales infrastructure and operating services volumes, margin pressure and less flexibility to Ocado has developed an entire end-to-end to launch and operate Morrisons.
com, invest in the customer proposition.
solution for operating online in the grocery market, the online business of Wm Morrison vertically integrated across software and physical Supermarkets PLC, becoming the first Since formation we have developed a unique solutions.
We are able to replicate these capabilities customer of our broader platform end-to-end platform solution for online retailing.
for partners in other markets at a significantly lower Our know-how and expertise allows us to provide a Morrisons.
com was successfully launched cost and with higher efficiency than alternative best in class proposition to both our consumer and on 10 January 2014 in a very quick time options available in the market.
Morrisons is our corporate customers, delivering continued growth frame with attractive cost economics and first customer of our broader platform following in the UK market and monetisation opportunities best in class service the launch of Morrisons.
com in January 2014 see through international platform partnerships.
com operates from our Dordon Our business comprises retail and platform CFC on a shared basis with our own retail Ocado Smart Platform is offered as a managed operations, both enabled by our proprietary business and utilises our technology service capability to partners internationally, technology and IP.
Creating virtuous cycles and platform from the user interfaces to harnessing the capabilities of our platform with monetisation benefits from our business is core to optimising the delivery and routing partners local retailing skills and attributes, enabling building long-term shareholder value.
schedules to the customer them to build sustainable, scalable and profitable online grocery businesses in their own markets.
com has Our Retail Operating Model developed well, announcing a sales run Our objective is to operate a high quality service at Ocado Smart Platform offers partners a faster, rate of 200 million after just 12 months the lowest possible cost and to create a virtuous flexible, lower risk and more cost efficient way of operations and continuing to grow well.
cycle between growth, innovation, efficiency of entering or improving their online grocery Crucially for Morrisons, the agreement has and investment.
We achieve this through business.
enabled them to develop their own online combining three key elements the aggregation business, maintaining and enhancing their of scale into single facilities, the automation of Read more about Ocado Smart Platform on pages 10 and 11 relationship with their customers, their data, many processes, and application of proprietary and suppliers technology to remove significant costs commonly incurred by store-based retailers.
com takes all commercial Suppliers and Operational Partners decisions regarding marketing, range, price Our centralised approach allows us to aggregate We have built strong relationships with our and promotions.
It continues to operate greater scale into single locations, and to invest in suppliers, which include global consumer product from our Dordon CFC and utilise many of automation to replace many of the manual tasks companies supplying branded ranges as well our spoke operations.
We utilise our proprietary end-toas food producers supplying our private label end technology platform to optimise our entire Morrisons Annual Report, March 2015 selections, and smaller local, niche, international operation from the user interfaces, the stock and and specialty suppliers.
We currently work with order processing systems, through to the final nearly 2,000 different suppliers spanning large delivery to customers homes.
Our model enables and small British and international companies to us to invest in the proposition to customers supply our Ocado, Fetch and Sizzle banners.
and allows a wider range at competitive prices In February 2015, we announced a partnership to together with a market leading service.
develop a premium beauty business alongside Marie Our improving proposition enables us to grow Claire, which we intend to launch later this year.
faster, and with increasing scale we benefit from Waitrose improved efficiencies and expanding margins, which can be used to further invest in the We enjoy a long-term sourcing agreement to 2020 proposition to encourage more growth.
As we with the UK retailer Waitrose part of the John Lewis Partnership.
This combines our respective product volumes to improve supply terms, and enables us to sell Waitrose branded products on Ocado.
We pay Waitrose a sourcing fee under the agreement.
Read about Our Strategy on See the KPIs that measure the pages 16 to 23 success of our strategy on page 36 12 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Strategic Report Ocados Virtuous Cycles Investment Eiciency Growth Growth Innovation Retail Corporate Customers Customers Eiciency Investment Our business model framework comprising retail and platform operations Retail Platform Market leading service End-to-end platform solution to run online grocery Proposition operations Order accuracy Provided as a managed service On time Ease of use Extensive range and fresh products Competitive prices and low delivery fees Constantly improving proposition Continued channel shift to online gathering pace Growth globally Drivers Innovation and technology led service and usability improvements Competitive threat Investment into range and price competitiveness Constantly improving quality of Ocado Smart Platform proposition External technology developments e. g mobile Service priced to encourage partners online growth Product sales Fee structure Economic Model Supplier income One off in nature Delivery income Recurring Product margins Continually reduce cost of providing the service Morrisons agreement terms structured differently to Ocado Operating efficiencies Smart Platform but similar principles.
