Strategic Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 6.
Our Marketplace The UK is the worlds most penetrated market The Continuing Channel Shift Size of the UK Retail Market for online grocery IGD and set to continue Online was the fastest growing channel for grocery The size of the UK grocery market is substantial.
growing at a rapid pace and innovation.
Online distribution in 2015 as customers continued to IGD estimates that in the year to April 2015, UK and discount formats are forecast to account for migrate to online shopping.
Research published grocery sales reached almost 178 billion and a combined contribution of 80% of UK industry by IGD suggests that online will remain the fastest is expected to increase in value by 13% to growth in the next five years.
growing channel in the UK, with sales projected to 201 billion over the next five years.
almost double by 2020 as consumers increasingly Global Retail Opportunities The so-called big box stores supermarkets, appreciate the advantages of shopping for groceries superstores and hypermarkets still account for There are also significant opportunities outside online.
IGD estimates that currently around 5% of UK around 60% IGD of all grocery sales, but have of the UK.
Grocery is the largest segment in grocery shopping is online, amounting to 8.9 billion continued to report slowing sales, and in many global retail with an estimated global grocery in sales, and anticipates that this will grow to 8.6% of cases absolute declines.
market size of $9 trillion, growing to $12 trillion the market by 2020. by 2020 IGD, August 2015.
Global grocery retail Growth in grocery retail has traditionally been Technology will continue to shape the future of has undergone a number of changes, and the driven by the space race model for growth, grocery, and is playing a major role in accelerating adoption of the digital channel, which historically characterised by the opening of new store space the channel shift to online as retailers can leverage has been slower than in the UK, is expected to in the form of new stores or extension of existing technology to satisfy the rising trend of anytime play an increasingly important role.
The relatively expensive real estate which and anywhere shopping.
huge market opportunities on a global scale.
See is frequently tied up in long leases requires a the 10 largest online grocery markets globally on The dramatic impact the online channel has had growing customer footfall to be economically the opposite page.
in other retail segments, such as books, music and attractive.
Recent industry dynamics have clothing, emphasises the significant opportunities shifted towards the rapid growth of new store Time pressed shoppers are increasingly using for online in grocery.
formats, notably hard discount and convenience mobile technology, driving global demand for stores, growing significantly ahead of traditional online grocery shopping, supported by very With online, there is the opportunity to improve supermarkets by driving a particular element of fast broadband, wireless and extensive cellular every element of the proposition for the customer, the proposition to customers, namely price or network coverage.
giving the benefits of more convenience, better convenience.
service and greater usability, wider choice of We believe the attractions of shopping products and strong value for money.
With There has also been continued significant growth online should appeal as much to consumers each element of the proposition improving, and in online grocery shopping.
This shift in channel, internationally as those in the UK.
enabled by ever improving technology advances, away from physical shops, is potentially the most more customers are encouraged to adopt this significant.
At Ocado, we are at the forefront of, and benefit from, this channel shift in the grocery industry.
com Strategic Report However, unless the overall proposition offered Ocado Smart Platform Uniquely Online Retail Sales Europe to consumers is relatively more attractive to Positioned to Take Advantage bn customers than the existing store option, then Ocado Smart Platform offers an entire end-toadoption will be slower.
Online requires high end solution for operating online in the grocery levels of service to be attractive.
If customers are market, vertically integrated across software and not offered a fast, reliable and accurate service physical solutions.
It is offered as a managed with high levels of freshness and availability service capability to partners internationally, with of products at a similar price to the bricks and the intention to harness the capabilities of our mortar competition, then few are likely to adopt platform with partners local retailing skills and the online channel.
attributes, enabling them to build sustainable, In the UK, where the proposition online has scalable and profitable online grocery businesses become increasingly attractive compared with in their own markets.
the existing store channels, adoption continues The Ocado Smart Platform offers partners a to grow.
With Ocado as the clearly focused purefaster, flexible, lower risk and more cost efficient play operator in the market taking service to new Source: Centre for Retail Research way of entering or improving their business in levels, others have also had to offer improved online grocery.
By offering the only fully integrated services, usability and interfaces, which in turn Online Retail Sales US end-to-end platform available, we are uniquely drives market growth.
positioned to take advantage of the growing bn However, there are great differences in how food is global trend of online food shopping.
purchased across the world and grocery retailing should in many ways be considered a local business.
While product brands can be global in nature, customer preferences, retail brand recognition and loyalty are driven locally.
Equally as important is product-sourcing capability, which Read more about Ocado Smart Platform on pages 10 to 11 tends to be managed through local account managers, and the value of sourcing local produce speaks for itself.
Source: Centre for Retail Research Top 10 Online Grocery Markets 2015 2020 estimate 1.
