Governance Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 14.
Board of Directors Lord Rose Tim Steiner Duncan Tatton-Brown Chairman, 66 Chief Executive Officer, 46 Chief Financial Officer, 50 Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 11 March 2013 13 April 2000 1 September 2012 Committee Membership Relevant Experience External Appointments Nomination Tim is the founding Chief Executive Officer of Ocado, which Senior Independent Director and Audit Committee Chairman he started in 2000.
Prior to Ocado, he spent eight years as a of Zoopla Property Group plc External Appointments banker at Goldman Sachs, during which time he was based Chairman of Fat Face Group Limited: Chairman of Oasis Relevant Experience in London, Hong Kong and New York in the Fixed Income Healthcare Limited: Chairman of Stylemania Limited, trading Prior to joining Ocado, Duncan was Chief Financial Officer division.
Tim graduated from Manchester University in as Dressipi: Non-Executive Director of RM2 International S. A. of Fitness First plc, and previously Group Finance Director of 1992 with an honours degree in Economics, Finance and listed on AIM: Non-Executive Director of Woolworths Holdings Kingfisher plc, one of the worlds largest home improvement Accountancy.
Limited, listed in South Africa retailers.
He has also been Finance Director of B&Q plc, Chief Financial Officer of Virgin Entertainment Group and held Relevant Experience various senior finance positions at Burton Group Plc.
Duncan Lord Rose has worked in retail for over 40 years.
He has holds a masters degree in Engineering from Kings College, held Chief Executive Officer positions at Argos plc, Booker Cambridge.
He is also a member of the Chartered Institute of plc, Arcadia Group plc and Marks and Spencer plc.
Chairman of Marks and Spencer plc from 2008 to 2011.
Lord Rose was recently appointed chairman of the Britain Stronger in Europe campaign, which aims to keep Britain in the EU.
Lord Rose was knighted in 2008 for services to the retail industry and corporate social responsibility, and granted a life peerage in August 2014.
Mark Richardson Neill Abrams David Grigson Group General Counsel and Non-Executive Director and Chief Operations Officer, 51 Company Secretary, 51 Senior Independent Director, 61 Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 3 February 2012 8 September 2000 9 March 2010 External Appointments External Appointments Committee Membership Non-Executive Director at Paneltex Limited Non-Executive Director of Mr Price Group Limited, listed in Audit, Remuneration, Nomination Chairman South Africa Relevant Experience External Appointments Mark was Head of Technology at Ocado from 2001 until Relevant Experience Chairman of Trinity Mirror plc: Chairman of Investis Limited: he joined the Board in 2012.
He is responsible for the Neill has been a Director since 2000, having advised Ocado Director Trustee of the Dolma Development Fund day-to-day running of the Ocado operation, including since its founding.
He has Board responsibility for legal, Relevant Experience CFCs, logistics developments, customer service, business insurance, risk management, human resources and CR.
Prior David has held a number of posts, including Chief Financial planning, engineering and technology.
Mark is a Director of to Ocado, he was a barrister in practice at One Essex Court Officer at Reuters Group Plc, Group Finance Director at Emap plc, Paneltex Limited, a company in which the Group holds a 25% and spent nine years at Goldman Sachs in London in the Chairman of EMAP Digital Limited, Chairman of Creston plc and shareholding.
Prior to joining Ocado, Mark held a number of investment banking and legal departments.
Neill holds BA Non-Executive Director of Carphone Warehouse plc.
He graduated IT positions at the John Lewis Partnership, including Head and LLB degrees from the University of the Witwatersrand from the University of Manchester with a degree in Economics, of Selling Systems at Waitrose.
He graduated from University in Johannesburg and a masters degree in Law from Sidney and is also a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of College, London with a degree in Physics.
He is a member of the Bar of England and Wales.
England and Wales, the New York Bar and a South Africa Advocate.
50 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Governance Ruth Anderson Douglas McCallum Alex Mahon Non-Executive Director, 62 Non-Executive Director, 49 Non-Executive Director, 42 Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 9 March 2010 3 October 2011 1 June 2012 Committee Membership Committee Members Committee Membership Audit Chairman, Remuneration, Nomination Remuneration Chairman, Nomination Audit, Nomination External Appointments External Appointments External Appointments Non-Executive Director of Travis Perkins plc: Non-Executive Chairman of Trainline.
com Limited, trading as trainline: Chief Executive Officer of the Foundry Visionmongers Limited, Director of Coats Group plc: Non-Executive Director of The Chairman of Photobox Holdco Limited, trading as photobox: trading as The Foundry: Non-Executive Director of the Royal Parks, an executive agency of the Department of Cabinet Office Digital Advisory Board: President of eBay for Edinburgh TV Festival Culture, Media and Sport: Director and Trustee of The Duke of Charity Relevant Experience Edinburghs Award Relevant Experience Alex was appointed the Chief Executive Officer of the leading Relevant Experience Douglas has been a pioneer of the Internet industry for a design and visual effects software firm, the Foundry, in Since retiring from KPMG seven years ago Ruth has gained number of years, having been at eBay Inc. from 2001 to 2014, November 2015.
Alex was previously CEO of Shine Group, a non-executive director experience at three UK listed where he led the UK business and then turned around the global television content production company that is now companies and chairs the audit committee at all three.
Prior to joining eBay Inc. he was part of a joint venture between 21st Century Fox and Apollo was a vice-chairman of the accounting and advisory firm founder and general manager of a number of businesses in Global.
Before Shine Group, Alex spent seven years in the KPMG in the UK from 2004 to 2009 and a member of the KPMG the Internet, broadcasting, software and hardware industries.
television industry at talkbackTHAMES, FremantleMedia and UK board from 1998 to 2004, where she was a member of the Douglas read Politics, Philosophy and Economics at the RTL Group.
Previously she worked in the Internet sector as a audit committee and chaired the nomination committee.
At University of Oxford, and has an MBA from Harvard Business consultant.
She holds a Physics degree from Imperial College, KPMG she advised many UK and international businesses School.
London and a Physics PhD from Imperial College and the and she is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Institute of Cancer Research.
England and Wales and a member of the Chartered Institute of Taxation.
Jrn Rausing Robert Gorrie Non-Executive Director, 55 Non-Executive Director, 56 Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 13 March 2003 1 April 2000 Committee Membership Committee Membership Nomination Nomination External Appointments External Appointments Group Board Member of Tetra Laval, and Chairman of its Chairman of Tyres on the Drive Limited Remuneration Committee: Board Member of Alfa Laval AB: Relevant Experience Board Member of DeLaval Holdings AB Robert originally joined the Board in 2000 as Logistics Relevant Experience Director, before becoming a Non-Executive Director in 2006.
Jrn has over 25 years experience in corporate development He was previously Group Director of Information Technology and international mergers and acquisitions.
Jrn holds a at Transport Development Group plc, where he spent ten degree in Business Administration from Lund University, years in a variety of commercial and operational roles.
to that Robert spent ten years in North America with the logistics service business Christian Salvesen PLC, where he reached the position of Director of Business Development.
Robert graduated from Corpus Christi College, Oxford with an honours degree in Modern History and Economics.
