com Directors Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration Implementation of Policy for 2016 Introduction This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out implementation of the Directors Remuneration Policy for 2016.
Summary of Changes for Executive Directors This table briefly summarises the proposals for the Directors remuneration arrangements for 2016 when compared to the arrangements for the period.
Base Salary and Benefits Pension AIP Long-Term Incentives All-Employee Schemes Base salary will be subject No changes proposed No change to the maximum No change to the maximum New invitation to to annual review.
opportunity, measures or opportunity or measures for participate in Sharesave.
Ongoing participation in the SIP.
Base Salary and Benefits The Remuneration Committee expects to finalise its annual review of the Executive Directors base salaries later in 2016, in line with the timing of pay reviews for all of the Groups employees.
The benefits in kind offered to the Executive Directors are expected to remain unchanged.
Pensions Pension contributions for the Executive Directors are expected to remain in line with the Directors Remuneration Policy.
2016 AIP The Remuneration Committee approved the implementation of an AIP for the Executive Directors applicable to the 2015 2016 financial year.
This plan broadly reflects the framework of the 2015 AIP and is line with the Directors Remuneration Policy.
The bonus potential for the Executive Directors is 100% and for the Chief Executive Officer is 125% of base salary for maximum performance, which is the same as the 2015 AIP.
The weighting of objectives in the 2016 AIP is the same as the 2015 plan, with 35% for a Gross Sales target, 35% for a Group EBITDA target and 30% for performance measured against role-specific objectives.
The Gross Sales target relates to the Groups retail sales and does not include any income or benefits from the Morrisons operation.
The rationale for setting these performance measures has not changed from 2015.
For an explanation, see the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 101.
The actual performance targets are not disclosed due to their commercial sensitivity on the basis that if disclosed it would likely damage the Companys commercial interests.
The Company will disclose achievement against the targets after the end of the performance period, provided such disclosure is not considered commercially sensitive at the time.
2016 LTIP Awards The Remuneration Committee approved the making of awards under the LTIP for the Executive Directors for the 2015 2016 financial year.
The amount of the LTIP awards is based on a percentage of salary, expected to be broadly in line with the percentages agreed for the 2015 LTIP awards and in line with the Directors Remuneration Policy.
As with the 2015 LTIP awards, the Remuneration Committee proposes to make 2016 LTIP award grants subject to earnings before tax and Revenue performance conditions in respect of the retail business, as well as two measurable financial targets linked to the economic efficiency of the new proprietary infrastructure solution.
Each performance condition will have a 25% weighting.
No LTIP award will vest unless a threshold level of performance condition has been achieved.
At threshold performance for a performance target, 6.25% of an LTIP award will vest and at maximum performance, 25% of an LTIP award will vest.
Full vesting will occur where exceptional performance levels have been achieved and significant shareholder value created.
The Company will disclose achievement against targets after the end of the performance period, provided such disclosure is not considered commercially sensitive at the time.
115 slugline Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 20.
Directors Remuner ation Report continued SIP The Executive Directors are expected to continue their participation in the SIP scheme in 2016.
Sharesave The Executive Directors will be invited to participate in the next offer of Sharesave, expected to be made in 2016.
Changes for Non-Executive Directors and Chairman The review of remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman will be finalised in line with the timing of pay reviews for all of the Groups employees.
Shareholder Approval and Votes at AGM The 2015 Directors Remuneration Report will be subject to a shareholder vote at the AGM.
Entitlement of a Director to remuneration is not made conditional on this resolution being passed.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman is committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue on Directors remuneration and takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
In the event of a substantial vote against a resolution in relation to the Directors Remuneration Report, the Directors Remuneration Policy or a new share scheme, the Company would seek to understand the reasons for any such vote and would detail in the announcement of the results of voting any actions it intends to take to understand the reasons behind the vote result and also note this in the next annual report.
The Remuneration Committee considers that a vote against that exceeds 20% should be considered significant and requires explanation.
The Directors Remuneration Report received significant shareholder votes against it 19.39% at the annual general meeting in May 2015 see the table on the opposite page for the voting outcomes for the resolutions regarding remuneration at the previous annual general meeting.
The Chairman had consulted with many of the Companys larger shareholders on the Directors Remuneration Policy and other key remuneration changes prior to the 2015 annual general meeting.
Accordingly, the Company was aware of some shareholders ongoing primary concerns with the Companys remuneration arrangements, including transparency of the AIP and LTIP performance conditions.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed its policy concerning target disclosure and agreed to provide additional target disclosure.
The Remuneration Committee agreed to a new policy, namely that the Company provide retrospective disclosure of actual targets for Executive Director incentive schemes, provided that such disclosure did not comprise commercially sensitive targets.
The Company Secretary sought feedback from a number of larger shareholders who had voted against the Directors Remuneration Report resolution at the annual general meeting in May 2015, on the proposal to provide greater share scheme target transparency.
The additional target disclosure is set out in this Annual Report.
The Remuneration Committee will continue to seek the views of shareholders on any significant changes to the Directors remuneration arrangements or any proposed exercises of discretion in relation thereto.
116 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Directors Remuneration Report The table below sets out the actual voting in respect of resolutions regarding remuneration at the three previous annual general meetings.
It has been drawn up in accordance with the Companies Act and the Code, the Regulations, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
In accordance with section 497 of the Companies Act and the Regulations, certain parts of this Directors Remuneration Report where indicated have been audited by the Companys auditors,  LLP.
A copy of this Directors Remuneration Report will be available on the Companys corporate website.
This Directors Remuneration Report is approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Douglas McCallum Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Ocado Group plc 2 February 2016 117 slugline Our Financials Independent Auditors Report Group 120 Consolidated Income Statement 127 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 128 Consolidated Balance Sheet 129 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 130 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 131 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 132 Independent Auditors Report Company 175 Company Balance Sheet 177 Company Statement of Cash Flows 178 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 179 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 180 118 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM 119 24283.02 Proof 2 2 February 2016 12:06 AM
