Strategic Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 7.
Our Strategy We build shareholder value by constantly developing our innovative world leading platform for our own grocery and general merchandise businesses, and those of our commercial partners.
Our strategic objectives of delivering growth, maximising efficiency and utilising proprietary knowledge are intended to deliver long term value creation.
We deliver our strategic objectives through a number of complementary actions applicable to each objective.
Each of our objectives and actions are consistent with our focus of delivering the best possible service for our retail and corporate customers at the lowest possible cost.
Objectives Utilising Driving Maximising Proprietary Growth Efficiency Knowledge Constantly strive to improve the Continually improving economic and Leverage intellectual property to constantly attractiveness of what we offer to our operating performance of our business develop competitive advantages across our customers, both consumer and corporate, model through development of technology business to build long term shareholder and broaden awareness of this to a wider and operational knowledge value.
set of potential customers Read more about Driving Growth Read more about Maximising Read more about Utilising Proprietary on pages 18 and 19 Efficiency on pages 20 and 21 Knowledge on pages 22 and 23 16 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Strategic Report Actions Develop ever Enable Constantly more capital and Enhance Morrisons and improve Strengthen our operationally end-to-end future partners proposition to brands efficient technology online customers infrastructure systems business solutions For our retail Developing and Operating efficiency Continually Formulating the right customers, this reinforcing brand optimising improving the commercial platform is centred on the values to the fulfilment and technology we use proposition to add three core pillars of appropriate customer delivery operations, through constant significant value for the proposition to groups, retail and measured using innovation partners customers service, corporate appropriate KPIs Using the Ensure new range and price Brand strength Capital efficiency developments of our innovations used in For our corporate supported by strong lowering the capital extensive technology our retail business are customers, it execution for existing costs of operating full and engineering embedded into our is embedding customers service online grocery teams to improve our platform for partners improvements to our operations, improving end-to-end process retail proposition our own economics used in our own retail into Ocado Smart and enabling us to business and our Platform offer our platform at platform attractive prices Read more about Actions in the See the KPIs that measure the Read about How We Manage Our CEOs Review on pages 24 to 29 success of our strategy on page 36 Risks on pages 38 to 41 17 slugline Strategic Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 7.
Driving Growth Service and Ease of Use We strive to exceed customer expectations of our Our Businesses service levels, and to remain at the forefront of We believe that our growth is driven by the quality the market by delivering an industry leading and 47,000 of the proposition provided to our customers.
This consistent service for our customers.
is equally applicable to our retail operations as to 2014: 43,000 Consistent order reliability is essential for our platform business, providing our technology customers who expect to receive their shop on SKUs available at Ocado.
com and infrastructure solution to other retailers to time, delivered as ordered and within a one-hour enable their online businesses.
Average Orders per Week time slot of their choice.
High stock availability The quality of the proposition we offer is enabled and minimal substitutions also remain key to and supported by continuing technology and the customer experience.
We offer customers engineering developments across our business.
full flexibility by offering one-hour delivery time slots seven days a week, with a wide number of Our Retail Businesses slots available from 6am until 11.30pm.
Next day A positive shopping experience is critical to delivery is available to all customers, with same encouraging consumers to try our service and to day delivery slots in some of our catchment areas.
195,000 return to us for future shops.
Our focus remains on 2014: 167,000 We have always operated our own delivery improving our customers shopping experience fleet, as we feel this is a part of our service too through the quality of our service, the freshness of important to contract out to third parties.
We pride our products and breadth and availability of range, ourselves in having our own Customer Service and competitiveness of our prices.
We continue Team Members with strong customer service skills to improve our shopping interfaces, introducing and our own fleet of delivery vans.
new functionality and further developing our personalisation features.
Our operating model, combined with our proprietary optimisation software, underpins Mobile has continued to grow in importance.
In what we believe to be market leading reliability, 2015, over 50% of all orders were checked out with 95.3% on time deliveries and 99.3% order using a mobile device, using our latest apps and accuracy.
Convenience and the ease of using our service is We have continued focusing on making every Active Customers key in developing a leading online proposition shopping experience, including a customers first to our existing and future customers, which time, as easy as possible by offering features such we enable through our easy to use interfaces as offline shopping, PayPal login and favourites including our latest mobile apps.
These help to reduce causes of friction a customer may experience when shopping, thereby encouraging customers to shop with Ocado again.
com Strategic Report We plan to launch additional destination sites Breadth of Range and Case Study in the future to offer our customers even more Interface Development Quality of Products variety and convenience of shopping.
The next We have continued to broaden our product such site will be our premium beauty business in range across different price points, providing partnership with Marie Claire, which we expect to Convenience customers with a wide choice of products suitable launch during 2016.
Being able to shop anywhere, anytime with for their respective spending patterns and taste.
intuitive and easy to use interfaces continued In particular, our Ocado own-label products Price to be a core focus in 2015.
We launched a continue to be popular with our customers.
We The aggregation of scale into larger facilities, mobile website for Ocado.
com, complementing continue to offer our customers the widest range automation of many processes and the our existing mobile apps, making it easier for of branded and private-label products, with 47,000 application of proprietary technology, has new and existing customers to shop when they SKUs available at Ocado.
com, which we believe is enabled us to build a strong operating model are out and about, or even just in their own the most extensive grocery range in the UK today.
which removes cost and drives efficiency across kitchen topping up their shop.
These efficiency gains allow us to to be at the forefront of new developments, Our operating model and CFC sites allow us to offer our customers competitive pricing.
We also Ocado was the first online grocery app to be expand our product offering easily with limited continue to offer market leading promotions released on the Apple Watch, enabling a whole stock-holding exposure, therefore allowing us to in close collaboration with our suppliers.
We grocery shop to be ordered simply from your stock many specialist and niche lines alongside introduced the UKs first grocery market price wrist.
everyday favourites from a wide variety of small, matching initiative in 2008 and continue to remain medium, large sized and speciality suppliers who Making shopping easier price competitive against the market leader.
Our may struggle to get shelf space in a conventional We continued to reduce friction customers fully transparent price matching communication supermarket.
Our wide range drives loyalty may experience when shopping, in particular to our customers reinforces confidence in our and spend as customers can fulfil their weekly for new customers, enabling customers to log competitive pricing position.
shopping needs in one store, and encourages in with PayPal, reducing the number of steps in supplier support as they see growth in sales of our registration flow on the apps, and making it Our Platform Business their products.
possible for customers to start to shop without As we build our capabilities in our retail the need to log in first.
We have continued As well as breadth of range, our customers seek proposition, these are embedded into our making the shopping experience simpler for the freshest products possible.
Our centralised platform which we offer to corporate customers.
our existing customers, for example, through operating model enables us to have stock This enables our existing and future corporate making it easier for them to find a slot that delivered by our suppliers or wholesalers directly customers to benefit from our innovations and suits them by comparing availability and prices to our CFCs, often followed by delivery to our technology, and furthermore the ability to offer across three days.
customers on the same or the next day, thereby ever better retail propositions to their own removing several stages of the typical grocery customers.
Smarter and Personal supply chain.
This enables us to guarantee the Placing an order of over 50 items per week Our approach to consistently improving the product life of our fresh food, which gives our means that finding and choosing a product capabilities of our platform to make it increasingly customers confidence that their groceries have needs to be as simple as possible.
We have attractive should support long-term growth of our a minimum remaining life when delivered.
We continued to make ongoing improvements to platform business.
also strive to minimise waste in our business and our search engine to make it smarter to ensure help customers organise their food consumption that customers can find the most relevant Read more about Ocado Smart by listing product use-by dates on customers items just for them.
Providing a personalised Platform on pages 10 and 11 receipts.
experience has also enabled us to provide opportunities to delight our customers as we Our model has enabled us to expand into general now offer free gifts to customers as they check merchandise categories as well as dedicated out based on their previous shopping history.
specialist online stores, such as our pet store, Fetch, and our kitchen and dining store, Sizzle.
Each of these stores carries extensive ranges including products not typically available in supermarkets.
19 slugline Strategic Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 7.
Our Strategy continued Mature CFC Efficiency UPH 155 UPH 2014: 145 2.
Maximising Efficiency Capital Efficiency With our existing CFCs in Hatfield and Dordon, which Operational Efficiency opened in 2002 and 2013 respectively, we operate Our objective is to provide industry leading service the worlds two largest and most sophisticated single levels to our customers at the lowest possible pick grocery warehouses.
Together with our soon to cost and we continually seek to drive efficiency be opened new CFC located in Andover, Hampshire throughout our end-to-end operations.
in the south of England and our extensive spoke network, they form a critical part of the unique endThe aggregation of scale into larger single to-end solution we have developed.
facilities together with the use of automation and optimised technology allows us to drive the The Andover CFC will be capable of handling over overall efficiency of our business.
This centralised 65,000 orders per week, equivalent to around approach to fulfilment gives us several significant 350 million of sales when operating at full Drops per Van Week DPV service and efficiency benefits.
This is significantly smaller than our existing CFCs, yet it will be more capital efficient We have continued to invest in automation than our existing capacity and will extend Ocados and developed unique fulfilment capabilities to total sales capacity to over 1.6 billion in 2017. replace many of the manual tasks in the retail supply chain and to optimise our operations.
We have achieved this improved capital optimisation through the use of our own Our existing CFCs continue to operate at high proprietary physical infrastructure solution, 166 DPV WEEK levels of efficiency and accuracy, allowing us which we have been developing over the last few 2014: 163 to provide our customers with a consistent years.
Our Andover CFC has the first installation and timely service.
We expect to improve the of this next generation infrastructure solution.
operational efficiency measured in units See Andover case study on opposite page for processed end-to-end per labour hour in one of more details.
our facilities of our future CFCs even further.
Our infrastructure solution has many important Our model enables us to carry lower inventory attributes, making it even more efficient and levels, and despite our relatively high proportion resilient than our existing CFCs.
It is modular can of sales of fresh and chilled products at over 40% be built to any size, scalable can be increased of sales, we believe we operate with the lowest in size and faster to deploy shorter build and product waste in the industry at 0.7% of sales commissioning lead times.
In addition, it is across our CFCs.
This is the case notwithstanding expected to achieve higher operational efficiency, the freshness of the products we deliver to our will be more capital efficient, requires less space Product Waste % customers and underlines one of the relative and can hold a large range of products.
Each of environmental benefits of our operating model.
these attributes is attractive in adding flexibility Critical to our operations is the software that to our fulfilment capacity planning for our retail controls them.
This is now almost entirely businesses, and for our platform business, developed in-house, and cannot be bought off including for Morrisons.
com, offering to future the shelf on the open market.
It gives us the partners much lower entry points for capacity ability to horizontally optimise and integrate commitments.
0.1% V 2014 across our end-to-end solution and it enables With control over the IP and the manufacturing us to collect valuable data.
The in-house nature and installation process, we plan to drive the costs of our software development allows for rapid down even further in the future.
In February 2015, solutions as efficiency improvement opportunities we announced plans for our fourth CFC, located in are identified.
This proprietary technology Erith to the South East of London inside the M25.
The protects our business, differentiates it, and makes landlord started construction on this site in 2015, it more difficult to replicate.
and we will take occupation during 2016, with first orders from this CFC expected at the end of 2017.
com Strategic Report As with the Andover CFC, the Erith CFC will use our Case Study proprietary infrastructure and will be capable of Proprietary Equipment Solution and Andover CFC handling in excess of 200,000 orders per week or around 1.2 billion of sales with even better capital efficiency.
Our MHE solution can be retrofitted into Our Proprietary Equipment standard warehouse buildings, and is modular Our CFCs are designed and built to handle the Solution in nature can be built any size, scalable can be unique challenges that exist in picking groceries Using the benefit of our many years focused increased in size and faster to deploy shorter with speed, accuracy and efficiency.
This on online grocery operations, we have now build and commissioning lead times, providing complexity arises when you pick a customer completed our vertical integration into significant benefits in better matching capacity order of on average around 50 items, across three mechanical handling equipment MHE with requirements to business demand volumes.
different temperature zones ambient, chilled the design and development of our proprietary and frozen.
This and having the customers order Looking forward, our MHE solution is futurephysical fulfilment solution.
ready to go on the delivery vehicles in the same proofed in that all human points of contact sit on Our MHE solution is now the subject of filed short time window as the other customer orders the periphery of the grid, and could be swapped and planned patent applications and other for a given van route.
out and replaced by automated or robotic solutions intellectual property rights.
It is controlled by once technology advances in those particular areas Our infrastructure knowledge and solutions, proprietary software and algorithms, offers for example, robotic arms and fingers one day combined with our end-to-end technology significant advantages over other physical MHE picking individual grocery items.
systems, provide an entire platform for operating available, and has been specifically designed to online retail businesses, capable of handling the Our single end-to-end solution for online grocery cope with the challenges presented by grocery complexities and requirements of grocery retailing retailing combining our MHE solution with our activities, such as huge volumes of items, multiple as well as general merchandise categories.
technology software and systems places us at the product lines, and irregular demand patterns.
forefront of rapid change taking place in grocery Delivery The equipment solution offers very dense and distribution, enabling both of our retail businesses efficient storage through the use of a 3 dimensional We fulfil customer orders through the operation and those of our future international partners.
This grid can be built to a of a hub and spoke network.
All stock is currently Andover Fast Facts much greater scale than existing MHE storage stored and picked in our two existing centralised solutions CFC Erith will have capacity to hold over fulfilment centres the hubs in Hatfield, Dordon or Due to open shortly and required for ongoing 700,000 stock holding totes across chilled and in our non-food warehouse in Welwyn Garden City Ocado grocery business growth, Andover ambient temperature regimes ready for single item for much of the non-food range.
Around one third CFC will increase our fulfilment capacity by picking.
of orders are then delivered directly from these around 65,000 orders per week, stocking the hubs to customer homes in the local catchment full range of products, or approximately 350 Very fast mechanised inbound and outbound areas and the remaining two thirds are trunked million in sales value.
processes for moving product and completed orders in larger vehicles to one of our 16 spoke sites, The site will house the first implementation into and out of the grid are enabled by our new from where local delivery in one of our delivery of Ocados new, internally developed, proprietary communications system multiple times vans takes place.
Due to increased demand from proprietary mechanical handling equipment faster than existing wifi.
Our communications system existing catchments, we opened additional spokes and associated software platform solution can utilise and control thousands of fast, space during 2015 in Milton Keynes, West Drayton and efficient, densely located robotic devices that each At maturity, the solution will be capable of Dagenham, and plan to add further spokes to our occupy just a single location on the top of the grid delivering significant productivity and fulfilment network in 2016.
We also increased the size of and enable very quick and flexible item retrieval of benefits in a highly modular and flexible design our spokes in Bristol, Leeds and Oxford.
This will any product, in any order, stored in the grid.
Ocado acquired the 18 acre site and enable us to further develop and optimise our associated building in 2014 enabling the All product picking into customer baskets delivery network to drive efficiency in the long extension and refurbishment programme to follows a one-to-one goods-to-man approach term.
commence, resulting in a 240k sqft building.
where relevant stock items are presented to the picker at the same time as the order tote.
The Quicker construction, commissioning combined effect is very fast and highly accurate and implementation programme than product picking across the entire ambient and experienced with previous sites helps chilled ranges over 600 items per hour, with the improve capital efficiency.
capability of picking an entire customers typical See an image of our proprietary 50 item order in under 5 minutes, significantly equipment solution on page 23 shortening order lead times.
21 slugline Strategic Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 7.
Utilising Proprietary Progress in 2015 Case Study Our Proprietary Communication System We have previously set out three requirements Knowledge which we would need to deliver to allow us to Our Intellectual Property progress opportunities to monetise our platform Our new infrastructure solution In building our retail business we have focused further with Ocado Smart Platform.
They were: encompasses very dense storage suitable on developing optimal solutions solely for online Operating our first platform deal to the for grocery operations, and multiple retail operations, specifically centred on the continued satisfaction of our partner, moving robotic devices requiring very fast grocery industry.
Morrisons: wireless communication at a rate of 10 Our learnings, together with the solutions we have messages per second which need to be The replatforming of our IT systems to developed, provide an end-to-end process for confirmed.
We recognised that no existing enable faster replication, rollout and lower completing the retail mission, moving a product telecommunications system provided this maintenance costs in the future: and from a supplier into a customers home.
of our core competence, we develop proprietary To first use our new proprietary infrastructure In order to address this communications processes, physical infrastructure solutions, solution in our own facility prior to any live challenge, we assembled a team to design systems and software.
and develop our own telecommunications Our software and other technology solutions We have made progress in all these areas.
system capable of transmitting large amounts are developed in-house by our technology of data from base stations, located within the The commercialisation of our IP and knowledge team currently over 700 people together warehousing system, to large numbers of fast platform has already started with our 25-year with our development engineering team.
Our moving, densely packed robotic containeragreement with Morrisons to launch and operate in-house teams enable rapid development and handling devices operating over a large area.
implementation of new solutions for our business, Conservatively, the current system allows for and enable the software to be updated without To remain at the forefront of change in the grocery data communications with in excess of 1,000 the need to involve expensive change processes industry it is important that our technology solutions robotic container-handling devices per base from multiple software providers.
are able to take advantage of the latest developments station, each base station being capable of in using cloud and next generation software tools.
covering an area of well in excess of 100 metres Patents radius.
We have filed for patent protection This involves migrating our solution to the cloud We have built our business using proprietary for this new proprietary telecommunications and in the process, transforming our technology technology to improve efficiency, productivity and system.
Replatforming enables us to evolve our resiliency of our operations, and to enhance the customer offer with much greater speed and user experience for customers.
We consider the reliability for our existing retail businesses and building of competitive advantages across our for those of our existing and future partners, as business and operations key to maintaining our Read about our Proprietary well as facilitate international expansion through Equipment Solution and Andover technological leadership, driving the development faster replication, improved business agility and CFC on page 21 of our customer proposition and economic scalability and reduced maintenance overheads.
We take careful measures to protect our intellectual property and inventions.
The replatforming project commenced in 2014.
Read about Morrisons One Year On on page 12 As we have developed more physical equipment The project is a continuous process where discrete solutions, we have recognised the value of adding elements can be utilised as they are completed, more protection for some of our developments with the entire replatformed systems being through filing patent applications.
introduced over the time of the project.
Our Andover CFC, which is due to open shortly, As at the end of the period, we had filed patent will first implement our new, internally developed, applications covering 32 separate innovations, proprietary mechanical handling equipment and bringing the cumulative total number of patent associated software platform solution.
applications filed to 73, of which 25 have so far been published.
Our patent activities are intended to create a web of protection for our intellectual property.
22 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Strategic Report Number of Technology Staff Case Study Expansion of Technology Development Offices in Europe Technology is at the heart of our business.
Due to its success, we opened a second We develop and utilise proprietary processes, technology centre in Wroclaw, Poland, and systems and software throughout our entire at the end of 2015, established a centre in business to improve efficiency and operations.
We plan to open a further Our user interfaces and applications for our development centre in Southern Europe in customers are market leading.
In parallel with this near-shoring, we are continuing to expand our UK development As of November 2015, Ocado Technology centre in Hatfield.
Ocado Technology continued employs over 700 software engineers and IT to build its reputation as a global technology specialists, comprising over 50% of our head leader, attracting quality professionals to build 2013 2014 2015 office headcount.
We expect that the headcount the teams underpinning Ocados technology will continue to grow to around 1,000 by the 404 546 721 expertise.
We opened our first overseas This does not include engineers with specialisms in development office in Krakow, Poland, in 2012. mechanics, construction or manufacturing who are also involved in fulfilment development.
Read more about Our People on pages 46 and 47 Proprietary equipment solution in Andover 23 slugline
