Strategic Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 4.
Our Capabilities and Ocado Smart Platform This new software platform will enable us to Developing Our Capabilities Commercialising IP and rapidly replicate our solution for Ocado Smart Throughout our history, our entire attention has Ocado Smart Platform Platform customers, foster faster experimentation been on developing the best possible online Commercialising intellectual property offers and development within our engineering teams grocery operation.
This single-minded focus has significant value creation opportunities in the UK and in due course will also be used to replatform enabled us to develop market leading logistics and abroad.
Ocados UK businesses, including the service we and physical infrastructure solutions, driven by operate for Morrisons.
We intend to provide the entire Ocado Smart proprietary technology and innovation.
Platform as a fully integrated managed service.
Our Fulfilment Asset Solution Originally developed for the purpose of building Ocado Smart Platform allows a partner to scale our own leading online grocery operation, we Our current CFCs utilise equipment purchased the business in line with sales growth, with have added and grown numerous capabilities from material handling equipment providers, attractive economics and the capability to provide within our business to develop and refine our which we have continually modified and improved a superior customer proposition.
end-to-end platform solution and we recognised to increase throughput and efficiency.
After many There are four key operating cost drivers in grocery the potential to utilise the intellectual property years of iterative learning, we have vertically retailing property, people, waste and energy.
created in other business applications and integrated our knowledge base into the design We believe our Ocado Smart Platform solution markets.
of our own physical infrastructure asset solution.
requires less of each of these inputs than the This is modular, which means that it can be built Morrisons became the first customer of our broader existing bricks and mortar supermarket model to different sizes, and is scalable, allowing it to be platform, utilising our technology solution and once at scale, and so can lower the overall cost built in multiple phases rather than all at once.
It is existing infrastructure facilities to launch and structure for retailers.
space efficient, but supports large ranges through operate Morrisons.
It was launched in a very very dense storage.
Fast deployment and high Ocado Smart Platform comprises technology and short time frame with attractive cost economics efficiency in terms of both capital and operating infrastructure solutions that have been developed and best in class service metrics.
costs make the solution economically attractive.
with the benefit and experience of operating For further details on Morrisons.
Unlike third party providers The first instance of our new fulfilment asset see case study on page 12 of products, services and software, we are a solution is in our Andover CFC, which is being retailer, and our systems, processes and hardware tested and is due to start operations shortly.
We are looking to further monetise these have evolved over many iterations in a live retail capabilities going forward, via our Ocado Smart environment.
The Ocado Smart Platform Platform, working with partners to enable their Ocado Smart Platform is our proprietary solution online businesses.
While primarily designed to cope with the for operating online retail businesses.
It combines additional rigours and challenges presented Our End-to-End Technology our end-to-end software and technology systems in operating grocery businesses online, Ocado with our physical fulfilment asset solution, both of Smart Platform can equally be applied to general Solution which are proprietary and fully integrated.
Our proprietary technology enables partners Ocado Smart Platform will enable us to replicate to operate the entire shopping process for their Our intention is to position our capabilities to sign our unique capabilities for partners in other customers using integrated software systems.
multiple deals over the medium term.
markets with a significantly lower cost than the These include the interfaces with their customers alternative options available for these retailers.
We such as website and mobile apps, management offer Ocado Smart Platform as a managed service systems for supply and inventory, management capability to partners internationally, harnessing and control systems for fulfilment centres, and Read more about Our Marketplace the capabilities of our platform with partners local software to optimise delivery routes and to on pages 14 and 15 retailing skills and attributes, to enable them to operate contact centres.
These systems have been build sustainable, scalable and profitable online developed in-house over many years for the sole grocery businesses in their own markets.
purpose of running and optimising the efficiency of our online retail businesses.
Ocado Smart Platform will offer partners a faster, flexible, more cost efficient and lower-risk way of In January 2014 we embarked on a major launching or improving online grocery businesses project to completely rewrite our end-to-end with limited capital investment.
By offering the only e-commerce, fulfilment and logistics solution from fully integrated end-to-end platform available, we scratch to run in a combination of the public and will be uniquely positioned to take advantage of the private cloud.
In the process we are also refreshing growing global trend for online food shopping in all of our technology stacks.
what is the worlds largest retail segment.
10 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Strategic Report How Will Ocado Smart Platform Work?
The Shop Fulfilment Last Mile Solution Ocado Smart Platform includes the Ocados new proprietary physical equipment Ocado Smart Platform includes all the e-commerce website and mobile applications solution will be installed in the retailers software required to complete last mile tailored to retailers requirements and building, serviced and maintained by Ocado operations including home delivery or pick-up including market leading features already personnel.
It is modular can be built to any services, as used by Ocado in the UK, to plan available on Ocado.
It also includes size, scalable can be expanded in line with optimal delivery routes, minimising costs all of the back-end systems required to sales and is highly productive even at low to the retailer while maximising the delivery manage the content of the site and the volumes.
algorithms to enable personalised customer All software and systems to operate fulfilment recommendations and other features.
activities are provided under Ocado Smart Platform.
Read more about Utilising Proprietary Knowledge on pages 22 and 23 Retailers suppliers Post or courier Pick up at store or Ocado powered other site supply chain management Retailers Retailers Retailers home delivery drivers warehouse network Retailers Ocado powered Ocado powered Ocado Retailers online webshop, tablet routing and powered satisfied Ocado customers & mobile apps in-van delivery customers fulfilment equipment technology process Repeat shop - assisted by targeted advertising, big data analytics and other customer insight, powered by Ocado 11 slugline
