Strategy Ophir is focused on creating growthin Net Asset Value NAV pershare.
Theinternational High grading Exploration and Production E&P sector has apoor track record interms of value creation over thepast fewyears.
There are theexploration numerous drivers for this which are discussed in the Chief Executives review.
Ourresponse is to be portfolio relentlessly focused on how to maximise the value created fromour assets.
As we went through 2015 and started In practice, this meant that in 2015 we to mature and high grade our exploration highgraded exploration opportunities $3.78 boe portfolio, we screened the various plays inMyanmar, Indonesia Aru Trough and against a number of commercial and matured new opportunities that we brought 2015 three-year average finding cost technical criteria.
This enabled us to rank into the portfolio in early 2016 in Cote theprojects, not only against each other, dIvoire and Malaysia.
As we determined but against new opportunities outside that these areas would be a focus for our theportfolio.
capital and people, naturally it meant 5 thatother areas dropped to the bottom ofthe portfolio.
New plays added to portfolio in 2015 10 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information These were for a variety of reasons, some These new blocks are effectively low-cost purely technical, while others were technically options.
We will also have the discipline interesting but did not work for commercial toexit those blocks that do not screen well.
On this basis, we exited or are If we are to improve returns to shareholders intheprocess of exiting, nine licences in from exploration, then we must be disciplined Indonesia, Kenya, Seychelles and Tanzania.
and only drill prospects that can ultimately This provides a more focused portfolio with be monetised in the event of success.
We believe that this process will result in All exploration areas where we work need to Ophir holding a streamlined, world-class offer transformational potential at breakeven exploration portfolio with the aim of prices below the new oil price ceiling imposed exposing shareholders to a number of new by US unconventional production.
We believe this is the way we can differentiate ourselves and deliver Going forward, we expect to continue material returns to shareholders.
theprocess in 2016, bringing further new acreage into the portfolio as we mature other prospects to drill-ready status.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11 Strategy Innovative The Fortuna FLNG project is simple in both development and operating philosophy.
This simplicity begins approach, proven with the reservoir, which is shallow and has excellent porosity and permeability.
This then extends through the hydrocarbon technology composition, benignsea state and all the way through to thedevelopment of the field.
Wells A schematic of the Fortuna FLNG development Development plan Upstream development The project has been structured to bring The upstream development will consist 60,000 boepd together several industry-leading partners of17development wells over four phases.
and contractors, leveraging off Company Inthe first phase, up to first gas in 2019, Gross production from first vessel skill sets.
Ophir will be the operator of the fourwells will be drilled.
A minimum of two upstream development and Golar LNG wells are required to achieve the 2.2mmtpa willbe the Midstream FLNG supplier.
These production wells in the Fortuna and Viscata reservoirs will be simple $1billion well completions and tie-backs.
The gas will be produced from these wells via gathering Peak gross cash flow flowlines, manifolds and risers to an external turret of the FLNG facility.
Over the next three phases of development, 13 more wells will bedrilled with a view toelevating the production plateau to 4.4mmtpa utilising asecond FLNG vessel.
12 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Flare Stack Inlet Storage Processing Tanks Facilities External Turret LNG Liquefaction Trains x 4 Mooring Lines Umbilical and Risers Manifold Midstream solution Upcoming milestones: In its role as the Midstream partner, Upstream FEED to be completed GolarLNG will convert, own, operate and in1H2016.
maintain an existing vessel, the Gandria.
Sign a definitive agreement with Golar LNG will deploy topsides, processing Schlumberger whereby Schlumberger and liquefaction facilities designed and willreceive a 40% economic interest in engineered by Black and Veatch: technology the Fortuna FLNG project and reimburse chosen for its long-established record of 50% of Ophirs past costs in the form reliable performance in global operations.
The Gandria will store the gas, in liquefied Progress various commercial and form, for other specialist tankers to technical workstreams ahead of FID transportaway.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13 Strategy Ophir is focused on growing NAV per share.
We believe we are a top Balance sheet quartile explorer and the route for us to deliver NAV per share growth is through the monetisation of exploration success.
Management strength and has demonstrated its ability to monetise, and not just find barrels, through the partial sell-down of financial stability ourposition in Tanzania.
We expect to take a material step forward in the monetisation of Equatorial Guinea when we make a FID in mid-2016.
The ability to monetise Tanzania, and the cash generated from the sale of a 20% interest in the project, has helped to differentiate Ophir as one of thehandful of international E&P companies thatare in a net cash position.
Alpha and Bravo platforms on the Bualuang field, Thailand Committed Capex This balance sheet strength has been In 2020 with a first full-year contribution especially important as we have entered from when the Fortuna FLNG project comes 40 adownturn in the commodity price cycle.
onstream, we will be producing around Ultimately we want to be a self-sustaining 30,000 boepd in our base case.
Although we are still some way A key challenge from a financial management offthis goal, we added low breakeven perspective is to make sure we have sufficient production, and therefore recurring cash 20 funds to come through the low point of the flow, to the business for the first time in 2015. cycle and reach mid-2019 when we will start 10 to receive cash flow from our Fortuna FLNG project.
Therefore we are extremely focused 0 on capital allocation, cost minimisation and 2016 2017 2018 2019 onwards preserving financial flexibility.
Indonesia West Papau Aru seismic Indonesia Bangkanai seismic Thailand B8 38 produced water debottlenecking Malaysia PM322 3D seismic Gabon Manga well Tz Blocks 1,4 Block 1 well Kenya L9 well 14 Ophir Energy plc $ millions Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Cost reduction Financial flexibility Having said that, we expect to refinance, We entered the downturn with a top of the The relative strength of our balance sheet and prudently expand, our debt facilities cycle General and Administration G&A permits us to invest counter-cyclically in during 2016.
As Fortuna matures, this base and we have spent 2015 re-aligning opportunities that carry low levels of project will also be leverageable, providing the business to the new commodity price commitment expenditure but also provides additional sources of liquidity.
We closed five offices during options with the potential to create believe we will still be able to allocate capital the year and, with the associated reduction significant amounts of value.
As a result, we to discretionary opportunities over the next in headcount, we have reduced underlying have a modest total of $87 million of few years and this may well be evidenced by G&A costs by $60 million per annum.
We commitment spend between now and 2019 drilling in a number of new plays in 2017 are conscious of the need to protect as well and none thereafter.
When coupled with our and 2018. as grow NAV per share and therefore have cash-producing assets and cash on the to think carefully about every dollar we balance sheet, this provides sufficient spend.
The proposed new remuneration liquidity for us to get to the point where we structure discussed elsewhere in this report will start to receive cash flow from Fortuna aims to embed this thinking in all our without additional capital.
By only allocating capital and people to the best assets, we will optimise returns to shareholders.
