Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Corporate Governance introduction page 39 As I have mentioned before, we are making NAV per share growth Board of Directors and Officers the strategic driver for thebusiness.
To reflect this, we felt it was necessary to establish a new Group-wide remuneration structure that we believe aligns shareholders and employees interests most appropriately.
Details of this new policy areset out in detail in the Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 77.
We have engaged with Nicholas Smith both employees and shareholders on this and have received strong Chairman N R indications of support.
The policy will be put forward for shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Dr Nicholas Nick Cooper Finally, as was indicated in last years Annual Report, I will be Executive Director and Chief Executive O cer stepping down from the role of Chairman and retiring from the Board of Ophir on 30 April 2016 after nine years.
I would like to Dr William Bill Higgs thank all the staff atOphir for their efforts over the past seven years Executive Director and Chief Operating O cer that I have beenChairman.
There is a first class team in place and Ihave everyconfidence they will deliver on the strategic aims of the Anthony Tony Rouse business over the coming years.
I would also like to congratulate Executive Director and Chief Financial O cer BillSchrader on his appointment to the role of Chairman.
Having worked alongside Bill on the Board for the past three years, I know Ronald Blakely hewillmake an excellent Chairman for the next phase in the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director A R Companys evolution.
Dr Carol Bell Nicholas Smith N Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman Alan Booth Independent Non-Executive Director Vivien Gibney Independent Non-Executive Director R C N William Bill Schrader Independent Non-Executive Director Philip Laing General Counsel & Company Secretary Indicates Chairman of Committee Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Technical Advisory Committee As at the date of publication Annual Report and Accounts 2015 5
