Directors Report The report complies with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 Share capital and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and The called-up share capital of the Company, together with details Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013. ofshares allotted during the year, is shown in Note 27 to the Group financial statements.
The report has been prepared in line with the recommendations of theUK Corporate Governance Code 2012 and the requirements of the Purchase of own shares UKLA Listing Rules.
Details of the Companys financial instruments and The Directors, on behalf of the Company, after assessing the hedging activities and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk are set near-term capital needs of the business and the discount the out infull in Note 26 on pages 128 to 132 of the financial statements.
Companys shares were trading at in relation to the underlying core value of the asset base, approved a share buyback programme of Results for the year ended 31 December 2015 up to $100m worth of ordinary shares, in August 2014, following The Companys results for the financial year are shown in the prior shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM.
consolidated financial statements on pages 90 to 160.
Following the conclusion of the programme on 1 May 2015, Directors a total of 41,636,469 shares with an aggregate nominal value of Biographical details for the Directors of the Company who held office 104,091 at a cost of 64.7m $98.0m, representing 5.58% of the during the year ended 31 December 2015 and at the date of this report share capital, had been purchased at an average price per share, are set out on pages 40 and 41.
Details of Directors service contracts including transactions costs, of 161 pence.
or letters of appointment, their interests in the ordinary shares of the Company and in any of the Companys long-term incentive and other share schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report which can be found on pages 64 to 88.
The Directors insurance andindemnity provisions are set out on page 46.
Substantial shareholders As at 31 December 2015 and 9 March 2016, being the date of this report, the Company had been notified of the following substantial holdings of voting rights in the issued share capital of the Company in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and other regulatory requirements, as set out in the table below.
2 Calculated by reference to the issued share capital of the Company as at 9 March 2016.
60 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Shares repurchased under this authority are currently held as and 32.
These figures have been calculated in accordance with the treasury shares.
The shares held in treasury may be used to satisfy guidance provided by the Department for Environment, Food and options under the Companys various employee share schemes or Rural Affairs Defra and the Department of Energy and Climate cancelled.
During the year, no shares were cancelled and 1,285,868 Change DECC and have been classified under the scopes set shares were used to satisfy option exercises under employee share outin the World Resources Institute World Business Council for schemes.
Accordingly, as at 31 December 2015, 40,350,601 shares Sustainable Developments Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
Diversity The general authority to repurchase shares will expire at the A statement of the Companys policy on diversity is set out in the Companys 2016 AGM.
The Directors presently intend that a Strategic report on page 37, and the Board policy on diversity is resolution to renew this authority will be proposed at the 2016 AGM.
summarised on page 59 of the Nomination Committee Report.
Shareholders rights Human rights The rights and obligations in the Companys Articles of Association A statement of the Companys position on human rights is set out relating to the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the inthe Strategic Report on page 37.
Shareholder information on pages 161 to 163.
The Articles can befound on the Companys website www.
Employees The Company is committed to actively communicating with Statement of shareholder voting employees in many ways, including Town Hall meetings, video In relation to the votes cast against the recommended acquisition briefings, team meetings, print and email communications, as well of Salamander Energy plc at this years General Meeting held on as regular training on health and safety, and regulatory matters.
6February 2015, the Board had continually reviewed the strategic The Company is an equal opportunities employer and continues rationale and metrics of the transaction against the fall in the oil tohave a diverse workforce comprising local employees, contractors price since the transaction was announced.
The Board remains and expatriates at most sites.
The Company provides all its employees ofopinion that the transaction makes full strategic sense and with the opportunity to identify and engage in training to aid and willcreate value for shareholders.
The Company will continue its accelerate career development opportunities.
As at 31 December ongoing consultation with shareholders as we begin to create 2015, the Company employed 302 people 2014: 133 people.
valuefrom our African and expanded Southeast Asian businesses.
Corporate Responsibility, business conduct and ethics Dividend policy andpolitical donations The Directors have not recommended a final dividend for the year The Company is committed to sound business conduct in ended 31 December 2015 and did not declare any interim dividends itsrelationships with stakeholders shareholders, employees, during the year.
The Directors do not anticipate that the Company customers, business partners and suppliers, governments and will pay dividends in the near future.
The Directors envisage that, regulators, communities and the environment.
The Company seeks asthe Company advances the development of its operations, a to conduct its operations with honesty, integrity and openness, and dividend policy will be determined based on, and dependent on, with respect for the human rights and interests of our employees theresults of the Companys operations, financial condition, cash and, as such, ensures that its Anti-Bribery Policy is fully understood requirements, prospects, profits available for distribution and other and implemented by all employees and other key stakeholders.
factors deemed to be relevant at the time.
TheBoard is also fully committed to ensuring that high standards ofhealth, safety and environmental practices are implemented Report on greenhouse gas emissions andmaintained by the Company.
Further details are set out The Groups energy consumption and associated greenhouse gas intheCorporate Responsibility review on pages 30 to 38. emissions during 2015 are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61 Directors Report continued The Company has not made any political donations during the year.
Corporate governance statement TheCompanys policy is not to make political donations: however certain The corporate governance statement on pages 39 to 47, in socially responsible activities, which may include actions undertaken accordance with Rule 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules through the Companys social and community related programmes, and Rule 9.8.
6 5 and 6 of the Listing Rules, forms part of this attendance at conferences and receptions where communicating the Directors Report.
Companys views might be vital to its business interests may be inferred by some as making political donations as defined in the Companies Act Directors statement as to disclosure of information to Auditors 2006.
The Company does not consider such activities as being political The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of donations but, nevertheless, ensures that all such activities described approving the Directors Report are listed on pages 40 and 41. inthis report have been conducted in compliance with the Companys Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy.
An updated version Auditor, each of these Directors confirms that: ofCode of Conduct was published on 20 May 2015.
To the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there isnoinformation that is information that is needed by the Directors responsibility statement Companys Auditors in connection with preparing their report The Directors responsibility statement is set out on page 89 andthe of which the Companys Auditors are unaware.
Companys financial statements are included on pages 90 to 160.
Each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit Change of control information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are The Company has entered into a number of commercial contracts aware of that information.
which might take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company.
However, none of these is considered to be significant Auditor in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Company as a Details of the Companys policy on external Auditor rotation are set out whole.
Details of change of control clauses contained in the Service on page 51 of the Corporate Governance report.
Further to provision Agreements of the Executive Directors are set out on page 76 of C. 3.7 of the Code, listed companies are expected to put their external theDirectors Remuneration Report.
audit contract out to tender at least every 10 years.
In 2013, the Audit All the Companys share incentive plans contain provisions relating Committee undertook a review of audit services including a tender by to a change of control and full details of these plans are provided suppliers in advance of the 2014 audit, which concluded EY LLP should inthe Directors Remuneration Report on pages 64 to 88.
Generally, continue as the Companys Auditor for 2015. outstanding awards under the Foundation Incentive Plan, the 2006 The Audit Committee has also proposed that resolutions to re-appoint Share Option Plan and the Deferred Share Plan will vest in full EY as the Companys Auditor and to authorise the Directors to set the andbecome exercisable on or before a change of control.
The Auditors remuneration be proposed at the 2016 AGM.
Remuneration Committee may allow outstanding awards under theLong-Term Incentive Plan LTIP to vest to the extent that any performance condition is satisfied at the date of that event and, unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise, such level of vesting will be reduced to take account of the fact that the awardis vesting early.
LTIP awards may instead be exchanged forequivalent awards over shares in the acquiring company.
62 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Going concern Post balance sheet events The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to A summary of the key post balance sheet events is set out in affect its future development, performance and position, are set out Note39 to the Group Financial statements.
in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 38.
The financial position of the By order of the Board Group, consisting of cash resources of $614.6 million, its cash flows and its liquidity position is described in the financial statements on Nick Cooper pages 90 to 160.
In addition, Note 26 to the financial statements Chief Executive Officer includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing 9 March 2016 its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its Registered office: financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to Level 4, 123 Victoria Street, London SW1E 6DE credit risk and liquidity risk.
Company registered in England and Wales No.
05047425 In making their going concern assessment, the Directors have considered Group budgets and cash flow forecasts.
As a result of this review the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Viability Statement The Financial Reporting Council FRC has revised the Code to include a Viability Statement and the Company has included its viability statement for the 2015 year end.
The full statement can befound on page 16.
The Viability Statement provides investors with an improved and broader assessment of long-term solvency and liquidity of the Company.
The Directors have agreed that the Company can sign the Viability Statement as it has developed a robust strategy over the medium term, which includes sufficient forecasting that takes account of industry and macro-economic factors, such as a low commodity price for oil and gas in addition toan improved control over capital expenditure.
