STRATEGIC REPORT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs In order to realise its strategic aims, PayPoint has identified areas of strategic focus and records a number of KPIs to measure progress against them.
Whilst these KPIs are helpful in measuring the groups performance, they are not exhaustive and the group uses many other measures to monitor progress.
Measuring our performance Strategic focus KPI Description 2015 2014 Shareholder return Earnings per share Profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the 57.4p 52.6p diluted parent divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period including the impact of shares which are likely to be issued under share schemes.
Dividends per share Proposed final dividend and interim dividend divided 38.5p 35.3p by the number of fully paid shares at the end of the period.
Economic profit Operating profit including PayPoints share of joint 31.3 28.1 venture results and excluding exceptional costs, million million relating to the cost of acquisitions after tax and a charge for capital employed, excluding cash, based upon the groups cost of capital.
Growth 667.3 Retail networks Number of transactions processed in the period 635.4 transactions on our terminals, ATMs and on our retailers million million EPoS systems.
Mobile and Online Number of transactions processed in the period by 145.3 132.2 transactions Mobile and Online.
million million Transaction value The value of transactions processed via our terminals, 14.8 14.7 retailers EPoS systems, online merchants, ATMs, mobile billion billion payments and the sale of other retail services.
Net revenue Revenue less: commissions paid to retail agents: the 123.1 113.7 cost of mobile top-ups and SIM cards where PayPoint million million is principal: acquiring bank charges and call centre costs recharged to clients.
40.2% Operating margin Operating profit including our share of joint venture 39.9% results and excluding exceptional costs, relating to the cost of acquisitions, as a percentage of net revenue.
Asset optimisation Return on capital Total operating profit for the period divided by 63.6% 62.6% employed average month end capital employed net assets including assets held for sale and excluding cash.
Growth in retail Growth in net revenue from retail networks, 4.3% 3.9% networks yield excluding Simple Payment service set up, divided by per site the average number of sites in the period.
People Labour turnover Number of permanent employees who left during the period divided by average total permanent employees: UK & Ireland 21.7% 20.7% Rest of world 16.5% 8.7% 8 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
