STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL PayPoints business success over 19 years has been achieved through excellence in serving the T3 third generation needs of three distinct but closely linked groups, namely our clients, retailers and consumers.
PayPoint terminal Our achievement with each contributes opportunity the best clients drive millions of consumers PayPoint is preparing to launch to use our services, which helps us to attract the best network of retailers and this in turn grows the sectors most technically advanced terminal to be known consumer demand and reinforces the loyalty of our clients.
Our strategy is to extend our services as T3.
Tablet-based with an to, and returns from, each group.
Given the decision to sell the parking and online payment Android operating system, it will processing businesses, our focus is on retail as set out below.
be an all-in package, comprising an EPoS system and PayPoints Clients complete range of services, Our client base includes many blue chip utility and consumer service organisations in both card payments, scanner, a cash the commercial and public sectors.
Building from our unique strength in over the counter cash drawer and fingerprint security.
Retailers will be able to replace payments, we have continued to develop a broader range of payment methods and channels their existing EPoS tills with to serve our clients needs.
This enables us to deepen and extend our client relationships and the T3 terminal, which will provides the bedrock of our success.
Many of our major client relationships extend back to the be available with a range of early days of our business and this longevity is based on their trust in our ability to serve their options designed to meet their consumers uniquely well.
We will continue to promote a broad range of payments to clients different requirements.
across our multi-channel platform, drawing on the best of our own capability and integrating selected expert suppliers.
Just as the current terminal was built to accommodate future In delivering this vision, it is the overall integrated solution that is at the heart of our offer going technology and requirements, T3 has been designed so that forward, rather than, necessarily, the direct ownership of all aspects of service delivery.
Following it will be able to incorporate the proposed sale of our parking and online payment processing companies, we will retain their many services and functions that service delivery capabilities through our in-house expertise and through continuing supplier retailers use on a daily basis to contracts, but will focus more strongly on our blue chip retail client base.
run their business, such as stock ordering and price checking.
Recent progress illustrates the potential for a multi-channel payments capability in our core As these developments are billing world.
For example, to address the structural change in energy with the introduction rolled out, they have the of smart metering in the next decade, we have launched our new multi-channel payment potential to replace retailers solution to our first client, Utilita, and have other energy companies ready to take the service.
existing EPoS till and other back office systems, further Through this solution, consumers make payments and prepayments to utilities by electronic embedding the PayPoint terminal payment methods, online and by mobile, in addition to their traditional cash options.
Industry at the heart of their operation.
opinion is that the availability of digital payment options will increase the number of consumers opting for pre-pay tariffs.
We have also had success in selling our multi-channel capability into the social housing sector.
Derby City Council opts exclusively for PayPoint A major factor in building our credentials with our blue chip billing clients has been our ability to Derby City Council has become the target verticals and develop an in depth understanding of client needs, based on which we design first local authority in the country and deliver our services.
Verticals where we have demonstrated our ability to deliver value added, to contract exclusively with PayPoint for cash payments by residents.
rather than commoditised services, are energy, water, local and central government, telecoms, Previously, the council worked with media, gaming, financial services, transport ticketing and eMoney.
We will continue to focus on a third party to offer payments these sectors and prospect for others which show potential for value added solutions.
Increasingly, through PayPoint and post offices.
our role will be to become our major clients payments partner across their wide-ranging needs.
After reviewing coverage, opening hours and the costs involved in The payments industry continues to be particularly vibrant and innovative, presenting many collecting payments through two opportunities, but also causing untold complexity for consumer service organisations for which networks, the council concluded payments are a necessity, but not their core business expertise.
PayPoint provides solutions aimed that, with more than 150 local at the challenges businesses face, to help them find the optimum path offering traditional and shops with a PayPoint terminal and only 20 post offices close to where new payments methods, providing consumers with payment choices that are seamlessly integrated they live, work and go shopping, to service delivery.
This approach applies to money in and out: by cash, card, bank or alternative the PayPoint network provides wallet: and by retail, online, mobile or other channel, thereby facilitating consumer demand to excellent opportunity throughout be able to pay when, where and how best suits their circumstances.
the city for residents to pay their bills to Derby City Council, Retailers including Council Tax and By pioneering payment service delivery in convenient retail stores, PayPoint has established a rent to Derby Homes.
uniquely strong position at the heart of neighbourhood retailing, one of the few areas of retailing As many residents will already which has been resilient and complementary to the online shopping boom.
Our 37,500 outlets be paying other bills, such as their across the UK, Ireland and Romania provide full national footprints for service delivery and also utilities, at PayPoint, we believe a community of successful local entrepreneurs and more substantial retailer businesses, which the move will be welcomed by are both distributors of, and customers for, our services.
residents as being convenient and suited to their lifestyles.
The new The depth of our retail offer allows us to layer on more services for increasing retail yield, by payment contract with PayPoint selling additional value added services and footfall drivers to our retail partners.
In the earlier potentially will save the council days of PayPoint, retailer interest was more limited to the traditional convenience store and around 25% annually.
newsagents sector, but in recent years there has been increasing demand from all sizes of John Massey, Head of Benefits retailer, including the big grocers, as they seek to secure more reasons for customers to visit and Exchequer Services at for their valuable regular grocery shopping.
PayPoint has proven its ability to deliver footfall, Derby City Council more than any other service provider and continues to focus on securing the strongest product and service portfolio to deliver competitive advantage to our retail partners.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 5 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL continued As mobile prepay volumes have declined and general payments growth rates have matured, PayPoint Romania PayPoint has been able to sustain growth through exceptionally strong retail services sales.
branches out into We have introduced new services that many retailers want to offer and many consumers want multiples to use to the benefit of our business and our retail partners.
We will continue to drive retail As the PayPoint network in services growth deeper into our network, including our established successful products such Romania has expanded to cover small towns and villages, an as ATMs, card payments, money transfer, SIM cards, broadband connectivity and parcels.
increasing number of multiple We will add further products to bring new sources of revenue, new sources of commission groups in the country have and footfall to our retailers.
recognised PayPoint as an important generator of footfall.
A particular focus in the next few years will be the third generation evolution of our terminal Major store groups, including Cora, platform.
Our existing terminal is still by some margin the best in our sector and in recent years, Carrefour and Profi, which operate we have also enjoyed success with our EPoS integrated solution for multiple and symbol retailers.
supermarkets and hypermarkets However, this is an opportune time for a further step change in our retail platform capability to across the country, are now provide an even better terminal for future product delivery, deepening and expanding our ability offering their customers the facility to pay their bills through PayPoint to serve retailers.
The new terminal, which we aim to pilot in this financial year, will include a much larger tabletAs the PayPoint Romania retail like screen and an Android operating system that will enable us to launch and support our own network has expanded into app store.
One of the most important new applications is a multi-level EPoS capability targeted remoter counties and regions of at independent retailers and small chains helping them to run their stores more efficiently and to the country, the majority of regional control better their stocks and promotions.
A range of other added value applications will also be utility suppliers, particularly in introduced with potential to generate direct and third party revenues.
We will also be building in water and sewage, have signed the capability to support beacons and other physical and wireless connectivity to support up to offer their customers the convenience of paying their consumer apps and promotions.
bills at PayPoint, making it possible for them to pay most of their Just as our EPoS integrated solutions have transformed our major multiple propositions, we essential household bills in one anticipate that the availability of high quality and attractively priced EPoS directly through place, at one time.
the PayPoint terminal will prove attractive to our retailers and will further embed us into their businesses for mutual benefit and as such we view this as one of our most important new strategic We know that people are very initiatives.
In time, our new EPoS capability may take us into other retail sectors as a lead offer in busy and so we want them to its own right, rather than solely serving retailers in PayPoints traditional convenience heartland.
know that when they come to Cora, they dont have to come just to do their weekly shopping, A further attraction of EPoS is the purchasing and behavioural data to which it gives access, which they can also do many other we would seek to monetise.
things, such as paying bills through PayPoint.
Consumers PayPoints past and continuing success is in no small part due to our ability to deliver solutions that Marilena Cirsteanu, Cora consumers love to use and adopt at scale.
Our satisfaction rates and promoter scores continue to be exceptional, but the clearest evidence of consumer demand is the continuing record volumes that we generate in payments, parcels, cash withdrawals, card payments and money transfers.
The consumer is ultimately the glue in our business and is the common factor that motivates PayPoint, our clients and our retailers to provide exceptional service.
The consumer is also at the heart of our future product and service evolution.
Our business volumes in retail are over 10 million per week, but this is still a minority of the overall footfall through the stores in which PayPoint is located.
Our focus is to harness this customer flow and generate still more through our innovative new products and services.
These are typically B2B2C services rather than our own consumer offers.
For example, our parcels business has grown to volumes of over 18 million in just five years of operations, which are delivered through similar shops, but with a different consumer profile to our cash payments consumers.
This is a further driver in our new terminal and EPoS strategy as, by moving beyond services more directly into core retail technology, we can become more central to broader product and service delivery to consumers, including critically the opportunities to link point of sale capability with the consumers mobile phone.
We aim to support our retail partners in exploiting these opportunities through our platforms and our experience in consumer applications, having operated PayByPhone, one of the most popular, convenient and heavily used mobile apps.
We will continue to develop our understanding of consumer needs and to innovate to serve them through retail and their broader multi-channel needs.
6 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL continued John Lewis goes International Building on our success in the UK, Ireland and Romania, we have been reviewing further nationwide with international potential in recent months and expect to take further steps in the current year to Collect grow into new countries by green field or acquisition routes.
The countries in which we choose Collect completed the national roll-out of its click & collect to operate will allow us to deliver a broad service portfolio including, as appropriate, our wider service for John Lewis during retail services products and our multi-channel payments for billers.
the year, following a successful trial across Scotland, Northern New countries typically require considerable focus and take time to grow volume to cover the Ireland, Wales and the South costs of network roll out.
We will, therefore, continue to assess these selectively according to West of England.
John Lewis the scale of the opportunity and whether the local environment is attractive and receptive to customers can now collect their our capabilities.
We are considering developing economies, where cash still dominates, and online purchases from any one more advanced economies, which are already embracing multi-channel solutions.
of the 5,800 Collect stores in the PayPoint network.
Purchases are typically delivered to their Summary of strategy store of choice the next day.
As we focus on maximising our success with clients, retailers and consumers in existing and new countries our strategy is, therefore, focused on: The success of Collect is reflected in the 260 retail brands continuing to leverage our model of securing the best client content to maintain the best retail for which it provides returns footprint to deliver the best consumer footfall to in turn attract the best clients and retailers: solutions.
Its click & collect service for customers to have online orders delivered to their enhancing our client offer to be their preferred payments partner across a broader multilocal Collect store, is available channel, multi-tender payment portfolio: from retailers ranging from Amazon to Asda and House of continuing our retail services drive whilst embedding our role deeper into retail technology Fraser to River Island.
Collect is through our next generation terminal and EPoS capability as a direct source of income and also widely used as a convenient a platform for helping retailers to develop their businesses: option for those who sell products via online marketplaces, such as eBay, to send to UK continuing to innovate with attractive new scale consumer services: and addresses.
selectively moving into additional countries which we see as having attractive scale, payment Click & collect has become a needs and receptive clients and retailers.
huge part of our business and we are committed to providing our customers with the most We believe that the simplified focus that results from divesting our mobile and online businesses convenient shopping experience.
will provide a stronger basis for driving shareholder value in the coming years.
Were delighted to have extended that to every corner of the country.
James Leeson, Head of Online Category at John Lewis PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015 7
