GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Dominic Taylor, Chief Executive aged 56, Stephen Rowley, non-executive Director aged 56, appointed 4 August 1998 appointed 16 September 2008 Dominic joined PayPoint in 1997 as Retail Director and was Stephen is Chairman of IHS, a global provider of services to appointed to his current role in August 1998.
He was a Royal Naval the hospitality industry and is a non-executive director of officer for 12 years, following which he completed an MBA at the Metapack.
Previously he was Chief Executive of Torex, leading Cranfield School of Management.
In 1991, Dominic joined the its turnaround and eventual sale to Micros in 2012.
He was Vodafone Group where he led a number of initiatives including the formerly Chief Executive of Anite plc and his other executive development of its SMS service and a bid for the National Lottery, appointments include: Senior Vice President Corporate Business before becoming Sales and Marketing Director for the indirect sales Development for 3Com Corporation, Marketing and Sales of mobile phones to retailers.
In 1996, Dominic joined Granada Director of Cellnet now O2 and Director at IBM UK where plc as a director of Granada Technology Group and Managing he also held a variety of other senior positions.
Director of Granada Business Technology, supplying film and telecommunications products into the hotel and leisure sectors.
Nick Wiles, non-executive Chairman aged 53, appointed to the board 22 October 2009 George Earle, ACA, Finance Director aged 61, Nick retired as Chairman of UK investment banking at Nomura appointed 20 September 2004 in 2012.
He has worked in banking for more than 20 years, George joined PayPoint in September 2004 and is responsible with the majority of this time at Cazenove & Co, where he for the financial affairs of the group.
George qualified as a was a partner prior to incorporation.
Nick was appointed as chartered accountant with Touche Ross & Co now Deloitte LLP non-executive Chairman on 8 May 2015. in 1979, where he served in the corporate finance and audit groups, becoming a partner in 1984.
In 1987, George moved Neil Carson, non-executive Director aged 58, to Saatchi & Saatchi plc, serving as Deputy Finance Director.
appointed 18 June 2014 George subsequently moved to The General Electric Company Neil worked for 34 years for Johnson Matthey JM, the FTSE in 1989, where, until 2001, he fulfilled the role of Financial 100 chemical company.
Starting as an engineering graduate Services Director.
George left Marconi formerly GEC in 2001 to trainee, he worked in each of the divisions in a number of work as Group Director, Chief Executives Office at Centrica plc, different roles serving global markets.
He joined the board of and in 2003 was appointed as Director of Financial Control.
JM in 1999 as Division Director of the Autocatalyst division and became the Chief Executive in 2004, standing down in 2014.
Tim Watkin-Rees, Business Development Director Neil is currently Chairman of TT Electronics and is SID and Chair aged 52, appointed 22 September 1998 of Remco at AMEC Foster Wheeler.
He is also the joint Chairman Tim was a founder director of PayPoint in 1996 and has been alongside the Minister of State for BIS for the Chemistry Growth responsible for group business development throughout the Partnership.
Neil was a founder member of the Prince of Wales companys history.
He previously worked in retail banking and Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change.
payments with Lloyds Bank, KPMG Management Consultants and Nexus later Sligos and now Atos.
He is an Associate of Gill Barr, non-executive Director aged 57, the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
has agreed to join the board on 1 June 2015 Gill is an experienced Marketing Director who has held senior David Morrison, non-executive Director positions at John Lewis, MasterCard and Kingfisher and most aged 56, appointed 12 January 1999 recently she was Group Marketing Director for The Co-operative David has been Chief Executive of Prospect Investment Group.
She also has valuable non-executive director experience Management Prospect since 1999, when he started the with Morgan Sindall plc and UK Breast Cancer Coalition as well company.
He became a director of PayPoint in 1999 following as recently being appointed as a trustee for a new pension fund an investment in the company by clients of Prospect.
Prior to established by Towers Watson.
establishing Prospect, he had worked in the venture capital sector with 3i, Abingworth Management and Botts & Company.
He is currently a non-executive director of Record plc and also Chairman of Snoozebox Holdings plc AIM listed, and several private companies.
Eric Anstee, non-executive Director aged 64, appointed 16 September 2008 Eric is Chairman of CPP Group plc and is non-executive director of Sun Life Financial of Canada UK Limited, a Subsidiary of the Canadian listed Life Assurance Company, and Insight Asset Management, the institutional investment arm of Bank of New York Mellon.
He is also a member of the UK Takeover Panel Appeals Board.
His former non-executive positions have included: The Financial Reporting Council: Chairman of Mansell plc: and Severn Trent plc where he was Chairman of the treasury and audit committees.
His former executive appointments include: Chief Executive of City of London Group plc, The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales, Old Mutual Financial Services, and Group Finance Director at Old Mutual plc, The Energy Group plc and Eastern Electricity plc.
