Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Engagement 93 Wider engagement Share dealing Board visit to India Due to its continued popularity we again provided shareholders with smaller holdings the opportunity to use our registrars low-cost share dealing service, giving them the chance to add to or reduce their stake in Pearson at signi cantly reduced dealing rates, or to donate shares to charity with ease.
This service proved very popular with shareholders, and consequently we intend to o er it again at a future date.
We believe it is important that our employees have a shared interest in the direction and achievements of Pearson and are pleased to say that a large number of our employees are shareholders in the company.
Annual General Meeting In October 2015, the board visited New Delhi, India, for a three-day meeting focused on our four Our AGM, on 29 April 2016, is an opportunity for most important Growth markets Brazil, China, all shareholders to meet the board and to hear India and South Africa.
presentations about Pearsons businesses and results.
In each of these countries, Pearsons presence has Engaging with all stakeholders grown markedly in the last few years and in each of We post all company announcements on our website, them, to varying degrees, Pearson is operating in www.
com, as soon as they are released, and a challenging economic climate, whilst continuing key shareholder presentations are made accessible to chart a path to the next phase of sustainable via webcast or conference call.
These are important markets to Pearsons dedicated investor relations section with an extensive long-term future, where the fundamental demand archive of past announcements and presentations, for good quality education and training, leading to historical financial performance, share price data and a a job and a better life, remain strong.
It also includes information about Overview of growth markets: Providing context for the meeting, all of our businesses, links to their websites and details Pearsons President, Growth and SVP finance, Growth led an of our corporate responsibility policies and activities.
overview of performance and strategy across the four main Learn more about our approach to corporate Growth markets, following which the business leaders of each of Brazil, China and South Africa gave a more in-depth review of responsibility in the Social impact section on p55 the opportunities and challenges in those countries, considering the macro-economic conditions and demographics particular to each territory.
Focus on India: Non-executive director Harish Manwani set the scene for the focus on India, and the board then took a closer look at Pearsons operations through a session with the head of our India business, learning about the huge potential in India and the demand for better, more job-relevant education.
The board also spent time with Pearsons India leadership team and key talent and heard from a range of partners, policymakers and key in uencers.
Learning in action: The board visited Jaypee public school, which provided an opportunity to see first-hand the impact of Pearsons school management improvement framework, to view the MyPedia integrated learning tool in action and learn about our health & safety and safeguarding initiatives.
The board also spent time at a Pearson learning centre, learning about Pearsons work to translate education and training into employment, and engaged with representatives of Avanti Learning Centres and Zaya, two initiatives funded by the Pearson A ordable Learning Fund.
Learn more about our Growth markets on p29-32
