Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our performance 51 Our plans for 2016 Through e cacy we are capturing our impact on Expand the evidence of impact With e cacy processes learner outcomes at a product level, thereby providing in place for our first wave and second wave products, customers with products and services that are e ective we will expand the breadth of evidence we are learning tools, and, as a result, expanding our reach.
collecting across even more Pearson products, further We now have the opportunity to measure the collective demonstrating their impact on learner outcomes.
reach and impact of all of our products, and to report on our growth in new ways.
Leverage e cacy to develop models of product improvement While all products engaged in the e cacy In the next ten years, we at Pearson believe that the process undergo an improvement cycle, in 2016 we will world should be a place where far more people are deepen our e cacy focus on several products that making much more progress in their lives through span our business models e. g. managed services, learning and we are making an ambitious plan to courseware to establish a gold standard model of how get there.
our e cacy process leads to product improvement.
Access to high quality education Further embed e cacy into our organisation and portfolio More product teams around the company will embrace the e cacy approach.
E cacy will be better 58m embedded in internal processes such as acquisition and primary-aged children strategic planning.
250 million children Share our e cacy story with the world Lead a global worldwide are in school conversation across the education sector about the but are not learning.
impact of Pearsons e cacy work, demonstrating how Literacy and numeracy skills e ective education products and services deliver enhanced learner outcomes and positioning Pearson at the forefront of the industry.
750m The remaining education challenge adults, globally, are illiterate.
In developed countries, 200 million Education matters more than ever.
It is the most young people still have not mastered important factor in driving economic and social basic literacy and numeracy skills.
Research shows that better education helps individuals, families and countries prosper, improves Employability and English language skills health outcomes and builds cohesive societies.
There are huge challenges to overcome, as noted in the adjacent diagram.
290 million There is growing consensus that addressing these young people are out of work.
pressing educational and global development issues Meanwhile 40% of employers are and thereby meeting the needs of learners, employers unable to nd quali ed candidates and governments will require everyone involved in to ll vacancies.
education to work together and focus on solutions 1.
UNESCO Policy Paper, June 2014 58m children not in school which can be shown to make a di erence.
UNESCO, Education For All Monitoring Report, April 2013 In 2015 we joined world leaders at the United Nations in 250m in school but not learning committing to the UN World Sustainable Development 3.
UIS Fact Sheet, Sept. 2015 750m illiterate Goals SDGs to make the world a better place by 2030.
4. International Labour Organisation, Global Employment Trends, 2012 206m adult unemployed These goals represent global challenges across both the 5.
The Economist, April 2013 290m young people out of work developed and developing world and all of Pearsons 6.
The Economist, April 2013 40% unable to nd quali ed candidates major markets.
Pearson will use these goals to inform our own sustainability plan.
We will leverage our investment in e cacy and our growth strategy to fuel the financial success of Pearson, demonstrate progress in achieving our mission, and be a global leader in addressing Goal 4 of the SDGs, to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong opportunities for all.
