Our Our busines business s Our Our per perf for ormanc mance e O Our ur S So oci cial al impac impact t G Go over vern nanc ance e F Fi inanci nancia al l s st tat atement ements s Section 2 Our performance 19 Operating performance Geography North America Sales Adjusted operating pro t 2.9bn 480m Revenues grew 1% in headline terms, due to the depreciation of sterling against the US dollar, but fell by 5% at CER and 1% in underlying terms.
In School, strong enrolment growth in Connections Education, good growth in clinical assessment and market share gains in courseware were o set by the impact of a smaller textbook adoptions market and weakness in the open territories in K-12 courseware, and a change in revenue model at Connections Education which records revenue for services charged at cost on a net basis.
In Higher Education, market share gains in courseware were o set by lower enrolments total US college enrolments fell 1.7%, with combined two-year public and four-year for-pro t enrolments declining 4.4%, a ected by a rising employment rate and regulatory change a ecting the for-pro t and developmental learning sectors, higher textbook returns and list sales.
Strong enrolment growth at Pearson online services was o set by lower revenues from Learning Studio, a higher education learning management system that we are retiring, and the impact of a change in revenue model.
In Professional, revenues grew strongly at VUE due to higher volumes of professional certi cation assessments.
Adjusted operating pro ts rose 8% in headline terms due to currency movements, fell 1% at CER and were up 1% in underlying terms, with contract losses in school assessment and an adverse revenue mix o set by tight cost control and the pro t on sale of lists.
Read about Tremayne and the General Education Degree on p20 20 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Operating performance continued North America continued School of $730m in 2015 2014: $910m, led by a strong performance in Grades K-6 Social Studies in Texas Connections Education, our virtual school business and Indiana, and in Grades K-6 Science in Oklahoma.
served over 68,000 full time equivalent students We expanded iLit, our digital reading intervention through full-time virtual and blended school programme, covering a broader range of students programmes in 2015, up 11% from 2014 as a result including English language learners.
Research studies of underlying growth and a new statewide school in show that students using iLit gain two or more years North Carolina.
Connections manages 30 virtual public of reading growth in a year using this tablet-based schools with three new, full-time state-wide virtual programme http: pear.
We launched public schools approved for the 2016-17 school year ReadyGEN, a K-6 reading series and enVisionMATH2.0, to serve students in Arkansas, Washington and New the newest o ering in the highly successful Mexico.
In its annual Parent Satisfaction Survey, 93% of enVisionMATH K-6 maths programme.
parents of students enrolled in full-time online partner schools recommend Connections to other families.
In State and National Assessments, revenues for the full year declined due to contract losses.
High-stakes In courseware, revenue declined year-on-year despite online test volumes grew strongly, up 130% on 2014 to strong market share performance, primarily due to a 26.4 million, as customers transitioned to computersmaller overall adoption market as compared to 2014. based testing.
Paper-based high-stakes test volumes Overall market share increased slightly driven by a grew 3% to 32.7 million.
Pearson successfully delivered strong performance in new adoption markets where English Language, Arts and Math PARCC assessments to we won 31% 2014: 25% of new adoptions competed 5.1 million students across ten states and the District of for, or 29% 2014: 25% of the total new adoption market Tremayne, General Education Degree graduate, US Living in Maryland in the United States, Tremayne was I wasnt used to accomplishing much in 19 years old when he realised that dropping out of high lifeand realised that I could do anything school was a big mistake.
I realised that without a high school diploma or GED no one would hire me.
needed a change, so he turned to the GED Testing Service Hes been accepted into a local community college in to help him and found the MyGED portal t well with his Maryland and plans to transfer to a four-year school to lifestyle, having the GED portal online was very convenient, study engineering.
He hopes one day to start his own very quick.
I used to access it on my phone.
Tremayne successfully passed the test and is looking forward to exciting new opportunities, when I received my diploma, I was so proud of myself.
Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our performance 21 Columbia.
ACT Aspire delivered Common Core aligned college and career readiness assessments to 1.3 million students up 67% from 2014 and was chosen for three new state-wide deployments in 2016.
The states of Arkansas, Mississippi and Ohio will discontinue PARCC assessments in 2016.
We were awarded contracts to deliver the Indiana Statewide Test of Educational Progress ISTEP : renewed the Puerto Rican Tests of Academic Achievement PPAA and parts of the assessments contract awarded by the Texas Education Agency: and extended our contracts to administer the Mississippi Science Test and Mississippi Subject Area Testing Program.
We ceased to administer the majority of the current Texas STAAR contract in September 2015.
Pearson extended its partnership with the College Board for the SAT assessment with the award of a fiveyear contract for processing of the redesigned SAT and PSAT assessments.
Pearson will continue to provide the Bradford, High school student, US essay-scoring component for the SAT until March 2016.
Bradford attends Hart-Ransom Academic Charter High Clinical assessment grew well, bene ting from School, an independent-study high school, which uses continued growth of the fifth edition of the Wechsler Connections Learning for its online learning curriculum.
Intelligence Scale for Children WISC-V, strong growth in Now in the 11th grade, Bradford likes the online curriculums rigour, and has taken advantage of Behavior Assessment for Children 3e BASC and rapid Connections Learnings exibility and self-paced learning growth in Q-Interactive, Pearsons digital solution for to accelerate his education.
clinical assessment administration with geographic expansion and continued strong growth in active I t fide nitely challenges me academically, users to over 9,000 from 4,000 in 2014 with test and thanks to the online learning, administrations up over 400% to 1.3 million sub-tests.
Ican pace myself exactly how I need to be paced.
Bradford appreciates the personal attention hes received from his online learning teachers, like his Spanish teacher, who he talks to on the phone, and his Maths teacher, who meets him virtually in the LiveLesson room.
I really like how involved the teachers are with the students.
11% Connections Education served over 68,000 Full Time Equivalent students through full-time virtual and blended school programmes in 2015, up 11% from 2014 22 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Operating performance continued North America continued Higher Education Gross courseware revenues fell 1.5% compared to REVEL industry gross revenue declines of 2.7%, due to lower college enrolments o set by market share gains.
Sterling, University student, US Net revenues declined 5.7% compared to industry Sterling is currently a junior in the business school at Texas net declines of 7.5% re ecting the impact of higher A & M University and is majoring in marketing.
Our market share in courseware bene ted prerequisite for upper-level business classes, Sterling took from strong performance from key titles including: a State government course online last summer, using Hubbard Economics 5e, Hibbeler Engineering Mechanics REVEL, Pearsons interactive learning programme for the humanities and social sciences.
I learned so much in the 14e and Marieb Human Anatomy & Physiology 10e.
course because it wasnt the same thing every time you Global digital registrations of MyLab and related ipped the page, Sterling explained.
There would be a graph, then a video, and then a picture.
And you could get products grew 3% to nearly 13 million.
In North involved with some of the animations.
America, digital registrations grew 3% to almost 11 million with good growth in Science, Business & I really loved that it was so interactive, Economics, Statistics, REVEL and skills applications because it in uenced how well I learned like Pearson Writer, o set by softness in and how quickly I picked up the material.
Faculty-generated case studies indicate that the use of MyLab programmes, as part of a broader course redesign, can support improvements in student test scores and lower institutional cost http: pear.
We launched a suite of features that include Adaptive Practice in our MyLabs to personalise subjects including Mathematics and Nursing practice, Predictive Analytics Early Alerts in Mastering to help science instructors support at-risk students, gami cation features in Business and rich learning analytics dashboards in numerous products that o er deep insight into students progress, performance and engagement.
11m In North America, digital registrations grew 3% to almost 11 million with good growth in Science, Business & REGISTER Economics, Statistics, REVEL and skills applications like Pearson Writer Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our performance 23 In Pearson online services, our higher education The Charles A. Dana Center at The University of Online Program Management OPM business, course Texas at Austin is collaborating with Pearson to enrolments grew strongly, up 25% to over 265,000, provide webbased course resources to community boosted by strong growth in Arizona State University colleges across Texas that dramatically shorten the Online where we renewed our partnership at the start time it takes for students to earn college credit in of 2015.
We extended our collaboration with Maryville mathematics as part of the New Mathways Project.
University to launch a Bachelor and Masters in Three courses were launched in 2015: Foundations Cybersecurity and a Doctorate in Leadership.
Ohio Mathematical Reasoning, Statistics Reasoning and University is partnering with Pearson to launch a Quantitative Reasoning, with more planned in 2016.
Masters in Financial Economics and Public Relations.
Pearson was named as the premier US Green Building University of Nevada Reno is partnering to increase Council Education Partner and will o er curriculum access to the Master of Social Work degree and course services to universities, associations, programme online.
Pearson launched a new training companies, corporations, and workforce managed programmes service model with Cincinnati education and apprenticeship programmes.
We are State Technical and Community College, adapting partnering with Broward College to launch new traditional OPM services to the Community College competency-based workforce certi cation pathways market signing a landmark ten-year agreement focused on IT and Healthcare.
Pearson will support to provide marketing, recruiting, admission and Browards strategy by providing 12 industry retention services both to online and ground-based certi cations with existing workforce education programmes.
courseware, as well as curriculum development In enterprise solutions, Pearson signed signi cant services to build new courses towards certi cation large-scale, enterprise adoptions of cross-discipline and the Acclaim badging platform.
digital content, where content is purchased via an Professional upfront course fee and integrated with university IT systems, with Jones County College, National In professional certi cation, VUE global test volumes University, Algonquin College and the University of grew 11% year-on-year to 14.2 million, boosted by Missouri system.
We signed an expanded strategic continued growth in IT, Professional and GED, partnership agreement with Southern New with increased volumes from Microsoft Certi ed Hampshire Universitys SNHU College of Online Professional MCP Program globally, National and Continuing Education COCE.
Pearson will Council of State Boards of Nursing and US teacher support curriculum development, online tutoring, certi cation programmes.
VUE renewed the Certiport enterprise-wide content and data integration, ebooks Microsoft O ce Specialists and Microsoft Technology with a print-on-demand option and data and analytics Associate programmes for an additional year and services, which will provide greater visibility into extended our partnership with Cisco Systems for students achievement of learning outcomes.
