08 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Our business model Creating value by developing products and services that meet learner needs most eff ectively.
At the heart of this is our effi cacy strategy which over the long-term provides insight and data on the full impact of our products and services.
From 2018 our effi cacy programme will be reporting on this.
How our strategy aligns with value creation Digital & services Market presence Measurable outcomes 1 2 3 Plan and develop Market, sell and serve Assess and We combine our insights Our leading position in provide insight into market need with our educational courseware We measure and assess global education expertise.
and assessment enables the impact of our products This perspective informs us to build our capabilities and services on learner the planning and in fast-growing related outcomes.
This feeds development of all our services.
We use our into our global insights teaching and learning experience and expertise capabilities, enabling products and services, across the business us to build a deep driven by technology, to develop scalable, understanding of learners and shapes those where successful products and customers needs, we place the greatest and services, always and develop world-class investment.
See a summary of our strategy on p04-05 T P C O U L D E V O E Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements R D P S E C I V R E S & L A T I G Y I P D G N O. E 1 A L T S L E A E P V R R E & V T D E S 2.
M A R K E Section 1 Our business 09 Capture insight Develop strategy & plan Develop product Exploring customer Major product divisions Developed with insight from and learner needs to integrated with geographic geographies to address identify opportunities.
markets to set strategic speci c local needs.
LEARNER OUTCOMES Assess impact Serve Market & sell Measuring e cacy and Customer service and Sales activity supported understanding the learner support is a shared with guidance from global informs all decisions made responsibility with di erent brand and marketing.
owners at di erent stages.
