46 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Targeting growth through efficacy In 2013, our drive to build a company centred around The road to empowering the what works in education led to a commitment to publicly report on the learner outcomes delivered livesof 200 million learners by our products in 2018. annually by 2025 In 2014, Pearson started embedding the e cacy framework and approach at the centre of our business Introduction model, conducting e cacy reviews and using those Over the last few years, we have been progressively insights to improve our products and how we serve measuring and increasing our impact on learner our customers.
In preparation for 2018 we started the outcomes.
We are already helping millions of learners process of publicly reporting on e cacy, pro ling the progress in their lives: to become more literate and progress of five key products.
numerate, move from school to college, learn a new In 2015, we expanded the focus of our work, gathering language, or secure a new career which o ers better evidence for more products and services.
We are seeing prospects for them and their families.
increased interest in our e cacy approach from our To advance Pearsons reach and impact and to position customers and it has become a bigger factor in sales the company for sustainable growth, we have decisions.
We are reporting publicly on the e cacy of embarked on an ambitious e cacy programme many more products alongside this report.
which has evolved the way we manage our business, our approach to product development and our relationships with customers.
Key achievements in 2015 We made great progress in 2015, achieving the following milestones: 2014 first wave products: 2015 second wave products: Gathering fide ned learner evidence outcomes For all first wave products products chosen based on We have also fide ned learner outcomes and metrics for strategic importance, market position and revenue all second wave products products representing a wider we have worked with customers to re ne their learner range of geographies in our portfolio, in addition to outcomes, are now gathering evidence of their evaluating existing evidence and implementing plans to impact, and have been completing e cacy-led gather more evidence of impact.
Going forward we will product improvements.
continue to build an evidence base for these products and make improvements.
Competitive edge Importantly, we are increasingly seeing our Sales and Marketing teams working with our E cacy teams to provide a competitive edge to Pearsons proposals.
Our commitment to build more e ective products has already resulted in increased customer demand for such products and, therefore, increased revenue.
We look forward to seeing this trend continue into 2016 and beyond.
