118 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Additional disclosures Report of the directors Pages 70 to 123 of this document comprise the directors Share capital report for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Details of share issues are given in note 27 to the Other information that is required by the Companies accounts on page 200.
The company has a single class Act 2006 the Act to be included in the directors report, of shares which is divided into ordinary shares of 25p and which is incorporated by reference, can be located each.
The ordinary shares are in registered form.
As at as follows: 31 December 2015, 821,068,560 ordinary shares were in issue.
At the AGM held on 24 April 2015, the company Summary disclosures index See more was authorised, subject to certain conditions, to acquire Dividend recommendation p11 up to 82,027,776 ordinary shares by market purchase.
Shareholders will be asked to renew this authority at Financial instruments and the AGM on 29 April 2016. financial risk management note 19 Important events since year end p37 Information provided to the company pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Future development of the business p06-07 Transparency Rules DTR is published on a Regulatory Research and development activities p53 Information Service and on the companys website.
Employment of disabled persons p62 As at 31 December 2015, the company had been noti ed Employee involvement p59 under DTR 5 of the following holders of signi cant voting rights in its shares.
Greenhouse gas emissions p64 Number Percentage With the exception of the dividend waiver described of voting as at date of on page 122, there is no information to be disclosed rights noti cation in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
BlackRock, Inc. 42,201,515 5.13% Going concern Schroders plc 42,151,560 5.13% The directors have made an assessment of the Between 31 December 2015 and 2 March 2016, being companys ability to continue as a going concern and the latest practicable date before the publication of consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern this report, the company did not receive any further basis of accounting.
Viability statement Annual General Meeting As set out on page 40 the board has also reviewed the The notice convening the AGM, to be held at 12 noon prospects of Pearson over the three year period to on Friday, 29 April 2016 at IET London, 2 Savoy Place, December 2018 taking account of the companys London WC2R 0BL, is contained in a circular to strategic plans, a severe but plausible downside case shareholders to be dated 23 March 2016. and further stress testing based on the principal risks Registered auditors set out on pages 41-45.
In accordance with section 489 of the Act, a Based on the results of these procedures, and resolution proposing the reappointment of considering the companys strong balance sheet  LLP PwC as auditors to following the sale of the FT group, the directors have the company will be proposed at the AGM, at a level a reasonable expectation that Pearson will be able to of remuneration to be agreed by the directors.
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period ending December 2018.
This assumes a reasonable level of ongoing access to capital either via issuing commercial paper or drawing on our revolving credit facility see note 18 on p178.
Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance 119 Auditors independence To assist in ensuring that independence and objectivity is maintained, for forward-looking tax advisory and due In line with best practice, our relationship with PwC diligence work PwC assign a di erent partner from the is governed by our external auditors policy, which is one leading the external audit.
reviewed and approved annually by the audit committee.
The policy establishes procedures to ensure the auditors Signi cant non-audit work performed by PwC during independence is not compromised, as well as fide ning 2015 included: those non-audit services that PwC may or may not Audit-related work in relation to potential and actual provide to Pearson.
corporate finance transactions These allowable services are in accordance with relevant Tax compliance services related to a routine audit by UK and US legislation.
The audit committee approves the US Internal Revenue Service all audit and non-audit services provided by PwC.
Certain categories of allowable non-audit services have Tax advisory work on a number of UK, US and been pre-approved by the audit committee subject to international tax matters the authorities below: Assurance services on a corporate bond issued in Pre-approved non-audit services can be authorised by May 2015 the chief financial o cer up to 100,000 per project, Consulting services related to the establishment of an subject to a cumulative limit of 500,000 per annum auditable e cacy framework Acquisition or disposal transactions and due diligence Audit of IT general controls mandated by contractual up to 100,000 per project may be performed by our commitments.
external auditors, in light of the need for con dentiality.
Any project transaction generating fees in excess A full statement of the fees for audit and non-audit services is provided in note 4 to the accounts on of 100,000 must be speci cally approved by the audit committee page 154.
Fair, balanced and understandable reporting Tax compliance and related activities up to the greater of 1,000,000 per annum or 50% of the external audit fee As required by the Code, we have established For forward-looking tax advisory services we use the arrangements to ensure that all information we report to investors and regulators is fair, balanced most appropriate adviser, usually after a tender process.
Where we decide to use our independent auditors, and understandable.
A process and timetable for the production and approval of this years report was authority, up to 100,000 per project subject to a cumulative limit of 500,000 per annum, has been agreed by the board at its meeting in December 2015.
The full board then had opportunity to review and delegated by the audit committee to management.
comment on the report as it progressed.
Services provided by PwC above these limits and all Representatives from financial reporting, corporate other allowable non-audit services, irrespective of value, must be approved by the audit committee.
Where a airs, company secretarial, legal and internal audit and compliance are involved in the preparation and review appropriate, services will be tendered prior to a decision being made as to whether to award work to the auditors.
of the annual report to ensure a cohesive and balanced approach and, as with all of our financial reporting, our The audit committee receives regular reports disclosure committee conducts a thorough veri cation summarising the amount of fees paid to the auditors.
of narrative and financial statements.
During 2015, Pearson spent considerably more on The audit committee is also available to advise the board non-audit fees with PwC compared to 2014, due to costs relating to carve-out audits for businesses disposed.
on certain aspects of the report, to enable the directors to ful l their responsibility in this regard.
For 2015, non-audit fees represented 56% of external audit fees 37% in 2014.
The directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and For all non-audit work in 2015, PwC were selected only after consideration that they were best able to provide understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and the services we required at a reasonable fee and within the terms of our external auditors policy.
performance, business model and strategy.
120 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Report of the Directors continued The directors also con rm that, for each director in o ce In preparing these financial statements, the directors at the date of this report: are required to: So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant Select suitable accounting policies and then apply audit information of which the companys auditors them consistently are unaware Make judgements and accounting estimates that are They have taken all the steps that they ought to have reasonable and prudent taken as directors in order to make themselves aware State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the of any relevant audit information and to establish that European Union have been followed, subject to any the companys auditors are aware of that information.
material departures disclosed and explained in the Directors in o ce financial statements The following directors were in o ce during the year and Prepare the financial statements on a going concern up until signing of the financial statements: basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
G R Moreno S J Lewis stepped down 31 December 2015 The directors are responsible for keeping adequate L K Lorimer J J Fallon accounting records that are su cient to show and H Manwani explain the companys transactions and disclose with R A D Freestone T Score stepped down 1 August 2015 reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of S Taurel the company and the Group and enable them to ensure T D G Arculus appointed 1 January 2016 stepped down 24 April 2015 that the financial statements and the report on directors L Wallen remuneration comply with the Act and, as regards E P L Corley appointed 1 January 2016 the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS V Cox C Williams Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding K J Hydon appointed 1 August 2015 the assets of the company and the Group and hence for stepped down 24 April 2015 taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection The directors report has been approved by the board on of fraud and other irregularities.
4 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may di er from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Stephen Jones Each of the directors, whose names and functions Company secretary are listed on p72-73 con rms that, to the best of their knowledge: Statement of directors responsibilities The Group financial statements, which have been The directors are responsible for preparing the annual prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the report in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, Company law requires the directors to prepare financial liabilities, financial position and pro t of the Group statements for each financial year.
Under that law The strategic report contained in the annual report the directors have prepared the Group and parent includes a fair review of the development and company financial statements in accordance with performance of the business and the position of the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Group, together with a description of the principal adopted by the European Union.
Under company law risks and uncertainties that it faces.
the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satis ed that they give a true and fair This responsibility statement has been approved by view of the state of a airs of the company and the Group the board on 4 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by and of the pro t or loss of the Group for that period.
Coram Williams Chief financial o cer
