44 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Financial risks Risk 2015 activities 2016 plans Tax: Our tax strategy re ects our business strategy and the locations and There is now known legislative 11 nancing needs of our operations.
In common with many companies, change in the UK on tax reporting Risk that changes in tax we seek to manage our tax a airs to protect value for our shareholders, requirements in 2016 and almost law or perceptions on in line with our broader duciary duties.
We are committed to complying certain change on tax treatment tax planning strategies with all statutory obligations, to undertake full disclosure to tax of nancing structures.
A change lead to higher e ective authorities and to follow agreed policies and procedures with regard to US legislation is possible.
tax rate or negative to tax planning and strategy.
Work has been performed to Oversight of tax strategy is within the remit of the audit committee, prepare systems for the increased which receives a report on this topic at least once a year.
All of the tax disclosure requirements audit committee members are independent non-executive directors.
relating to country by country The chief financial o cer is responsible for tax strategy: the conduct reporting.
of our tax a airs and the management of tax risk are delegated to a global team of tax professionals.
See page 145 for details of tax accounting policy.
Treasury new risk : The treasury risk is now being reported as a principal risk due In 2016, we will continue to operate 12 to currency and financial market volatility, as well as the recent in line with our treasury policy.
Inability to mitigate changes to our credit rating.
More on this can be found in treasury financial risks, note 19, starting on page 181. including the failure Our approach to the mitigation of treasury financial risk, including to secure adequate funding risk, financial counterparty risk and exposures to interest committed funding, and foreign exchange rates is covered in more detail in note 19, the failure to manage starting on page 181. exposures to financial counterparties and the failure to manage exposures to market risk such as interest and foreign exchange rates.
Legal and compliance risks Risk 2015 activities 2016 plans Data privacy and Data privacy: A data privacy o ce has been established and a 2015- The data privacy and information 13 information security: 2016 data privacy strategy developed.
The implementation of the security improvement strategy is overseen by the data privacy governance board which programmes will continue Risk of a data privacy has operated throughout 2015.
We test and re-evaluate our data through 2016 into 2017 and will incident or other failure security procedures and controls across all our businesses with the implement critical processes to to comply with data aim of ensuring personal data is secured, and we seek to comply drive best practices.
privacy regulations and with relevant legislation and contractual requirements.
We regularly standards: and or a monitor regulation changes to assess the impact on existing weakness in information processes and programmes.
The data privacy o ce is working with security, including a those limited parts of the business a ected by the Safe Harbor failure to prevent or decision to transfer them to model contract clauses.
detect a malicious attack on our systems, could Annual training on data security and privacy was introduced in 2015 for result in a major data all employees.
In addition, all Pearson sta who deal with US student privacy breach causing data are required to take educational data protection training.
reputational damage Information security: Pearson has an established global security and financial loss.
organisational model: and standard-based information security controls and practices.
Security policies have all been updated in 2015.
We have established a global security operations centre that provides ongoing monitoring of potential malicious attacks on our infrastructure and systems.
Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our performance 45 Legal and compliance risks Risk 2015 activities 2016 plans Intellectual property: We seek to mitigate these risks by being generally vigilant and We will continue to streamline our 14 deploying policies and internal and external resources to manage portfolios: procure and register If we do not adequately and protect our intellectual property.
We co-operate and advocate expanded rights in our high value protect our intellectual through trade associations, monitor advances in technology and law IP globally: monitor activities and property and proprietary and, when appropriate, take legal or collective enforcement actions regulations: and proactively rights our competitive with other publishers to secure our rights.
We have in place a patent enforce our rights, taking position and pro ts may programme to establish enforceable patent rights to protect our necessary legal action.
be adversely a ected and technology innovations and promote appropriate con dentiality limit our ability to grow.
Our global IP legal function also helps us clear and protect our key brands and patentable innovations.
Competition law In October 2015, a lawyer specialising in competition law was Based upon the completed risk 15 new risk : appointed to ensure we are fully compliant with all laws and assessment, we will develop and regulations.
A plan has been put in place to perform a full risk implement actions, prioritising key Failure to comply with assessment given the evolving complexity of legislation and risk areas.
anti-trust and competition regulation in this area.
This evolving complexity is why this risk legislation.
has now been included in the principal risks.
Anti-bribery and We have a risk-based programme of training online and face-toTraining and awareness in 2016 will 16 corruption ABC : face, with code of conduct certi cation including a clear statement focus on the revised ABC policy for of ABC policy.
The policy was revised in 2015, with no change to higher risk countries and activities.
Failure to e ectively Pearsons zero tolerance principle.
In 2015, the Business Partner manage risks associated Third-party due diligence will Code of Conduct launched, which will help to mitigate third-party with compliance to global continue to be enhanced, taking ABC risk.
into account the bene ts from See page 60 in the Social impact section for more detail on what is business transformation covered by the Code of Conduct.
implementations, such as the Enabling Programme.
Data quality and integrity Data quality and integrity is now being reported as a principal risk The primary focus is on the new risk : due to its importance in supporting business change initiatives, Enabling Programme which will, 17 such as the Enabling Programme and OneCRM as highlighted risk 1, in time, deliver signi cant Unavailability of timely, business transformation and change.
Data is key to their success.
improvements in data quality complete and accurate and facilitate better informed data limits informed A Pearson Data Services team has been created and a data decision-making.
decision-making and governance target operating model agreed which fide fines data increased risk of nonownership accountability at executive level to ensure that data The 2016 roll-outs require the compliance with legal, initiatives align to business strategy, priorities and initiatives.
migration of a signi cant number regulatory and reporting of datasets.
