Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Report on directors remuneration 113 Interests of directors and value of shareholdings John Fallon Coram Williams 0 100,000 200,000 300,000 400,000 Ordinary shares Conditional shares Shareholding guideline Ordinary shares purchased post year end Shareholding guidelines There are limits on the amount of new-issue equity we Executive directors are expected to build up a can use.
In any rolling ten-year period, no more than 10% substantial shareholding in the company in line with the of Pearson equity will be issued, or be capable of being policy of encouraging widespread employee ownership issued, under all Pearsons share plans, and no more and to align further the interests of executives and than 5% of Pearson equity will be issued, or be capable shareholders.
With e ect from 2014, target holding is of being issued, under executive or discretionary plans.
300% of salary for the chief executive and 200% of At 31 December 2015, stock awards to be satis ed by salary for the other executive directors.
new-issue equity granted in the last ten years under all Shares that count towards these guidelines include Pearson share plans amounted to 1.6% of the companys any shares held unencumbered by the executive, their issued share capital.
No stock awards granted in the last spouse and or dependent children plus any shares ten years under executive or discretionary share plans vested but held pending release under a restricted share will be satis ed by new-issue equity.
Executive directors have five years from the date In addition, for existing shares, no more than 5% of of appointment to reach the guideline.
Pearson equity may be held in trust at any time.
Against With e ect from 2014, these guidelines were extended this limit, shares held in trust at 31 December 2015 to include all members of the Pearson executive at 100% amounted to 0.8% of the companys issued share capital.
The headroom available for all Pearson plans, executive The shareholding guidelines do not apply to the or discretionary plans and shares held in trust is as chairman and non-executive directors.
However, a follows: minimum of 25% of the basic non-executive directors Headroom 2015 2014 2013 fee is paid in Pearson shares that the non-executive directors have committed to retain for the period All Pearson plans 8.4% 8.3% 8.4% of their directorships.
Executive or discretionary plans 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% Dilution and use of equity Shares held in trust 4.2% 4.1% 3.9% We can use existing shares bought in the market, treasury shares or newly-issued shares to satisfy Executive directors non-executive directorships awards under the companys various share plans.
Although the policy permits executive directors to serve For restricted stock awards under the long-term as non-executive directors elsewhere with the boards incentive plan and matching share awards under the agreement, none of the executive directors held an annual bonus share matching plan, we would normally external directorship during 2015. expect to use existing shares.
