44 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Financial risks Risk 2015 activities 2016 plans Tax: Our tax strategy re ects our business strategy and the locations and There is now known legislative 11 nancing needs of our operations.
In common with many companies, change in the UK on tax reporting Risk that changes in tax we seek to manage our tax a airs to protect value for our shareholders, requirements in 2016 and almost law or perceptions on in line with our broader duciary duties.
We are committed to complying certain change on tax treatment tax planning strategies with all statutory obligations, to undertake full disclosure to tax of nancing structures.
A change lead to higher e ective authorities and to follow agreed policies and procedures with regard to US legislation is possible.
tax rate or negative to tax planning and strategy.
Work has been performed to Oversight of tax strategy is within the remit of the audit committee, prepare systems for the increased which receives a report on this topic at least once a year.
All of the tax disclosure requirements audit committee members are independent non-executive directors.
relating to country by country The chief financial o cer is responsible for tax strategy: the conduct reporting.
of our tax a airs and the management of tax risk are delegated to a global team of tax professionals.
See page 145 for details of tax accounting policy.
Treasury new risk : The treasury risk is now being reported as a principal risk due In 2016, we will continue to operate 12 to currency and financial market volatility, as well as the recent in line with our treasury policy.
Inability to mitigate changes to our credit rating.
More on this can be found in treasury financial risks, note 19, starting on page 181. including the failure Our approach to the mitigation of treasury financial risk, including to secure adequate funding risk, financial counterparty risk and exposures to interest committed funding, and foreign exchange rates is covered in more detail in note 19, the failure to manage starting on page 181. exposures to financial counterparties and the failure to manage exposures to market risk such as interest and foreign exchange rates.
Legal and compliance risks Risk 2015 activities 2016 plans Data privacy and Data privacy: A data privacy o ce has been established and a 2015- The data privacy and information 13 information security: 2016 data privacy strategy developed.
The implementation of the security improvement strategy is overseen by the data privacy governance board which programmes will continue Risk of a data privacy has operated throughout 2015.
We test and re-evaluate our data through 2016 into 2017 and will incident or other failure security procedures and controls across all our businesses with the implement critical processes to to comply with data aim of ensuring personal data is secured, and we seek to comply drive best practices.
privacy regulations and with relevant legislation and contractual requirements.
We regularly standards: and or a monitor regulation changes to assess the impact on existing weakness in information processes and programmes.
The data privacy o ce is working with security, including a those limited parts of the business a ected by the Safe Harbor failure to prevent or decision to transfer them to model contract clauses.
detect a malicious attack on our systems, could Annual training on data security and privacy was introduced in 2015 for result in a major data all employees.
In addition, all Pearson sta who deal with US student privacy breach causing data are required to take educational data protection training.
reputational damage Information security: Pearson has an established global security and financial loss.
organisational model: and standard-based information security controls and practices.
Security policies have all been updated in 2015.
We have established a global security operations centre that provides ongoing monitoring of potential malicious attacks on our infrastructure and systems.
