52 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Targeting growth through efficacy continued The Plan By 2025, Pearson commits to empower the lives of 200 million learners annually, more than doubling our current reach and doing it through the delivery of more e ective products and services.
Access Success Progress Our goals Enhance access Help more learners Help more people tohigh quality gain the knowledge make measurable education that leads and skills required progress in their To meet our commitment to meaningful for life and career lifeand career to empower the lives of outcomes success in the through learning 200 million learners annually, we have set 21st century three goals.
We will help 10 million We will help increase literacy We will help 25 million 2025 targets primary and secondary and numeracy for 50 million learners annually transition learners annually access learners annually into the workforce after high quality education further or higher education We will help 50 million We are building on our We will help 2 million postlearners annually gain We will help 20 million e cacy work to set secondary learners annually the knowledge and skills learners advance their ourselves ambitious access high quality education required for study and career prospects annually growth targets.
employment We will help advance the English language skills of 75 million learners annually Online degree and virtual school Our products that support adult Our workforce readiness Strategic programmes can improve English language learning can products support learners to alignment learner access to quality primary provide learners with the skills make measurable progress and secondary education: required for success in a global in their lives and careers.
Products such as Products such as MyITLab Our goals and targets are helping 1.8 million learners MyEnglishLab and many others help approximately 15 million align with our core to annually access quality allow us to help advance the learners to transition into the strategic priorities.
By 2025, we aim English language skills of workforce annually.
By 2025 For more see strategic to help 10 million.
we aim to help 25 million overview on p04 By 2025 we aim to help learners annually transition 75 million learners annually.
into the workforce after higher or further education.
From 2016 to 2025 In 2016, we will: fide ne company-wide trajectories and set product-level While our e cacy work continues, we will sharpen the targets and trajectories.
focus of our portfolio, investments, partnerships, and campaigns to meet the goal of reaching, and positively T ie KPIs to the targets across Pearson, measuring the impacting, 200 million learners with increasingly performance of our business leaders and executives by e ective products.
This approach will eventually be their contributions to these goals.
embedded into every area of our business so that we D evelop and implement a system capable of tracking are positioned for growth.
our progress towards these goals.
A gree upon processes for determining new acquisitions and investments in our current and future portfolio based on their contribution to our goals.
Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our performance 53 Timeline 2013 2016 2018 2025 Public launch of our Build on e cacy commitment First major public reporting Meet our impact and e cacy commitment to set targets for our impact on e cacy progress and reach targets and our reach progress against our impact and reach targets Setting the targets Pearsons ambitious research programme World-leading research continues to be a priority for O ur targets are derived from the key educational Pearson.
We work with the best minds in education to challenges facing learners, market realities and bring their diverse and independent insights to a wider opportunities identi ed by our business leaders audience.
These include two reports published in 2015 where Pearson has opportunity to grow.
with world-renowned educationalist Professor John O ur product portfolio was evaluated to determine Hattie, What Doesnt Work in Education: the Politics of the areas where Pearson can measurably have the Distraction, and What Works Best in Education: the greatest impact on global education.
T he targets are set based on current reach and These papers have been read 70,000 times via our market trends.
Choosing these targets will help website and have rede ned our ambition for the global organise and measure our energy to grow reach of Pearsons thought leadership.
formed the basis of engagements with government o cials, stakeholders and academia in key markets across the world.
We are at a critical juncture in our history and the education sector is at a critical juncture in its evolution.
In 2016, we look forward to building on this momentum With far greater data being made available on learners with releases on critical topics including adaptive performance and more willingness to use that data to learning, arti cial intelligence in education, and building improve education, we have a singular opportunity to e cacy into learning technologies.
have greater impact with our products as well as reach more people.
Our targets to increase our reach and impact will drive us towards commercial success and our mission to help people make progress in their lives through learning.
The number of learners reached by Pearson Aspirational 200m 200m Current 75m By 2025, Pearson aspires to empower the lives of 200 million learners annually 54 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015
