Governance and remuneration Reports of the BoardsCommittees The Audit Committee Audit Committee composition and meetings Dear Shareholder The membership of the Committee, together with As the new chairman of the Audit Committee since appointment dates and attendance at meetings during September 2014 I am pleased to introduce the report on the 2014 15 is set out below: Committees activities during the year.
I see the Committee as an essential part of the Boards toolkit in ensuring good Members Appointment date Attendance governance: overseeing the effectiveness and integrity of Group financial reporting, internal control processes and risk Neil Cooper September 2014 3 3 management activities.
CommitteeChairman Gerard Connell October 2003 5 5 The work of the Audit Committee has, therefore, continued to be focused on the appropriateness of the Groups Martin Angle December 2008 5 5 financial reporting, including accounting judgements, the review of key risks across the Group and the challenging and Gill Rider September 2012 5 5 testing of the Groups internal control processes including risk management and internal audit.
The Committee has Retiring on 31 July 2015 also reviewed a number of activities associated with its key responsibilities to ensure the risk environment and levels of Other regular attendees to our meetings include: risk across the Group were appropriately managed.
These Group Director of Finance included the Companys foreign exchange policy, recyclate Chief Executive, South West Water trading controls, financial instruments risk appetite, treasury risk and our subsidiaries information security frameworks.
Chief Executive, Viridor Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Due to a change in our external auditor, during the year we oversaw the arrangements made for the introduction of the Finance Director, South West Water new auditor to the systems and processes operated within Finance Director, Viridor the Group and the handover of knowledge and experience Group Financial Controller of the retiring auditors.
Group Audit Manager As part of the year-end reporting review process we reviewed External auditor.
and challenged the key judgements of management in relation to a range of matters, including the Viridor impairment In addition the Chairman of the Group, Ken Harvey, has an review, bad and doubtful debt provisioning, tax provisioning open invitation to attend the meetings and during the last and revenue recognition.
Significant matters considered by year has attended when the Committee has reviewed the the Committee both during the year and in relation to the half year and full year financial results of the Group.
year-end financial statements are explained in this report.
In accordance with the UK Code, the Board has determined Finally I would like to thank my predecessor, Gerard Connell, that Neil Cooper, Gerard Connell and Martin Angle all have for his assistance through the handover of the chairmanship recent and relevant financial experience.
In addition, Gerard of the Committee.
Connell, who has been chairman of the Audit Committee from October 2003 until August 2014, has been determined by the Board as continuing to be independent in character Neil Cooper and judgement notwithstanding his length of tenure.
Details Audit Committee Chairman of each Directors significant current and prior appointments are set out on page 57.
All of the Committee members are also members of the Remuneration Committee, which allows them to provide input into both Committees on any Group performance matters and on the management of any risk factors relevant to remuneration matters.
62 62 Pennon Gr Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015 oup Plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements Significant matters considered by the Committee The Committees annual calendar of business assists in ensuring that it manages its affairs efficiently and effectively throughout the year concentrating on the key matters that affect the Group.
The most significant matters that the Committee considered and made decisions on during the year are set out below: Financial reporting Monitored the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and the half year and full year results announcements relating to the Groups financial performance including reviewing and discussing significant financial reporting judgements contained in the statements.
Reviewed and recommended to the Board the approval of the 2013 14 preliminary results announcement, the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts including the financial statements and the 2014 15 half year results announcement.
Considered and approved a process for confirming and recommending to the Board that the 2014 15 Annual Report and Accounts including the financial statements is fair, balanced and understandable in accordance with reporting requirements.
Internal control and Reviewed quarterly internal audit reports on audit reviews across the Group during the year including on debt compliance collections and credit management, transport control environment, joint venture auditing and capital expenditure planning, scoping and costing, capital expenditure delivery, energy management and contract management.
Reviewed the internal control framework for the Group.
Monitored performance on specific matters including Viridors Project Enterprise business transformation project.
External auditor Considered the auditors paper on its review of the 2013 14 Annual Results focusing on key findings.
Assessed the external auditor and its effectiveness in respect of the 2013 14 external audit process.
Recommended to the Board the appointment of the new external auditor for 2014 15 and for approval at the Annual General Meeting and also for the Committee to agree the external auditors remuneration.
Considered and approved the 2014 15 audit plan and audit fee proposal and set performance expectations for the external auditor.
Agreed and monitored the provision of non-audit services for 2013 14 and during 2014 15.
Risk management Reviewed risk management framework and compliance with that framework during 2013 14 and after the yearend up until the publication of the Companys Annual Report.
Reviewed the assessment of the risks by the Executive Directors.
Reviewed the Group risk register and considered appropriate areas of focus and prioritisation for the audit work programme for the year.
Received as part of the risk management review the annual report on any whistleblowing.
Governance Discussed annual evaluation exercise of the Committee and agreed action plans to further improve the Committees performance including a review of the Committees terms of reference.
Reviewed new annual report disclosure requirements including the audit report.
Considered and approved Group accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements.
Reviewed a number of updated Group policies covering foreign exchange, whistleblowing and suspected fraud, anti-bribery and other irregularities.
Confirmed compliance with the UK Code.
Regularly held separate meetings with the external auditor and the internal group audit manager without members of management being present.
Considered and approved a revised policy for undertaking non-audit work by the auditor.
Since the year-end, the Committee reviewed the Groups 2014 15 results and considered the related key findings of the external auditor, and recommended to the Board the approval of the 2014 15 preliminary results announcement.
In addition it reviewed and recommended to the Board the approval of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts including financial statements, considering it fair, balanced and understandable as set out on page 66. www www.
co. uk 2015 63 63 Governance and remuneration Reports of the Boards Committees Continued The Audit Committee Continued In respect of the monitoring of the integrity of the financial the significant issues arising in respect of financial reporting statements, which is a key responsibility of the Committee during the year and the areas of particular audit focus, as identified in the UK Code, the significant issues considered reported on in the independent auditors report on pages in relation to the financial statements for the year ended 96 to 99.
In addition to the significant issues set out in the 31 March 2015 are set out in the following table, together table below, the Committee considered a range of other with details of how each matter was addressed by the matters including presentational issues, in particular relating Committee.
At the Committees meetings throughout the to the quality of earnings, exceptional item classification and year the Committee and the external auditor have discussed contingent liability disclosure.
Significant issues the How the issue was addressed by the Committee Committee considered in relation to the financial statements Going concern basis for the The Board receives a monthly report from the Group Director of Finance on the financial performance preparation of the financial of the Group including forward looking assessments of covenant compliance and funding levels under statements differing scenarios.
The Board also regularly reviews and challenges rolling five year strategy projections and the resultant headroom relative to borrowings.
A report to the Audit Committee, prepared by the Group Director of Finance, at each half year and year-end, focuses on the Groups liquidity over the 15 months subsequent to a period end and the Groups solvency over a longer period.
This report provides the basis for a detailed review and discussion of the key issues at Committee meetings.
These discussions together with the ongoing monitoring of the Groups business model and financial performance, provide the evidence on which the Committee forms its assessment and satisfies itself that it remains appropriate for the Group to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the 2014 15 financial statements.
Viridor: asset impairment There has been considerable focus at the year-end on Viridors environmental provisions and the carrying and provisions value of its assets, including goodwill.
Underlying assumptions, both in respect of markets and individual operating sites, have been discussed and reviewed with executive management, including consideration of external market research where appropriate, at both subsidiary and Group Board levels, before being considered and challenged again at Committee meetings.
As part of the year-end reporting to the Committee, the Group Director of Finance presented a report summarising the key issues in relation to the impairment review and Committee members asked questions of the Viridor Chief Executive, the Viridor Finance Director and the Group Director of Finance and discussed the detailed sensitivity analysis in respect of key assumptions carried out by management, which had also been reviewed as part of the yearend audit by the external auditor.
South West Water and Both the South West Water board and the Viridor board, as well as the Group Board, receive regular Viridor bad and doubtful updates on progress against debt collection targets.
Performance is monitored regularly against South debt provisions West Waters historical collection record and the track record of other companies in the sector.
At the yearend the external auditor reported on the work it had performed, and the Committee considered the results of this report and asked questions of both the South West Water and the Viridor Chief Executives before forming a view on managements assessment of the year-end position.
Tax and treasury The Group takes a prudent view of its tax position and has a general policy of releasing tax provisions only when matters under discussion are expected to be cleared by HM Revenue & Customs.
If any outstanding issues are considered to be potentially material, such matters are also discussed, and challenged where necessary, at Group Board level.
Expert external legal advice is sought as and when appropriate.
The external auditors reported on the work they had performed in respect of tax provisions in the Groups balance sheet.
Questions raised by this review were addressed at the year-end audit clearance meeting of the Committee and the Group Director of Finance separately reported on the proposed treatment of certain items.
The Committee also considered at the year-end the tax and accounting treatment of certain structured treasury transactions and the Group Director of Finance reported on the treatment of these transactions.
During the year the Committee gave further consideration to the Groups policies and activities in relation to tax and treasury and approved minor updating to these policies.
Revenue recognition The key areas reviewed by the Committee at year-end in respect of revenue recognition related to the accrual for metered billing within South West Water, service concession arrangements under IFRIC 12 and accrued powergen income at Viridor.
The Committee relied primarily on South West Waters track record of assessing an appropriate level of accrual at previous year-ends given actual outturns and Viridors internal processes for analysing complex long-term contracts.
The Committee also considered the work in respect of these areas at the year-end by the external auditor who was satisfied with the approach taken by the companies.
64 64 Pennon Gr Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015 oup Plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements Effectiveness of the external audit process Provision of non-audit services We continue to monitor carefully the effectiveness of our The Committee has a restrictive policy for the engagement of external auditor as well as its independence, bearing in mind the external auditors firm for non-audit work.
The policy is for that it is recognised there is a need to use our external auditors non-audit fees not to exceed 70% of the audit fee for statutory firm for certain non-audit services.
We have full regard to the work.
Where fees for non-audit work exceed 50% of the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards and ensure that annual audit fees but are less than 70%, the Committee must our procedures and safeguards meet these standards.
be notified of the assignment with a summary report on the background and the reasons for using the auditor for the work.
A new external auditor was appointed in the year following In exceptional circumstances, where there is good rationale for a comprehensive audit tender process, which was reported the auditors non-audit fees to exceed 70%, the Group Director on last year, and approval by shareholders at the Companys of Finance is required to set out in a report to the Committee 2014 AGM.
the reasons why the auditors firm should be appointed for any The new external auditor initially prepared and followed a work.
The Committee would carefully review whether it was necessary for the auditors firm to carry out such work and transition plan to ensure a good understanding of the Group prior to review of the half year financial statements of the Group.
would only grant approval for the firms appointment if it was satisfied that the auditors independence and objectivity would This was followed up with a detailed audit planning report in preparation for the year-end financial statements.
These actions be fully safeguarded.
If there was another accounting firm that could provide the required level of experience and expertise in have assisted the auditor in delivering the timely audit of the Groups annual report and financial statements.
respect of non-audit services, then such firm would be chosen in preference to the external auditor.
The effectiveness review of the external auditor is undertaken The level of non-audit fees payable to the external auditor as part of the Committees annual performance evaluation.
for the past year is 10% of the audit fee, which is well within Thereview demonstrated that there was considerable the Groups 70% non-audit fee limit.
This represents a very satisfaction with the performance of the external auditor in its significant reduction in the level of fees for non-audit services first year in the role.
Accordingly the Committee considered that paid to the Companys previous external auditors.
it is appropriate that the external auditor be re-appointed and and has made an appropriate recommendation to the Board.
The Group Director of Finance regularly reports to the Committee on the extent of services provided to the Company The Committee Chairman has also met privately with the by the external auditors and the level of fees paid.
The fees paid external auditor.
to the external auditors firm for non-audit services and for audit Auditor independence services are set out in note 7 to the financial statements on The Committee carefully reviews on an ongoing basis the page 118. relationship with the external auditor to ensure that the auditors independence and objectivity is fully safeguarded.
Both the previous and the new external auditor reported on their independence during the year and confirmed to the Committee that they have complied with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards and, based on their assessments, that they were independent of the Group.
co. uk 2015 65 65 Governance and remuneration Reports of the BoardsCommittees Continued The Audit Committee Continued Internal audit Fair, balanced and understandable assessment The internal audit activities of the Group continue to remain a To enable the Committee to provide support to the key part of the internal control and risk management functions Board in making its statement that it considered that the of the Group.
At Group level there is a long-standing and Companys Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and effective centralised internal audit service led by an experienced understandable FBU on page 95, the Committee has applied head of function who makes a significant contribution to the a detailed FBU framework that was prepared by the Group ability of the Committee to deliver its responsibilities.
Company Secretary following consultation with the Committee Chairman and the Group Director of Finance and implemented A Group internal audit plan is approved in September each initially for 2013 14.
This framework has been refined and year.
It takes account of the activities to be undertaken by the updated for the last year taking on board developments in external auditor and also the Groups annual and ongoing risk reporting best practice.
The FBU process takes account of management reviews.
This approach seeks to ensure that there the Groups well-documented verification process undertaken is a programme of internal and external audit reviews focused in conjunction with the preparation of the Annual Report and on identified key risk areas throughout the Group.
This is in addition to the formal process carried The Group Audit Manager reports quarterly to the Committee out by the external auditor to enable the preparation of the independent auditors report, which is set out on pages 96 on audit reviews undertaken and their findings and there are regular discussions, correspondence and meetings between to 99. the Group Audit Manager and the Committee Chairman.
In preparing and finalising the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts the Committee considered a report on the actions The areas of the business that received attention from Group taken by management in accordance with the FBU process internal audit over the past year included: and an FBU assessment undertaken by the subsidiary boards.
Pennon Group information security framework, Group This assisted the Committee in carrying out its own assessment treasury log audits: and being able to advise the Board that it considered that the South West Water credit management and debt collection, Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced transport control environment, capital expenditure planning and understandable and provides the information necessary for and delivery, energy management: and shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Viridor contract management, purchasing and high risk transactions processes, TPSCo joint venture processes, major contract review.
66 66 Pennon Gr Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015 oup Plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements The Sustainability Committee Dear Shareholder Sustainability Committee composition andmeetings I am pleased to introduce the Sustainability Committees report on its annual activities.
Sustainability is an integral part Members Appointment date Attendance of Pennons strategy and the Group takes this responsibility Gill Rider September 2012 5 5 very seriously in all its business and operational practices.
CommitteeChairman Our investment and our commitment to high levels of service and performance will contribute to societys needs for Martin Angle December 2008 4 5 water, energy and resource management being met in the Gerard Connell November 2006 4 5 long term.
Neil Cooper September 2014 2 2 The role of the Sustainability Committee is to bring together and review initiatives that drive sustainability, to approve Christopher Loughlin November 2006 5 5 targets and to monitor the progress made in achieving Ian McAulay September 2013 5 5 Pennons strategic sustainability objectives.
Those objectives are set out on the following page.
During the year the Committee reviewed its programme of work against the best Retiring on 31 July 2015 practice framework published by Business in the Community The Sustainability Committee works with the South West BitC, a leading business-led charity that promotes Water sustainability committee and the Viridor board, responsible business.
We concluded that BitCs key areas which direct sustainability activities for their respective of sustainability marketplace, workplace, community and organisations, to ensure that the Groups sustainability environment provided a useful structure for reviewing our objectives are met.
The subsidiaries develop a range of programmes and the performance of both South West targets as part of their business planning processes and Water and Viridor as they work to achieve the highest monitor and report progress to their respective boards and standards of corporate responsibility.
On pages 10 and 11, we show how a sound approach to As at 31 March 2015 South West Water had achieved 12 of sustainability helps us to draw together the needs of society its 14 targets for the year and Viridor had completed eight with the results of commercial success.
To further underline out of 12 of its targets.
Further details will be provided in these links, this year we have integrated our sustainability South West Waters annual report and Viridors sustainability report with our strategic report and have provided report, to be published in July 2015 and August additional detail within the South West Water and Viridor 2015 respectively.
The Sustainability Committee operates in the context of We are pleased to note the results in both businesses, which the requirement for companies to conduct their business confirm sustainability is indeed integrated in all we do.
in a responsible manner in relation to environmental, social and governance ESG matters while at the same time Gill Rider delivering strong financial performance and lasting value Sustainability Committee Chairman for shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Sustainability Committee reviews and approves as appropriate the strategies, policies, management, initiatives, targets and performance of the Pennon Group companies in the areas of occupational health and safety and security, environment, workplace policies, responsible and ethical business practice, customer service and engagement, and the role of the Group in society.
co. uk 2015 67 67 Governance and remuneration Reports of the BoardsCommittees Continued The Sustainability Committee Continued During the year the Committee considered a wide range of Manage Pennon Group as a sustainable and matters in accordance with its terms of reference, including: successful business for the benefit of shareholders and other stakeholders developments and progress in carbon management As a well-managed and responsible Group, with andreduction sustainability at the core of our business strategy and our pollution and compliance performance operations, we aim to deliver strong performance and lasting the Groups approach to community engagement value for all our stakeholders.
Our services and methods of operation are designed to provide clear community benefits and investment and to protect and enhance the environment.
the Groups health and safety performance and plans The key performance indicators by which we measure performance against the Groups workplace policy shareholder value and wider stakeholder benefit are set out sustainable procurement and practices within the on pages 5, 6 and 7. supply chain Aim to ensure that all our business activities have a sustainability reporting for 2014 for the Group, South positive economic, social and environmental impact West Water and Viridor: and the associated verifiers on the communities in which we operate reports and his recommendations for the 2014 15 reports Pennon recognises it has a responsibility to contribute progress against the sustainability targets for 2014 15 positively towards communities affected by its operations.
sustainability targets for 2015 16 Details of the Groups economic, social and environmental the coverage and appropriateness of Group policies impact can be found on pages 41 to 49. the Groups participation in Business in the Community Engage with all stakeholders and foster good benchmarking exercises.
relationships with them In addition the Committee considered: Pennon aims to be a good neighbour, and consults with its stakeholders in order to understand and respond to the results of employee engagement surveys conducted their priorities.
by the Group, South West Water and Viridor the appointment of a new sustainability verifier, Strategic Details of the Groups approach to stakeholder engagement Management Consultants Limited, for the 2014 15 and customer satisfaction can be found on pages 17, 19, 27 reporting period and 40. the Committees performance evaluation results the annual review of the Committees terms of reference.
Strategic sustainability objectives The Sustainability Committee has defined the following strategic objectives, which inform the sustainability targets set by South West Water and Viridor.
Further details are available throughout the strategic report page references are provided.
68 68 Pennon Gr Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015 oup Plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements Strive for the highest standards of health and safety in Reporting and verification the workplace so as to minimise accidents, incidents In reporting on sustainability, the Company has sought to and lost time comply with the Guidelines on Responsible Investment The Group remains committed to achieving and maintaining Disclosure issued by the Association of British Insurers and improvements in health and safety.
Both South West Water now maintained by The Investment Association.
and Viridor continue to endeavour to embed health and Pennons sustainability performance and reporting has safety within each organisations culture.
been audited by Strategic Management Consultants Details of South West Waters and Viridors health and safety Limited SMC, an independent management consultancy performance and their future plans are provided on pages 27 specialising in technical assurance in the utility sector.
Pennon considers that SMCs method of verification which includes testing the assumptions, methods and Develop and motivate our employees, treat them fairly procedures that are followed in the development of data and ensure that they are fully engaged in all aspects of and auditing that data to ensure accuracy and consistency the Pennon Groups objectives complements the best practice insight gained through Pennons success is fundamentally down to its employees.
South West Waters and Viridors membership of Business in We recruit talented and committed people and provide the Community.
training packages to equip them with the skills they need to deliver the Groups objectives.
Pennon sustainabilityreport Pennons sustainability reporting is integrated throughout the Details of the Groups strategies and performance around strategic report and specifically in the following sections: employee engagement can be found on pages 18, 27 and 50.
Report from the Chief Executive, South West Water, page 14 Aspire to leadership in minimising emissions that Report from the Chief Executive, Viridor, page 22 contribute to climate change, and develop climate Customer and stakeholder satisfaction, page 40 change adaption strategies Pennon continues to strive for a reduction in emissions and Sustainability environmental, economic and social, page 41 encourages its businesses to adopt initiatives for renewable Employee well-being and engagement, page 50. energy generation.
Details of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions and climate South West Water and Viridor change strategies are provided on pages 46 and 47.  The full sustainability report for Viridor will be published Aspire to leadership in all aspects of waste prevention in August 2015 and this year South West Water will and resource efficiency once again incorporate its sustainability reporting in its Pennon is delivering solutions for society to address the annual report and accounts, which will be published in environmental challenge of depleting natural resources by July 2015.
Both documents will be available to view at maximising the value of residual materials, transforming www.
co. uk and also on the subsidiaries waste and improving energy efficiency.
Full details of the sustainability targets for South Details can be found on pages 48 and 49.
West Water and Viridor for 2014 15, and their performance against them, are given in their respective reports.
co. uk 2015 69 69 Governance and remuneration Reports of the BoardsCommittees Continued The Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee meets in accordance with an Diversity policy annual calendar to consider succession planning, equality The Boards diversity policy confirms that the Board is and diversity reports and periodically as necessary to committed to: manage the Board appointment process and recommend to the search for Board candidates being conducted, and the Board suitable candidates for appointment as executive appointments made, on merit, against objective criteria and non-executive directors to the Board and also to the and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the boards of South West Water and Viridor.
Board, including gender: It is the practice of the Committee, led by the Chairman, to satisfying itself that plans are in place for orderly appoint an external search consultancy to assist in Board succession of appointments to the Board and to senior appointments to ensure that an extensive and robust search management to maintain an appropriate balance of skills can be made for suitable candidates.
and experience within the Group and on the Board and During the year the Committee considered: to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board.
In addition, within the spirit of Principle B.
2 of the UK Code, the its annual performance evaluation: Board has endeavoured to achieve: the appointment of a new Non-executive Director: a minimum of 25% female representation on the Board the appointment of a new Group Director of Finance: by 2015: and the appointment of a new Group Chairman under the a minimum of 25% female representation on the leadership of the Senior Independent Director and without Groups senior management team by 2015. the current Chairman being present : and As at 31 March 2015 and as disclosed with the Directors reviewed diversity and equality policies and practice biographies on page 56, the Group had 25% female throughout the Group.
While circumstances on The appointment of the Non-executive Director was occasion will result in changes in Board composition, the undertaken with the assistance of an external search Board remains committed to maintaining and possibly consultant Zygos, which had no other connection with exceeding the 25% level.
As well as its diversity policy, the Group has a number of An external search consultant was not engaged to assist policies in place embracing workplace matters, including with the recruitment of the Group Director of Finance, due non-discrimination and equal opportunities policies to an exceptionally able internal candidate being available, which are reported on separately on page 50, together or the recruitment of the new Group Chairman due to the with information regarding the gender breakdown of Senior Independent Director being made aware of the the workforce.
availability of an outstanding candidate with appropriate The Committee is required by the Board to review and waste management and utility experience.
monitor compliance with the Boards diversity policy and report on the targets, achievement against those targets and Members Appointment date Attendance overall compliance in the Annual Report each year.
Kenneth Harvey March 1997 5 7 Committee Chairman Martin Angle December 2008 7 7 Gerard Connell October 2003 7 7 Neil Cooper September 2014 3 5 Gill Rider September 2012 7 7 Retiring on 31 July 2015 70 70 Pennon Gr Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015 oup Plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements The Remuneration Committee Directors remuneration report The Committees activities during the financialyear The Directors remuneration report for 2014 15 is set out separately on pages 72 to 92.
During the year the Committee dealt with the followingmatters: The Remuneration Committee meets in accordance with an annual calendar to consider remuneration matters in respect annual review of the pay and benefits policies and of the Group and in particular is responsible for: practices for the staff below Board level in the Group: annual executive salary review: advising the Board on the framework of executive remuneration for the Group: and determining performance targets in respect of the annual incentive bonus plan for 2014 15: determining the remuneration and terms of engagement of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and senior reviewing final drafts of the Directors remuneration management of the Group.
report for 2013 14 and recommending it to the Board for approval for inclusion in the 2014 Annual Report: Members Appointment date Attendance reviewing early drafts of the Directors remuneration report for 2014 15: Martin Angle December 2008 11 11 CommitteeChairman review and determination of the Deputy Chairman and new Chairmans fee: Gerard Connell October 2003 9 11 determining bonuses and deferred bonus awards Neil Cooper September 2014 5 6 pursuant to the Companys annual incentive bonus plan in respect of the year 2013 14: Gill Rider September 2012 11 11 approving the performance and co-investment plan awards for the year: Retiring on 31 July 2015 reviewing the annual performance evaluation results of The Committee consults with the South West Water the Committee: remuneration committee and the Viridor personnel approving the remuneration arrangements for the new committee on director and senior management remuneration Group Director of Finance and Executive Director of within their respective terms of reference.
the Board: approving the release of the 2011 deferred bonus share awards and the vesting of executive share options pursuant to the annual incentive bonus plan: determining the outcome of the 2011 performance and co-investment plan awards: and determining subsidiary board non-executive director fees.
