56 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Overview 1.
Sustainability Towards a new strategy Pearson has an active role During 2015 we began a review of our sustainability toplay in nding solutions practice, to ensure that our strategy, activities and reporting e orts: toour global sustainability Re ect best practice in sustainability.
challenges, which isintegral Are t for purpose in a rapidly changing business climate.
to our business strategy Align with current business and stakeholder priorities.
andhow we report on our Match our ambition and business strategy.
Re ect how our business model can link to the UNs most material issues.
Pearson has a broad fide nition of responsible business and has established a set of commitments across a range Sustainability p56-58 1 of social, community and human rights principles to: Ensure that our products and services are inclusive, appropriate in content to the age, location and ability Our values and behaviours p59-60 2 of the learner, and are easy and safe to use and access.
Respect and protect how we use and share data Our relationships p61-63 entrusted to us by learners and our customers.
3 Inform, support and equip colleagues to work collaboratively.
Our planet p63-64 4 Encourage and reward high performance, nurturing talent and creating a culture where all are able to realise their individual potential.
Impact campaigns p65-66 5 Provide a safe and healthy workplace for our employees Project Literacy and the learners we serve.
Employee engagement Extend our commitments on labour standards, human Social innovation rights and environmental responsibility to include our p67 6 suppliers and business partners.
This includes a concern across the value chain for ensuring our activities are free from slavery, servitude, forced or compulsory labour and human tra cking.
From June 2016 we will report in more detail Provide opportunities for Pearson people to be good in our 2015 Sustainability Report available on citizens and to get involved in their local communities.
com social-impact Deliver against our targets on our response to climate change and to make more e cient use of resources.
Pearson has in place policies to support recognised human rights principles.
These include health and safety, safeguarding, non-discrimination and a right to quality education.
As a founder signatory to the UN Global Compact, we have also made a series of commitments to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO declarations on fundamental principles and rights at work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and to re ect a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
The approach weve taken for our sustainability review and the resulting sustainability map are opposite on p57
