102 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Part 3: Annual remuneration report continued The remuneration committee in 2015 To ensure that the committee receives independent advice, Willis Towers Watson supplies survey data and Role Name Title advises on market trends, long-term incentives and Chairman Elizabeth Corley Independent other general remuneration matters.
Willis Towers from 24 April 2015 non-executive directors Watson was selected and appointed by the committee David Arculus through a formal tendering process.
Willis Towers to 24 April 2015 Watson also advised the company on health and Members Vivienne Cox welfare bene ts in the US and provided consulting Josh Lewis advice directly to certain Pearson operating companies.
Tim Score Willis Towers Watson is a member of the Remuneration from 2 October 2015 Consultants Group, the body that oversees the Code of Ken Hydon Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting to 24 April 2015 in the UK.
Elizabeth Corley During the year, Willis Towers Watson was paid fees for to 24 April 2015 advice to the committee, which were charged on a time Glen Moreno Chairman of the board spent basis, of 151,254.
As part of its annual review of its Internal John Fallon Chief executive performance and e ectiveness, the committee remains advisers Coram Williams Chief financial o cer satis ed that Willis Towers Watsons advice was objective from 1 August 2015 and independent and that Willis Towers Watsons Robin Freestone Chief financial o cer provision of other services in no way compromises to 1 August 2015 its independence.
Melinda Wolfe Chief human resources o cer Committee performance Stuart Nolan SVP, reward Annually, the committee reviews its own performance, Stephen Jones Company secretary constitution, and charter and terms of reference to External Willis Towers Watson ensure it is operating at maximum e ectiveness and advisers recommends any changes it considers necessary to the board for approval.
See remuneration committee activities in 2015 on p103 The committee participated in a survey to review its performance and e ectiveness in July 2015, looking at Sidney Taurel joined the committee as a member areas such as the clarity of roles and responsibilities, on his appointment as Chairman of the Board on the composition of the committee, the use of time, 1 January 2016. the quality and timeliness of meeting materials, the Internal advisers provided material assistance to the opportunity for discussion and debate, dialogue committee during the year.
They attended meetings of with management and shareholders and access to the committee, although none of them were involved in independent advice.
any decisions relating to his or her own remuneration.
The committee concluded that it is operating e ectively.
