50 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Targeting growth through efficacy continued REVEL With 85% of young millennials in the US owning smartphones in 2014 according to Nielsen, education innovators have come to understand that hardcover textbooks are no longer in line with students primary consumption habits.
REVEL is a digital resource that o ers students online and mobile access to humanities and social sciences course materials.
The programme includes embedded assessments, interactive components and videos integrated within the narrative content to reinforce key concepts.
REVEL provides instructors an assignment calendar, which allows them to indicate to students when work must be completed with reminders and study tips to help students stay on track throughout the course.
REVEL was launched in 2014 to foster independent self-initiated learning outside the classroom, so that students and educators are better prepared inside the classroom.
REVEL allows students to access their learning anytime, anywhere, with an engaging experience that encourages class participation and course completion.
REVEL helps instructors address a particularly thorny challenge they face in the humanities and social sciences that students dont do their assigned reading and come to class under-prepared.
REVEL provides specialised tools to allow instructors to plan for and address this challenge.
For Detail on the e cacy of this product go to e cacy.
com The path towards audited e cacy statements Auditing e cacy We have now published 13 product reports.
PwC will From the start of our e cacy work we planned to have collaborate with us during 2016 to continue to strengthen our e cacy statements audited in the same way as our our reporting process.
In order for our focus on learner In 2016 PwC will work with us to: outcomes to transform our business, it is essential that our customers trust any e cacy statements that we Standardise and stabilise our e cacy reporting processes make.
We are pleased to announce that this work is Further align our evidence to support product e cacy underway.
This year we began work with an external statements auditor,  PwC, to ensure that Run a mock audit of a sample of e cacy statements in the any e cacy statements we make stand up to audit.
2016 annual report in preparation for 2018
