92 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Shareholder engagement Engaging with shareholders Consultations During the year we also consulted with our major shareholders and with shareholder Pearson has an extensive programme of communication representative bodies on our directors remuneration with all of its shareholders large and small, institutional report, and the signi cant minority vote against the and private.
2013 annual remuneration report at the 2014 AGM.
Shareholder outreach In 2015, we continued with our Read about Remuneration on p94 shareholder outreach programme, seeing approximately Private investors Private investors represent over 790 institutional and private investors at more than 450 80% of the shareholders on our register and we make di erent institutions in Australia, Canada, Dubai, Greater a concerted e ort to engage with them regularly.
China, Continental Europe, India, Japan, Singapore, South Shareholders who cannot attend the AGM are Korea, Taiwan, the UK and the US.
invited to e-mail questions to the chairman in Trading updates There are five trading updates each advance at chairman-agm@pearson.
com year and the chief executive and chief financial o cer We encourage our private shareholders to become present our preliminary and interim results updates.
more informed investors and have provided a wealth of They also attend regular meetings throughout the year information on our website about managing Pearson with investors in the UK and around the world, tailored shareholdings, see www.
com investors to investor requirements, to discuss the performance .
html for further information, of the company, the companys strategy, our change or turn to p227 of this report.
We also encourage all programme, structural changes in our markets, and shareholders, who have not already done so, to register risks and opportunities for the future.
their e-mail addresses through our website and with our Chairman meetings The chairman meets regularly registrar.
This enables them to receive e-mail alerts when with signi cant shareholders to understand any issues trading updates and other important announcements and concerns they may have.
This is in accordance with are added to our website.
See additional Shareholder both the Code and the UK Stewardship Code.
The noninformation on p227 executive directors meet informally with shareholders both before and after the AGM and respond to shareholder queries and requests as necessary.
The chairman ensures that the board is kept informed of principal investors and advisers views on strategy, and corporate governance.
com Investor relations information Company announcements and shareholder presentations, webcasts and conference calls Past announcements and presentations Historical financial performance Share price data Calendar of events Information about our businesses and their websites Corporate responsibility policies and activities
