Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our performance 29 Operating performance continued Geography Growth Sales Adjusted operating loss 692m -12m Revenues fell 4% in headline terms, were at at CER and fell 1% in underlying terms.
In China, revenues grew modestly re ecting strong sales of premium services in our direct delivery English Language Learning businesses o set by list disposals.
In Brazil, revenues were stable with good growth in private sistemas and language schools, o set by declines in government funded sistemas and language schools.
In South Africa, revenues declined signi cantly due to a smaller textbook adoption cycle and lower enrolments at CTI, due to a reduction in the number of quali ed students graduating from high school and tightening consumer credit a ecting re-enrolment rates.
In the Middle East, our business was impacted by the withdrawal from the Saudi Arabian Colleges of Excellence.
Adjusted operating pro t decreased 44m to a loss of 12m due to the strengthening of Sterling against key Emerging Market currencies, revenue declines in South Africa, a contract termination charge arising from the transition of our three Saudi Colleges to new providers, cost in ation and additional investment in China: partially o set by the bene ts of restructuring and integration in Brazil.
Read about Mpho and MGI on p30 30 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Operating performance continued Growth continued School In India, enrolments at our managed schools grew 14% to nearly 27,000 students and we launched a In South Africa, there was continued pressure on pilot in more than 60 schools of MyPedia, an inside Government spending on textbooks due to budget service sistema solution for schools comprising pressures, which resulted in the value of the textbook print and digital content, assessment and academic market falling 60% from a peak of R2.9bn in 2013 support services.
We continued to perform well competitively and maintained a leading Middle East school courseware and professional market share.
development revenues grew strongly on improved distribution.
In Brazil, sistemas revenues grew well with strong growth in private sistemas partly o set by declines in Higher Education NAME, our public sistema, following the cancellation In South Africa, after strong growth over a number of of a large contract as a result of government spending years, student enrolments at CTI universities fell by 16% cuts.
Overall sistema enrolments fell 7% to nearly to 11,300 driven by a 13% decline in quali ed graduating 449,000 with declines in NAME partly o set by growth high school students and tightening consumer credit in our three private sistemas, led by our largest sistema, a ecting re-enrolment rates.
More than half of COC schools that participated in the High School National Exam ENEM ranked among In Mexico, our fully accredited online university the top three schools in their municipalities.
partnership, UTEL, increased the number of students enrolled by 34% to nearly 12,600.
14% Enrolments at our managed schools in India grew 14% Mpho, MGI graduate, South Africa Mpho Nethengwe is a 28 year-old MGI graduate who is now a Writing and Communication Skills and English Lecturer at her alma mater in Midrand.
She says: The skills I acquired at MGI made it easier for me to step into my role in the working world.
I am able to take on every challenge as it comes, to re ect on, evaluate and improve on what to do in order to remain productive.
Mpho has ambitions of putting her learning and experience into practice, even exploring a possible future career in communications at Pearson.
We think shed be a real asset.
Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our performance 31 In India, Higher Education courseware revenues grew strongly.
Cornell University partnered with Pearson 34% to launch the Cornell-ILR Experienced Managers In Mexico, our fully Programme in India, with a blended learning approach accredited online combining online and in-person instruction.
university partnership, UTEL, increased the In the Middle East, our three-year partnership with number of students Taibah University in Saudi Arabia, to enable its enrolled by 34% transformation to a fully blended and personalised learning model, is progressing with over 4,000 students enrolled in our solution in 2015.
Our partnership with the Preparatory Year Deanship at Um Al Qura University PYP-UQU, to provide online learning and assessment technology has delivered 13,000 MyMathLab, MyITLab and MasteringPhysics licences.
We withdrew from an agreement to run three Saudi Arabian Colleges of Excellence, with the colleges transitioning to new providers from 30 June 2015.
This resulted in a termination charge.
Alvir, English student, Brazil Alvir is a 17 year-old who has been studying at Wizard for three years.
In the beginning, studying English was only a way to remember his father, who used to love the language.
But studying evolved into something bigger and helped him to achieve his goals: he got his first job as an assistant teacher at Wizard, and took the TOEIC exam, achieving the maximum 990 points.
Alvir says that English has helped him to meet new people and now his goal is to live abroad some day.
32 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Operating performance continued Growth continued Professional Global Education achieved moderate revenue growth as the market shifted to more intensive premium In Pearson English, good growth in direct delivery in courses with smaller class sizes and new products, China, private expenditure in language schools in Brazil, which resulted in enrolments declining 6.5% to 85,110. and English Language Teaching ELT was partly o set by the impact of lower public expenditure in language We launched around 30 new MyEnglishLab products schools in Brazil.
including Top Notch 3e and Progress.
MyTOEFLLab and the second edition of MyIELTSLab successfully launched In China, Wall Street English WSE achieved strong in China in WSE and Global Education.
Global student revenue growth, re ecting success in the premium registrations for MyEnglishLab and other ELT digital segment and the growth in VIP branded o erings.
Pearson Test of Overall enrolments grew modestly to over 67,000 with English grew strongly in India.
We launched the New Student Experience NSE in six pilot centres during Grupo Multi in Brazil saw strong revenue growth December 2015.
The NSE delivers a major upgrade at Wizard, our consumer-facing franchised English to the Wall Street English service with adaptive, language learning business, but this was o set personalised learning incorporating Pearsons Global by declines in government orders due to public Scale of English.
We opened 40 new school-in-school units for Multi English franchises in K-12 sistemas partner schools.
Angelina, Wall Street English graduate, China Angelina runs a wedding planning company in Shenzhen, China.
Learning English with Wall Street English has enabled her to attract more international clients.
She is now quali ed with a top wedding planning institution in North America and is realising her dream of giving couples their perfect wedding memories.
Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our performance 33 Penguin Random House Pearson owns 47% of Penguin Random House, the Penguin Random Houses promising 2016 publishing first truly global consumer book publishing company.
lists include new titles from Lisa Brennan-Jobs, Bill Bryson, Lee Child, Harlan Coben, Phil Collins, Janet Penguin Random House had a strong performance in Evanovich, Ina Garten, John Grisham, Jazz Jennings, 2015, boosted by publication of hundreds of Adult and Je Kinney, Marie Kondo, John le Carr, Jojo Moyes, Childrens bestsellers across its territories, including Jamie Oliver, James Patterson, Nathaniel Philbrick, the ction mega-successes of Grey and The Girl on the Pope Francis, Nora Roberts, John Sandford, Danielle Train, which each sold over 7 million copies worldwide.
The US business published 584 New York Times print Penguin Random House completed the sale of and ebook bestsellers in 2015 2014: 760, based on Author Solutions, its supported self-publishing a broader New York Times title count than 2015. services company, to an a liate of Naja Companies, The division bene ted from the multi-million copy an international private-investment rm, on successes of Grey by E L James and the Adult debut 31 December, and sold its Australian online bookseller novel The Girl on the Train by Paula Hawkins.
Bookworld to online retailer Booktopia in August.
Childrens authors who extended their outstanding sales in 2015 include Dr. Seuss, John Green, R. J.
The integration of Penguin and Random House Palacio, James Dashner, Rick Yancey, Drew Daywalt, continued to provide net bene ts through and Oliver Je ers.
Additional notable Adult titles organisational alignments and systems, and include The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up by Marie warehouse combinations in 2015, as well as for 2016 Kondo: Rogue Lawyer by John Grisham: Lost Ocean and thereafter.
The North America warehouse by Johanna Basford: Between The World and Me by consolidation was completed in February 2015, and Ta-Nehisi Coates: and the movie tie-in paperback in December, the UK business announced it will be The Martian by Andy Weir.
gradually closing its Rugby distribution centre and relocating its inventory to two other locations.
The UK business published 201 titles on the Sunday The integration in Spain and Latin America of Times bestseller lists 2014: 206.
The division enjoyed Santillana with Grupo Editorial Penguin Random outstanding sales for Grey and The Girl on the Train, House remains on course.
which each sold more than 2 million UK copies, and for Harper Lees Go Set A Watchman and Jamie Olivers Everyday Super Food.
Great demand continued for Je Kinneys Diary of a Wimpy Kid and John Greens titles, and for DK Publishings Star Wars publications.
