Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements Directors report other statutory disclosures Introduction Employment policies and employee involvement This Directors report is prepared in accordance with the The Group has a culture of continuous improvement through provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and regulations made investment in people at all levels within the Group.
It comprises pages 53 to 71 and 93 to 95 as Group is committed to pursuing equality and diversity in well as the following matters which the Board considers all its employment activities including recruitment, training, are of strategic importance and, as permitted by legislation, career development and promotion and ensuring there is no has chosen to include in the strategic report rather than the bias or discrimination in the treatment of people.
In particular, Directors report: applications for employment are welcomed from persons with disabilities, and special arrangements and adjustments internal control and risk management systems page 61 as necessary are made to ensure that applicants are treated of the governance report fairly when attending for interview or for pre-employment likely future developments of the Company pages 9, 19 aptitude tests.
Wherever possible the opportunity is and 27 of the strategic report taken to retrain people who become disabled during their employment in order to maintain their employment within the important post-balance sheet events page 33 of the strategic report and page 155 of the financial statements Group.
Information regarding the Groups workplace policies is provided on page 50. all matters relating to sustainability, which include details of the Groups carbon emissions page 46 of the strategic The Board has a diversity policy and encourages gender report and information relating to employee involvement diversity in particular.
Further details of the Boards diversity pages 18, 27 and 50 of the strategic report, as well as policy are set out in the report of the Nomination Committee the disclosure below.
on page 70, and information regarding the diversity of the workforce is provided on page 50.
In addition, the Directors report includes the following disclosures and any other disclosures which are Employees are consulted regularly about changes which incorporated by reference: may affect them either through their trade union-appointed representatives or by means of the elected staff council financial risk management pages 110 to 112 of the notes which operates in South West Water for staff employees.
to the financial statements These forums, together with regular meetings with particular financial instruments pages 108 and 128 of the notes to the financial statements.
groups of employees, are used to ensure that employees are kept up to date with the business performance of their Board of Directors employer and the financial and economic factors affecting The Directors in office as at the date of this report all of the performance of the Group.
The Group also cascades whom served during the year with the exception of Sir John information monthly to all employees to provide them with Parker, who was appointed on 1 April 2015 are named important and up to date information about key events and on pages 56 and 57.
In addition, Mr David Dupont, who to obtain feedback from them.
Further information about occupied the position of Group Director of Finance, served employment matters relating to the Group is set out on as a Director during the year until his retirement from the pages 18, 27 and 50 of the strategic report.
The Group encourages share ownership among its Financial results and dividend employees by operating an HM Revenue & Customs The Directors recommend a final dividend of 21.82p per approved Sharesave Scheme and Share Incentive Plan.
ordinary share to be paid on 2 October 2015 to shareholders Following shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM, these on the register on 7 August 2015, making a total dividend for were amended to provide for the increased savings limits the year of 31.80p, the cost of which will be 129.5 million, approved by government.
At 31 March 2015 around 40% of resulting in a reduction in reserves of 3 million.
The strategic the Groups employees were participating in these plans.
report on pages 28 to 33 analyses the Groups financial Human rights results in more detail and sets out other financial information.
The Group is fully supportive of the principles set out in the Directors insurance and indemnities UN Declaration of Human Rights, and the Group Ethics The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity provisions Policy outlines the high standards of employment practice contained in the Companys Articles of Association with which everyone in Pennon Group is expected to Articles, and the Company has maintained throughout comply.
The Group also supports the International Labour the year Directors and officers liability insurance for the Organisations core conventions for the protection and safety benefit of the Company, the Directors and its officers.
The of workforces wherever they may be throughout the Group.
Company has entered into qualifying third party indemnity arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors in a form and scope which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and which were in force throughout the year and remain in force.
co. uk 2015 93 93 Governance and remuneration Directors report other statutory disclosures Continued Research and development with special rights regarding control of the Company.
No Research and development within the Group involving water shares issued under the Employee Share Schemes have and waste treatment processes amounted to 0.1 million rights with regard to control of the Company that are not during the year 2013 14 0.1 million.
exercisable directly by the employees: c Details of significant direct or indirect holdings of Overseas branches securities of the Company are set out in the shareholder The Company has no overseas branches.
The Company is not aware of any Pennon Group donations agreements between shareholders which may result in No political donations were made or political expenditure restrictions on the transfer of securities or on votingrights: incurred and no contributions were made to a non-EU d The Companys rules about the appointment and political party 2013 14 nil.
replacement of Directors are contained in the Articles and accord with usual English company law provisions.
Purchase of own ordinary shares The powers of Directors are determined by UK legislation The Company has authority from shareholders to purchase and the Articles in force from time to time.
Changes up to 10% of its own ordinary shares as renewed at the to the Articles must be approved by the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2014, which was valid as at 31 shareholders by passing a special resolution: March 2015 and remains currently valid.
No purchases were made during the year.
As at 1 April 2014, 1,282,690 shares e The Directors have the power to make purchases of were held in Treasury, with a nominal value of 522,055 the Companys own shares in issue as set out above.
and representing 0.34% of issued share capital.
893,175 The Directors also have the authority to allot shares up Treasury shares representing 0.24% of issued share capital to an aggregate nominal value of: i 51,879,733 such as at 1 April 2014 were re-issued during the year under amount to be reduced by any shares allotted or rights the Companys employee share schemes for proceeds of granted under ii below in excess of 51,879,733 : and 3.9 million.
ii 103,759,466 by way of a rights issue such amount to be reduced by any shares allotted or rights granted Disclosures required by publicly traded companies from i above, which was approved by shareholders The following disclosures are made pursuant to Part 6 of at the 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM.
In addition, Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies shareholders approved a resolution giving the Directors and Groups Accounts & Reports Regulations 2008 and a limited authority to allot shares for cash other than pro Rule 7.2.
R of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and rata to existing shareholders.
These resolutions remain Transparency Rules DTR.
valid until the conclusion of this years AGM.
Similar As at 31 March 2015: resolutions will be proposed at this years AGM.
The Directors have no present intention to issue ordinary a Details of the Companys issued share capital, which shares other than pursuant to the Companys employee consists of ordinary shares of nominal value 40.7 pence share schemes and the Scrip Dividend Alternative: each, are set out in note 33 to the financial statements f There are a number of agreements which take effect, alter on pages 146 to 148.
All of the Companys issued shares or terminate upon a change of control of the Company are fully paid up, rank equally in all respects and are following a takeover bid, such as bank loan agreements, listed on the Official List and traded on the London Stock eurobond documentation, hybrid capital securities Exchange.
The rights and obligations attaching to the documentation, private placement debt and employees Companys shares, in addition to those conferred on their share plans.
This may result in certain funding agreements holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles, being altered or repaid early.
The impact on employees copies of which can be obtained from Companies House share plans is not considered significant: and in the UK or by writing to the Group Company Secretary at the Companys registered office: g There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for b There are no restrictions on the transfer of issued loss of office or employment that occurs because of a shares of the Company or on the exercise of voting takeover bid.
rights attached to them, except where the Company has exercised its right to suspend their voting rights or to prohibit their transfer following the omission of their holder or any person interested in them to provide the Company with information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 or where their holder is precluded from exercising voting rights by the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
There are no persons 94 94 Pennon Gr Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015 oup Plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements Going concern i The financial statements, which have been prepared Having considered the Groups funding position and financial in accordance with International Financial Reporting projections the Directors have a reasonable expectation that Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has adequate resource to continue in operational give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they position and profit of the Group and of the Company.
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the ii The strategic report pages 4 to 51 and the Directors financial statements.
report pages 53 to 95 include a fair review of the development and performance of the business during the Statement of Directors responsibilities year and the position of the Company and the Group at The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual the year end, together with a description of the principal Report, the Directors remuneration report and the risks and uncertainties they face.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
iii Following receipt of advice from the Audit Committee, that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial and understandable, and provides the information statements for each financial year.
Under that law the necessary for the shareholders to assess the Groups Directors have prepared the Group and Company performance, business model and strategy.
financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity European Union.
of the Companys website www.
co. uk Under company law the Directors must not approve the Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a and dissemination of financial statements may differ from true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for the year.
Statement as to disclosure of information to In preparing these financial statements the Directors are theauditor required to: i So far as each of the Directors in office at the date of the signing of the report is aware, there is no relevant select suitable accounting policies and then apply audit information of which the Companys auditor is them consistently unaware: and make judgements and accounting estimates which are ii each of the Directors has taken all the steps each Director reasonable and prudent ought to have taken individually as a Director in order state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit European Union have been followed, subject to any information and to establish that the Companys auditor is material departures disclosed and explained in the aware of that information.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the The Directors report consisting of pages 53 to 71 and above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
93 to 95 was approved by the Board on 22 June 2015.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain By Order of the Board the Companys transactions, and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Kenneth Woodier the Company: and enable them to ensure that the financial Group Company Secretary statements and the Directors remuneration report comply 22 June 2015 with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, article 4 of the International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 56 and 57, confirms that, to the best of his or herknowledge: www www.
