02 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Chairmans introduction Sidney Taurel at the same or lower cost.
The value of a university Chairman degree continues to grow, but many students and institutions face cost pressures.
These changes o er big opportunities for Pearson, but also present risks and transitions that we will need to manage in some of our traditionally strong businesses.
With these factors in mind, my immediate priorities are clear: I will be supporting our management team to ensure that we stay focused on our biggest strategic growth objectives.
M y focus will be on helping I will o er guidance to help them to make further guide Pearson back to growth, progress on simplifying and integrating the business.
We need to make sure that Pearson is better able to supporting the management leverage our assets, skills, and technology platforms in order to deploy our products globally.
team and all of our employees I will be supporting the team to ensure that capital in our mission: to help more is allocated in a way that provides better returns for shareholders, ultimately creating a better, more people make progress in their sustainable company for the future.
We will engage transparently with shareholders on our capital allocation plans and progress against our Dear shareholders, strategic goals, as well as on all important issues.
I am proud to introduce our annual report for the first We plan to hold our dividend at the 2015 level while we time as Pearsons chairman.
rebuild cover, re ecting the boards con dence in the My predecessor, Glen Moreno, made a major medium-term outlook for our business, and we are contribution to Pearson during his long and successful committed to increasing total shareholder returns.
I am sure my fellow shareholders These priorities require strong leadership, will join me in thanking Glen and wishing him all the dedication and hard work from me, the board, best for the future.
This is an important time to be joining Pearson.
Our leadership team Our 2015 performance was not what we would We have continued to enhance the strength and depth have wanted, and we now have a plan in place to of our board, including the appointment of Coram Williams return the company to growth.
as our chief financial o cer.
Coram has a decades The company has a strong purpose at its heart, and has experience working directly for Pearson and helped to made great strides in focusing on education.
My own lead our joint venture, Penguin Random House, through focus will be on helping guide Pearson back to growth, a successful company integration as its first CFO.
supporting the management team and all of our Like me, Lincoln Wallen joined the board on 1 January employees in our mission: to help more people make 2016.
Lincoln is chief technology o cer for DreamWorks progress in their lives through learning.
Animation, and his appointment further strengthens Our immediate priorities our digital capabilities.
Like thousands of Pearson employees across the globe, he also has a background This is a challenging time for businesses in global in education and teaching.
education, with rapid changes taking place in the sector.
Digital technology is revolutionising education just as it We have an experienced executive team, and committed has all other aspects of the way we work, communicate employees around the world.
I look forward to working with and do business.
In an era of constrained spending, John Fallon and the executive team to deliver our agenda.
there is a big productivity challenge, as governments Read more about our board on pages 72-73. and education leaders seek to achieve better outcomes
