Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our performance 47 In 2016, we continue to make progress evaluating and Today we continue to re ne our e cacy practice: and, improving the e cacy of our products.
E cacy has although our knowledge has matured, we remain become central to our growth strategy.
We continue to encourage everyone, from and capabilities are maturing.
Both our current our customers, to learners, to policymakers, to portfolio and the way we identify future acquisitions investors, to join in and challenge us, to tell us how we are grounded in a commitment to demonstrating can improve our approach and in turn our products e ective learner outcomes.
We are delivering on our and services.
commitment to report on these too.
E cacy leading to product improvement Our e cacy journey The e cacy review process has been designed to help teams identify areas of improvement in product, H old us accountable for our impact...
If we customer relationships and internal capacity to deliver.
fail, we fail as a business.
The product improvement process is speci cally John Fallon, Chief executive o cer designed to ensure that the product will bene t Building on last years reports, this year our public learners and customers, eventually making it more e cacy reports re ect what weve learnt since 2013. commercially successful.
Examples of these They include more detail on the impact each product is improvements are illustrated below.
having, improvements made to date, future product research and improvement plans and, importantly, stories from our customers.
Highlights of this work follow, but to read the full reports, please visit: e cacy.
com E cacy approach and activities 1 fide ne intended learner 2 Review products to 3 Conduct research to 4 Support customers to outcomes ensure they are positioned measure the e cacy of e ectively implement the to deliver on those products and feed insights products to get the best outcomes, and put in place back into product outcomes possible e cacy improvement development programmes Product Improvement Launch of algorithm identifying students at risk of dropping out, providing insights for e ective Wall Street interventions.
Improves learner outcomes as well as centre pro tability English Class-level analytics to demonstrate that students perform equally, whether they are using print or digital manuals: another change that will improve centre e ciency New student Optimising duration of language videos will increase learner engagement and encourage them experience not to break their study rhythm Augmentation of teacher numbers and quality as a direct result of the e cacy review Pearson Schools Improved data systems, which now provide teachers with data at a concept and student level, India aiming for 48-hour turnaround time Adoption of Big English, an English language learning product, to increase student English pro ciency: teachers also being supported to improve their own English skills where required More teacher-to-teacher collaboration and interventions driven by e cacy.
Our School Management Improvement Framework, as well as a new Professional Development programme to improve school leadership
