24 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Operating performance continued Geography Core Sales Adjusted operating pro t 836m 114m Revenues declined by 8% in headline terms, 5% at CER and in underlying terms.
Growth in Pearson online services in Australia, Wall Street English in Italy, Clinical Assessment in Germany and the Pearson Test of English in Australia was more than o set by revenue declines in UK quali cations as the business nears the end of a period of policy change, revenue declines at VUE, phasing and market weakness in Australian higher education courseware and the focusing of our UK school courseware on products that directly support Pearson Quali cations.
Adjusted operating pro t excluding the FT, The Economist and Mergermarket declined 2% in underlying terms due to lower revenue o set by tight cost control.
Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our performance 25 Read about Sarah and Pearson College on p26 26 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Operating performance continued Core continued School that directly support our quali cations.
More than 5,400 UK schools now subscribe to at least one Bug In assessment, UK quali cations have been impacted Club service, our primary school blended reading by government policy, where changes to accountability programme, representing growth of nearly 16% in measures have led to a further 20% decline in BTEC the year.
There are over 1.8 million pupils, more than registrations in 2015.
GCSE and GCE entries for summer 9,000 schools and 152,000 teachers currently using a 2015 grew modestly compared with 2014, resulting service on ActiveLearn Primary.
Italy revenues declined from increases in GCSE registrations in Sport, ICT and slightly with market share gains in primary o set Business and strength in iGCSE entries.
We successfully by market weakness and a lower share in upper delivered the National Curriculum Test for 2015, secondary.
Australia revenues declined, with growth marking 4 million scripts from 1.7 million students and and increased market share in primary more than successfully transitioned the marking of the test to an o set by a weaker secondary market.
Clinical assessment grew well with Germany bene ting In courseware, UK School revenue fell with growth from strong growth in Kaufman Assessment Battery for in primary school more than o set by declines in Children K-ABC, partly o set by declines in Australia, secondary, as the vocational market contracted and after a strong year in 2014 driven by the release of our upper secondary revenues were impacted by Wechsler Primary and Preschool Scale of Intelligence IV.
lower market participation as we focus on products PEARSON PEARSON VUE CO LLE G E LO N D O N Sarah, Pearson College London student, UK Noel, Pearson VUE customer, UK Sarah works in the marketing team at Nestl, having The Chartered Institute of Management Accountants CIMA graduated from Pearson College London last September.
has worked in partnership with Pearson VUE to transform She says Education gave me the con dence to take a step its portfolio of professional-level exams from pen and back from a career path that I was unhappy with and nd a paper to computer-based testing.
Noel Tagoe, Executive new direction.
It gave me the exibility to study a full degree Director of CIMA, says: By maximising the opportunities in two years which enabled me to get back on my career o ered through technological advances in computerised ladder as soon as possible.
assessment, we can access a wide range of testing methods, assess a variety of skills and competencies at di erent Pearson College London gave me the skills levels, and o er much greater exibility for where and when examinations are taken.
All of which will be of tremendous to impress atinterview, the knowledge to bene t to both students and, importantly, employers.
succeed in my new role and the con dence These changes will take full advantage of the role that to apply in the first place.
technology plays in the lives of the younger generation, and re ect the evolution in the workplace.
Through the degree, and the environment, I was able to understand what I wanted from a career and nd the right move for me.
Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our performance 27 Higher Education Professional In courseware, UK revenues declined, primarily due The Pearson Test of English Academic PTEA saw to a weak market.
In Australia, revenues declined strong growth in test volumes and revenues after signi cantly due to phasing and market weakness.
gaining approval from the Australian Department of Immigration and Border Protection to administer In online services, our Australian University a broad range of language tests linked to visa Partnerships business grew strongly with combined applications.
course enrolments of nearly 4,000, up 380% from 2014.
The growth of our partnership with Monash University Wall Street English revenues fell slightly with strong was led by the Graduate Diploma in Psychology, which growth in Italy o set by declines in Germany.
is now one of Monashs largest postgraduate courses.
Our new partnership with Gri th University started very strongly, seeing consistent demand for the MBA programme and the launch of two further courses.
Kings College London partnered with Pearson to launch online postgraduate degree programmes in Psychology and Law.
Total enrolled students at Pearson College doubled to 232.
Stephanie, Winner of Outstanding BTEC Student of the Year Award 2015, UK Stephanie studied a Level 3 Diploma in Health and Social Care at Penwith College in the UK.
She is passionate about helping others and her outstanding achievements in college and in the local community marked her out to the BTEC Award judges as truly outstanding.
Stephanie supported herself nancially with paid employment as a community carer alongside her BTEC.
She juggled long working hours with her studies, yet still far exceeded the 100-hour work experience requirements of her course, completing a range of placements in hospital wards, care homes and day care centres.
She also participated in many local voluntary projects working with individuals in her community who are isolated and lonely.
28 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015
