34 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Other financial information Net finance costs exchange and other gains and losses.
Finance costs for deferred consideration are excluded from adjusted All gures in millions 2015 2014 earnings as they relate to the future potential Net interest payable 46 64 acquisition of non-controlling interests and do not Finance income in respect of re ect cash expended.
Foreign exchange and other employee bene t plans 4 1 gains and losses are excluded from adjusted earnings as they represent short-term uctuations in market Other net finance costs 13 30 value and are subject to signi cant volatility.
Other Net finance costs 29 93 gains and losses may not be realised in due course as it is normally the intention to hold the related Net interest payable in 2015 was 46m, compared to instruments to maturity.
The majority of the movement in net In 2015, the total of these items excluded from adjusted interest payable is due to the release of accrued interest earnings was a gain of 17m compared to a loss of following agreement of historical tax positions.
Both the gain in 2015 and the loss in debt portfolio, our xed rate policy reduces the impact 2014 mainly relate to foreign exchange di erences of changes in market interest rates, however we were on unhedged cash and cash equivalents and other still able to benefit from low average US dollar interest financial instruments.
rates during the year as the majority of the Groups debt is US dollar denominated.
Year-on-year, average threeFunding position and liquid resources month US dollar LIBOR rose by 0.1% to 0.3%.
This slight The Group nances its operations by a mixture of cash increase in oating market interest rates, along with ows from operations, short-term borrowings from the impact of changes in our debt portfolio, foreign banks and commercial paper markets, and longer-term exchange translation and the e ect of slightly lower loans from banks and capital markets.
Our objective levels of average net debt in the period led to little is to secure continuity of funding at a reasonable cost change in the year-on-year interest charge on debt.
from diverse sources and with varying maturities.
Interest receivable on cash balances held overseas The Group does not use obalance sheet special was reduced from the prior year due mainly to the purpose entities as a source of liquidity or for any weakening of emerging market currencies against other nancing purposes.
The net debt position of sterling.
The Groups average net debt fell by 61m, the Group is set out below.
largely as a result of disposals in the fourth quarter of 2015 o setting the translation of our predominantly All gures in millions 2015 2014 US dollar debt.
These combined factors contributed to the overall decrease in the Groups average net Cash and cash equivalents 1,703 530 interest payable from 3.6% to 2.7%.
Marketable securities 28 16 Finance income and costs relating to retirement Net derivative financial instruments 55 40 bene ts have been excluded from our adjusted Bonds 2,284 2,173 earnings as we believe the income statement Bank loans and overdrafts 38 42 presentation does not re ect the economic substance of the underlying assets and liabilities.
Also included in Finance leases 8 10 the statutory fide nition of net finance costs but not in Net debt 654 1,639 our adjusted measure are finance costs for deferred consideration associated with acquisitions, foreign
