Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our performance 41 Principal risks and uncertainties Strategic and change risks Risk 2015 activities 2016 plans Business transformation 2015 was a year of change for Pearson.
A number of major At the end of 2015 we undertook 1 and change: transformational change programmes commenced in 2015, including a rigorous, bottom up review the Enabling Programme a programme of work to deliver a single of our markets, operations The pace and scope of our Pearson-wide solution to integrate our data, systems and processes and financial plans.
The chief business transformation across HR, Finance, Procurement and Supply Chain, OneCRM and executives strategic overview initiatives increase the Technology Delivery Centre TDC and these continue into 2016. on pages 4 to 7 describes our execution risk that The Enabling Programme runs until 2018 and will deliver sustainable plans for transforming Pearson.
bene ts may not be fully improvements in finance, human resources and operations.
In 2016, we will further simplify realised, costs of these our business, reduce our costs changes may increase, or In addition to usual good practices in place for project and change and position ourselves for growth that our business as usual management, there is enhanced governance, monitoring and in our major markets.
activities do not perform reporting in place for these most signi cant change initiatives.
in line with our plans, or The success of the restructuring our level of customer plan is a key assumption service may not meet underpinning achieving our expectations.
goals by 2018, showing how critical it is that this risk is e ectively managed.
Digital and services Our global education strategy will drive a faster move to digital and Turning this risk into an 2 evolution and market services, recognising that this is a signi cant opportunity for Pearson, opportunity successfully forces: as well as a potential risk.
We are transforming our products and investing in and delivering the services for the digital environment along with managing our print right products and services is Failure to invest inventories.
The 2015 strategic planning process took a more key to our strategy for returning successfully in and in-depth review and challenge of areas for future investment and to growth by 2018. deliver the right re-investment.
In the chief executives strategic As indicated in the section above on risk assessment of our prospects overview on pages 4 to 7, we have and viability, we take into account cyclical market factors in our laid out a strategy for returning to strategic planning process.
We are combining our lines of business for courseware The Global Product Lifecycle continued to be embedded across Pearson into a single product organisation, and won an award for Best Innovation Programme at the Corporate as well as rationalising and Entrepreneur Awards.
integrating our product You can read more about the Product Lifecycle and its governance development capabilities to focus on page 61 in the Social impact section.
on more adaptive, personalised next generation courseware and we are increasing our assessment focus on more adaptive and personalised online services.
42 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Strategic and change risks Risk 2015 activities 2016 plans Talent: Throughout 2015, we have been successful in promoting our best As we are going into a period of 3 internal talent and recruiting individuals who are global leaders in change and transformation, we Failure to attract, retain their speci c eld.
Globally consistent performance assessment, will focus on a number of areas and develop sta, and talent and succession management approaches are in place, that are key to mitigating talent including adapting to and the annual engagement survey shows consistent scores overall risk, including: clear employee new skill sets required from the prior year.
objectives and development plans: to run the business.
an all-employee engagement See pages 59 to 63 in Social Impact for more detail on key findings survey, with action plans as from the engagement survey, as well as information about our appropriate: succession planning approach to learning and development.
and talent management: an internal management and leadership development programme supporting learning for all.
The employee incentive pool will also be reinstated.
Political and We are expanding our global public a airs capability with a speci c 2015 priorities to continue to be 4 regulatory risk: focus on coordinated international government relations across our actively driven in 2016, with a key markets.
Building deeper government relations, including working speci c focus on leveraging our Changes in policy with business and industry associations, policy research organisations resources in the US and UK to build and or regulations and other advocacy groups, we can more proactively identify and global political and regulatory have the potential to mitigate international political and regulatory risk, as well as bring relationships and partnerships: to impact business model greater coordination, clarity and consistency to our work globally.
elevate our international political and or decisions across pro le: and to better understand all markets.
In the US we actively monitor changes through participation in advisory future international political and boards and representation on standard setting committees.
Our regulatory trends, increasingly customer relationship teams have detailed knowledge of each state using trade associations and market.
We work with our industry trade associations including the agencies to inform our decisions Association of American Publishers and have launched a three-year and actions.
campaign with Americas Promise Alliance to raise high school graduation rates to 9 0% and to support state led innovations.
Building a strong brand and reputation in the US remains In the UK we maintain relationships with those government a priority.
departments and agencies that are responsible for policy and funding.
We work proactively with them to ensure our programmes meet existing and new government objectives at the right quality level.
Across all of our other markets, there is a government relations programme to support our international markets.
Acquisitions, We perform pre-transaction due diligence and closely monitor Transitional support services to 5 divestments and JVs: actual performance against operational and financial targets.
Any the FT will end in 2016. divergence from these plans will result in management action to Failure to meet financial Our continued priorities for use improve performance and minimise the risk of any impairments.
and operational targets of cash are: Executive management and the board receive regular reports on the of acquisitions.
Failure to Maintaining a strong status of acquisitions and mergers, with a formal review once a year.
successfully manage JVs balance sheet and divestments in line During 2015, transitional support services to Penguin ended and we Organic investment with plans.
completed the sales of the FT, Pearsons stake in The Economist and Sustaining our dividend and Powerschool.
maintaining the commitment to our credit rating Acquisitions in education with a strong ROIC potential.
