g n i l c y y g c r e e r n, y e r e e v l b o c a e w r e e n c r e u r o d s n e a R Strategic report | Strategic overview Business model Our business model is the framework through which we deliver our strategy: to innovate, drive out inefficiencies and identify opportunities for growth: and to provide high quality, reliable services and a safe working environment for our people and the communities we serve.
Shareholder returns Pennon Group Strong governance How we create value We create value for our shareholders by developing our environmental infrastructure businesses and by efficient financing and strong management of the Group as a whole.
Customer Financial and stakeholder performance satisfaction Sustainability Employee environmental, well-being and economic engagement and social 10 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015 s d e n c a i r v e r t e a s W r e t a w e t s a w Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements How we manage our businesses to create value We are committed to delivering sustainable shareholder returns, as reflected in our decision to continue the previous dividend policy of year-on-year growth of 4% above RPI inflation to 2019 20, meaning a policy for 10 consecutive years 2010-2020 of 4% real dividend growth to shareholders.
We create shareholder value by focusing on five core areas, underpinned by our commitment to creating and maintaining a sustainable business: Strong governance Pennon provides oversight and support to its businesses through a strong governance framework which includes robust processes for internal control and risk management.
More information on risk management and governance can be found below and on pages 53-71.
Financial performance Our Group has set challenging financial targets through a range of key performance indicators KPIs.
Our focus in setting such targets is to achieve sustainable performance over the short and long term.
Our financial performance is set out in more detail on pages 28 to 33.
Customer and stakeholder satisfaction Both South West Water and Viridor are fully committed to meeting the needs of their customers and developing and maintaining good relationships with their stakeholders in general.
This is the key to the success of each business.
How we respond to our stakeholders needs and assess customer satisfaction is set out on pages 17,19, 27 and 40.
Sustainability environmental, economic and social We are aware that our businesses can, and do, have a material impact on the environment and the communities in which they operate.
To address this we take a responsible and transparent approach to environmental, social and governance matters.
Our sustainable practices not only benefit communities but enable our businesses to be more successful.
More information on our environmental, economic and social impacts is provided on pages 41 to 49.
Employee well-being and engagement We know that the success of our Group is due to the talent, commitment and hard work of our employees and we aim to be a responsible employer.
We are focused on ensuring employee well-being, retention, efficiency and productivity.
Essential to this is our commitment to the health and safety of our workforce.
More information on the initiatives we have introduced to improve employee engagement and health and safety in our businesses is set out on pages 18, 27, 50 and 51.
How we manage risk Essential to achieving our strategic aims and creating value within our businesses is our operating framework, which is based on the principles of good governance.
Our operating framework includes a comprehensive and fully embedded risk management process which assists us in identifying and managing risks and opportunities to deliver the Groups strategy and the other essential elements of our business model.
Further information on our control and risk management environment is described on page 61 and our principal risks and uncertainties and how we mitigate them are set out on pages 34 to 39. www.
