116 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Part 3: Annual remuneration report continued Information on changes to remuneration for 2016 The Pearson financial targets are set each year as part of the normal operating plan process.
The CEO and Executive directors base salaries CFO have recommended the overall Pearson incentive We have undertaken a regular periodic review of base funding metrics including performance measures, salaries for 2016, taking into account general economic targets and weightings to the committee for approval and market conditions, the level of increases made in the normal way.
For 2016, the range of normal across the company as a whole, the remuneration of rewarded performance is expected to be wider than executives in similar positions in comparable companies in previous years and, in consequence, both the and individual performance.
threshold performance and the on-target funding As a result of this review, the 2016 base salaries for the are set to be lower than in 2015.
CEO and CFO are unchanged as follows: The board considers the performance targets for John Coram 2016 to be commercially sensitive.
Details of all 000s Fallon Williams performance measures, weightings and targets will Base salary at be disclosed in the annual remuneration report for 31 December 2015 780.3 515.0 2016 unless the committee determines that they remain commercially sensitive.
Change There has been no change in individual annual incentive 0% 0% opportunities for the executive directors and the Pearson executive.
Base salary at 1 April 2016 780.3 515.0 Annual incentive pay-outs are determined according Annual incentive to a combination of Pearson-wide performance and The key design principles underlying the companys individual goals.
The sum of the CEOs and the Pearson approach to annual incentives for 2016 are the same executives on-target annual incentive constitutes the as for 2015, namely: incentive pool for this group which exes up or down Full alignment of annual incentives with the global based on overall Pearson performance.
Individual business and education strategy to reinforce a one performance is assessed against goals set at the start Pearson focus - the size of the overall annual incentive of the year.
Individual pay-outs up to individual pay-out will continue to be linked to overall Pearson maximum opportunities and within the total pool are performance recommended by the CEO or by the chairman in the case of the CEO himself for review and, in the case of A clear, transparent, coherent, consistent, organisationthe executive directors, for approval by the committee.
wide approach to incentives and performance management with a common incentive framework Special incentive and retention arrangements for all business units and enabling functions The committee agreed for 2016 incentive and retention arrangements for selected key employees, which will It is anticipated that the 2016 sales and cash metrics vest, or not, in 2017.
No executive directors participate and weightings remain unchanged from 2015. in these incentives.
However, to align the AIP with the speci c restructuring achievements required in 2016, as noted in the income statement measure in our guidance to investors, operating pro t after the cost of restructuring would be added to the metrics with a 30% weighting.
To accommodate this change, the weighting for EPS would also be 30% down from 60% weight for 2015.
Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Report on directors remuneration 117 Long-term incentives Appointment of chairman The committee will continue to operate the long-term Our new chairman, Mr Sidney Taurel, has agreed to incentive plan for the executive directors and other lead our board for the same package that the outgoing members of the Pearson executive in line with the chairman received, that is a at fee of 500,000 per year.
arrangements outlined in the 2013 report on directors He will not participate in any form of Pearson incentive remuneration: arrangement.
He became the chairman e ective 1 January 2016.
The weighting of the performance metrics will remain half on earnings per share, one-third on return on Chairman and non-executive directors invested capital and one-sixth on relative total The fee for the chairman and fees for the non-executive shareholder return.
However, the EPS target is planned directors remain unchanged for 2016.
Full details will be to be absolute rather than a growth target, and aligned set out in the annual remuneration report and included with our external guidance to the market in January 2016 in the single gure of total remuneration for 2016.
Performance will be tested over three years and 75% of However, we intend to review these fees in line with our the vested shares will be released at that point.
However, remuneration policy in late 2016 in time for our 2017 there is a mandatory restriction on participants ability policy vote.
to dispose of the 75% of the vested shares other than The directors remuneration report has been to meet personal tax liabilities for a further two years.
approved by the board on 4 March 2016 and signed Furthermore, participants rights to the release of the on its behalf by: remaining 25% of the vested shares are subject to continued employment over the same period At the time of writing, the committee has yet to approve the 2016 long-term incentive awards and the associated performance targets for the executive directors and Elizabeth Corley other members of the Pearson executive.
These are Chairman of the remuneration committee.
expected to be determined at the April meeting prior to the anticipated May grant.
We expect to set targets for the 2016 awards that are consistent with the companys market guidance over the period to 2018.
We will set the level of individual awards consistent with those seen in recent years and within the policy maximum taking into account: The face value of individual awards at the time of grant, assuming that performance targets are met in full Individual roles and responsibilities Company and individual performance Market practice for comparable companies and market assessments of total remuneration from our independent advisers Full details of individual awards for the executive directors and the performance targets for 2016 will be set out in the annual remuneration report for 2016.
