Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our performance 47 In 2016, we continue to make progress evaluating and Today we continue to re ne our e cacy practice: and, improving the e cacy of our products.
E cacy has although our knowledge has matured, we remain become central to our growth strategy.
We continue to encourage everyone, from and capabilities are maturing.
Both our current our customers, to learners, to policymakers, to portfolio and the way we identify future acquisitions investors, to join in and challenge us, to tell us how we are grounded in a commitment to demonstrating can improve our approach and in turn our products e ective learner outcomes.
We are delivering on our and services.
commitment to report on these too.
E cacy leading to product improvement Our e cacy journey The e cacy review process has been designed to help teams identify areas of improvement in product, H old us accountable for our impact...
If we customer relationships and internal capacity to deliver.
fail, we fail as a business.
The product improvement process is speci cally John Fallon, Chief executive o cer designed to ensure that the product will bene t Building on last years reports, this year our public learners and customers, eventually making it more e cacy reports re ect what weve learnt since 2013. commercially successful.
Examples of these They include more detail on the impact each product is improvements are illustrated below.
having, improvements made to date, future product research and improvement plans and, importantly, stories from our customers.
Highlights of this work follow, but to read the full reports, please visit: e cacy.
com E cacy approach and activities 1 fide ne intended learner 2 Review products to 3 Conduct research to 4 Support customers to outcomes ensure they are positioned measure the e cacy of e ectively implement the to deliver on those products and feed insights products to get the best outcomes, and put in place back into product outcomes possible e cacy improvement development programmes Product Improvement Launch of algorithm identifying students at risk of dropping out, providing insights for e ective Wall Street interventions.
Improves learner outcomes as well as centre pro tability English Class-level analytics to demonstrate that students perform equally, whether they are using print or digital manuals: another change that will improve centre e ciency New student Optimising duration of language videos will increase learner engagement and encourage them experience not to break their study rhythm Augmentation of teacher numbers and quality as a direct result of the e cacy review Pearson Schools Improved data systems, which now provide teachers with data at a concept and student level, India aiming for 48-hour turnaround time Adoption of Big English, an English language learning product, to increase student English pro ciency: teachers also being supported to improve their own English skills where required More teacher-to-teacher collaboration and interventions driven by e cacy.
Our School Management Improvement Framework, as well as a new Professional Development programme to improve school leadership 48 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Targeting growth through efficacy continued Alongside this annual report, we are publishing 2015 effi cacy reports: several reports to share our e cacy progress and the outcomes achieved by some of our most product highlights powerful products and services.
We will continue to develop the capability to report transparently Selected examples of our on the e cacy of products across our portfolio.
e cacy reports are included below.
The remainder of the reports can be found at e cacy.
com In the last decade, the number of college students majoring in STEM elds science, technology, engineering, and mathematics has increased rapidly.
Between 2007 and 2011, STEM majors in the US increased by 48%.
Today, approximately 40% of male college graduates and 29% of female college graduates earn a degree in one of the STEM disciplines.
These areas of study o er students practical and applicable skills upon entering the professional world and also create signi cant economic opportunity.
MasteringChemistry is an online tutorial and problemsolving tool for students to practise and reinforce their understanding of college-level chemistry a vital tool for any successful STEM degree.
The product launched in 2004 and today reaches about 350,000 students in the United States, and 50,000 more in 60 countries around the world.
MasteringChemistry uses personalised instruction to improve competency in chemistry and prepare students for success in chemistry courses.
Learners bene t from self-paced tutorials featuring speci c, wrong-answer feedback and hints that emulate the tutor.
New content features have been added to increase student achievement and retention.
For example, there are additional adaptive opportunities through new Dynamic Study Modules, which are designed to help students study on their own more e ectively, using adaptive algorithms that adjust the content based on each students understanding of the concepts.
For detail on the e cacy of this product go to e cacy.
com Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our performance 49 Connections believes that all students perform better Connections Academy schools are when they receive individual attention in a safe, nurturing accredited, tuition-free, online public environment what Connections calls Personalised schools for K-12 students, providing Performance Learning.
Students are able to accelerate learning in areas of strength or receive extra attention in apersonalised approach to learning, areas of weakness.
Individualised learning does not mean supported by certi ed teachers and learning alone students meet regularly in online LiveLesson acustom curriculum.
sessions and have opportunities to share ideas and experiences, while having fun learning together.
In-person Since the first Connections Academy opened in 2002, the events, clubs, activities, and eld trips help students stay schools have been established in 26 US states and have served connected and make friends.
Parents, as Learning Coaches, nearly 270,000 students who for academic, personal or are closely involved in their childrens education.
professional reasons may be better suited to online rather For detail on the e cacy of this product go to than bricks-and-mortar education.
com CTI Education Group CTI is an instituteof higher education that serves approximately 11,000 students across 12campuses in South Africa.
The institute focuses on arming students with real-life career skills, training them to succeed as employable graduates in a competitive 21st-century economy.
Because career-readiness is such a steadfast priority for the institute, CTI has developed a number of strategies designed to ensure that all of its graduates are well prepared for a highly demanding employment market.
For example, a virtual employability centre will open in 2016 to serve as a resource hub for students looking to enter the job market.
The virtual hub will be followed by six physical employability centres to provide personalised, face-to-face job coaching.
Finally, employability competencies are rmly embedded into the CTI curriculum, which focuses primarily on information technology, commerce and law.
