Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Report on directors remuneration 97 Report on directors remuneration continued Part 2: Summary of remuneration policy Introduction to summary of remuneration policy As clari ed in the RNS statement of further information on the remuneration policy on 9 April 2014, this The companys policy on directors remuneration discretion would only be used in the very narrow was approved by shareholders at the Annual General circumstances articulated in the policy that is, in Meeting on 25 April 2014.
We issued an RNS statement exceptional or genuinely unforeseen circumstances.
of further information on the remuneration policy on The committee considers that these circumstances 9 April 2014, to clarify the use of the committees would arise highly infrequently, if at all, in the lifetime discretion over certain elements of remuneration in of the policy.
The committee would regard reliance exceptional circumstances.
on this discretion as a matter of utmost seriousness To help shareholders understand the context of and, in relation to our stated obligation to consult in remuneration practice reported in the annual advance with major shareholders, would not proceed remuneration report that follows, and speci cally the unless there was clear consensus in favour among limits applied to directors remuneration, we have those consulted.
Further, the committee would ensure included below some key points and a summary of that the value of the remuneration arrangement put in pertinent sections of the remuneration policy for place in reliance on this discretion would fall within the information only.
For further detail, please refer to the normal limit as stated in the policy for the element of full remuneration policy and the clari cation statement remuneration to which the arrangement relates.
on the Governance page of the companys website at As part of the approved policy, the committee also has www.
com governance discretion to award base salary increases, allowances Scope of policy and bene ts, and long-term incentive plan awards The policy applies to executive directors, the chairman in excess of the normal maximum limits to current and non-executive directors.
As clari ed in the RNS statement, this discretion will only be exercised in exceptional Reference is also made to the remuneration policy for circumstances other than in the case of increases in the other members of the Pearson executive currently nine cost of bene ts that are outside Pearsons control and in number who are not directors but who fall within the changes in bene t providers.
Again, Pearson would committees remit.
consult with major shareholders before exercising any Duration of policy such discretion and such exercise would be limited by The policy took e ect on 25 April 2014 and is expected reference to the safeguards described above, including to remain in force until the next binding vote on our only proceeding where there was clear consensus in remuneration policy, which is planned for the 2017 AGM.
In these circumstances, the committee would ensure that the maximum value of Use of discretion the remuneration arrangement put in place in reliance The committee has avoided, where possible, including on this discretion did not exceed a margin of 25% over general discretions in the policy table.
However, the normal maximum limit for the element in question exceptional or genuinely unforeseen circumstances as stated in the policy.
may arise in the future and in those circumstances it may be in shareholders interests for Pearson to put in Legacy arrangements place remuneration arrangements that are outside the Given the long-term nature of some of Pearsons terms of the policy.
If this happens, the committee will remuneration structures including obligations be permitted to implement remuneration arrangements under service contracts, incentive plans and pension that it considers appropriate in the circumstances.
In arrangements a number of pre-existing obligations these circumstances, Pearson would consult in advance remained in place at the time that the new policy with major shareholders before it does so and would became e ective, including obligations that are explain the exercise of this discretion in the following grandfathered by virtue of being in force at 27 June years directors remuneration report.
Pearsons policy is to honour pre-existing obligations, commitments or other entitlements that were entered into before the e ective date of this policy.
98 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Part 2: Summary of remuneration policy continued Summary of remuneration policy For more information please refer to the full remuneration policy on the Governance page of the companys website at www.
com governance Element of Purpose and Exceptional limit as clari ed in remuneration link to strategy Performance conditions Normal limit RNS statement of 9 April 2014 Base salary increases Up to 25% over normal limit in Helps to recruit, reward Performance of both the Base salary are not ordinarily more speci c individual situations and retain.
Re ects company and the individual than 10% per annum.
including internal promotions competitive market level, are taken into account when and material changes to the role, skills, experience determining an appropriate business or the role.
and individual level of base salary increase each year, if any.
Total value not Up to 25% over normal limit in Allowances retain.
Re ect the local ordinarily in excess of speci c individual situations and bene ts competitive market.
15% of base salary in including changes in individual any year.
circumstances such as health status and changes in the role such as relocation.
In excess of 25% over normal limit in the case of increases in the cost of bene ts that are outside of Pearsons control and changes in bene t providers.
As set out in approved None.
Motivate achievement The committee has the Overall limit 200% None.
Annual of annual strategic discretion to select the of base salary.
Focus on key performance measures, maximum opportunity financial metrics.
Reward targets and relative weightings is 180% for the chief individual contribution.
Funded by executive and no more Pearson global annual financial than 170% for other results, normally related to the executive directors performance against targets and members of the for Pearsons adjusted earnings Pearson executive.
per share or operating pro t, sales, and operating cash ow.
Individual annual incentive pay-outs also take into account individual performance against personal objectives.
Help to recruit, reward The committee will determine Maximum face Up to 25% over normal limit in Long-term and retain.
Drive longthe performance measures, value of 400% of exceptional circumstances, for incentives term earnings, share weightings and targets base salary.
Other example, for retention purposes price growth and value governing an award of than in exceptional or to re ect particular business creation, and align restricted shares prior to circumstances on situations.
The discretion to interests of executives grant to ensure continuing recruitment, it is the award restricted shares without and shareholders.
alignment with strategy and companys normal performance conditions to Encourage longthat the targets are su ciently policy not to award executive directors will not term shareholding stretching.
Awards vest subject restricted shares to be used other than where it is and commitment to to the following performance executive directors appropriate to compensate a company.
conditions: one-half on and other members of new director on a like-for-like earnings per share growth: the Pearson executive basis for incentives foregone Link managements one-third on return on invested without performance at a previous employer.
long-term reward and capital ROIC : one-sixth on conditions.
wealth to corporate relative total shareholder performance in a return TSR.
See Total single gure remuneration chart on page 105 Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance Report on directors remuneration 99 Non-executive directors and chairman Pay and performance scenario analysis Non-executive director remuneration has been designed The remuneration policy approved by shareholders to attract and retain high calibre individuals, with in 2014 required a scenario chart in the format set out appropriate experience or industry relevant skills, by below for 2014 remuneration.
Although not required, o ering market competitive fee levels.
the company has updated the scenario charts below so as to apply to 2016 remuneration.
The structure of non-executive directors fees with e ect from 1 May 2014 is as follows: Consistent with its policy, the committee places considerable emphasis on the performance-linked Director Fee elements, i. e. annual and long-term incentives.
Non-executive director 70,000 The chart overleaf shows what each director could Chairmanship of audit committee 27,500 expect to receive in 2016 under di erent performance Chairmanship of remuneration committee 22,000 scenarios, based on the following fide nitions of Chairmanship of reputation & performance: responsibility committee 10,000 Membership of audit committee 15,000 Performance Elements of remuneration scenario and assumptions Membership of remuneration committee 10,000 2016 base salary: allowances, bene ts, and Membership of reputation & Maximum retirement bene ts at the same percentage responsibility committee 5,000 of base salary as in 2015: maximum individual Senior independent director 22,000 annual incentive as per policy: maximum value of 2015 long-term incentive award The total fees payable to the non-executive directors 2016 base salary: allowances, bene ts, and Target excluding the Chairman are subject to the limit set out retirement bene ts at the same percentage of base salary as in 2015: target individual in the articles of association of the company currently annual incentive as per policy: target value 750,000 and are increased by ordinary resolution from of 2015 long-term incentive award Willis time to time.
Towers Watsons independent assessment of the expected value of the award, i. e. the The chairmans fees remain unchanged at 500,000 net present value taking into account all the conditions per year.
2016 base salary: allowances, bene ts, and For more information on non-executive directors Minimum retirement bene ts at the same percentage remuneration, please refer to the full remuneration of base salary as in 2015: no annual or longpolicy on the Governance page of the companys website term incentives at www.
com governance Note The value of long-term incentives does not take into account dividend awards that are payable on the release of restricted shares nor any changes in share price.
On this basis, the relative weighting of xed and performance-related remuneration and the absolute size of the remuneration packages for the chief executive and the chief financial o cer as represented by the current incumbent are set out on the next page.
We will continue to review the mix of xed and performance-linked remuneration on an annual basis, consistent with our overall policy.
100 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Part 2: Summary of Remuneration policy continued &KLHI H[HFXWLYH RFHURKQ DOORQ 000 &KLHI QDQFLDO RFHU &RUDP :LOOLDPV 000 0D[LPXP 20% 25% 55% 5,695 0D[LPXP 18% 29% 53% 2,978 7DUJHW 32% 21% e 7DUJHW 29% 23% 48% 1,890 0LQLPXP 100% 1,216 0LQLPXP 100% 551 %DVH VDODU DOORZDQFHV EHQHWV DQG SHQVLRQ %DVH VDODU DOORZDQFHV EHQHWV DQG SHQVLRQ $QQXDO LQFHQWLYH $QQXDO LQFHQWLYH RQJ WHUP LQFHQWLYHV 73 RQJ WHUP LQFHQWLYHs LTIP & 2 [HG YV YDULDEOH DW WDUJHW & 2 [HG YV YDULDEOH DW WDUJHW Fixed Fixed L[HG L[HG Base salary 21% Base salary 27% 3HQVLRQ DQG EHQHWV 3HQVLRQ DQG EHQHWV Variable 9DULDEOH $QQXDO LQFHQWLYH $QQXDO LQFHQWLYH RQJ WHUP LQFHQWLYHV RQJ WHUP LQFHQWLYHV Variable 9DULDEOH Further information on remuneration policy For further information on the following aspects of the remuneration policy, please refer to the full remuneration policy and the RNS statement of further information on the remuneration policy of 9 April 2014 on the Governance page of the companys website at www.
com governance Selection of performance measures and target setting Legacy arrangements under the annual bonus share matching plan Remuneration policy for other employees Service contracts and termination provisions Recruitment policy Employment conditions elsewhere in the company Executive directors non-executive directorships Shareholder views In 2016, we intend to conduct a review of our remuneration policy to put to shareholders for our next policy vote in 2017.
