Pets at Home Group Plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Audit & Risk Committee Report Nomination & Corporate continued Governance Committee Report Carrying value of inventory The inventory value of 48.5m reflects an increase of 2.4m on the previous year, largely reflecting the growth in new stores in the year.
During the year the Audit & Risk Committee reviewed the loss prevention strategy to ensure that controls against stock loss across the business are robust.
The Committee also reviewed the period end financial information which includes analysis on stock holding and any specific areas of concern.
Following a review of the level of provision held at the year end against slow moving or out of date stock, we have concluded that we are satisfied with the accounting treatment of the carrying value of inventory in the consolidated financial statements on page 131. Who is on the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee?
A report was also presented to the Committee by KPMG Member No.
of meetings at both the half year and full year that covered both of the above risks in detail.
They considered them to be appropriately Tony DeNunzio Chairman 1 1 addressed and raised no significant concerns in these or Dennis Millard 1 1 any other areas of their review.
Tessa Green 1 1 Amy Stirling 1 1 Non-audit services and auditor objectivity and independence Paul Coby 1 1 Audit and non-audit fees paid to KPMG total 276,000 for the year and an analysis is presented in note 3 to the consolidated Brian Carroll 1 1 financial statements on page 125.
Audit fees across the Group Paul Moody 1 1 were 156,000, with KPMG also receiving 35,000 for the review of the interim financial statements.
Other fees paid to KPMG, principally in relation to tax compliance and advisory Introduction services, amounted to 85,000.
As Chairman of the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee the Committee, I am pleased to present the We have satisfied ourselves as to KPMGs independence report of the Committee for the year ended 26 March 2015. and their internal processes are also rigorous in ensuring their independence before commencing any piece of work.
The Committee is a key committee of the Board whose role Ernst & Young LLP have been appointed as tax advisors to is to keep the composition and structure of the Board and its the Group for FY16.
The Committees role also includes enhancing the quality of nominees to the Board and ensuring Audit tender that the recruitment and appointment process is conducted As set out in the Committee report last year, we considered with rigour and integrity.
the FRC proposals concerning audit tenders and decided to tender the audit during this year as KPMG had been in place The Committee is also tasked with ensuring that succession since 2000 and the audit partner was required to rotate in plans are in place for the Directors, the Executive Team and the following year.
Four firms were formally invited to tender other key members of the Groups Operating Board, taking and were given access to management across the Group into consideration the current Board structure, the leadership to assist them in understanding our business, our culture requirements of the Group and the wider commercial and and our accounting policies.
Following submission of tender market environment within which the Group operates.
documents, the final shortlist of bidding firms all presented to the Committee.
After a consideration of the alignment of each bid with the Committees requirements including experience in the sector, cultural fit and technical capability, How the Committee discharged its responsibilities in FY15 a resolution proposing the reappointment of KPMG as Existing Board structure Reviewed the size, structure and composition external auditors will be put to the shareholders at the of the Board and the Committees Companys Annual General Meeting which will take place Succession planning Considered succession planning for Executive on 9 September 2015 in Manchester.
Directors and the Executive Team Amy Stirling Chairman, Audit & Risk Committee 3 June 2015 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 85 Ensuring that the Board and its Committees have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to enable them to discharge their respective duties effectively.
Tony DeNunzio Chairman of the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Board evaluation and effectiveness As a result of the review, it was recognised that Pets at Home The UK Corporate Governance Code published in September 2012 has undergone significant expansion in recent years and with by the Financial Reporting Council the Code requires that the significant growth opportunities ahead, it is now appropriate Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its own performance to implement a divisional management structure to drive and that of its committees and individual Directors and does so performance across the business.
externally at least every three years.
The performance evaluation for FY15 involved the use of an external independent facilitator, In order to support the changes, the Committee recommended to Lintstock Limited Lintstock.
the Board that Ian Kellett be appointed as Chief Executive Officer of the newly formed Retail Division and Sally Hopson, previously The review process involved completion of online questionnaires Customer and People Director and Chief Executive Officer of the which focused on Board composition, expertise and dynamics, Vet Group, be appointed as Chief Executive Officer of the Services Board support and process, structure, behaviours and other key Division with effect from 4 June 2015. issues such as strategy and succession.
The Board approved such recommendations and the search for a The review also addressed delivery of the Boards objectives and new Group Chief Financial Officer is starting with immediate effect.
any issues identified during the previous review or which became During this process, Ian Kellett will remain as Chief Financial relevant during the year.
A report on the performance of the Board Officer and commence the transition to his new Chief Executive and each of the principal committees was compiled by Lintstock Officer of Retail role.
and presented to the Board and each relevant committee as a basis for discussing and agreeing appropriate actions for the Conflicts of interest forthcoming year.
The Chairman and each committee Chairman The Board has delegated authority to the Committee to consider, held discussions with each Director or committee member based and where necessary authorise, any actual or potential conflicts on the responses.
The Senior Independent Director is responsible of interest arising in respect of the Directors.
The Committee for appraising the Chairmans performance in discussions with considered potential conflicts of interest as they arose during the Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman.
the course of the year and in respect of the appointments of The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors also meet in the new Directors.
absence of the Executive Directors.
The Committee also supports the Board in its annual The Board and individual committees considered the output from consideration of the Conflicts of Interest Register, which is carried the review in April 2015 and concluded that the performance of out prior to the publication of the Annual Report, and considers the Board, its committees and individual Directors was effective.
the independence of the Non-Executive Directors, in the context Any areas for improvement are agreed by the Board and are of the criteria set out in the Code.
detailed on page 81 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Diversity The Committee takes into account a variety of factors before recommending any new appointment to the Board, including relevant skills to perform the role, experience, knowledge, ethnicity and gender.
The most important priority of the Tony DeNunzio Committee, however, is ensuring that the best candidate Chairman, Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee is selected to join the Board.
3 June 2015 Succession planning The Committee reviewed the succession plans for both executive appointments to the Board and the Executive Team, taking into account the strategic objectives of the Group.
The process included consideration of the anticipated demands of the business and the skills required to successfully deliver against these.
