Pets at Home Group Plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Mission and strategy Delivery of our strategy across the PawPrint supports growth in like-for-like, space and margins Our mission and strategy Levers of growth To be the best pet shop in the world!
To expand upon our leading position in the UK pet care market.
The PawPrint is the articulation of our strategy.
Key to the PawPrint is our number one value, putting Pets Before Profit, which is a fundamental welfare belief that drives our decision making processes.
Pets before profit A truly World class amazing place shopping to work To be the The best best pet shop Friendly vets and experts in the world groomers At the heart Always new of every and exciting community Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 19 Overview | Strategy | Performance Grow like-for-like Product innovation and newness Continually refreshed product range, We have multiple levers through which own brands and private labels, bringing we can grow like-for-like sales, creating something new and innovative to diversified, sustained and resilient top customers.
VIP club Grow our loyalty club, which delivers Product innovation and newness targeted offers to customers and increases VIP club our share of their spend.
Marketing Marketing Read more Omni-channel Customer brand engagement through on page 22 a focus on the emotional relationships Services we have with our pets.
Engagement Pricing Omni-channel Engagement Enable a seamless shopping experience Maintain leading levels of customer where products can be delivered to home engagement with our highly trained or picked up in store, and services can be colleagues, which is essential to our booked online.
Create an online community success.
for pet owners to engage with us.
Pricing Services Deliver value for money, reflecting Vet practices and grooming salons make us product range, exclusivity, convenience, a one stop shop for pet owners, increasing quality, service and price.
customer visit frequency and loyalty.
Grow space and Optimised store rollout Open Pets at Home stores in optimal optimise footprint locations to access unmet market spend and consider smaller formats targeted Rollout of new stores, vets and at market subsegments.
groomers across the UK will enable us to grow market share.
Services rollout of vet practices and grooming salons Optimised store rollout Opening services within all new stores, as well as retrofitting services into the Services rollout of vet practices existing estate, driving customer loyalty and grooming salons and visit frequency.
Read more on page 26 Grow margins Product mix and own brands Create an optimal balance of higher margin Focus on the areas that will enable long Advanced Nutrition, own brand and private term gross margin and operating margin label products.
Sourcing and terms Build closer and improved relationships Product mix and own brands with suppliers to leverage our market reach.
Sourcing and terms Services Services Growth and maturity of our higher margin vets and groomers.
