Governance Directors statements Directors responsibilities Going concern The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and to affect its future development, performance and position are regulations.
The Directors have chosen to prepare the financial set out in the Strategic Report on pages 14 to 23.
The financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and Standards IFRS.
The Directors are also responsible for the borrowing facilities are described in the financial review on pages preparation of the Directors remuneration report, which they 46 to 49.
In addition, note 31 to the financial statements includes have chosen to prepare, being under no obligation to do so under the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing Jersey law.
The Directors are also responsible for the preparation its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its of the corporate governance report under the Listing Rules.
financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Jersey Company law the Law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial period in accordance with The Company has considerable financial resources together generally accepted accounting principles.
The financial statements with long-term contracts with a number of customers and are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs suppliers across different geographic areas and industries.
of the Company at the period end and of the profit or loss of the As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Company is well Company for the period then ended.
In preparing these financial placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors statements, the Directors should: have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Select suitable accounting policies and then apply future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of them consistently accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Specify which generally accepted accounting principles Responsibility statement under the Disclosure have been adopted in their preparation and and Transparency Rules Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis Each of the Directors listed on pages 70 and 71 confirms that, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will to the best of their knowledge: continue in business The Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting balanced and understandable and provides the information records which are sufficient to show and explain the Companys necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys transactions and to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time performance, business model and strategy: the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS, that the financial statements prepared by the Company comply give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position with the requirements of the Law.
They are also responsible for and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence consolidation taken as a whole: and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of The Strategic Report contained on pages 1 to 67 includes a fair fraud and other irregularities.
view of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description the corporate and financial information included on the Companys of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation By order of the Board in other jurisdictions.
Directors approach Tim Weller The Boards objective is to present a fair, balanced and Chief Financial Officer understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects, particularly in the Annual Report, Half year results announcement and other published documents and reports to regulators.
The Board has established an Audit Committee to assist with this obligation.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 107
