Remuneration Committee Chairmans Statement The Group delivered a strong performance again in 2015 I am pleased to introduce the Remuneration The Committee also included a bonus target and Report for 2015, which includes this statement, condition relating to two of the Groups nona summary of the approved Directors financial key performance indicators.
Up to 10% Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on of bonus potential could be earned on customer Remuneration for the year ended 31 December care measures.
A resolution to approve the Annual Report could act as a downward modier of up to 10% on Remuneration will be put to shareholders at of any bonus earned.
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Full details of the performance conditions are set During the year, the Remuneration Committee out on pages 62 and 63. the Committee undertook its regular annual The Companys excellent performance in 2015 review of the Executive Directors base salaries, has resulted in Executive Directors annual bonus nalised the performance conditions and targets payments for 2015 at 97% of the maximum for annual bonuses for 2015 and undertook the potential.
profit before tax increased by 34% annual review of the Chairmans fees.
In addition in 2015 and free cash generation before capital we reviewed the remuneration package for Dave returns by 24%.
In addition, the Group performed Jenkinson on his promotion to Group Managing well on its internal customer care measures.
Director and reviewed the Executive Directors Bonuses will be paid in cash up to the value pension salary supplements.
of base salary with the remainder deferred for up to two years and paid in Bonus Share 2015 remuneration outcomes Scheme awards.
The Group delivered a strong performance again The Committee has previously awarded in 2015 and the business continues to grow and options under the Persimmon Plc 2012 Long meet its strategic objectives.
Term Incentive Plan 2012 LTIP with a 10-year performance condition based on the Companys In line with the policy approved by shareholders, Capital Return Plan to return 1.9bn of surplus the Committee set the Executive Directors 2015 capital to shareholders by December 2021, annual bonus targets primarily on stretching which was the market capitalisation of the financial metrics linked to our strategic objectives.
Company when the plan was announced in The Committee again agreed that the financial 2012.
I am pleased to report that the first stage measures should be profit before tax and of the performance condition has been achieved, cash generation targets up to 50% and 40% which was the return of at least 1.70per of bonus potential, respectively.
These are share to shareholders by 31 December 2015. closely linked to the Companys strategic aims The Group had returned 2.40 per share to of growing the business at an optimal scale and shareholders by this date.
Although the first optimising shareholder returns and value over the stage of the performance condition has been longer term.
met, no portion of the awards will ordinarily vest until 31 December 2017, at which date up to 40% may vest.
The remainder will vest on completion of the original Capital Return Plan payment of 6.20 per share.
The Directors will be required to retain half of the shares received after sales to pay tax for a minimum ofone year.
Persimmon Plc 56 Annual Report December 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information In addition, we have decided that he should 2016 remuneration EXCELLENT receive an additional award under the 2012 GROUP The focus of the remuneration policy for LTIP of 745,800 shares.
The award will have an PERFORMANCE the Executive Directors continues to have initial exercise price equal to the market value IN 2015 a significant proportion of remuneration at the date of the award.
This will bring Daves performance-related and linked closely to the outstanding awards under the 2012 LTIP in line Companys strategy.
with that approved by shareholders for the Group 637.8m Managing Director.
Performance conditions for the 2016 annual profit before tax in 2015 bonus will be unchanged from the previous When reviewing the remuneration package year and will be primarily linked to profit and 34% payable to Dave Jenkinson on his promotion, cash generation targets, with two non-financial it became apparent that the pension salary Increase in profit before tax metrics.
Again, 10% of the annual bonus will supplement payable to Dave Jenkinson in in 2015 depend on customer care performance and his new position and to Jeff Fairburn, Group the Committee will also have the discretion to Chief Executive was no longer reasonable or 24% reduce the total bonus by up to 10% if health and competitive.
As a result, we have decided to Increase in free cash safety performance is not maintained at a high increase the pension salary supplement payable generation before level.
These are important factors in ensuring to Jeff Fairburn and Dave Jenkinson to 24% of capitalreturns in 2015 overall business performance, sustainability their base salary from 1 January 2016. and reputation.
The Committee would welcome your 733m The Committee has agreed that annual support for the resolution for the Annual Capital Return Plan Payments salaries for Executive Directors will increase Report on Remuneration to be tabled at the to December 2015 in line with those received by the Groups forthcoming AGM.
salaried employees, with the exception of Dave 106% Jenkinson, who has been promoted to Group Jonathan Davie Managing Director.
Capital Return Plan Payments Chairman Remuneration Committee ahead by 180p per share The Committee has reviewed Dave Jenkinsons 22 February 2016 compared to original remuneration and agreed that his base plan including salary should be increased to 500,000, 1 April2016 payment taking into consideration his additional responsibilities of overseeing all of the Groups Stated before goodwill impairment.
Persimmon Plc 57 Annual Report December 2015
