Pets at Home Group Plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategy in action Grow like-for-like We have varied, sustainable ways to achieve like-for-like sales growth.
Read more over the page Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 21 Overview | Strategy | Performance Pets at Home Group Plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategy explained: Grow like-for-like We know how our customers feel about their pets because we feel the same way We develop customer loyalty and brand engagement through our understanding of the emotional relationships owners have with their pets, whilst also delivering innovation, quality and exceptional service, coupled with enhanced store and services based offerings.
another benefit, with donations made to Strategy in action customers chosen animal charities each VIP club: unique time their VIP card is swiped in our stores, Groom Rooms, vet practices or online.
engagement with VIP club enabled 1.4m of donations to customer chosen animal charities in 2015. our customers How do we use VIP?
We recently sent a direct mail to over Our loyalty scheme, VIP club, is a key 190,000 of our VIPs who own dogs underpin to like-for-like growth and and cats of a senior age, but were not increasing our market share.
Members purchasing Senior Advanced Nutrition.
of the club receive exclusive offers on The mailer highlighted the health benefits everything from food, to grooming and that a lifestage focused Advanced Nutrition health checks with our vets, as well as diet can bring and how changes in age can helpful advice to ensure they get the lead to differing nutritional requirements.
Of those VIPs who received the mail, 15% responded positively, with a subsequent Analysing our customers spend, purchase of Senior Advanced Nutrition combined with our knowledge of their linked to the offer.
Within the group that pet type, breed and age, allows us to responded, of those who had never send personalised marketing offers purchased Advanced Nutrition of any across both Merchandise products and kind before, 38% went on to make Services.
We send out offers via direct a repeat purchase.
mail, addressed to the customers pet, or through email.
Members can also 3.2m pickup a free copy of the quarterly VIP VIP club reached 3.2m members, magazine in-store.
VIP Lifelines are adding 1.2m during the year Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 23 Overview | Strategy | Performance What we did in 2015 Future plans Product and innovation Continue to refresh our product mix, with new More than 3,000 new products launched private label and own brand launches, as well Refreshed 44% of our total product range as exclusive and innovative products that reflect 40% of new products were own brand the latest trends, in order to improve customer or private labels loyalty and visit frequency.
Increased space and range extensions in Advanced Nutrition VIP club Grow loyalty and our share of VIPs pet VIP reached 3.2m members, adding spend by promoting our unique pet services 1.2m during the year and targeted product discounts, whilst 10.5m registered pets on the database communicating information relevant to Swipe rate of the VIP card at our tills customers pets needs, such as lifestage accounted for 65% of revenues milestones, based on our unique knowledge Increased our share of VIP customers of our customers and their pets.
pet spend Marketing Focus on new customer acquisition and brand My Pet Moments TV advertising campaign engagement through our understanding of the TV sponsorship for For The Love Of Dogs, love and emotional bond that owners have one of ITVs highest rating programmes with their pets.
Omni-channel Develop the link between our online and Launch of Deliver-To-Store service, allowing store based offerings to give customers all products in our extended online range a seamless shopping experience.
Enabling to be collected in a store ordering online or in-store, for delivery to home, 11,500 products now available online, or to store, as well as booking vet and grooming 4,400 additional to those in-store appointments online.
40% of online revenues now derived from a collect in store delivery method Mobile and tablet website versions launched since year end Services Refurbish and retrofit the existing estate Retrofitted 32 vet practices and 26 grooming to accommodate further vet practices and salons into our existing store estate grooming salons.
Development of our vet practices: including 24 7, longer opening hours and practice Developing our JV vet practices to provide extensions further avenues for growth.
Pricing Deliver value for money pricing, which Invested in competitive pricing across is reflective of product range, exclusivity, large accessories, particularly in our online convenience, service, price and quality.
extended product range Created more entry price range points in some product categories, such as wild bird Engagement Maintain our industry leading colleague retention Colleague retention rate maintained at 81% and engagement rates, in order to deliver Customer feedback Net Promoter Score customers outstanding service and advice.
improved to 86% from 84% in the prior year Relevant KPIs 3.7% 4.2% 10.7% Merchandise Group Services like-for-like KPIs like-for-like like-for-like page 32 growth growth growth Key risks associated Brand and reputation Supply chain sourcing Competition Store and services expansion Our people Risk management Regulatory and compliance page 44 Business systems and information security Extreme weather Pets at Home Group Plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategy in action Grow space and optimise footprint Our business has an increasing UK growth opportunity.
Everyone here is committed to making it even bigger, better and smarter.
Read more over the page Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 25 Overview | Strategy | Performance
