Business model How we create value INPUTS WHAT WE DO These are the things We build a wide range of new homes across the we need to be able to UK.
We combine quality and efficiency to provide operate as a business.
a sustainable balance between affordable prices and a good operating margin for the business.
Land A long term supply of land is critical to our maintaining and increasing housing completions because of the inherent delays in obtaining implementable planning consent.
17,700 acres of strategic land 54,300 plots of land with implementable planning consent People Our people are essential to implementing our strategy.
We currently employ over 4,400 staff and use many subcontractors and Obtaining planning Buying land suppliers to meet our production targets.
permission 4,400 employees Our development sites We control land which has are acquired from our Geographic coverage potential for development but strategic land portfolio at We have 28 regional ofces across the UK tomaintain geographical coverage requires further promotion a discount to open market tomaximise sales potential and minimise riskin regional markets.
or investment in order for value, or purchased on 28 regional ofces this potential to be realised.
the open market with Our dedicated land teams an existing planning Materials maintain and replenish consent.
Maintaining our We have Group supply contracts for our major construction materials to ensure best our strategic land portfolio landbank gives continuity prices and continuity of supply.
and our planning teams of supply and enables promote land through the us to be selective in our Space4 We manufacture advanced insulated closed planning system.
timber frames for an increasing number of ournew homes to enable us to build tothe best sustainability standards of energy efficiency and quality.
6,011 timber frame kits produced 17,700 54,300 Acres of strategic land Plots with implementable planning consent Persimmon Plc 12 Annual Report December 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information OUTCOMES These are the results, both financial and non financial, of what we do.
14,572 Energy efficient homes 629.5m profit before tax Tax paid In 2015 the Group paid 185.3m incorporation tax, national insurance, stamp duty, output VAT and irrecoverable input VAT Design & build Sales & customer care 291m We focus on building We build quality homesto Capital returned to shareholders family housing nationally order across the UK, from under our key brands.
Plymouth to Perth and Sustainable Space4 technology Swansea to Scarborough.
communities supports our production By maintaining a national site In 2015 we provided 46m rates by delivering energy network we can maximise of community infrastructure, schoolsand open space efficient modern methods of our sales potential across construction.
Customer service Financial strength tight control over our from our salesteams is Balance sheet construction costs and work an important element net assets of 2.46bn in progress, so that we can in achieving high levels Waste recycling react quickly to changes in ofcustomer satisfaction.
Increased to 92% of all housing demand.
construction waste 380 14,572 Average site numbers Homes sold All gures as at 31December 2015 Persimmon Plc 13 Annual Report December 2015
