Market outlook Long-term market Introduction Irrespective of the low oil price environment in which we currently fundamentals are robust operate, we are satisfied that the long-term market fundamentals are robust and Petrofac is well positioned to benefit.
Among industry analysts, there is consensus that global energy demand is set to grow strongly over the long term and that hydrocarbons will continue to play a significant role.
Large-scale investments in oil and gas infrastructure will therefore be needed to meet this demand and to offset a natural decline in existing production.
In terms of the global appetite for energy, the most recent analysis from the International Energy Agency IEA estimates that demand is set to grow by 32% by 2040 by which time the worlds energy supply mix will divide into four almost-equal parts: oil, gas, coal and Figure A 1 low-carbon sources.
Change in natural gas production in selected countries in the New Policies Scenario This presupposes that demand for oil will grow by 10 million barrels 2013-2025 per day, or 13%, to exceed 100 million barrels per day by 2040 2025-2040 see figure B.
Meanwhile, demand for gas is estimated to grow by more than 45%.
Clearly, in order to meet this demand, continued China investment in the exploration and production of hydrocarbons will United States be required.
Indeed, the IEA suggests that its projections to 2040 Iran will entail a cumulative investment in the oil and gas sectors of Turkmenistan some US$25 trillion, of which just under 80%, or US$20 trillion, Australia is in the upstream sector.
This represents an annual average of 2 Canada US$750 billion for upstream oil and gas see figure C. Iraq Of course, the future for the oil price environment is far from clear.
Argentina Qatar In its most recent World Energy Report, the IEA concedes that Brazil there is a large element of uncertainty around its analysis, and Saudi Arabia that much will depend on a combination of economic growth, Mozambique government policy, and the approach of the main oil producers.
India The IEA therefore presents an alternative, Low Oil Price Scenario, Azerbaijan in which the price of oil remains within a US$5060 per barrel bbl Nigeria range until well into the 2020s, and only rises towards US$85 by Algeria 2040.
Under these circumstances, however, the demand for oil Russia would remain higher than would otherwise be the case meeting Venezuela 28% of global energy demand by 2040, compared with 26% 3 Libya under the IEAs central planning scenario.
Once again, this would Angola necessitate continuing investment in the necessary infrastructure.
United Arab Emirates Kazakhstan Whilst many Independent and International Oil Companies IOCs will face ongoing financial pressure, particularly in the short-toTanzania medium-term, we expect that many of the National Oil Companies Israel NOCs will continue to invest in long-term strategic projects Egypt especially in regions with lower marginal costs of production.
Kuwait Malaysia Meanwhile, we see an in-built need for reinvestment in existing Thailand fields in order to arrest their declining production.
Indeed, once United Kingdom production has peaked, a conventional oil field can expect to see Trinidad and Tobago Norway 1 I nternational Energy Agency, World Energy Outlook 2015 which, under its central New Netherlands Policies Scenario, suggests that by 2040, coal will account for 4,414 million tonnes of -60 -30 0 30 60 90 120 150 180 210 240 oil equivalent Mtoe of primary energy demand, whereas oil will account for 4,735 Mtoe, Gas will account for 4,239 Mtoe and low carbon sources for 4,547 Mtoe Billion cubic metres OECD IEA 2015 World Energy Outlook, IEA Publishing.
org t&c OECD IEA 2015 World Energy Outlook, IEA Publishing.
org t&c 2 Ibid 3 Ibid 14 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Related pages Our business model p18 4 average declines of around 6% per year and, especially in a Good prospects in markets where Petrofac period of lower oil prices, reinvesting in these assets can deliver is well established a more immediate return on capital employed than can more Petrofacs operations tend to be concentrated in those regions speculative exploration and production projects.
that are expected to make the most significant contribution to long-term energy supplies.
As the IEA puts it: An annual US$630 billion in worldwide Petrofac is particularly strong in the Middle East and North Africa upstream oil and gas investment the total amount the industry MENA.
In mid-2015, in its annual ranking of EPC contractors spent on average each year for the past five years is required servicing the oil and gas industry, the Middle East Economic just to compensate for declining production at existing fields Digest reported that: Petrofac tops the ranking for the third year 5 and to keep future output flat at todays levels.
running, confirming its status as the most successful contractor 8 in the MENA region.
The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries OPEC provides an alternative yet broadly similar analysis.
In its 2015 This is significant because, according to the IEA, meeting World Oil Outlook report, it estimates that oil demand will reach long-term demand will depend increasingly on the larger 97.4 million barrels by 2020, and will grow to almost 110 million resource-holders in the region see figures A and D. By 2040, barrels per day by 2040.
OPEC believes that this will require for example, oil production from the OPEC members located in oil-related investments of at least US$10 trillion, and asserts that, the Middle East is forecast to rise by more than 10 million barrels OPEC Member Countries maintain their readiness to invest in the per day up from 27.2 million barrels per day in 2014 to 37.5 8 development of new upstream capacity, in the maintenance of million barrels per day in 2040. existing fields and in the building and expansion of the necessary In addition, the lower the oil price remains, the greater the infrastructure.
This underscores OPECs commitment to security proportion of world production the region is likely to account for.
of supply for consumers, which needs to go hand-in-hand with In its Low Oil Price Scenario, the IEA suggests that, by the 2030s, 6 security of demand for producers.
the share of OPEC countries in total oil production could rise above 50%, a level not seen since the early 1970s.
It goes on to Petrofac is well positioned in the most promising explain that: This is a logical outcome over the longer term: OPEC market segments 9 countries are those with the largest and lowest-cost resources.
Although upstream capital spending is thought to have fallen by 7 23% in 2015 and is set to drop by at least another 15% in 2016, Continued investment from NOCs where Petrofac can we do expect it to return to long-term growth, if only to offset the draw on strong relationships underlying production decline.
Also, certain segments of the NOCs collectively control around 80% of the worlds combined market are poised for higher levels of investment, from which conventional and unconventional reserves.
Given that NOCs are Petrofac is well positioned to benefit.
typically less sensitive to short-term financial pressures and are relatively immune to market sentiment, they will continue to invest in long-term strategic projects.
4 International Energy Agency, World Energy Outlook 2013 5 OECD IEA 2015 World Energy Outlook, IEA Publishing.
org t&c 6 Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, World Oil Outlook 2015 7 Barclays Upstream Spending Survey 2016 8 Oil price drop reshapes top 10 contractors, Middle East Economic Digest, 11 May 2015 9 OECD IEA 2015 World Energy Outlook, IEA Publishing.
org t&c Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 15 Market outlook continued By building on strong, well-established relationships with many As noted by the Middle East Economic Digest: Petrofacs of the worlds leading NOCs, particularly in MENA, Petrofac is success comes from being able to diversify its business across well positioned in this respect.
several sectors within the hydrocarbons industry, as well as operating across a geographic footprint that covers the entire In addition to sustained spending on upstream oil and gas 11 MENA region.
projects, Petrofac is well placed to participate in a market of downstream opportunities in the refining and petrochemicals Compared with its peers, Petrofac is less exposed to lower sectors.
Once again, many of the MENA-based NOCs are oil prices continuing to invest in large strategic projects, and have signalled Petrofac is relatively well positioned to succeed in a sustained their intent to capture more of the downstream market in order period of lower oil prices.
to secure more of the value chain.
As a recent report from McKinsey & Company states: Major crude exporters in the More specifically, our direct exposure to oil price fluctuations is Middle East continue to add to refining capacity, motivated by a limited to a small number of equity upstream investments within number of factors.
Firstly, ensuring security of domestic supply IES, and our record year-end backlog gives us the best visibility remains a top political priority Second, Middle East players of future revenues in our 35-year history.
Indeed, we enter 2016 are motivated by maintaining their competitiveness in the global with an order book of US$20.7 billion.
Also, our existing operations tend to be concentrated in those To complement our ability to deliver large demanding projects in geographies with lower production costs and, again, much of the MENA, and our established relationships across the industry, our income comes from NOCs whom we expect to continue Petrofac has been building its credentials in the refining sector.
to invest in their assets.
For example, in 2014 we were selected as a 50 50 partner in the US$2.1 billion refinery improvement programme in Sohar, Oman, In our core MENA geographies, which are the source of the and are progressing apace with our US$1.7 billion share of the majority of our backlog, we continue to see an attractive pipeline Clean Fuels Project in Kuwait.
Further afield, we continue to of bidding opportunities.
work on the sizeable engineering, procurement, construction and commissioning contract EPCC for a refinery package in Of course, with fewer opportunities available globally, which tend the new Refinery and Petrochemicals Integrated Development to be concentrated in a more limited geographic area, we face the RAPID project in Johor, Malaysia.
risk of greater competitive intensity.
World 12,555 1,136 1,711 15,403 6,907 3,026 9,932 749 European Union 243 7 124 374 226 302 528 18 10 Profitability in a world of over capacity, McKinsey & Company, May 2015 11 Oil price drop reshapes top 10 contractors, Middle East Economic Digest, 11 May 2015 16 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Improving our cost-effectiveness in the North Sea business Also, while we would not want to downplay the challenges There is, of course, greater uncertainty surrounding Petrofacs faced by our sector, it is clear that a low oil price environment operations in the UK Continental Shelf UKCS.
Here, the future of will also offer some new opportunities for a company such as the oil and gas sector rests on structural and fiscal considerations Petrofac, including: as well as the prospects for the oil price.
Reduced executional risk in a low-inflation or perhaps It should be noted, however, that our business in this region is even a deflationary environment, executional risks such as more reliant on ongoing operational expenditure than on new cost over-runs and shortages of key materials, equipment or capital investment, and we continue to work closely with clients components, can be reduced to improve the cost effectiveness of their asset operations.
Increased availability of hitherto scarce skills in recent years the industry has faced a crippling skills shortage.
The new A trend we do see is for well-established operators to divest their industry economics may alleviate this pressure, making it easier assets in this region.
Often they are succeeded by new entrants, and cheaper to access expertise who are looking for outsourced asset management services, and Improved access to adjacent market segments again, Petrofac is a natural partner as we saw when Oranje-Nassau any reining-in of production, by definition, opens up access Energie UK Limited took over the Sean gas field in mid-2015.
to a potentially lucrative decommissioning market.
Meanwhile We also believe Petrofac is in prime position to compete for a Petrofac is continuing to build its credentials in the downstream substantial decommissioning market that, through to 2040, market, which tends to be less sensitive to oil price fluctuations 12 is valued at some 37 billion.
Given our business model and our distinctive, delivery-focused Turning an industry challenge to our advantage culture, the new environment represents a definite opportunity We believe that the dynamic economics within the industry play for Petrofac to increase market share and to continue to deliver to Petrofacs strengths in operational excellence as well as our differentiated margins.
It also means that, when oil prices flexible approach and our expertise in developing innovative do eventually recover, Petrofac can emerge in an even commercial approaches with our clients.
With our strong ethos of balancing quality with cost-consciousness, Figure D we had begun to adapt to price constraints in the industry well before the reduction in oil prices, and we remain convinced that Change in oil production in selected countries in the New Policies Scenario, 2014-2040 our approach will stand us in good stead during a period of lower oil prices.
Crude oil Tight oil As clients consider any new investments, or seek to improve Other unconventional oil their existing operational efficiency, it is abundantly clear that now, NGLs more than ever, they will demand certainty of delivery and budget, and will incentivise gains in efficiency.
In particular, we believe they Iraq will look for three key things from their suppliers: Brazil Canada A clear capability to deliver the work on the ground Iran A competitive cost base with a culture of cost control Saudi Arabia and incremental improvement A willingness to share in the risk of delivery whether that Venezuela be through a lump-sum EPC contract or a performance-related United Arab Emirates operational contract Qatar Kazakhstan Kuwait Argentina United Kingdom Azerbaijan Norway China United States Russia -4 -3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 4 5 Million barrels per day OECD IEA 2015 World Energy Outlook, IEA Publishing.
org t&c 12 UK Oil & Gas Survey 2014 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 17
