Board of Directors Nicholas Wrigley Jeff Fairburn Mike Killoran ACA Chairman age 60 Group Chief Executive age 49 Group Finance Director age 54 Date of appointment Appointed to the Board Date of appointment 1 June 2009 Date of appointment 4 January 1999 on 1 February 2006 and as Chairman of the Committee membership Member of the Committee membership Member of the Board on21 April 2011 Risk Committee.
Committee membership Chairman of the Experience Jeff Fairburn has been Group Experience Mike Killoran joined the Company Nomination Committee and member of the Chief Executive since April 2013.
A chartered accountant by profession, Remuneration Committee.
the Group in 1989 and became North East Mike worked in manufacturing, distribution and Experience Nicholas Wrigley is an Executive Managing Director in 2000.
He was promoted retail sectors before joining the Group.
He took Vice Chairman of Rothschild London.
He has to North Division Chief Executive in 2006 and over his present role in April 1999. over 30 years mergers and acquisitions subsequently to Group Managing Director Skills Mike has extensive financial and experience at Rothschild and is a qualied in 2012. operational skills and over 19 years experience accountant.
He was also Senior Steward of the Skills Jeff has 31 years experience in the and knowledge of both the industry and our Jockey Club from 2009 to 2014. construction industry, 27 of which have been business.
These skills enable Mike to make a Skills Nicholas leadership style encourages in the housebuilding sector.
He has an in depth strong contribution to strategy development.
open and honest debate in the spirit of knowledge of Persimmon having started as constructive challenge, which enables effective a quantity surveyor in our Yorkshire business.
decision making by the Board in all areas of This, together with his strong leadership skills, strategy, responsibility and governance.
enables him to effectively direct and manage the delivery ofour strategy.
Jonathan Davie Mark Preston Marion Sears Non-Executive Director age 69 Non-Executive Director age 48 Non-Executive Director age 53 Date of appointment 1 January 2010 Date of appointment 9 January 2012 Date of appointment 8 January 2013 Committee membership Chairman of the Committee membership Member of the Committee membership Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Corporate Responsibility Committee and a theAudit and Nomination Committees.
member of the Remuneration Committee.
Experience Mark Preston, a chartered Experience Jonathan Davie, a chartered surveyor, is the Group Chief Executive of Experience Marion Sears is a Non-Executive accountant, is Non-Executive Chairman of Grosvenor Group Limited, an appointment Director of Dunelm Group Plc where she is the First Avenue LLP and a Non-Executive Director he took up in 2008.
He is a Non-Executive Nominations Committee Chair.
She is also a of Hansa Trust Plc.
Jonathans previous Director of Sonae Sierra SGPS.
He is a Trustee Non-Executive Director of investment trusts roles include Non-Executive Chairman of IG of ULI and Chairman of the ULI Centre for Octopus AIM VCT Plc and Fidelity European Group Holdings Plc, Vice Chairman of Credit Sustainability Advisory Board, as well as being Values Plc.
Marion previously held executive Suisse, CEO of BZW Global Equities and a Trustee for the Westminster Foundation.
positions at Glaxo, UBS, Baring Brothers and Non-Executive Director ofCredit Suisse UK He isa Member of the Universityof JP Morgan.
Cambridge Land Economy Advisory Board Skills Marion has extensive retail industry andan Honorary Vice-President of the Skills Jonathans experience has given knowledge and customer understanding Cambridge University Land Society.
him sound judgement and the ability to together with an all-round view of the constructively challenge the Executive Skills Marks experience as Chief Executive consumer markets.
He has extensive experience of Grosvenor Group Limited has given him financial background and current involvement ofthenancial markets and capital raising.
extensive knowledge of the commercial in the investment industry enable her to and residential property market, which provide soundadvice and judgement on the enables himto add a valuable contribution to implementation of the Companys strategy.
discussions regarding the Groups strategy.
Mark will be resigning from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 14 April 2016.
Persimmon Plc 44 Annual Report December 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Nigel Greenaway Dave Jenkinson Richard Pennycook South Division Chief Executive Group Managing Director age 48 Senior Independent Director age 51 age 55 Date of appointment 13 December 2013 Date of appointment 14 March 2008 Date of appointment 8 January 2013 Committee membership Member of the Committee membership Chairman of Risk Committee.
the Audit Committee and a member of the Committee membership Member of the Nomination Committee.
Experience Dave Jenkinson joined the Group in 1997.
He was appointed Managing Director Experience A chartered accountant and Experience Nigel Greenaway joined the Group of the North East operating business in 2005 graduate of Bristol University, Richard in 1986.
He was appointed Managing Director and was promoted to Regional Managing Pennycook is Chief Executive officer of of the South Midlands operating business and Director in 2007 and as North Division Chief TheCo-Operative Group, Non-Executive was promoted through the Group ultimately Executive in January 2013.
He was promoted Chairman of The Hut Group andChairman of being appointed to his current role of South toGroup Managing Director on 7 January 2016. the Audit Committee at Howden Joinery Group Division Chief Executive in 2005.
He was previously Group Finance Director Skills Dave has extensive experience of Skills Nigel has extensive experience of the of WmMorrison Supermarkets Plc.
He has an business and the housebuilding industry, in-depth knowledge of Persimmon, having Skills Richard has extensive financial and having held various roles within the Group worked for the Group for almost 19 years.
retail skills, which enable him to inform the before being promoted to his current role.
He has particular strengths in land buying and debate on strategy and particularly participate He was the Board Director responsible for development and is a qualied town planner.
in evaluating the robustness of the Groups health and safety during 2015. risk management.
Nigel will be retiring from the Board at the Richard will be resigning from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on on14 April 2016.
Together the balance of skills, experience Rachel Kentleton Nigel Mills Non-Executive Director age 47 Non-Executive Director age 60 and personal Date of appointment 24 June 2015 Date of appointment Nigel will be appointed on 4 April 2016 characteristics of the Committee membership Member of the Audit and Risk Committees.
Committee membership Nigel will become Non-Executive a member of the Remuneration Committee on Experience Rachel Kentleton is Group his appointment in April.
Director, Strategy & Implementation at EasyJet Directors result in with responsibility for Strategy Development, Experience Nigel Mills is a Senior Advisor at Programme and Change Management Citigroup Global Markets and was previously a diversity of views and Investor Relations.
Rachel is a qualied Chairman of Corporate Broking at Citi between accountant and prior to joining EasyJet held 2005-2015 and Chief Executive at Hoare and opinions.
investor relations and finance roles at Unilever, Govett between 1995-2005.
He has extensive Natwest, Diageo and SABMiller.
experience in advising some of the UKs largest companies.
Skills Rachels strategic, investor relations Nicholas Wrigley and financial experience adds to the balance Skills Nigel has sound commercial judgement Chairman of skills and experience of our Non-Executive drawing on a 30 year career advising quoted Directors and will be of great benefit to the companies.
He has broad experience of implementation of the Companys strategy shareholder attitudes, corporate governance andthe development of the business.
and compliance which will enable him to provide sound advice to the Board.
Persimmon Plc 45 Annual Report December 2015
