PERFORMANCE REVIEW The UK housing market and brand performance 2015 has seen a confident housing market General Election we experienced a more The UK housing market traditional seasonal pattern to trading through 2015 has seen a confident housing market.
14,572 the remainder of 2015 with the Groups average In the first half of the year the UK economy private sale reservation rate in the second half New homes benefited from stronger employment levels and being c. 80% of that achieved in the first half.
an improvement in real disposable household completed On reaching the close of 2015 the Groups full incomes.
Consumer sentiment continued on year private sales rate was 13% ahead of the its improving trend and the mortgage market prior year.
responded well to rm customer demand.
We support the Bank of Englands vigilance in These conditions provided a supportive ensuring disciplined lending practices continue backdrop to the housing market.
Whilst markets in line with the Mortgage Market Review became unsettled in the run up to the General regulations introduced in April 2014, as well as Election, the clarity of the result removed providing guidance and direction to lenders uncertainty for the housebuilding industry through the Financial Policy Committee to and consumers alike.
Mortgage approvals complement current monetary policy settings strengthened into the summer period and have and Government scal policy measures.
been consistent through the second half of the We anticipate that these actions will all contribute year at c. 70,000 per month, being 18% ahead to the sustainability of the UK housing market.
of the prior year in December.
The availability With the continued measured support of lenders of the Government sponsored Help to Buy the industry will be able to continue to invest in shared equity scheme continued to support the skills, land and work in progress to expand the provision of compelling mortgage offers output and provide greater access to housing for for customers.
In addition, the extension of this communities across the UK.
scheme to 2021 in the Autumn Spending Review provides additional visibility for the industry.
The two key challenges for the industry in Customer demand has been supported by the growing output remain opening new sites as resilience of the UKs economic performance swiftly as possible and resourcing sites with the despite some gathering economic headwinds appropriate level of skilled labour.
in the wider global economy.
Following the The Vale, Easingwold, Yorkshire Persimmon Plc 26 Annual Report December 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information PERFORMANCE REVIEW: As explained elsewhere in this strategic report The introduction of the Governments Help to we have been successful in opening over 250 Buy scheme in April 2013 has been important new sites in 2015 but we have seen our site to support activity in regional housing markets.
2.9bn network remain static at c. 380 sites for the year.
Mortgage lenders have supported this 20% Revenues for 2015 We are convinced that there is an opportunity to shared equity loan scheme with very competitive improve the efficiency of the planning system to interest rates.
These mortgages remain the most 13% allow the commencement of construction activity attractive opportunity for customers to buy a new earlier.
The successful implementation by 2017 of home.
During 2015 we sold 6,100 new homes the five year plans to satisfy local housing needs to customers who have taken advantage of the required of each local planning authority by the scheme, 5,000 in England, and 1,100 in Wales National Planning Policy Framework will provide and Scotland, where we have seen good take additional land supply but this land needs to be up of the equivalent shared equity products.
allowed to ow into development as promptly We look forward with interest to the launch of as possible.
the Governments Starter Homes initiative as an open market extension to affordable housing The availability of skilled labour remained a tenure types.
The Group has increased the number of apprentices and Our two private sale brands, Persimmon and graduate trainees engaged in the business Charles Church, have continued to perform well signicantly since the downturn in 2008.
We are in their regional markets.
also pleased with the progress of our Combat to Construction initiative introduced in 2014 Persimmon which provides re-training opportunities for The Persimmon brand delivers traditional family service personnel on leaving the armed forces.
housing in popular locations to the private We have complemented this scheme recently owner occupier market.
Total revenues for with our Upskill to Construction initiative which Persimmon of 2,006m increased by 24% over provides access to the same structured training last year 2014: 1,624m.
This revenue growth programme for mature trainees across the was largely driven by an 18% increase in legal country.
We look forward to the support the completions for the year to 10,043 new homes Governments new Training Levy will contribute 2014: 8,503 new homes.
Persimmons focus to our skills training initiatives, which we expect on the first time buyer and first mover segments will produce good numbers of newly trained of the market, with house types that customers employees over the coming years.
The Board have found desirable to buy whilst taking is committed to this continued investment advantage of Help to Buy, was a key driver of to help elevate industry output to higher this growth.
Reecting Persimmons market positioning, the To mitigate some of the pressures resulting brand continues to offer an extensive choice from the desire to increase build rates on site of new homes at affordable prices from a site the Group has continued to strengthen the network that spans the UK.
Persimmons management of its construction programmes average selling price of 199,727 for 2015, to target productivity gains and efficiency which increased 4.6% over the prior year improvements.
A clear focus on anticipated build 2014: 191,028, demonstrates this focus on completion dates and prompt delivery of new supporting greater affordability and therefore homes to our customers is helping to improve access to the market.
For the Group as a whole, the progress of our development activities.
over 50% of our total private market sales were Greater utilisation of our standard Group house delivered at prices of less than 200,000. types as new sites open is also helping to secure increased production, with both owner aspirations and construction advantages being designed into these house types.
Stated before fair value charge on shared equity sales.
Persimmon Plc 27 Annual Report December 2015 PERFORMANCE REVIEW The UK housing market and brand performance continued For the Persimmon brand, our southern regional With a consistent application of the planning markets secured 43% of legal completion regulations within the National Planning 199,727 volumes and 52% of revenues with an average Policy Framework subsequent to the General selling price for the year of 237,840 Election in May we have experienced a gradual Persimmon Homes 2014: 221,001.
This southern regional improvement in land supply, whilst competition average selling average selling price was 40% higher than that for this land remains at disciplined levels.
As a of our northern regional markets of 170,464 result we have been able to take advantage of price increased 2014: 169,514.
The highest average selling opportunities to invest in new parcels of land at by 4.6% price was again achieved by our Shires market compelling levels of return.
Good volumes 14,605 plots of new land during the period and of sales were delivered from higher value sites at the end of the year had 62,967 plots owned at Gooshays and Harold Hill, Romford and and under control in the forward consented The Acorns, Shirley, Birmingham.
This landbank now represents 6.3 volumes of sales to first time buyers, the North years of forward supply at 2015 output levels West market delivered the lowest average selling having reduced from the prior years 6.9 years price for the year at 153,447 2014: 164,208 due to the strong growth in legal completions in with sites at Riverside Point, Warrington and the year.
Asset efficiency and return on capital Brackenleigh, Carlisle providing compelling employed will continue to improve with the buying opportunities at lower price points.
further growth of the business.
Across the UK Persimmons legal completion During 2015 the Group was successful in volumes increased 13% in the first half year progressing strategic land through the planning on year, and were up 23% in the second process and achieving consent for residential half, resulting in growth of 18% for the year development.
We delivered 4,221 plots into as a whole.
Second half sales benefited from our consented landbank within the Persimmon additional sites being opened up, particularly business, which represents 42% of the plots in our southern businesses, together with a consumed by legal completions in the year.
confident private sales rate through the second We secured notable consents for 200 new six months.
Our continued drive to improve homes at Bramley in Thames Valley, which we build programmes and site resourcing helped intend to triple brand with 25 plots allocated for Persimmon to deliver over 900 more new Charles Church and 80 homes for Westbury homes in the second half of the year compared Partnerships, and for 230 plots at Shrewsbury, with the first half, with 5,485 second half legal in West Midlands which includes a Westbury completions, a 20% increase.
Our increasing Partnership housing allocation of 35 plots.
build rates and efforts to open new sites as Our joint developments with St Modwen also swiftly as possible supported this growth in delivered good growth from the eight active output.
For the second year running the largest sites under construction, selling 331 new homes volumes were secured in our Shires and Scottish during the year 2014: 285 legal completions.
markets with 1,632 and 1,371 legal completions respectively.
Our North East, Midlands and Western markets also produced very strong sales with each delivering approximately 1,200 legal completions.
We will continue to focus on growing each of our regional businesses to achieve their sustainable market share by meeting market demand.
This approach will enable further growth in output in 2016 where markets allow.
Persimmon Plc 28 Annual Report December 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information PERFORMANCE REVIEW We continue to deliver both Persimmon and Charles Church Charles Church branded new homes on our Charles Church offers executive housing in larger sites where the site allows a suitably 283,690 premium locations across the UK and its market differentiated offer to be developed, assisted by Charles Church positioning is designed to be complementary the Group standard house types for each brand.
to that of the Persimmon brand.
Through the The Group is able to optimise its sales rates and average selling second half of 2014 and the current year we achieve a more rapid asset turn by attracting price increased have completed a process which has claried customers from across the widest range of the 7.6% the Charles Church brand offering to the market home buying public using this dual branding by eliminating any overlap with Persimmon in technique.
This allows our site operations the same locations.
This process has been to run more efficiently with consequential assisted by the continued roll-out of the Groups benets being captured across the business, standard house type portfolios for each brand in customer care performance and health and as we have opened new sites, and has resulted safety compliance to continuity of site resourcing in Charles Church selling a reduced number of and build programming.
Dual offers have been smaller homes.
As expected this process has recently established at Chellaston, south of reduced the overall number of active outlets Derby where the development scheme includes offering Charles Church product across the UK 197 Persimmon plots and 140 Charles Church by c. 20% to 85 active sites at the end of 2015. homes in different locations on the same large We continue to identify great locations where our site and similarly on a 150 unit development at market research points to strong demand for the Lowton in the North West where 40 Charles Charles Church product and we expect Charles Church homes are available.
Church site numbers now to stabilise at around The Group has invested strongly in new land this level.
for Charles Church during 2015 acquiring 2,175 As a result of the rationalisation of the Charles plots.
The business now holds 11,991 plots in Church site network, total legal completion its forward consented landbank which provides volumes for the business reduced by 368 homes c. 5.0 years of forward supply at 2015 sales compared with last year, this reduction being volumes.
As part of our operational strategy for balanced across both halves of the year.
Indeed, the business we anticipate the Charles Church Charles Church legal completions for each half of landbank will remain shorter than that for the year were almost identical at 1,197 homes in Persimmon to allow Charles Church to deliver a the first half and 1,185 in the second.
strong return on capital whilst accommodating a sales rate which is typically slower than for The Charles Church average selling price Persimmon due to the higher average pricing.
for the year of 283,690 increased 7.6% 2014: 263,637 with revenues 7% down Within the Charles Church business 876 plots at 676m 2014: 725m.
Charles Church were converted from the strategic landbank completed c. 65% of its sales in more southern representing 37% of 2015 legal completions.
The outlet rationalisation and the This land will support the delivery of superior weighting of sales to more southern markets, returns for the business as we make a start together with the rmer market for pricing on these sites and legal completions are experienced in these markets in 2015, have taken over future periods.
Examples of sites supported the average selling price increase year utilising successfully converted strategic land on year.
We experienced stronger sales rates include Mountsorrel in the North Midlands for a within these southern markets, for example at development of 130 new homes and at Northiam sites at St Andrews Ridge in Swindon, at The in the South East for 66 plots.
Fairways in Andover, at Great Woodcote Park in Exeter and at Sibley Park in Reading.
Persimmon Plc 29 Annual Report December 2015 PERFORMANCE REVIEW The UK housing market and brand performance continued The Groups relationships with the Homes & Westbury Partnerships Community Agency HCA in England and Westbury Partnerships, our partnership housing 102,810 the Housing Agencies in Scotland and Wales business, delivered 2,147 new homes to our remain very strong.
Westbury Partnerships is Westbury housing association partners across the UK actively involved in managing our relationships in 2015, a reduction of 5% when compared Partnerships associated with the Help to Buy equity loan to last year 2014: 2,256 homes.
The average scheme in England and similar schemes in average selling selling price for these homes increased 2.4% to Scotland and Wales.
13,650 new homes to customers who have secured Help to Buy mortgages since these The business recognises that local knowledge schemes started in 2013.
The bulk of these is key to developing sustainable communities in sales have been to first-time buyers, reecting locations where families wish to work and live.
the greater access this scheme provides We are keen to further develop our relationships for customers taking their first step into the with housing associations to assist as many housing market.
lower income families as possible to access the housing market in line with the aims of the Westbury Partnerships leads the Groups National Planning Policy Framework.
In this way participation in the Governments Affordable we are able to help build new communities that Housing Programmes AHP which is focused are socially sustainable whilst also fullling our on delivering low cost homes across the regions.
The 2011-2015 AHP concluded in March 2015 under which the Group delivered 335 new Recent Government measures with respect homes, 80% for affordable rent and 20% for to rental levels, funding and tenure types shared ownership on sites at East Trowbridge, are currently being digested by the market Bath: Pointers Way, Redditch and Haddenham and may give rise to a broader provision of Parkway, Buckinghamshire.
The AHP 2015-2018 affordable housing to local communities, which commenced in April 2015 and we have been embraces more accessible private market successful in securing support for the last phase housing.
The Governments Starter Home of development at East Trowbridge to deliver an initiative announced in the Autumn Statement additional 28 new homes under this scheme.
on 25 November 2015 targets the delivery of The Partnerships business will continue to work 200,000 new homes to first-time buyers under with the HCA to secure participation for our sites the age of 40 over the current parliament.
where appropriate in the new 2015-2018 AHP.
We believe this initiative will be positive for the industry in supporting the desired increase To increase land supply to the industry to support in delivery of more new housing and we look expansion in new build output the Government forward to reviewing the detail of the scheme continues to dispose of public land through the once nalised.
The Partnerships business secured the Groups participation in the Our Partnerships business typically works with DPP until May 2017.
We achieved the first sales our housing association partners at an early reservations during November 2015 from our site stage in the planning process to identify the at Pleasley Hill, Manseld sourced through the mix of product required by the local community DPP.
This scheme is planned to deliver 151 new across all tenures taking account of the houses including 31 affordable homes.
We will projected dates for opening up the new sites.
continue to work to secure the development We are keen to deliver the newly built homes of newly released public land on appropriate to our housing association partners as soon terms from this Government led process to help as possible in coordination with their funding to increase overall supply of newly built homes position.
This remains an important market for across the UK.
the Group, representing 15% of total Group legal completions for 2015.
At 31 December 2015 we had over 3,600 affordable housing units forward sold in our order book providing a strong platform for future sales into this marketplace.
Persimmon Plc 30 Annual Report December 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information PERFORMANCE REVIEW The increasing coverage of standard Group Space4 house types on new sites provides our operating Space4 production The Groups Space4 system is a modern businesses with the opportunity to use more increased by method of construction using off-site factory Space4 product, which in turn results in greater 18% to based manufacturing techniques to produce production volume through the factory, reducing timber frames and highly insulated panels as unit costs with improved overhead recoveries.
a fabric first solution to the construction of The increase in usage across the Groups site 6,011 new homes.
The process secures very high network has supported improved productivity, thermal efficiency for the new homes that are eased resourcing pressures and increased timber frames constructed using the system.
Our Space4 our construction capacity by simplifying site produced capability places the Group in a strong position processes and reducing traditional skills content to be able to react to the implementation of more within these processes.
demanding building regulations that seek to The Space4 factory has the capacity to increase reduce carbon emissions and global warming production to around 8,000 kits each year.
Our Space4 factory is based in We will continue to focus on maximising the Castle Bromwich, near Birmingham.
utilisation of this capacity to support the future The Space4 system has supported the Group growth of the business.
in fullling the increased demand we have experienced in the market and to deliver larger numbers of new homes over shorter build programmes.
During 2015 the Groups housebuilding businesses increased their use of the unique Space4 system, with volumes of closed-panel timber frame house kits increasing by 18% to over 6,000 units 2014: 5,085 units.
Space4 made an important contribution to the Groups industry leading asset turn of c. 5.6x in 2015.
Persimmon Homes, The Grove, Sycamore Chase, Severn Valley Persimmon Plc 31 Annual Report December 2015
