Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information PERFORMANCE REVIEW Viability Statement The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group up to 31 December 2021 The Directors have assessed the longer term In making this statement, the Directors have prospects of the Group in accordance with carried out a robust assessment of the principal provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance risks facing the Group and how the Group Code 2014. manages those risks, including those risks that would threaten its strategy, business model, The Directors have assessed the viability of the future operational and financial performance, Group over a six-year period, taking into account solvency and liquidity.
the Groups current position and the potential impact of the principal risks facing the Group.
On an annual basis the Directors review financial Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm forecasts used for this Viability Statement.
that they have reasonable expectation that This review includes both five-year business the Group will be able to continue in operation plans constructed from the bottom up and and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the ten year projections built from the top down.
period to the end of the Capital Return Plan on These forecasts incorporate assumptions about 31 December 2021. the timing of legal completions of new homes sold, average selling prices achieved, profitability, A key feature of the Groups strategy launched working capital requirements and cash ows, in early 2012 and documented on pages 14 and are designed to test the Groups ability to and 15 is the Groups commitment to maintain full its strategic objectives.
capital discipline over the long term through the housing cycle.
On launch, this commitment The forecasts are subjected to sensitivity was reinforced with the announcement of the analysis, involving the exing of key assumptions Groups Capital Return Plan.
This Capital Return reecting severe but plausible scenarios.
A range Plan initially committed to return 1.9bn of of scenarios are modelled to reect changing surplus capital over the following ten financial circumstances with respect to the principal years.
As explained in the Chairmans Statement risks facing the Group together with the likely the Directors have further strengthened that effectiveness of mitigating actions that would commitment with a c. 45% increase in the value be executed by the Directors.
These scenarios of surplus capital to be returned, an additional include consideration of the impact of reduced c. 860m, or 2.80 per share.
The Group has sales rates together with lower average selling now completed four years of this Capital Return prices resulting from an assumed deterioration Plan.
Therefore the Directors have determined inconsumer confidence, reduced affordability that the remaining six years of this Capital and a contraction in mortgage lending.
Return Plan ending 31 December 2021 isan appropriate period over which to provide this Viability Statement.
The use of a longer time horizon reects the business model of the Group, new land investments generally taking at least five years to build, sell and for the development infrastructure to be adopted by local authorities.
Persimmon Plc 25 Annual Report December 2015
