Our business model Working across the international oil and gas industry, we help our clients unlock the full value of their energy assets.
Value inputs Operational excellence Design From the concept to the detail, we provide design and engineering services across the Our people life cycle of oil and gas assets.
As a people-based business, we have a problem-solving culture, clear values and strong leadership.
Build R isk processes and risk management Onshore or off, greenfield or brown, By thinking through every eventuality, upstream or down, we provide the full we fide-risk our projects and bring certainty spectrum of engineering, procurement, to clients.
O ur supply chain and contractors With deep knowledge of the many businesses Manage and maintain in our supply chain, we know when and how We operate and maintain oil and gas assets to call on their respective strengths.
on behalf of clients under contract to suit their requirements.
Financial capital Exerting capital discipline, we operate a balanced portfolio, we judiciously co-invest, and sometimes tap into Train third-party capital.
We assess needs, build facilities, design curricula and deliver programmes to develop safe and effective local workforces.
Quality Our Driven Safe Ethical Innovative Responsive and cost values to deliver conscious 18 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Related pages Segmental performance Corporate responsibility p34 p50 Financial review p46 Commercial models Outcomes Lump-sum turnkey Projects where we are remunerated on a fixed-price lump-sum basis.
For example, on the Lower Fars heavy oil project in Kuwait see page 35.
Reimbursable services Where the cost of our services is reimbursed by the client plus an agreed margin.
Shareholder value C ost plus KPIs Delivering sustainable, long-term value, Often our reimbursable contracts will include income through dividend payments to our linked to the successful delivery of key performance shareholders and the financial returns indicators.
For example, the Yibal Khuff project in from share price growth.
In-country value P roduction Enhancement Contracts PECs Developing local skills and capabilities, Where we are paid a tariff per barrel for enhancing oil benefiting local development, and s timulating and gas production above an agreed baseline.
R isk Service Contracts RSCs Client value Where we co-invest, develop, operate and maintain Benefiting from certainty of cost and delivery, a field, while the resource holder retains ownership and taking advantage of commercial models and control of the reserves.
E quity Upstream Investments Upstream investments made through production sharing contracts or concession agreements, which will typically have production and commodity price exposure.
Quality Our Driven Safe Ethical Innovative Responsive and cost values to deliver conscious Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 19
