Our Gaming division Strategy The building blocks of success The industry is moving towards locally Mobile gambling is one of the most Playtechs strategy of organic regulated markets as governments see significant growth drivers of the global development, new business, the implementation of gambling taxes online gambling industry.
Playtechs targeted acquisitions, strategic and the sale of regulatory licences as Mobile Hub has combined the established significant revenue streams.
Land-based Mobenga mobile sports betting solution agreements and joint ventures and digital channels are converging as with other gambling products.
This has enabled it to maximise regulatory authorities issue gambling combination uniquely positions Playtech opportunities created by licences to land-based operators for both to capitalise on further developments in the significant changes afoot traditional and online offerings.
Mobile gambling is essential being able to offer a full turnkey solution, to Playtechs future success and we have in the online gambling industry.
Playtech is able to partner with established invested heavily to develop the next operators and new entrants to take generation of products, maximising new advantage of these opportunities.
functionality on tablets and smartphones, while continuing to roll out products across all mobile platforms, including Android, Apple iOS and HTML5.
1 Support organic growth In 2015, Playtechs licensees achieved organic growth of 16%, exceeding the growth of the underlying global market.
The breadth and depth of Playtechs offering enables Playtechs licensees to run some of the most successful online gambling businesses.
1 6% Organic growth 06 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2 3 Cross-sell products Attract new and services licensees On average, Playtechs licensees take a Playtech has enjoyed a successful limited number of products.
There is a trend track record of agreeing contracts with for larger licensees e. g. GalaCoral, Ladbrokes approximately five to ten new licensees 5 and Paddy Power to leverage Playtechs IMS every year, attracted by our market-leading and take more products from Playtechs product and service offering, the unique product suite, enhancing their cross-sell capabilities of the IMS and support for Improve quality ability.
Playtech also supports its licensees both established and new operators as they enter new markets e. g. Ladbrokes in regulating markets.
of earnings through moving to Spain, Denmark and Mexico.
greater regulated market penetration Playtech is focused on growing its presence in regulated markets, increasing the proportion of regulated revenue to 41% in 2015 2014: 36%.
Future regulation will provide an opportunity to increase this proportion further and the Group continues to work on progressing in regulated markets.
6 Acquisitions remain key 4 Playtech has an outstanding acquisition track record, investing in new technology, Extend our lead by increasing product, exciting content, and new products.
Companies have mostly been acquired service and distribution capability on an earn-out basis, enabling Playtech to leverage its existing business and licensee base to create strong synergies.
Playtech is Playtechs strategy as the leading technology provider in the online focused on making further, similar bolt-on gambling industry, is to offer all product verticals across all distribution and larger acquisitions.
Playtech invests to expand its offering to support its licensees ability to generate cash and strength of its with new technologies, avenues to market and products e. g. the Mobile balance sheet, the Board is seeking strategic Hub, virtual racing and casual gaming.
M&A opportunities to take the business to the next level.
See page 33 See page 20 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 07
