Our Gaming division Platform and intelligence Playtech ONE: Experience is everything Our omni-channel philosophy Consumers today live and play Playtechs pioneering innovation in a world without limitations, has enabled licensees to bridge and so do we.
the retail-online-mobile gap, giving their customers what A users experience should be they want, when they want it, the same no matter what the in any location or time and on content, where it is accessed whatever hardware they choose from, when it is played, or on to use.
whatever device they play on.
Operator results speak for The industry term for this is themselves.
enable them with all the tools and technology: they present Only Playtech can deliver this their players with the ultimate play any game, on any platform gaming experience: and they and on any device using a single generate record-breaking wallet anywhere and at any time.
This is what we call Playtech ONE.
Playtech ONE software allows an operator and its customers a seamless, anytime, anywhere experience across any product, any channel and any device using a single account and single wallet.
The five pillars of omni-channel Playtech omni-channel gaming Wallet CRM 1 4 where experience is everything ONE wallet, ONE view, Data driven in real-time ONE platform Automated data-driven, Definition Seamless wallet and balance real-time, BI marketing The application of the same business management, payments, tools and bonus engine strategy for all channels resulting in a fraud, responsible gaming consistent brand experience wherever and and compliance tools whenever the customer chooses to engage.
Personalisation User experience 2 5 Tailored player experience One way for seamless play Bespoke player experience, Seamless, responsive and enabled by segmentation adaptive gameplay across and supported by real-time all channels and devices communication tools Content 3 All content, all channels, all devices Play any product, across all channels, locations and devices 08 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech Open Platform POP Playtechs omni-channel Open Platform Key components include aggregation Extensive games library allows licensees access to more than 600 through one integration: bonusing across Best-performing games of the industrys most popular online and all content including third parties: onmobile in-house and third-party games going support: real-time content and Exclusive content at any time, across any channel and on competitor performance league tables: any device.
games development kit: multiple game integration frameworks: seamless third The POP content library includes a party wallet integration: single player comprehensive selection of classic slot account across all products: and data games, multi-line video and premium integration and warehousing and branded slots from our own cutting-edge support for all gaming standards.
in-house studios, more than 100 mobile titles and content from 20 of the industrys largest suppliers.
All new POP titles are launched simultaneously across mobile and desktop.
Playtech Web Platform Playtechs Web Platform is an open Full front-end customisation framework designed to integrate content Huge range of designs, tools and deliver an unparalleled experience for operators and their players.
and features End-to-end Playtech products It allows operators complete control over site functionality and content, including full integration content management support and all the tools they need to customise their front-end solutions across any channel and device.
It features cross platform support mobile, tablet and desktop, is fully integrated into Playtechs industry-leading IMS player management system and other products and is fully optimised allowing a seamless offering and experience.
Web Platform supports a multitude of languages and markets and comes complete with full CRM and personalisation, reporting and analytics and player communication tools.
IMS functionalities include cashier integration, personalised login and registration and cross platform bonus and promotions capabilities.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 09 Our Gaming division Platform and intelligence continued Information Management System IMS Playtechs award-winning Information IMS unifies all Playtech products across Most powerful BI-gaming Management System IMS is the backbone all channels, including retail, presenting platform of our omni-channel product and services operators with a single account overview portfolio, powering Playtech ONE, and and allowing them to streamline and Seamless games and platforms offering licensees all the tools they need optimise marketing spend, maximise transition via single account to manage their operations in the most cross-sell and conversion potential, efficient and profitable way.
leverage player loyalty and value and Full player lifecycle visibility increase revenues by automating key and control IMS enables our licensees to access all aspects of the player journey.
the elements of our unique omni-channel capabilities allowing players to seamlessly There is simply no industry equivalent transition across games and platforms via to IMS gamings most powerful a single account and single wallet, while omni-channel enabler.
providing operators with simple third party integration and full visibility and control of the entire player lifecycle.
Business Intelligence Technology BIT BIT provides new and existing licensees Data driven marketing tools Data-driven marketing tools with superior innovation for their next stage the power of personalisation Fully automated BI software of growth.
Our unique data-driven, business Powers automatic CRM and personalises intelligence marketing technology, exclusive every major aspect in the player flow.
Increases LTV and revenues to Playtech, significantly enhances player experience and drives licensee revenues Playtech analytics by increasing engagement and loyalty.
real-time decision making Real-time tracking and reporting to maximise player value and brand BIT revolves around a series of gameprofitability.
changing features including: Playtech optimiser The BI platform omni-channel personalisation complete operational overview comes to life Enables day-to-day and high-level decision Real-time, easy-to-use personalisation making by comparing key metrics against and optimisation engine powers all competitors.
of our offering across all channels.
10 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Make businesses more intelligent The second point that makes heads turn Our Game Advisor module, for example, Data is arguably the single improves the customer journey is that the vast majority of this wealth of most powerful tool businesses data has never been used to maximise and ensures individual players are have at their disposal today.
recommended games that best fit them their profits.
And thirdly, the cost of implementation and subsequently using a fully personalised approach However a large swathe of based on a players characteristics and acquisition, is minimal to non-existent.
organisations are not using Operators are simply implementing behaviour.
This has significantly increased it effectively, if at all, and as average player value by 15% to 30%, potential that already exists within a result, are missing out on their businesses.
increased the average number of sessions by between 7% and 17%, and seen the millions in potential revenue.
Our highly innovative technology is live average session length extended by between 10% and 20%.
and providing operators with the tools Playtech came to this conclusion several they need to enhance the way they years ago and, in the last two years, has Meanwhile, Smart Installer tool enables differentiate and create a significantly developed a series of high-level and improved and personalised player licensees to increase conversion and highly innovative data-driven marketing experience and, as a result, creating prevent churn with each installer tools designed to enable our licensees additional value both for their players, customised specifically to the to maximise their brands full potential.
their brand and their shareholders.
requirements of each customer and brand.
The installer has the capability to run Not only do we have the largest content Simply put, there is no other company in marketing campaigns, survey players, portfolio in the industry, we crucially the market today that is able to provide run fully automated AB tests and more also have data stretching back many the tools designed to increase lifetime and has proved extremely successful years from more than 130 licensees value, lower churn rates and improve increasing sign-ups by 69% and first across multiple demographics and the customer journey.
geographies which is able to provide us and our customers with crossPlaytechs suite of automated modular industry benchmarks and intelligence Our business intelligence technology tools, including Game Advisor: Churn that no one else can provide.
This is designed to make businesses more Detection: Optimiser: BI Reporting: enables us to have a unique position intelligent and our customers are reaping Smart Installer: Lifetime Value and crucially, allows our customers the rewards.
Now, it is up to others to Prediction: Segmentation: and RTP to have a key market differentiator.
Monitoring: is based on advanced algorithms and benchmarks against The main challenge is to educate big data from customers with similar existing, as well as new and potential profiles, while all the information and operators across all channels on how 1530% data gathered, including marketing they can leverage their current position and CRM systems, is integrated into and achieve greater results by using their Increase in average player value our award-winning IMS player data in more efficient and effective ways.
There are several factors that often Since launching our Business convince operators to take data analysis 1020% Intelligence Technology we have and automated business intelligence Increase in average session length achieved a series of excellent results technology seriously.
The first is that and exceeded the expectations of even for more established brands a large the most pessimistic chief executives.
proportion of their online net gaming revenue some up to 40% or more is generated from customers they have had for many years.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 11
