Our Gaming division Products The complete product suite Casino Complete omni-channel offering Best-performing content Dual mobile-desktop launches Playtech offers the industrys most extensive portfolio of best-performing omni-channel casino content and progressive jackpot network, delivering more than 500 of the most innovative and exhilarating titles across all channels, platforms and devices.
As part of our Playtech ONE omni-channel Playtech live casino offering, our casino product allows players to access content anywhere, at any time and on any device through a single wallet Complete omni-channel and a single account.
offering Driven by our powerful IMS player Award-winning platform management platform and data-driven business intelligence technology, Playtech Powered by innovation casino delivers industry-leading in-house and rich premium branded games content, while our flexible Open Platform technology Playtechs live dealer platform and products allows operators to access hundreds more are designed to provide the most authentic, titles which flawlessly integrate with their omni-channel gaming experience supported websites.
by a leading back-end platform that uses the latest business intelligence marketing Our ongoing commitment to providing technology.
new and existing licensees with access to our leading content, powerful platform, Our extensive live product offering, manned and fully automated marketing tools and by native-speaking dealers, includes all the personalisation engine ensures operators casino classics such as Blackjack, Baccarat are able to deliver the ultimate casino and Roulette in addition to innovative new experience to their players.
variants including Unlimited Blackjack, Hi-Lo, Prestige roulette and Casino Holdem.
State-of-the-art cameras broadcasting in premium HQ quality, the fastest streaming and highest up-time in the market, bespoke branding and individual training, all combine to establish the trust and loyalty associated with an enthusiastic Casino experience.
Our core focus revolves around unbeatable licensee service ensuring we outperform our competitors with our world-class omni-channel technology, features, user experience and dedicated support services.
12 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Virtual sports Complete omni-channel offering Unique simulation technology State-of-the-art graphics Playtechs diverse and growing virtual offering combines the latest 3D game graphics with highly sophisticated simulation technology across a wealth of sports, including horse racing, tennis and football.
Our ground-breaking virtual features include Sports exclusive full sports simulations and feature film motion capture technology allowing for the most realistic betting and gameplay the Complete omni-channel industry has ever seen.
offering Our virtual products enable players to bet BI-driven risk management, within a familiar sportsbook environment, while also offering integrated odds, data built-in algorithms and feeds and bespoke in-game branding, trading platform promotions and tailored races, matches, games and promotional events.
Bespoke mobile solutions, platform, features Playtech Sports delivers the complete next generation, omni-channel solution 3 50 for any sportsbook requirement offering the ultimate experience for operators and Playtech has a dedicated team of more their players.
than 350 mobile developers Our sports betting platform is robust, secure, scalable, and integrates flawlessly with Playtechs award-winning IMS and business intelligence technology, offering player segmentation and personalisation, and can be tailored to suit any size or type of operation.
Our fully flexible, powerful and highly reliable omni-channel platform is uniquely able to support any channel, any product, on any device, using one wallet and one account, enabling licensees to track, customise and significantly enhance a players journey.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 13 Our Gaming division Products continued Bingo Retail Complete omni-channel Complete omni-channel offering offering Bespoke client and room Bespoke software & hardware variants solutions Largest games portfolio Intuitive player management & network liquidity tools Playtech delivers the industrys most Playtech Retail provides the industrys most Playtech poker complete omni-channel bingo offering, complete next generation, omni-channel allowing players to access and enjoy the solutions for land-based venues, offering same seamless, personalised experience operators and their players the ultimate, Complete omni-channel across any platform, channel, and device, seamless gaming experience.
using one wallet and one account.
offering Playtech Retail powers 40,000 terminals Innovative game features Playtech Bingos HTML5-only globally offering a full enterprise development delivers huge benefits management system for land-based Reliable back-end including the management of a single code venues and providing licensees with management tools base: increased innovation, productivity and complete operational control.
flexibility, amounting to providing a superior user experience.
Using powerful back office management Playtech offers an unrivalled omni-channel tools, the system provides operators with poker offering across all channels, platforms We operate the industrys largest and most all the tools they require to successfully and devices, deployed on the industryinnovative bingo networks and selection run and manage their businesses giving leading iPoker network, the largest.
com and of omni-channel products, variants and them full site control and control of their regulated network of its kind in the world.
side games, while the bingo client and estate and player base.
room variants can be custom-built for Our new poker client features the widest any specific brand requirements.
These tools include player, content and selection of game types with an extensive multimedia management, rules-based selection of table stakes and buy-ins rewards, jackpots, tournaments, bonusing, allowing licensees to launch their own fully loyalty, cash desk facilities, responsible branded, customisable poker rooms, hosting gaming, security and monitoring.
Through our award-winning IMS platform, the client is supported by premium backend management tools coupled with a powerful marketing system and services, allowing for targeted promotions, bonuses, next generation collusion prevention and detection tools and dedicated 24 7 online support.
14 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements RAY signs multi-year exclusive Playtech deal extension In February 2015, Playtech announced that Finlands national gaming operator had signed a 20-year online contract extension, the longest deal in both companies histories following four highly successful years, generating year-on-year double digit growth.
From day one of the initial agreement, Playtech partnered with RAY to plan and launch Ray.
fi offering the Finnish government-owned operator its entire online gaming portfolio.
This included casino and poker games, a series of localised RAYbranded exclusive games as well as an innovative, dedicated live casino studio launched in August 2014.
In addition, Playtech worked closely with RAY on a responsible gaming framework specifically designed and adapted in-line with Finnish regulatory requirements.
Playtech also confirmed its commitment to support RAY in implementing its Mobile First strategy, as part of the organisations long-term vision, maintaining its position as the leading eCommerce website in Finland.
The 20-year agreement includes multi-channel gaming software, content and support across online, mobile and retail with an automatic renewal period of four years, and underlines Playtechs commitment to regulated markets.
Finlands national gaming operator will continue to enjoy access to Playtechs leading-edge exclusive content including locally themed in-house and premium branded titles from major studios such as Paramount and Universal, giving the business the strongest and most complete offering available on the market.
com Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 15
