Our Gaming division Services A complete service offering Playtech Turnkey Services Playtechs Turnkey Services offer Our unparalleled range of services deliver Comprehensive tools and skills all the solutions an operator needs material value and expertise to licensees Player acquisition and from product design, operational across key elements of player acquisition management, internal and external and retention, achieving substantial retention marketing tools, fully-customisable financial rewards and cost savings.
applications and around-the-clock Levels playing field interactive player support.
Our turnkey solutions bring more than a decade of expertise to assist those new operators preparing to enter highly competitive online regulated markets, including access to some of the most powerful marketing affiliates in the industry.
16 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Marketing Playtech offers a comprehensive set Unbeatable industry of marketing services based on decades experience of gaming industry expertise.
Optimisation & results driven Our offering includes the best performing Access to largest affiliate affiliate marketing services including access to the industrys largest affiliate network with network the tools to push our licensees products through the worlds leading e-gaming affiliate program.
Our experienced team of media buyers build multi-language campaigns and offer daily campaign tracking, with a strong focus on optimisation in order to obtain the maximum return on investment.
We also offer unbeatable Search Engine Optimisation services and product specific marketing strategies including player loyalty programs, communication tools and full trading room services for sportsbooks.
Payment advisory Our professional consultants provide Expert consultancy services advice on all payment issues related to Extensive payment methods cashier, processing, risk management and financial performance, creating and simplifying the implementation of processing and payment models.
With an extensive choice of more than 50 payment methods, including credit card processing gateways, acquirers, e-wallets, EFT, bank draft pay out options via local banks worldwide, wire transfer and prepaid cards.
A payment model can be customised to meet the specific requirements of each individual client.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 17 Our Gaming division Services continued Customer support services 24 7 support Unrivalled response times Comprehensive customer support is crucial to the success of a gaming brand, from sign-ups, through to deposit, play and withdrawal.
Our email and telephone customer support is accessible 24 7 and is met by our team of highly skilled professionals with industryleading customer response times.
Financial services Our advanced financial reporting Our world-class financial tools include Unmatched reporting and analysis tools offer customers a player pay out approval and decline, dispute & analysis comprehensive portfolio of financial withdrawal requests, wagering calculations, services coupled with the ability to procedure submittal, document review and Real-time monitoring review and monitor a selection of much more.
online activities, all in real-time.
Hosting services With many years of industry experience, Our omni-channel gaming, software and Tried, tested, trusted services expertise means we understand our world-class hosting services offer peace Understand operator of mind and work to ensure any operation operators specific business needs, therefore our customers can rely on us to foresee remains secure at all times, providing DDoS requirements prevention: DNS management: third-party every possible threat and issue, prevent unplanned system failure and ensure services: geo-location services: maintenance services and client and banner hosting businesses are running safely and at their maximum potential.
18 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Fraud prevention As the gaming industry continues to grow, Next generation tracking so too does the number of fraudsters keen Rapid suspicious activity to take advantage of the huge revenues earned by operators.
detection Our state-of-the-art tracking technology allows for the rapid detection of suspicious behaviour and the prevention of illegal activity, while our top tier management tools monitor deposits and withdrawals, track player activity and deliver automated alerts.
Playtech launches Ladbrokes Omni sportsbook In July 2015, Playtech launched its Playtech, under its Mobenga first omni-channel HTML5 frontsubsidiary, first partnered with end solution with Ladbrokes, Ladbrokes in May 2013 launching enabling a seamless, fully its mobile sportsbook platform responsive desktop and mobile in December of that year and user experience and a host of completing the integration unique, new sportsbook features.
of Playtech Casino and all its digital products onto the marketIn a market-first, Ladbrokes leading IMS platform in April new Playtech Sports HTML5 2014.
This has since allowed solution significantly boosted Ladbrokes to market effectively its sportsbook performance and to its digital customers and optimisation capabilities ahead significantly boost its online of the start of the English Premier and mobile revenues.
The front-end desktop-mobile The latest Ladbrokes desktop solution project began in sportsbook will also be supported January 2015 and was completed by Playtech Sports new in record time.
NGen system, a fully bespoke solution capable of handling large volumes of data across See our website www.
com concurrent sporting events and for more information thousands of betting markets.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 19
