Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices Delivering value Driving further growth One of the worlds best development-stage gold projects Kyzyl is known for its complex This approach significantly reduces double refractory ore and challenging capital intensity and operational risk, underground conditions.
So, despite resulting in a superior return on capital a sizeable resource and high grade, and cash flow generation.
among this project had not been successfully major gold development projects developed by its previous owners.
worldwide, Kyzyl is prominent because Polymetal, on the back of its excellent of its long mine life and significantly track record in open-pit mining and lower-per-ounce capital expenditure trading refractory gold concentrates, as well as its short-and-clear path has adopted a different approach.
Kyzyl will be the main During the first nine years of its source of medium-term growth 22-year mine life, the deposit will be for Polymetal.
run as an open-pit mine, switching read more on to underground at a later stage.
page 35 additionally, instead of investing significant capital in downstream On track processing upfront, Polymetal is building a conventional flotation plant on-site, with concentrate to be shipped to one of our offtake partners in China.
at Kyzyl project highlights Acquired in September 2014, Kyzyl is progressing Large High-grade well towards its scheduled launch in Q3 2018.
7.3 Moz 7.7 g t In 2015, the completed feasibility study confirmed gold reserves, of which reserve grade the viability of polymetals approach: initial 2.8 Moz is open-pittable 6.7 g t in the open pit mining with a large open pit and the sale of flotation concentrate an approach characterised Excellent exploration upside Robust economics by lower operational risk and capital intensity.
Annual production This enabled the Board to give the go-ahead 320 Koz p. a.
Additional resources AISC for construction to start in Q2 2016.
3.1 Moz at 6.8 g t US$568 oz CApEx US$320m IRR Bolshevik satellite deposit with further mineralised potential 32% at US$1,200 oz Geologist collecting samples at Kyzyl 04 Polymetal International plc annual report & accounts 2015 annual report & accounts 2015 Polymetal International plc 05 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices Delivering value Driving further growth in constant pursuit of further growth opportunities A pipeline Free cash flow generation at existing We have begun an exciting joint mines and a strong balance sheet venture with Polyus gold to develop allows us to pursue longer-term growth nezhdaninskoye, the fourth largest opportunities.
This was certainly the gold deposit in russia based on gKZ of quality case in 2015, when we were able resources, with significant potential to exploit the availability of long-life for high-grade ore and a long mine life.
projects with high-option values nezhdaninskoye fits perfectly with our at attractive prices.
proven capabilities in operating remote assets, selective underground mining growth projects Our key greenfield exploration project and refractory ore processing.
currently is the viksha PgM platinum read more on group metals project in Karelia, pages 23, 36-39 north-West russia.
During 2015 we also acquired Primorskoye, a silver gold While Kyzyl is on track to deliver production site 215 km from our Omsukchan concentrator, which fits well into growth from 2018, we still need to ensure our portfolio of near-mine advanced that there are further sources of growth in the exploration projects.
We also acquired lichkvaz, in armenia, where initial pipeline.
We accomplish this through continuous exploration has started and a JOrCinvestment in greenfield exploration projects compliant resource estimate and opportunistic M&A activity.
With acquisitions, is expected later in 2016. the commodity cycle is currently at an ideal stage for acquiring high-optionality assets 380 Koz GE 774 Koz GE at attractive valuations.
Initial reserve estimates Initial resource estimates in 2015 in 2015 En route to the remote Svetloye mine 06 Polymetal International plc annual report & accounts 2015 annual report & accounts 2015 Polymetal International plc 07
