Our Gaming division Market backdrop The leader in a high growth industry The online gambling market According to H2 Gambling Capital, the total Of the total global online market, Europe is Development online gambling market is expected to grow estimated by H2 Gambling Capital to be the The online gambling market developed in at a compound annual growth rate of 10% largest segment, comprising approximately the mid-1990s, initially with online casinos from 2015 to 2018.
47% of the overall market, and is forecast and then with the launch of online poker to grow at a compound annual growth in 1998.
In 2015 the total online gambling rate of 13% from 2015 to 2018.
Market size by geography market, defined by H2 Gambling Capital to include casino, poker, bingo, sports Data from H2 Gambling Capital shows betting, skill based gaming and lotteries, that in 2015 the largest online market by was estimated as having gross gambling player location was the United Kingdom, revenues GGR, being amounts staked which accounted for just over 16% of the including bonuses but less prizes, of overall interactive market.
China and Japan 10% approximately 35.0 billion 2014: 32.4 follow with approximately 12% and 11% Forecast compound annual growth of the billion, an increase of 8%.
online gaming industry from 2015 to 2018 Drivers of market growth The global online market continues to Portugal, Switzerland and Sweden.
In Latin Convergence of online benefit from the transition of land-based America, Mexico is due to introduce further and land-based revenue to online revenue, regulation, regulations with Playtech already well A significant industry trend is the growing improved broadband penetration and established in the country with Caliente convergence of land-based and online capacity, faster mobile data transfer rates, with Uruguay, Peru and Brazil considering market segments.
This is principally as a improved smartphone penetration, a their positions.
Finally, in Asia, the Philippines result of many new entrants in regulated growing number of market participants, is making positive progress with Laos, online markets being existing land-based and greater acceptance of online gambling Cambodia and Thailand potentially gaming, betting and lottery operators, who as a mainstream leisure pastime along looking to follow.
already have a substantial local presence, with increased marketing expenditure well-recognised brands, existing player by operators through a wide range of Mobile databases and are familiar with the local marketing channels.
The number of mobile devices in use grows every day, and increasing numbers of players Regulation Historically separate in their philosophy and are choosing mobile sports betting and The regulation of online gambling can be gaming for the convenience it brings.
systems, there has been a fundamental shift in both segments towards common techniques a catalyst for market growth, depending on how the regulation is enacted, which product With over 350 mobile developers, Playtech for player attraction and retention, such as VIP levels and loyalty schemes.
Operators are verticals are permitted by the regulator and is at the forefront of mobile development.
This combination of In 2015, 21% of Playtechs revenues were becoming more aware of the importance of player retention and of incentivising the factors determine whether online gambling generated from mobile, up from 16% in 2014. is likely to be commercially attractive in the player on an individual basis regardless of channel.
The retention of players and the longer term.
It is forecast that mobile interactive gambling will enjoy a compound annual growth rate ability to cross-sell them on to other products provides an opportunity for operators, but As markets move from a. com to a of 17% between 2015 and 2018. regulated regime, there are expected to be also presents substantial technical challenges for them.
notable opportunities together with some uncertainties through the transition period.
Playtech has focused much of its recent Although it is obviously difficult to predict development efforts on ensuring that it is able to deliver functionality, player the exact form and timing of any regulatory progress, there are many countries which management and content across the full range of distribution channels, and to may regulate over the coming years.
Across Europe we are seeing a number of markets capitalise on this trend of convergence.
at various stages of the regulatory process including the Czech Republic, Holland, 04 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Global online gambling market 2015 by region Europe: 47% Asia Middle East: 30% North America: 13% 35.0bn Oceania: 6% Latin America Caribbean: 2% Africa: 1% Source: H2 Gambling Capital Leading the competition Experience Maintaining and extending Barriers to entry As Playtechs scale has increased over our leadership Scale the 16 years since its incorporation, its The rapid growth and increased scale of The single most realistic alternative to knowledge, expertise and offering in all Playtech has enabled the development of outsourcing to Playtech is for operators markets have enabled operators to grow a superior platform, more relevant software to utilise their own proprietary platform their businesses and to diversify into new and more products than other suppliers.
together with proprietary and third party markets more quickly.
New B2B operators or licensees are not software, which while currently accounting able to undertake significant product for around 30% of the total online gambling Liquidity development as they lack economies of scale.
market, Playtech believes is an increasingly Playtech offers greater liquidity in the bingo This is even more apparent in new channels unsustainable model.
and poker markets, and can provide high coming to market such as mobile, or new progressive jackpots for casino players.
products such as virtual racing.
Games such Playtech enjoys significant scale advantages as bingo or poker rely on liquidity to satisfy by being able to leverage operating and Services player demand.
Networked casino games can development costs of more than 130 Other barriers to entry are Playtechs also provide significant jackpot opportunities.
licensees, including the top 10 European expertise in the services environment and UK online gambling operators.
marketing, hosting and affiliates and Technology increasingly longer-term supply contracts The Playtech operating system is agnostic, Playtechs strategy is to offer all product and established relationships with licensees.
allowing upgrades and new features to verticals across all distribution channels on be rolled out to every operator from a an integrated platform that offers a single single platform.
This enables all operators wallet and sign-on.
Playtech is also the the benefit of a more advanced offering.
only supplier that can offer sophisticated Playtechs R&D costs vary from year to year, marketing and operational services to but are typically around 17% of overall drive player acquisition and retention via software revenue.
This development cost a modular range of flexible approaches is shared across the licensee base, and the from a full turnkey solution to equity joint revenue share model offered by Playtech ventures or structured agreements.
This is cost effective when compared to selfenables operators to offer their players development, and allows licensees to remain a true omni-channel approach across at the cutting edge of the market.
Operators land-based digital mobile channels, also benefit from product development providing the ultimate player experience.
through two-way feedback with Playtech.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 05
