Governance Board of Directors Committed to high standards Alan Jackson Mor Weizer Ron Hoffman Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Alan was appointed to the Board Mor was appointed as Playtechs Ron was appointed as Playtechs in 2006 on the Companys flotation on Chief Executive Officer in May 2007.
Chief Financial Officer on 1 January 2013, the Alternative Investment Market and having joined the Group in 2004. became Chairman in October 2013.
Career: Prior to being appointed CEO, Mor was Career: Career: the Chief Executive Officer of one of the Ron is a qualified accountant and Alan has over 40 years experience in Groups subsidiaries, Techplay Marketing worked at Ernst & Young where he rose the leisure industry.
From 1973 to 1991, Ltd. which required him to oversee the to the position of Senior Manager.
Ron he occupied a number of positions Groups licensee relationship management, joined Playtech shortly after its formation.
at Whitbread, both in the UK and product management for new licensees He spent eight years at Playtech as Vice internationally, principally as Managing and the Groups marketing activities.
Before President of Finance, managing the finance Director of Beefeater Steak Houses and also joining Playtech, Mor worked for Oracle for department, including its listing on AIM the Whitbread restaurant division where over four years, initially as a development in 2006, the transition to the Main Market he was responsible for the creation and consultant and then as a product manager, in 2012 and supporting the growth of the development of the Beefeater, Travel Inn which involved creating sales and consulting business through its operations, acquisitions, and TGI Friday brands and was responsible channels on behalf of Oracle Israel and financial planning and reporting.
for Whitbreads international restaurant Oracle Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
In 1991, he founded Inn Earlier in his career, he worked in a variety Skills, competences and experience: Business Group plc, which was acquired of roles, including as an auditor and financial Ron brings over 10 years experience by Punch Taverns plc in 1999.
He has been consultant for  and expertise in relation to the online Chairman of The Restaurant Group plc since and a system analyst for Tadiran Electronic gambling industry.
He stepped down from his role as Systems Limited, an Israeli company that the finance, tax, treasury and accounting Deputy Chairman and Senior Non-executive designs electronic warfare systems.
teams at Playtech and provides strategic Director at Redrow plc in September 2014. and operational financial experience Skills, competences and experience: to the Group including in relation Skills, competences and experience: Mor is a qualified accountant and brings to investment arrangements.
Having held several Board positions in both considerable international sales and an executive and non-executive capacity management experience in a hi-tech Board Committees: in a variety of listed companies in the UK, environment and extensive knowledge Ron sits on the Management Committee he brings substantial experience of working of the online gambling industry.
Until and attends meetings of the Audit in public and private companies, along with June 2013 he was a Non-executive Committee and the Risk & Compliance strategic and leadership experience.
Director of Sportech PLC as the Companys Committees at the invitation of the representative, and resigned when Chairs of those Committees.
Board Committees: Playtech disposed of its shareholding.
He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee and a member of the Board Committees: Remuneration and Risk & Compliance He chairs the Management Committee and Committees.
attends the Remuneration, Risk & Compliance and Nominations Committees at the invitation of the Chairs of those Committees.
44 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Andrew Thomas Paul Hewitt John Jackson Senior Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Andrew was appointed to the Board in Paul was appointed to the Board in John was appointed to the Board in June 2012, shortly before the Companys August 2015.
January 2016. admission to the Main Market.
Career: Career: Career: Paul is a qualified accountant, and John is a qualified accountant and Andrew has enjoyed a career as an his recent executive responsibilities his previous roles include Group Chief accountant and businessman, much of included being the Deputy Group Chief Executive of Jamie Oliver Holdings Limited which has been within the leisure industry.
Executive and Chief Financial Officer of the from 2007 to 2015 and Group Retail and Andrew is currently Chairman of Randalls Co-Operative Group from 2003 to 2007: Leisure Director of Virgin Group Limited from Limited, a family-owned pub company in and Finance and IT Director of the RAC plc 1998 to 2007.
He is currently Non-executive Jersey, where he lives.
Since starting to build Chairman of Rick Stein Group, a senior served as Chairman of The Greenalls Group a portfolio of non-executive roles in 2007, independent director of Game Digital plc: plc and as a Non-executive Director of a Paul has helped many management and a Non-executive Director of Wilkinsons number of private and public companies.
teams adapt their business models to Hardware Stores Limited.
He is the founding partner of the Cheshirerespond to, and anticipate, changes in based accounting firm, Moors Andrew their regulatory environments, including Skills, competences and experience: Thomas & Co. LLP.
Andrew is a member as Non-executive Director and Chairman John brings a wealth of consumer industry of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of the Audit Committee of Tesco Bank experience combined with a strong in England & Wales and a member of the from 2012 to 2014. accountancy and finance background.
Skills, competences and experience: Board Committees: Skills, competences and experience: Paul brings a wealth of experience across John is Chair of the Remuneration Andrew combines many years detailed a variety of sectors, including in the financial Committee and sits on the Audit Committee, experience of advising on taxation services industry.
Risk & Compliance Committee and matters, with financial expertise both Nominations Committee.
as a Chartered Accountant and sitting Board Committees: as a Non-executive Director of a number Paul is Chair of the Risk & Compliance of publicly listed companies.
Committee and sits on the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee Board Committees: and Nominations Committee.
Andrew chairs the Audit Committee, which oversees the work of the internal auditors and sits on the Remuneration, Nomination and Risk & Compliance Committees.
He is also the Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 45
