GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Darren Shapland James John McCarthy Nicholas Roger Miles Roberts Hateley Independent NonChief Executive Officer Independent Executive Chairman Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Darren joined the Board Jim joined Poundland as Nick is a Fellow of the Miles joined the Board in as Senior Independent Chief Executive Officer in Chartered Institute of October 2014 as Senior Director in February August 2006.
Prior to joining Management Accountants Independent Non-Executive 2014 and was appointed Poundland, Jim was Managing and holds an MBA.
Director Miles is currently Independent Non-Executive Director of Convenience, Group Chief Executive of Nick joined Poundland as Chairman in July 2014 J Sainsbury plc and was a DS Smith Plc, a leading Chief Financial Officer in He brings extensive retail member of the operating, international supplier of October 2006.
He joined knowledge and broad public retail and investment boards.
Prior to from J Sainsbury plc company experience gained that he was CEO of McBride Jims experience extends to where he was the Finance throughout his career, most Plc, Europes leading provider over 40 years in retail including Director of Sainsburys recently as Chief Executive of private label household ten years as Chief Executive of Convenience Stores.
Prior and personal care products.
T&S Stores plc operated over to this, Darren spent six years Miles brings plc board and Nick has 25 years experience 1,200 stores and sold to Tesco at J Sainsbury plc, initially international experience in finance and business plc, Managing Director of as Chief Financial Officer and to the Board.
improvement which he gained Neighbourhood Retailing part subsequently as the Group at , of Next plc and Managing Development Director.
Accenture and Lucas Director of Birmingham Post Industries plc.
Darren is also a Non-Executive Chairman of Topps Tiles Jim is also non-executive Plc and a Non-Executive chairman at AIM listed Director at Ladbrokes Wynnstay Group plc.
plc and Wolseley plc All independent non-executive directors are members of the Audit & Risk Committee Chairman Tim Jones Governance & Nominations Committee Chairman Grant Hearn Remuneration Committee Chairman Teresa Colaianni.
Darren Shapland is a member of the Governance & Nominations Committee and attends other Committee meetings at the invitation of the relevant Committee Chairman.
POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 34 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015 Tim Jones Teresa Colaianni Grant Hearn Mary Barnard Independent Independent Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Tim joined the Board Tea joined the Board in Grant joined the Board in Mary joined the Board in February 2014 and Chairs the March 2015 as an Independent in October 2014 as an February 2014 and Chairs the Governance and Nominations Non-Executive Director.
She Independent Non-Executive Remuneration Committee.
He is the former is currently Area President, Director and as Chairman of She is Group HR Director for Chief Executive Officer of Northern Europe at Mondelez the Audit and Risk Committee.
During his 10 International Inc, the Tim is a chartered accountant which floated on the London year career with the hotel multinational confectionery, and is currently Group Finance Stock Exchange in November business Grant also served as food and beverage Executive Chairman.
He has conglomerate where she is Director of Mitchells and 2013.
Having begun her career a wealth of experience in the responsible for the commercial Butlers Plc.
Previous positions as a European Employment hotel and travel industry having leadership of the UK, Ireland include Group Finance lawyer in Brussels, advising previously held senior positions and Nordic markets.
Prior Director of Interserve Plc, multinational companies at Hilton Group and Whitbread to that she was Senior Vice a FTSE 250 listed support on EU related affairs, she Currently Grant is an President and General Independent Non-Executive Manager for the Pepsi-Lipton services group, together with moved into Human Resources Director of Scandic Hotels in Partnership responsible for other senior finance roles and subsequently reScandinavia and Chairman all core business operations, both in the UK and overseas.
Tea has of Jurys Inn Hotels.
including sales, marketing Tim brings extensive worked across a number of Grant brings extensive and R&D.
Mary brings a knowledge of commercial industries, recently heading knowledge in the hospitality wealth of commercial retail finance with his plc up the Human Resources and leisure industry combined and international experience with detailed boardroom to the Board with in-depth background and knowledge.
function in Europe for Hilton knowledge of the retail market knowledge and practice.
COMPANY INFORMATION Auditors: KPMG LLP, One Snowhill, Snow Hill Queensway, Birmingham B4 6GH Financial Calendar Bankers Lloyds Bank plc 17 September 2015 Annual General Meeting Barclays Bank plc 19 November 2015 Interim Results.
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Each shareholder is entitled to attend and vote at the Annual Santander UK plc General Meeting Joint Brokers: J. P. Morgan Securities plc, 25 Bank Street, London E14 5JP Registered & Head Office Shore Capital Stockbrokers Limited, Bond Street House, 14 Clifford Wellmans Road, Willenhall, West Midlands WV13 2QT Street, London W1S JU Registered in England No: 8861243 Corporate Solicitors: Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, 65 Fleet Street, London EC4Y 1HS Website: www.
com Pinsent Masons LLP, 30 Crown Place, London EC2A 4ES We encourage our Shareholders to visit our website to keep Registrars: Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater up to date on information specifically for them.
