Who we are Poundland is the largest single price value general merchandise retailer in Europe by both sales and by number of stores.
Poundland operates a network of 588 stores across the UK and Ireland, with a further 5 stores opened in Spain as part of a trial exercise.
Stores are sited in convenient locations, typically with high footfall, across a mixture of high streets, shopping centres and retail parks and are all operated on a leasehold basis.
What we do Poundland is a price driven, volume-led business offering an extensive range of products across 17 categories, with the average Poundland store carrying approximately 3,500 core range SKUs including over 1,000 branded products.
These brands such as Cadbury, Mars, Heinz, Nestle, Colgate, Coca Cola, Walkers and McVities represent an important footfall driver and together with fast moving consumer goods FMCG brands such as Cif and Fairy, make a significant contribution to our sales.
Our own branded products were further enhanced in the year by the launch of our first celebrity endorsed product range, Jane Ashers Kitchen, which has been one of our most successful launches ever.
The launch of Make-up Gallery cosmetics and Purple Ivy Jewellery expanded our own brand range further.
How we do it Poundland operates from headquarters in Willenhall, West Midlands and employed on average 14,000 colleagues in the 2015 financial year.
Our distribution capacity was enhanced in August with a new purpose built warehouse in Harlow in the South East of England replacing the temporary facility at Hoddesdon.
2002 1990Opened Advent first store in International acquires the majority Burton-upon-Trent shareholding 2010 2011 Warburg Pincus The first Dealz stores open in the Republic of Ireland acquires the majority Blanchardstown & Portlaiose shareholding and Poundland wins Discount Retailer of the Year at the Retail Industry Awards 2015 2014 Exceeds Poundland 1 billion floats on the revenue for the London Stock first time Exchange www.
