STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GROUP STRATEGY 1.
Continued focus on delivering amazing value to our customers every day Through our long track record of profitable growth, we have demonstrated our ability to maintain and strengthen our position as the market-leading, single price value general merchandise retailer in the UK.
To continue to drive our business performance, we will remain true to our goal of delivering amazing value to our customers every day.
We believe that product innovation and exclusive product ranges, including carefully selected celebrity endorsed offers, provide a key competitive advantage and therefore we remain committed to refreshing and developing our offer to meet consumer demands.
We will, where appropriate, continue to focus on targeting store marketing with tailored offers and third-party promotions, vouchers and marketing activity.
Continued store roll out Our track record of rapid store roll out in the UK and Ireland continues, enhanced during the year by our entry into Spain, where as part of a trial project we have opened 7 stores since July 5 at the year end.
We continue to identify strongly performing locations.
The value general merchandise market is forecast to continue its exciting growth.
We expect to remain as one of the winners in this sector.
We generate pay backs from our new stores in the UK and Ireland in around one year, so it makes sense to continue to add to our store base but only in sustainable shopping venues.
We believe, supported by external research conducted by the Javelin Group, that there is potential for more than 1,000 Poundland stores in the UK.
In addition, we believe that there is potential for more than 70 Dealz stores in Ireland.
We plan therefore to continue opening stores at similar rates as the last four years, adding approximately 60 net new stores per year, of which approximately 10% are expected to be in Ireland.
We believe that there are opportunities to add stores throughout the UK and Ireland, as the Poundland and Dealz business model is robust across a wide variety of store sizes between 1,700 and 12,000 square feet, formats high street, shopping centre, retail park and market demographics 22% of Poundlands UK customers are from the affluent AB socio-demographic group, based on a survey conducted by Poundland in 2013.
We remain increasingly focused on retail park stores as part of the overall new store mix.
POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 10 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015 3.
Optimisation of existing store portfolio We will continue to seek to drive growth in both average transaction value and in number of transactions.
We see opportunities to drive this through Continued innovation and development of our exclusive product range both with branded suppliers as well as our own brands.
Better category management and improved micro marketing.
We also expect, over the long term, as the consumer recovery builds, to sell more general merchandise products and will continue to improve our product range in these categories.
Around 130 of our stores are smaller than 4,000 square feet.
While some of these stores are appropriately sized for their location and competitor set, we see opportunities to resite and or expand around half of these stores, which should enhance both their performance and their long term sustainability.
Planned expansion into continental Europe After careful consideration of the findings of a detailed assessment of the expansion prospects in continental Europe, including market size, price differentials, brand overlap with the UK, supplier considerations, logistics and site availability, we entered the Spanish market in July.
In addition to favourable market conditions for Dealz in Spain, we identified high interest in the concept through consumer surveys.
Pricing analysis has also illustrated that Dealz pricing is competitive and sustainable.
Property research has identified good levels of site availability and favourable property costs, with typical leases of ten years with short break periods e. g. two-year break periods.
We expect to open up to 10 stores over a two-year period, which will initially be supplied from our UK distribution centres.
The Spanish operations are staffed by a core local team with extensive Spanish retail experience and are supported by a UK-based senior management team.
We expect that there will be significant brand and supplier overlap with the Poundland and Dealz Ireland product base.
The pilot stores performance is being assessed carefully ahead of any further roll out in Spain or elsewhere in continental Europe.
The cost of this trial remains low and we believe represents a low cost and low risk strategy to test market opportunity.
Format and channel development We will continue to explore new growth opportunities, such as the potential development of a transactional website to access new customers and fulfil different shopping missions, as well as developing new store formats such as a city centre format, which is a smaller store designed to operate in high footfall city centre locations with a focus on impulse and convenience purchases.
As demonstrated by our pending acquisition of 99p Stores Limited, we will continue to explore opportunities for consolidation as and when they arise.
