OUR BUSINESS MODEL SUPPLY HOW WE SOURCE PRODUCTS We source from around 900 suppliers across the world and have an office in Hong Kong and an exclusive sourcing arrangement in India, which together provide a key competitor advantage in our sourcing of general merchandise products.
No one supplier generates more than 5% of our sales.
We aim to buy and sell our products responsibly so our customers know that everything they buy is produced under fair conditions.
We regularly visit through planned and unannounced visits suppliers to ensure the ethical and social standards Poundland aspires to are maintained and upheld.
We have a clear social and ethical accountability policy, relating to employment, work conditions and product sourcing that we ask all our suppliers to comply with.
Our customer proposition is enhanced by our strong track record of product innovation and range development.
We work closely with our suppliers in developing exclusive products and pack sizes.
We also have strong in-house product development capabilities, offering over 50 own label brand families.
During the year this range was further enhanced by the launch of our first celebrity endorsed product range, Jane Ashers Kitchen, which very quickly became one of our most successful launches ever.
We believe that Poundlands own label offering in FMCG categories, as well as its strength in developing new product ranges, typically non-consumable, general merchandise products, are key differentiators versus other retailers in the UK.
POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 4 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015 www.
com 5 OUR BUSINESS MODEL DISTRIBUTION HOW WE MANAGE OUR DISTRIBUTION ACROSS UK, IRELAND AND SPAIN We operate from three distribution centres, including two regional distribution centres located in the Midlands and South East England Springvale Bilston and Harlow respectively, and one national distribution centre located in the Midlands Willenhall.
Almost 90% of products are delivered into one of our distribution centres before onwards distribution to our stores.
A limited range of chilled food is delivered direct to stores by a third-party supplier.
The Springvale, Harlow and Willenhall distribution centres have capacities of approximately 300,000 square feet, 350,000 square feet and 200,000 square feet, respectively.
The regional distribution centres cater mostly for FMCG and Seasonal products and the national distribution centre caters predominantly for imported products such as DIY and Stationery.
The Harlow distribution centre is a purpose built 350,000 sq.
ft. facility and opened in August replacing our temporary facility in Hoddesdon.
Harlow will now serve as our main depot for South East England and will also provide initial support to the business as we trial Dealz stores in Spain.
The combined distribution centres have increased our total distribution capacity so we are now able to operate approximately 750 stores in the UK, Ireland and Europe.
Since opening Harlow, our distribution management team have concentrated on achieving gains in efficiency, including enhanced route efficiency and productivity through increased use of double-decker trailers.
We also have four cross-docking facilities, located in Scotland Coatbridge, the North East of England Spennymoor, Ireland Dublin and Northern Ireland Larne.
The cross-docking facilities in Scotland and the North East of England are operated by our logistics partner, DHL.
Northern Ireland and Ireland are serviced by AM Nexday, a transportation services company based in Belfast.
We provide our own transportation services for our Harlow, Springvale and Willenhall distribution centres.
POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 6 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015 www.
com 7 OUR BUSINESS MODEL RETAIL OUR STORES AND PRODUCT RANGE We have established our market-leading position in the UK by focusing on delivering amazing value to our customers every day.
We believe that this is achieved by selling a wide range of great products and top brands, offering many new exciting lines each week, at a clear, consistent price point which offers our customers amazing value for money.
The same commitment to delivering amazing value is met in Ireland and Spain under our Dealz brand.
We sell a wide range of products across 17 product categories including household goods, grocery, impulse and health and beauty, with all products in our stores in the UK selling for 1.
Some of the most recognised consumer brands in the world are sold in our stores, including Coca Cola, Cadbury, Colgate, Heinz, Mars, McVities, Nestl and Walkers.
This branded product offering drives footfall to stores, and of the approximately 3,500 core range SKUs in our average Poundland store, over 1,000 SKUs are third-party branded.
Our own label, typically higher margin brands, provide our customers with even greater choice and value.
Over the course of the year, our product offer is refreshed continuously, with around 100 new products introduced each week.
This drives footfall to the stores, as our customers in the UK, Ireland and more recently, Spain love this treasure trove appeal.
We believe that the single price point in the UK provides us with a competitive advantage to other retailers as it sets a clear and consistent base for price comparison.
Customers are able to compare prices on identical products across retailers knowing that at Poundland, product will always be on sale for 1.
POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 8 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015 www.
