GOVERNANCE OUR EXECUTIVE TEAM Michelle joined Poundland in April 2015 as Human Resources Director with responsibility Michelle Burton for the development and delivery of the Companys people and engagement strategies, Human Resources spanning the full employee lifecycle.
Director Michelle has over 20 years of Human Resources experience spanning the retail, manufacturing, distribution and facilities management sectors and joined Poundland from Cofely, GDF SUEZ, where she held the position of Human Resources Director.
Prior to that she held a number of Senior HR positions in her ten year career with J Sainsbury plc, including Head of Reward, Head of Learning and Development and HR Director for Sainsburys Logistics division.
Andy joined Poundland in June 2015 as Business Development Director, with responsibility for Andy Garbutt the effective management and development of the UK and European property portfolio, the Business Development development of new markets in Europe and also specific business development projects.
Director Prior to joining Poundland, Andy worked at Card Factory for five years as Corporate Development Director, responsible for developing the store portfolio, consumer research and the Card Factory website.
Before Card Factory he spent 10 years as Retail and Leisure Director at PwC, with a focus on commercial and operational due diligence in the UK and continental Europe.
Mike Gray Mike joined Poundland in 2003 as Senior Controller with responsibility for developing IT capability.
Appointed to the Board of Poundland Limited in March 2012 Mike is responsible for IT Strategy and IT Director the ongoing development and management of all aspects of IT.
Mike has over 25 years IT experience spanning travel and retail sectors.
Prior to joining Poundland, Mike was Head of IT Services for TUI UK Limited.
Tim joined Poundland in August 2006 as Regional Manager with responsibility for Retail Operations Tim McDonnell in the north of the country.
Prior to that, Tim worked for Kwik Save and Somerfield Stores Ltd for Retail Operations over 20 years holding a number of roles in both Retail Operations and Human Resources.
He was Director a Regional Director at Somerfield prior to joining Poundland.
Andy joined Poundland in 2009 as Supply Chain Director.
He now has responsibility for the Andy Monk entire supply chain where his priorities are managing the distribution of stock around the Group, Supply Chain optimising the level of stock holding through the supply chain whilst improving the availability of stock on the shelf in stores.
Prior to joining Poundland, Andy was Distribution Director for Director Somerfield Stores Ltd where he rationalised their network by consolidating the former Kwik Save and Somerfield networks.
He has 30 years experience in distribution and has held a wide number of Development and Operational roles within own-account and third-party logistics companies.
He also gained international experience whilst working for Tibbett and Britten in North America.
Jinder joined Poundland in 2006 as Sole Counsel and Assistant Company Secretary and was Jinder Jhuti appointed to the Executive Team in January 2014.
Jinder is responsible for managing legal risk, Company Secretary corporate compliance, insurance and health and safety.
She has over 25 years experience in and General Counsel the legal sector.
Prior to joining Poundland Jinder worked in-house at Alliance & Leicester now Santander Bank and Barclays Bank plc in addition to having worked in private practice.
POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 36 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015
