GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Annual Report and Financial Statements The Directors believe that the Groups relations with its employees for the year ended 29th March 2015 which were approved by the have been and continue to be good.
The Directors also believe that Board of Directors on 18th June 2015 relations with its trade unions are good.
Poundland Limited is party to a recognition agreement with the Union of Shop, Distributive and Allied Workers, which applies on a company-wide basis across all Strategic Report offices, distribution centres and retail stores.
There has been no The Directors have presented their Strategic Report, which was industrial action that has affected the Group in recent years.
approved by the Board of Directors on 18th June 2015, on page 10 to 30 and which contains a a fair review of the Groups business The Group communicates with its colleagues, both UK based and and b a description of the principal risks and uncertainties elsewhere, on matters of concern to them and on more general facing the Group.
The review is intended to be a balanced and matters by way of notice boards, the circulation of emails, monthly comprehensive analysis of the development and performance of updates in person and a series of annual conferences covering all the Groups business during the financial year and the position of geographical areas in which the Group operates.
The Executive the Groups business at the end of that year.
The report includes, Directors and Executive Team also visit retail and distribution to the extent necessary for an understanding of the development, sites on a regular basis throughout the year and colleagues are performance or position of the Groups business, analysis using encouraged to raise matters of concern with them during these financial key performance indicators.
As the Company is a quoted company, the Strategic Report also, The Group has a policy of giving full and fair consideration to to the extent necessary for an understanding of the development, applications for employment made by disabled persons, having performance or position of the Groups business, includes the regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities, for continuing main trends and factors likely to affect the future development the employment of, and for arranging appropriate training for, performance and position of the Groups business.
It also includes colleagues who have become disabled persons during the period information about environmental matters, the Groups employees when they were employed by the Group and for their training, career and social and community issues and the policies that the Group development and promotion.
has in place to deal with these issues and their effectiveness.
Directors The Report of the Directors should be read in conjunction with the The present Directors of the Company and their interests in the Strategic Report, and contains details of the principal activities of shares of the Company are shown on page 49.
All of the Directors the Group during the year.
held office throughout the financial year under review except for the following: Going Concern The Board is of the opinion that there is a reasonable expectation 1.
Leavers that the Company and the Group has adequate resources to Andrew Higginson served as a Director until 30th July 2014 continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In Trevor Bond served as a Director until 19th September 2014 arriving at this conclusion the Board has taken account of current Stephen Coates served as a Director until 31st January 2015 and anticipated trading performance, current and anticipated Paul Best and Richard Lancaster each served as a Director until levels of borrowings and the availability of borrowing facilities and 17th June 2015 exposures to and management of the financial risks detailed on pages 26 and 27.
Consequently, the going concern basis has 2.
Starters been used in the preparation of the Company and Group financial Miles Roberts joined the Board with effect from 30th October 2014 statements.
Tim Jones joined the Board with effect from 30th October 2014 Mary Barnard joined the Board with effect from 12th March 2015.
Results and Dividend The Directors support the principles of diversity and we are pleased The Groups consolidated profit for the year attributable to to report the current make-up of the Board as two female and six Shareholders of the Company is 28.4 million.
The female representation is ahead of the current 18% achieved by FTSE 250 Companies as reported in the latest The Company paid an interim dividend for the year ended 29th Women on Boards, Davies Review Annual Report, March 2015 March 2015 of 1.5 pence per share on 30th January 2015 to ordinary shareholders whose names appeared in the register at the The Directors are pleased to report the current composition of close of business on 16th January 2015.
The Directors recommend the Executive Team also supports our principles of diversity.
The nd that a final dividend of 3.0 pence per share be paid on 2 October Executive Team consists of two females Michelle Burton and Jinder 2015 to ordinary shareholders on the register at close of business Jhuti and six males Jim McCarthy, Nick Hateley, Tim McDonnell, th on 18 September 2015.
Andy Monk, Mike Gray and Andy Garbutt.
Political Donations The Company has customary directors and officers indemnity The Group has not made in the past, nor does it intend to make in insurance in place in respect of each of the Executive Directors.
The the future, any political donations.
Company has entered into a qualifying third-party indemnity the terms of which are in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 with each of the Executive Directors.
Employees At the date of this report the Group employed 14,130 colleagues: 6,007 male and 8,123 female colleagues.
com 31 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT continued There have been no other changes in the make-up of the Board There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the between the end of the financial year and the date of this report.
Company other than in relation to certain restrictions that are imposed from time to time by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws.
In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of As detailed in the Articles, at every annual general meeting all the Financial Conduct Authority, Directors and certain officers and Directors at the date of any subsequent notice of Annual General employees of the Group require the approval of the Company to Meeting shall retire from office.
Consequently, the Directors currently deal in the ordinary shares of the Company.
holding office in accordance with the Articles seek re-election until the Annual General Meeting to be held in September 2015.
Greenhouse Gases The following reflects changes to the Executive Team: A summary of how the Group recognises its responsibility to Retired colleagues, customers, environment including greenhouse gas David Coxon July 2014 emissions and community is contained with the Corporate and Social Craig Bales June 2015 Responsibility Report on pages 28 to 30 which forms part of this report.
Starters Substantial Shareholders Michelle Burton Human Resources Director, April 2015 At 18th June 2015, the following interests exceeding the 3% Andy Garbutt Business Development Director June 2015 disclosure threshold were recorded in the register of the Company kept in accordance with Section 808 of the Companies Act 2006.
Share Capital and Shareholders Name % Details of the Companys Share Capital, including changes in the issued Share Capital in the year under review and since the Warburg Pincus LLC 16.40 year-end up to the date of this report, are set out in Note 22 to the Kensico Capital Management Corp. 9.99 consolidated financial statements which form part of this report on FMR LLC 8.44 page 93.
The Capital Group Companies Inc 4.76 FIL Limited 4.74 The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary share capital AXA Investment Management 4.61 of the Company are contained within the Companys Articles of James John McCarthy 3.87 Association which were adopted on 11 March 2014.
Canada Life Asset Management 3.63 Details of awards outstanding under share-based incentive schemes are given in Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements Additional Information for Shareholders which form part of this report on page 94.
Details of the shareWith regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, based incentive schemes in place are provided in the Directors the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 55.
Corporate Governance Code and the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles of Association themselves may be On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every amended by special resolution of the Shareholders.
holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote and, on a poll, every holder of ordinary The powers of the Directors are detailed in the Corporate shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote, shall have Governance Report on pages 37 to 40. one vote for every ordinary share held.
The Directors will, at the 2015 Annual General Meeting, seek During the year until 13 February 2015, Warburg Pincus Funds authority to purchase the Companys own shares within certain Warburg Pincus Private Equity X, L. P. and Warburg Pincus X limits.
Although no such purchases are planned at this time, details Partners, L. P. held a combined shareholding of 30.4% of the are given in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
issued ordinary share capital of the company.
The Listing Rules state that any shareholder holding greater than 30% of a companys A technical matter has arisen in respect of the interim dividend of shares is defined as a controlling shareholder and the company 1.5 pence per ordinary share paid by the Company to shareholders is required to have an agreement in place contracting all parties on the register at the close of business on 16 January 2015 on 30 to conduct transactions and relationships at arms length and on January 2015.
It has been brought to the Directors attention that, normal commercial terms.
The Board confirms that an appropriate although the Company had sufficient distributable profits to pay agreement was in place throughout the period and the Company the dividend, the interim accounts showing the requisite level of has complied with all the independence provisions of the Listing distributable profits that were prepared prior to such payment had Rules.
After 13 February 2015, Warburg Pincus Funds shareholding inadvertently not been filed at Companies House, as required by the was reduced to 16.4%.
As a result, the interim dividend was paid in technical breach of the Act.
However, given that the The notice of the Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines for Company had sufficient distributable profits to make the payment exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote had the interim accounts been filed at the appropriate time, the in relation to resolutions to be put to the Annual General Meeting.
Directors believe that neither shareholders nor creditors would have All proxies are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld been prejudiced.
The Company nevertheless wishes to address in relation to each resolution are announced and published on the the matter by way of a ratification resolution to be approved by Groups website after the meeting.
As a result of their interest in the subject matter, the Directors who are also shareholders will not vote on this resolution.
POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 32 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015 Change of Control Information regarding forward-looking statements A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Group, such as bank loan agreements and These Reports and Financial Statements include forward-looking employee share-based incentive schemes.
These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the The Groups main credit facilities, including the committed bank Companys control and all of which are based on the Directors facilities dated 17 March 2014, contain a provision such that in the current beliefs and expectations about future events.
Forwardevent of a change of control, the facilities will be cancelled and all looking statements are sometimes identified by the use of forwardoutstanding amounts, together with accrued interest, will become looking terminology such as believe, expects, may, will, repayable on the date falling 30 days following written notice being could, should, shall, risk, intends, estimates, aims, given by the lenders that the facilities have been cancelled.
plans, predicts, continues, assumes, positioned or anticipates or the negative thereof, other variations thereon or comparable terminology.
Annual General Meeting AGM A notice convening the Companys AGM will be issued to These forward-looking statements include all matters that are not shareholders separately.
In addition to the ordinary business of an historical facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout these AGM, the Directors are seeking certain other authorities, details of Reports and Financial Statements and include statements regarding which are set out in the notice.
the intentions, beliefs or current expectations of the Directors or the Company concerning, among other things, the results of operations, Corporate Governance financial condition, prospects, growth, strategies including The Statement of Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance continued store roll out plans, and dividend policy of the Company Code and description of the Groups corporate governance and the industry in which it operates.
In particular, the statements framework with the Corporate Governance Report are included on regarding the Companys strategy and other future events or pages 37 to 40 which form part of this report.
Disclosure of information to Auditors As at the date of this report, as far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups Auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups Auditors Jinder Jhuti were aware of that information.
Company Secretary 18th June 2015 Auditor Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG LLP as Auditor and to authorise the Directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
