44 Premier Farnell The Board of Directors Val Gooding Laurence Bain Mark Whiteling Paul Withers Gary Hughes CBE Aged 64 CA Aged 61 M. COMM HONS Aged 52 MA Aged 58 Aged 52 Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director since 15 June 2011. since 12 June 2012. since 5 November 2012. since September 2007. since 1 November 2014.
Chairman of the Chairman of the Audit Remuneration Committee Committee from and, from 1 February 1 February 2015.
Val has a wealth of Laurence joined the Mark has considerable Paul has considerable Gary is a chartered Experience brought international business Board as Chief Operating financial and commercial experience of business accountant with to the Board and leadership Officer on 1 July 2003. experience in the global expansion and operations extensive experience in experience, having held Laurence has extensive distribution and in developing markets, financial and operational senior strategic and leadership experience in electronics industries.
particularly Asia, which is roles.
Gary was formerly operational roles in a electronics manufacturing Mark was Premier valuable to the Company Chief Financial Officer variety of businesses and distribution.
Before Farnells Chief Financial as it continues its of Gala Coral Group, focused on customer joining Premier Farnell Officer and a member international expansion.
Chief Executive Officer service and served on in July 2002 as Chief of the Board from 2006 Paul was formerly Group of the largest operating the boards of a number Operating Officer, to 2011, re-joining the Managing Director of division of United of global quoted Laurence was Vice Company in November BPB plc, where he led Business Media plc and companies, charities President and Director 2012 in an expanded role.
their Emerging Markets Group Finance Director and governmental of Operations for From August 2011 to operations.
Val was Motorola in Europe, November 2012 he was extensive Board background in finance CEO of BUPA during a Middle East and Africa.
Chief Financial Officer experience and the and global business 10-year period of strong He was Chief Operating of Autobar Limited.
interaction he has with the experience made him growth and global Officer of Premier Farnell Before joining Premier Companys shareholders ideally placed to take expansion and was from July 2002 until his Farnell in 2006 Mark in his role as chair of the over from Dennis Millard a senior manager at appointment as CEO.
was Group Finance Remuneration Committee as Chairman of the British Airways, serving Director of Communisis made him the ideal Audit Committee on latterly as Director for plc and, prior to that, candidate to take over Denniss retirement.
Val has of Tibbett & Britten plc.
from Dennis Millard as also served as a NonMark formerly held the Senior Independent Executive Director of position of Non-Executive Director.
Standard Chartered plc, Director and chairman of J Sainsbury plc, the the Audit Committee at BBC, the Lawn Tennis Future plc.
Mark is a Association, the Home chartered accountant.
Office, Compass Group plc, BAA plc and CWC Communications plc.
Committees: Audit Chairman from Committees Remuneration Chairman, 1 February 2015, Audit and Nominations.
Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director of Senior Member of the Other appointments Vodafone Group Plc and Hogg Robinson Group plc.
Devro plc and Senior Operational Excellence TUI Travel plc, Trustee of Independent Director of team at Apax Partners Historic Royal Palaces, Keller Group plc.
LLP and a NonThe Royal Botanic Executive Director of J Gardens, Kew and the Sainsbury plc, Matomy English National Ballet.
Media Group plc, Smart Technologies Inc, The Peoples Operator Plc and SECC Limited Denotes Non-Executive Director Recent Board retirements: Dennis Millard 31 January 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 45 Thomas Reddin Peter Ventress Andrew Dougal Steven Webb BSc, MBA Aged 54 Aged 54 B Acc, CA Aged 63 LLB Solicitor Aged 52 Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Non-Executive Director Appointed as Company from September Non-Executive Director from September 2006.
Secretary and 2010 and chair of the with effect from General Counsel in Digital Advisory Board.
Toms primary areas of Peter has broad Having served on the Steven is a qualified expertise are in international experience Board for nine years, lawyer with a specialism marketing, branding and in the B2B environment.
Andrew is standing down in company law and has digital innovation.
Toms Prior to joining Berendsen in June 2015.
Andrew served the boards in a extensive experience in in 2010, he was has significant leadership number of regulated and these areas makes him International President experience in finance, non-regulated business well-placed to chair the of Staples Inc and also operational and strategic and consumer Digital Advisory Board.
spent 10 years in senior roles.
Before joining Tom was formerly Vice management positions as Chief Executive Officer Premier Farnell, he was President of Consumer with Corporate Express of Hanson plc, the the Company Secretary Marketing at Coca-Cola N. V. becoming Chief international building and General Counsel of USA and President, COO, Executive in 2007.
During materials company, Kelda Group plc and ultimately CEO, of his roles at Corporate following its demerger formerly Yorkshire LendingTree LLC, a Express and Staples, from Hanson plc, the Water and Company market leader in webPeter was also a NonAnglo American Secretary of Kalon based lending.
Executive Director of diversified industrial Group plc.
During the Corporate Express company where he had year under review Australia Ltd. been Group Finance Steven served as acting Director.
Previously Chair of the Board of Andrew was a NonGovernors of Leeds Executive Director of Beckett University.
Taylor Wimpey plc, Taylor Woodrow plc and BPB plc.
Audit, Remuneration Audit, Remuneration and, from 17 March 2015, and Nominations.
Non-Executive Director of Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Director Member of the Board Asbury Automotive Group of Berendsen plc.
and Chair of the Audit of Governors and Audit Inc. Deluxe Corporation Committee of Carillion Committee of Leeds and Tanger Factory plc, Senior Independent Beckett University.
He is Director and Chair of the a Managing Partner of Audit Committee of Red Dog Ventures, LLC, Creston Plc and Council a venture capital and Member of the Institute of advisory firm in the digital Chartered Accountants of arena, and also publisher Scotland ICAS.
joined the Board of Victrex plc as a NonExecutive Director in March 2015.
46 Premier Farnell The Board of Directors continued Fulfilled by Role Remit Whose responsibilities are divided as follows: Non-Executives Val Gooding leading the Board to ensure the membership of the Board is appropriate to meet Chairman of ensure effectiveness business needs 6 the Board in all aspects of oversee that the Board Committees carry out their duties its role establish appropriate personal objectives for the Chief Executive promote an open culture of debate, and develop and maintain effective communication with shareholders Paul Withers acting as deputy provide a line of communication to the Company for shareholders SID to the Chair of lead the resolution of any significant Board issues that are not the Board appropriate for the Chair or the CEO to handle act as a sounding board for the Chairman, and lead the other Non-Executive Directors in their annual appraisal of the Chairmans performance Andrew Dougal constructively scrutinise performance of management in meeting goals and objectives Non-Executive challenging and satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and that Director helping develop financial controls and systems are robust and defensible proposals Gary Hughes determine appropriate levels of remuneration for Executive Directors, and on strategy Non-Executive lead the process to appoint and remove Executive Directors and ensure Director adequate succession plans are in place Tom Reddin Non-Executive Director Peter Ventress Non-Executive Director Laurence Bain operational run the day-to-day business and operations of the Group Executives CEO execution of 2 lead the development and delivery of strategy to enable the the strategy Group to meet the requirements of its shareholders lead and oversee the executive management of the Group meet the Groups budget and strategic plans, and provide the appropriate environment to recruit, engage, retain and develop the personnel needed to deliver the strategy Mark Whiteling execution of financial support the CEO in developing and delivering the strategy and CFO deliverables in driving financial and operational performance Steven Webb supporting the ensure good information flows within the Board and its Committees Board support Company Secretary Chairman, the and between senior management and Non-Executive Directors Board and its facilitate Director inductions and professional development Committees as requested, arrange independent professional advice for Directors at the Companys expense, and advise the Board through the Chairman on governance matters Paul Withers appointed as SID from 1 February 2015.
Dennis Millard held the role of SID throughout the year under review.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 47 How is the Board made up?
Board of Premier Farnell plc Val Gooding Chairman of the Board Nominations Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman: Val Gooding Chairman: Gary Hughes Chairman: Paul Withers Andrew Dougal, Gary Hughes, Thomas Reddin, Andrew Dougal, Peter Ventress, Paul Withers Andrew Dougal, Peter Ventress, Gary Hughes Paul Withers, Peter Ventress, Laurence Bain Nominations Committee report p52 Remuneration Committee report p62 Audit Committee report p54 Digital Advisory Board Chairman: Tom Reddin Objective: to offer counsel to the Board and the Chief Executive Officer on matters relating to the web, eCommerce and the digital arena Disclosure Committee Tax and Treasury Chairman: Steven Webb Committee Objective: to assist the Board in ensuring Chairman: Mark Whiteling disclosures are fair, accurate and complete Objective: to make recommendations to the Board on tax and treasury strategy and policy A committee of the Board Not a formal committee of the Board but provides advice and or information to the Board What are its responsibilities?
It is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Group Led by Laurence Bain, the executive team are responsible for and delivering sustainable shareholder value.
presenting to the Board proposals on strategic direction and business development.
It reviews strategic issues and sets strategy.
The Board reviews and challenges these proposals so that informed It exercises control over the performance of the Company by agreeing decisions are reached.
budgetary targets and monitoring performance against those targets.
The executive team are responsible for implementing these decisions It is responsible for internal controls and risk management.
and for day to day operations and performance.
It sets values and standards, including good governance, sustainability, integrity and ethical conduct for adoption throughout the Group as a whole.
48 Premier Farnell The Board of Directors continued How did it work in 2014 15?
release of the Groups interim management statements There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for Board and one was to deal with ad hoc matters arising.
At each approval which covers items that are significant to the Group scheduled meeting the Board receives a report from the CEO as a whole due to their strategic, financial or reputational and CFO on business performance and market conditions implications.
There is also a rolling schedule of agenda items and, at most scheduled meetings, a presentation and question to be brought to the Board in each year.
The matters reserved and answer session with a business or functional leader on are reviewed annually and the rolling agenda at each meeting their business or function.
In addition to these reports and to ensure they remain up to date and appropriate.
other matters arising for review by the Board, the following matters were dealt with at Board or Committee meetings In 2014 15 there were nine Board meetings of which six in the year: were formal scheduled meetings, two were to review market conditions and business performance and approve the Matter Actions undertaken during the year Strategy and Set the Groups strategic plans including the approval of the element14 operating model and the annual business plans for all business units Management Kept under review management and business performance Received feedback on and discussed with the Companys brokers the market perception of the Company Reviewed HR strategy and leadership succession planning Received inputs on the digital arena in which the Company operates Reviewed the Companys sustainability and health and safety record and practices Reviewed compliance with the principles and provisions of UK Corporate Governance Code and good governance Corporate practice generally Governance and Resolved on the Companys approach to a number of changes in corporate reporting requirements Communication Ensured the maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management further information included in the Audit Committee update on page 57 Kept under review the Groups high level risks Approved resolutions to be put to shareholders at general meeting Board Approved appointments to and removals from the Board and its Committees including the appointment of Gary Hughes for further details see page 53 of the Nominations Committee report membership and committees Approved the terms of reference of Board Committees http: www.
Undertook a formal and rigorous performance evaluation and received updates on the outcome of previous reviews page 49 Financial and Reviewed and approved all financial announcements Contracts Reviewed and approved various elements of the Groups banking and finance arrangements, including the refinancing of the Groups banking and private loan facilities Reviewed and approved as appropriate various capital projects, investments and contracts of material value Responsible for the approval of business acquisitions and disposals including the acquisition of AVID Technologies Inc for further details about the AVID Technologies Inc acquisition see page 21 of the Strategic Report Considered and reported on the position of the Group as a going concern Set the Groups insurance strategy Reviewed and approved the Groups tax management and planning Considered and approved the Companys share dealing code Policies and Procedures Approved procedures for the detection of fraud and the prevention of bribery Approved the Groups treasury policies Approved the Companys policies on non-audit services Reviewed and approved the Directors expenses and travel policy Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 49 How well were the meetings attended?
Remuneration Nominations Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Name of Director meetings meetings meetings meetings Chairman: Val Gooding 9 9 2 2 Executive Directors: Laurence Bain 9 9 2 2 Mark Whiteling 9 9 Non-Executive Directors: Andrew Dougal 9 9 4 4 5 5 2 2 1 Gary Hughes 3 3 1 1 1 1 2 Dennis Millard 9 9 4 4 4 5 2 2 Thomas Reddin 9 9 2 2 Paul Withers 9 9 4 4 5 5 2 2 3 Peter Ventress 9 9 4 4 5 5 Not a member of the Committee or not a member at the date of the relevent meetings.
1 Gary Hughes joined the Board on 1 November 2014 and attended all Board and Committee meetings convened following his appointment to the Board and the relevant Committees.
2 Dennis Millard was unavoidably absent from the December Remuneration Committee meeting due to a prior commitment.
He provided feedback on the papers, points for discussion and questions prior to the meeting, with apologies for his inability to attend.
3 Peter Ventress was appointed to the Nominations Committee on 17 March 2015.
What does the Board think it can do better?
A rigorous evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and each individual Director is conducted every year.
In line with the Code, this process is externally facilitated in every third year, the last being 2012 13.
In 2013 14 the evaluation determined the following: 2013 14 Performance review Outcome Action taken during the year Board and Committee agendas to be revised to enable increased The Chairman of the Board and the Company Secretary set agenda focus on strategic issues and reduce time spent on routine matters items to align with strategic priorities and financial events Each Board paper to include an executive summary and clearly The Company Secretary issued revised Board paper guidelines to identify key issues.
Length of papers to be reviewed to ensure contributors to clarify managements view of key issues for Board appropriate focus maintained consideration A full day meeting to be held each year to specifically The annual strategy day for 2014 15 was held in June 2014 review strategy More frequent feedback on the functioning of the Board Each Board meeting was ended with an informal discussion of what worked well and areas for improvement 50 Premier Farnell The Board of Directors continued In June 2014, for the financial year 2014 15, an internal Board approaches to enhance or refresh Board processes.
The evaluation took place led by Val Gooding.
All Board members SID took feedback from the other Board members on the contributed to the appraisal of the performance of individual performance of the Chairman and discussed this with her.
Directors, by way of a questionnaire, and the Chairman met The recommendations made by each Board member were each Director in order to provide him with feedback on his discussed in an open forum by the Board at the January 2015 performance from the rest of the Board, discuss contribution meeting and the outcomes of the evaluation and resulting and personal development requirements and consider wider actions agreed.
These were in summary : 2014 15 Performance review Outcome Action planned and taken during the year Further refinement of Board papers is required.
Papers should be The Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer agreed that concise and focus on strategic rather than tactical issues papers will focus on strategic matters for discussion and decision The Board should consider holding NED only sessions at the end, The ordering of Audit Committee agendas has been revised by the ratherthan the start, of Audit Committee meetings Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Company Secretary The 2015 16 Board evaluation is to be externally facilitated The Chairman of the Board is to appoint an external facilitator ahead of the 2015 16 Board evaluation The Board should hold a full strategy day off-site each year to focus A strategy day is scheduled for 17 June 2015 on strategic issues, shareholder value and business performance Refreshing of the Board is to continue as vacancies arise The Chairman of the Board and Nominations Committee will continue to develop role specifications and as required search for prospective candidates to be recommended to the Board The Board requires greater insight into the Groups The Executive Directors are to provide the Board with regular updates technologyfunction on the Groups technology function In addition to this rigorous evaluation process, the Board also another company, with all external appointments being takes time after each scheduled Board meeting to consider approved by the Board.
On 30 November 2014, Mark less formally what went well and whether the way the Board Whiteling stood down from his position as Non-Executive operates could be improved in any way.
Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee at Future plc in order to accept an appointment as a Non-Executive Director of Hogg Robinson Group plc on 1 December 2014, Do the Directors commit enough time to the Company?
Details of the remuneration for Any Director is obliged to seek authorisation before taking these external appointments are in the Remuneration Report up any position that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with on page 82. the interests of the Company.
The Board is empowered to authorise situations of potential conflict of interest, where it Val Gooding stepped down from her role as Non-Executive sees fit, so that a Director is not in breach of his or her duty.
Director of the Home Office on 30 April 2014 and was appointed as a Trustee of The Royal Botanic Gardens, All existing external appointments and other such situational Kew on 1 October 2014. conflicts of each Director have been reviewed and authorised by the Board and are recorded on a register which is reviewed In 2014 15, all Directors committed an appropriate amount annually and noted at each Board meeting.
All Directors must of time to fulfil their duties and responsibilities to the Board.
ensure that their external appointments do not involve a time commitment that would adversely affect their responsibilities to Premier Farnell.
If a conflict were to arise in relation to a Are the Non-Executive Directors independent?
transaction or other arrangement proposed between the The Board considers each Non-Executive Directors Company and a party in which any Director had an interest, independence on an annual basis as part of his or her that Director would be obliged to declare the interest, would performance evaluation.
In its 2014 15 review, the Board not receive Board papers and would take no part in any concluded that all the Non-Executive Directors who had discussions or decisions on the matter.
served during the year were independent in accordance with the provisions set out in the Code.
The Chairman met Premier Farnell recognises that there are significant the independence criteria defined by the Code as at the advantages to both individuals and to the Board when our date of her appointment.
Directors serve on the boards of other companies.
In line with the Code, the Companys policy is that Executive Directors are permitted to hold one non-executive directorship with Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 51 In compliance with the Code, all of our Directors will retire Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms, subject at our Annual General Meeting in June 2015 and offer to re-election, and terms beyond six years are subject to rigorous themselves for re-election save for Gary Hughes who will review.
Accordingly, Non-Executive Directors are appointed for seek election as this is his first year as a Non-Executive a maximum of two terms of three years and thereafter annually Director with the Company.
subject to satisfactory performance and commitment.
The respective periods of service of our Non-Executive Directors including the Board Chairman during 2014 2015 are: Start date for Name Appointed on current term Andrew Dougal 01 09 2006 17 06 2014 one year Dennis Millard 01 09 2007 17 06 2014 one year Paul Withers 01 09 2007 17 06 2014 one year Thomas Reddin 30 09 2010 18 06 2013 three years Val Gooding 15 06 2011 17 06 2014 three years Peter Ventress 01 10 2013 01 10 2013 three years Gary Hughes 01 11 2014 01 11 2014 three years 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Dennis Millard stood down on 31 January 2015.
How do they get to know and keep up to date The Board held its December meetings at CPC in Preston, UK enabling Non-Executive Directors to meet the management with the business?
team there and review business performance.
All Directors receive a comprehensive induction.
On his appointment in November 2014, Gary Hughes commenced Each scheduled Board meeting includes a review and a tailored induction programme which includes: discussion of the Groups businesses and the majority of scheduled meetings include a presentation by a business or an overview of the Group, its functions and governance: functional leader of his or her area of responsibility.
The Board briefings on Directors regulatory and also spends time and has regular correspondence with the compliance responsibilities: executive management team: in 2014 15, this included at the joint Board and DAB meeting.
site visits to Group locations with Leeds and Chicago planned for 2015 : The Boards annual performance evaluation is used by the detailed reviews of the strategic projects and initiatives Chairman to assess the time commitment and the training underway: and and development needs of each Director.
one-to-one meetings with the executive management team and other key personnel.
To further their understanding of the Group and enhance constructive challenge, Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to visit Group locations and spend time with local personnel.
During the year under review, visits have taken place to our facilities in Cleveland USA, Chicago USA, Ohio USA, Bangalore India and Leeds UK.
