10 Premier Farnell Akron Brass Global leader in high performance fire-fighting and emergency response equipment Since its inception in 1918, Akron Brass has been an industry leader in fire-fighting equipment including handheld nozzles, monitors and valves.
The business continues to add more products to its core water-flow categories while extending its portfolio with specialised electronics and lighting solutions.
The business has invested in new product developments such as unique high-power LED lighting products for global applications and custom designed monitors and nozzles addressing specialised needs of customers in emerging markets.
Akron Brass offers customers a balanced product portfolio within our five core categories: valves, monitors, nozzles, electronics and lighting.
Each category is analysed for product evolution investments to sustain business, category expansion closing product line gaps, taking competitive share, and category revolution all new products that expand and or create categories.
Headquartered in Wooster, Ohio, in the United States, Akron Brass has manufacturing facilities in Columbus, Ohio, Washington, Illinois and sales offices in Beijing, China, Dubai and UAE.
With over 30% of 2014 15 sales coming from outside the United States, Akron Brass continues to expand its market reach and build a global brand.
Akron Brass 2014 15 snapshot Full year sales growth up 1.3% year on year Robust financial performance given strong prior year comparators Reach Engineering fully integrated following prior year acquisition Long term supply contract win for private label vehicle controls for primary US emergency vehicle builder International project wins in China, India and Thailand Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 11 Marketplace Customers in over The strengthening US economy is boosting demand in the fire apparatus, ambulance, bus and commercial truck markets.
Akron Brasss share of the US fire apparatus market achieved a 9% growth rate, supported by its sales and distribution partners.
100 countries Our Weldon business drove 38% growth in ambulance and 37% in commercial truck related sales fuelled by new products, strategic business agreements, and increasing vehicle demand.
Overall concerns on exports by US manufacturers have not significantly slowed vehicle build rates: 2015 indicators for the US specialty markets are positive for Akron and will be further supported by differentiated product introductions planned within each segment.
Akron Brasss fire protection and mitigation solutions for industrial markets saw sales growth of 11% as project momentum continued in petro-chemical systems for fixed-site and marine based segments.
Lower global oil prices have resulted in oil producers reducing capital spending plans and this is expected to have a moderate impact on business with these customers which Akron Brass will mitigate through a solid project pipeline, regional focus, and downstream activities in oil tanking, transportation and refining.
Excluding the large India contracts, Akrons International sales were flat year on year despite increasing headwinds on US$ strength and a challenging economic environment in Europe.
North American municipal equipment had similar results.
While department funds are improving, cyclical spending for personal protective gear and breathing apparatus which are not part of the Akron Brass product proposition was a focus this past year.
Municipal sales rebounded in the fourth quarter and momentum is forecast into the new financial year as spending shifts back towards Akrons core product lines and several new products targeted at this segment are launched.
Business model Akron Brass designs and develops products and systems, delivering value by manufacturing innovative and reliable, high performance solutions that improve the safety and efficiency of our customers personnel and equipment.
The business creates value through a three step process encompassing innovating new solutions, high quality product manufacture and its global sales and marketing capability.
How Akron creates value: Innovate Manufacture Sell Customer needs are at the centre of new product Akron seeks to deliver continuous improvement Akron Brass sells through a global network development at Akron Brass.
Through customer of processes, capabilities, capacity and quality of distributors and original equipment insight and outcome-driven processes, Akron through its advanced manufacturing facilities manufacturers OEMs.
strives to deliver innovative products and services.
and use of lean production techniques and the latest technologies.
Close collaboration and joint development Revenue from newly released products exceeds efforts from end user to distributor to OEM 20% of total sales.
Customers benefit from access to highly ensure tight control of specification, delivery, customised, short lot parts with exceptional installation and servicing of its products.
quality and short lead times.
Akron employs the largest factory-direct sales team of the industry.
