4 Premier Farnell element14 Building the global destination for electronics To support our ambition of becoming the trusted experts that link suppliers and the innovators of technology, we have begun to evolve and extend our business model.
Beyond the distribution of small quantities of components, delivered to meet very short lead times, we now also provide a range of value-add services, such as the online community for design engineers which was enhanced during the year by the implementation of a state of the art design centre: the build out of our software offering: as well as the introduction of and investment in a higher volume production proposition.
In addition, we now provide turnkey design, manufacturing and distribution solutions to our suppliers as we support their new product introductions.
Through our multichannel sales and marketing approach, we seek to enhance the relationships with our core engineering customer base, especially online.
By investing in extensive and innovative multichannel sales and marketing resources, we have developed an online ecosystem that combines technology expertise, 24 hours five days a week support, an online engineering community and local multichannel sales support for customers all around the globe.
element14 2014 15 snapshot Full year sales growth up 2.8% year on year Price positioning actions taken to ensure the competitiveness of our proposition given the impact of currency fluctuations on local markets Progress to enhance proposition for our three target customer segments: - Engineering customers: development kit sales up over 20% year on year - Manufacturing customers: investments completed to build small production proposition - Component manufacturers: over 90 projects for 20 semiconductor manufacturers completed The design of a global, functional organisation completed with a new Executive team appointed Roll-out of new global web platform completed globally to enable growth of the eCommerce channel Maintenance Repair Service Pilot Prototype R&D Maker Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 5 Marketplace The entire global electronics The global electronic components marketplace has historically been comprised market is worth of three broad segments: high service distribution: volume distribution: and mass volume, which is typically serviced by the component manufacturers directly.
These segments reflect the volume of products needed at each stage of the 300 billion product lifecycle see figure 02.
The entire electronics market is worth approximately300 billion globally.
The element14 business is one of the leaders in the global high service distribution marketplace, which is estimated to be worth approximately 20 billion globally.
Here we sell relatively small quantities of components and tools to our many engineering customers, either directly or through purchasing professionals.
These engineers are engaged at either the front end of the product lifecycle where they are conceptualising, designing and prototyping new electronic innovations or are involved in servicing, maintaining and repairing existing technology products.
2014 15 saw significant currency fluctuations which contributed to a more competitive global marketplace.
Over the longer term, we expect customer behaviour to continue to evolve as more business is conducted online and as the distinction between high service and volume distribution blurs further.
Against this backdrop, we have taken steps to ensure that our price positioning is appropriate and during the last year built a small volume production proposition for manufacturing customers that will enable us to compete more effectively in this market.
element14 has entered a new market in design services and the manufacturing of development kits, developing a leading solution for a market that we estimate tobe worth approximately 350 million globally.
This is a fragmented marketplace typically served by a combination of independent design houses and contract equipment manufacturers.
Through the services offered by our recent acquisitions of Embest and AVID Technologies, we now support component manufacturers through their innovative processes as they design new technology ahead of it being launched through our distribution channels, thereby turning these key suppliers into customers.
Figure 02 Design Services Electronics Market 350mn global market 300bn global market: 20bn addressable Component Manufacturing Direct Volume distribution Manufacturing Customers High services Component Manufacturer Production OEM CEM Volume 6 Premier Farnell Resources Our global infrastructure and resources include innovative online resources, regionalcontact centres, back office systems and a network of distribution centres.
Thereorganisation of our element14 business towards a global structure, whichisbeing undertaken in the new financial year, will enable us to leverage theseresources more effectively and efficiently as we support customer and supplier partners around theworld.
Leeds Lige Shanghai South Carolina Singapore Mexico Sydney 100 1 600,000 engineers at Embest & element14 online community including in stock products available AVIDTechnologies the Design Center 1.1m 1 1,270 sq ft warehouse space in our nine new global web platform, supporting customer facing staff globally element14 distribution centres 48 websites in 35 languages Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 7 Business model Value-add component distribution As outlined in figure 02, our core business is the distribution of products to engineering and manufacturing customers.
We continue to evolve our proposition as we seek to add value at every stage of customers innovation, design and manufacturing processes.
Further information on how we seek to add value to our three targeted and complementary customer segments is outlined in the strategic focus section beginning on page 13.
How we create value: Stock Support Ship Sell We identify and stock the products Engineering customers require Customers interact and purchase Fast and reliable distribution of and services our customers detailed information to ensure from us in the way they prefer locally stocked products is at the require, benefiting from web purchases meet their technical through our multichannel sales and core of our customer proposition.
analytics and insights from specifications.
Our innovative Our distribution centres located the element14 community.
online presence combines with around the globe ship 30,000 In total, we stock over 600,000 The element14 community allows extensive telesales capability and packages each day.
products to help meet customers engineers to collaborate as well 620 field sales resources as well as need for access to a vast range as access technical insights.
significant technical resources to of technologies.
make it easy for customers to do business with us.
How we will sustain and grow this value: Product lifecycle management We continue to develop and Digital Advisory Board provides We maintain business continuity processes, including rigorous enhance our web capabilities insights on enhancing our online plans which are kept under stocking criteria, mitigate as part of our multichannel sales channels from external subject review for all our locations and inventory risk.
strategy in order to maintain our matter experts.
have ongoing reviews and competitive advantage digitally.
testing of our IT infrastructure.
Where appropriate, we agree By leveraging our supplier terms with suppliers to manage We are partnering increasingly relationships to enhance Investment in systems and the risk posed by new product closer with key suppliers our online channels.
focus on workflow introductions including sale to provide the technical improvements will deliver Data and analytics allow orreturn.
specifications and legislative operational efficiencies and us to personalise our information that customers need.
allow us to meet a higher future Insights from data resources customer proposition.
We remain focused used to enhance on reducing the environmental stockingprocesses.
Services offered to component manufacturers provide leadership at the early stages of the product lifecycle.
Enabling new technology & supporting business continuity By connecting suppliers to customers around the world, we play a role in enabling innovation in technologies and extending the life of existing products across a broad number of industry segments, from manufacturing to healthcare, renewable energy to marine technology.
Through our business model, we aim to connect customers and suppliers while creating value for other stakeholders, including employees and shareholders.
