8 Premier Farnell CPC & MCM Electrical & electronic product range for businesses and enthusiasts CPC and MCM supply electrical and electronic and associated products, such as audio visual, lamps and lighting, security, test equipment, tools, computing, mains electrical accessories and PA equipment to a huge range of customers in the United Kingdom and North America.
CPC and MCMs customer base complements our core brands as it includes major wholesalers, education, government, utility companies, IT companies, broadcasters, internet resellers and hobbyists.
Following the lifecycle of a customer is central to the development of these businesses.
Structured to optimise distribution efficiency within the North American and UK regions, CPC and MCM resources aim to provide a customer centric experience.
This is supported by a multichannel strategy which leverages our extensive reach through online, print, contact centre and trade counter sales & marketing capabilities.
All products are stocked onsite, ready for fast same day despatch to support the needs of our customers.
CPC & MCM 2014 15 snapshot Full year sales growth up 7.9% year on year Transfer to CPC & MCM of some Raspberry Pi business MCM continues to benefit from operating ever closer with CPC Rollout of new web platform completed Harmonisation of the product offering is ongoing Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 9 Marketplace Customer facing The gradual return of business investment and productivity in the UK and North sales resources: American markets has generated increased demand in related market sectors, stimulating growth in the core MCM and CPC electrical, installation and tools product segments.
This has led to the growth seen in CPC and MCMs associated 80 ranges for retail customers, including makers and electronics enthusiasts.
Increased output in manufacturing and construction industries, underpinned by Warehouse staff: an upturn in the domestic and commercial real estate sector has helped to increase sales growth in our wholesale customer segment.
Through new product strategy and a highly competitive Private Label offering, CPC and MCM have further 250 enhanced the depth and relevance of our core MRO offering.
This has resulted in accelerated new customer acquisition and a greater share of this market.
Business model As broad line distributors with a diverse customer base, these businesses compete effectively by operating a low cost, fast paced model.
By listening to customers and developing solutions that customers value, the businesses are highly appreciated by suppliers and customers alike.
As a distribution business, CPC and MCMs business model is similar to the core element14 business with four key stages of value creation: stock, support, sell and ship.
We outline below how CPC and MCM add value at each point in the chain.
How we create value: Stock Support Ship Sell CPC and MCM stock over Extensive product information CPC and MCMs range of Fast and reliable distribution of 150,000 diverse products to help available online and through our customer channels make it locally stocked products is at the us meet customers needs for catalogues as well as customer easy to do business with them.
core of our customer proposition.
a one-stop shop of electronic support via our call centres.
Customers value the broad products and supplies.
offering and our competitive We offer free shipping for online product pricing.
How we will sustain and grow this value: Product lifecycle management We continue to develop and Continue to build business in We have ongoing reviews and processes, including rigorous enhance our web capabilities.
growing customer segments testing of our IT infrastructure.
stocking criteria, mitigate such as the Maker space.
Continuous focus on workflow our inventory risk.
improvements will deliver We use data resources and operational efficiencies and market feedback to enhance allow us to meet increased the insights used in future demand.
focused on reducing the environmental impact of doing business.
