36 Premier Farnell Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Directors of Premier Farnell plc The Directors of Premier Farnell plc engaged us to provide Professional standards applied and level of assurance limited assurance on the information described below and We have performed a limited assurance engagement in set out in Premier Farnell plcs Greenhouse Gas GHG accordance with International Standard on Assurance Statement for the Group within the 2014 Sustainability Engagements 3410 Assurance engagements on greenhouse Report and the Annual Report and Accounts for the year gas statements ISAE 3410 and, in respect of intensity ended 1 February 2015. measures information, in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Our conclusion Financial information ISAE 3000 issued by the International Based on the procedures we have performed and Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.
A limited assurance the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable our attention that causes us to believe the Selected assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment Information for the year ended 31 December 2014 procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and has not been prepared, in all material respects, in the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks.
accordance with the Reporting Criteria.
Our Independence and Quality Control This conclusion is to be read in the context of what we say We have complied with the Institute of Chartered Accountants in the remainder of this report.
in England and Wales ICAEW Code of Ethics, which includes independence and other requirements founded on fundamental Selected Information principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence We assured the information for the year ended 31 December and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour.
2014 presented in the Greenhouse Gas Statement for the Group the Selected Information, http: www.
We apply International Standard on Quality Control UK&I com sustainability.
and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures The Selected Information and the Reporting Criteria are regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional summarised in the table below.
Our assurance does not standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
extend to information in respect of earlier periods or to any other information included in the Annual Report and Our work was carried out by a team of sustainability and Accounts for the year ended 1 February 2015. assurance specialists, independent of management.
1 Selected Information Reporting Criteria Understanding reporting and measurement methodologies Non-financial information needs to be read and understood in Scope 1 emissions http: www.
com conjunction with the Reporting Criteria, given the characteristics Scope 2 emissions sustainability of the subject matter and the methods used in determining Carbon intensity such information.
The absence of a significant body of established practice on which to draw allows for selection 1 The maintenance and integrity of Premier Farnell plcs website is the of different but acceptable measurement techniques which responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by us does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, we accept no responsibility can result in materially different measurements and can for any changes that may have occurred to the reported Selected Information affect comparability.
The precision of different measurement or Reporting Criteria when presented on Premier Farnell plcs website techniques may also vary.
Furthermore, the nature and methods used to determine such information, as well as measurement criteria and precision thereof, may change over time.
The Reporting Criteria used as the basis of Premier Farnell plcs reporting are as at 24 April 2015 and should therefore be read in conjunction with the Selected Information and associated statements as at 24 April 2015 reported on Premier Farnell plcs website.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 37 Work done Our responsibilities Considering the risk of material misstatement of the Selected We are responsible for: Information, we: planning and performing the engagement to obtain limited made enquiries of relevant management: assurance about whether the Selected Information is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: interviewed personnel: forming an independent conclusion, based on the performed analytical procedures: procedures we have performed and the evidence we have considered the structure and basis of data management obtained: and systems and controls: and reporting our conclusion to the Directors of Premier Farnell plc.
performed limited testing, on a selective basis, of supporting documentation to the Selected Information disclosed in the This report, including our conclusions, has been prepared GHG Statement for the Group.
solely for the Directors of Premier Farnell plc as a body in accordance with the agreement between us, to assist the Premier Farnell plcs responsibilities Directors in reporting Premier Farnell plcs performance and The Directors of Premier Farnell plc are responsible for: activities.
We permit this report to be disclosed in the Annual designing, implementing and maintaining internal controls Report and Accounts for the year ended 1 February 2015, over information relevant to the preparation of the Selected to enable the Directors to show they have addressed their Information that is free from material misstatement, whether governance responsibilities by obtaining an independent due to fraud or error: assurance report in connection with the Selected Information.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or establishing objective Reporting Criteria for preparing the assume responsibility to anyone other than the Directors as a Selected Information: body and Premier Farnell plc for our work or this report except measuring and reporting the Selected Information based where terms are expressly agreed between us in writing.
on the Reporting Criteria: and the content of the Greenhouse Gas Statement for the Group  LLP, and the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended Chartered Accountants, Leeds 1 February 2015.
