2 Premier Farnell Welcome to our 2014 15 Annual Report and Accounts Laurence Bain 2014 15 performance but recognise that progress in each Chief Executive The past financial year has been a customer segment and the resulting challenging period for Premier Farnell customer and product mix will most as we transform the business and likely lead to dilution of our gross position ourselves for future profitable margin over time.
Group sales grew by 3.3% in 2014 15, up from 2.6% in the prior Our focus is on growing financial year, with growth supported gross profit year on year by our strategic initiatives.
whilst improving the overall During the year, we have evolved our efficiency of our model.
strategy to focus on three complementary target customer segments.
The first Whilst this transition has led to a 0.7 segment comprises the design and percentage point decline in gross margin maintenance engineers who have to 36.8%, we have delivered growth in historically made up the core of our gross profits, on a constant currency business.
We are building and leveraging basis, up 1.4% year on year.
Focused our technical experience to attract cost control and improving the efficiency customers at the cutting edge of of our model are constant priorities for our technology.
The second segment is business.
The effective management of manufacturing customers with small to our cost profile has enabled us to offset We have outlined our medium production volume requirements.
the majority of the gross margin decline, The third segment is the component vision to become the delivering SG&A as a percentage of sales manufacturers who have long been our at 27.6%, a reduction of 0.4 percentage global destination for electronics key supplier partners.
It is our intent to points at constant exchange rates.
customers and set out the clear become the recognised technology experts for design services and the strategic priorities we will deliver Through the management of sales, manufacturing of development kits.
Through the gross margin and costs our full year adjusted operating profit was maintained investments we have made We have made significant investments at broadly flat levels at constant currency this year, along with the global in developing our proposition to each compared to the prior year.
of these segments which has helped to reorganisation of our element14 improve the top line sales momentum.
A detailed review of our 2014 15 business, Premier Farnell is As we invest to grow revenues, we performance is set out from positioned to improve its future remain focused on managing gross pages 26 to 32. financial performance.
margin in line with market conditions Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 3 Figure 01: Our Seven Strategic Priorities Objective Strategic priority KPI 2014 15 Growth Become the recognised technology experts for design services and manufacturing 6% sales growth 3.3% of development kits for global component manufacturers Build and leverage technical expertise to attract engineering customers at the cutting 4% ACB growth -2.1% edge of technology Grow our business with engineering and manufacturing customers, especially 10% emerging 13.1% in the emerging markets markets growth Efficiency Evolve our operating model into a more efficient and effective global, function based structure 30% RONA 29.6% Develop attractive eCommerce channels that enable automation of processes 70% eCommerce 49.3% Profitability Optimise our business through effective management of gross margin and costs 10%-12% ROS% 9.2% Cash Optimise use of cash in the business and distribution of funds to shareholders 6% FCF to sales 3.7% through-the-cycle Further detail on 2014 15 performance against the KPIs is outlined on pages 22 and 23.
Strategic priorities become one element14 team.
A new Whilst our 2014 15 performance in As shown in figure 01, we have outlined executive team was appointed with comparison to our targets reflects our seven strategic priorities and the metrics functional leaders for Sales and journey to transform Premier Farnell, by which we will measure our progress Marketing, Product and Suppliers, the investments made will enable us across the economic cycles in executing Supply Chain, and Technology, as well to deliver improving future financial our strategy.
In doing so, we will create as global leaders for support functions performance.
We are now focused sustainable shareholder value by including Finance, Human Resources on driving profitable growth, reducing costs and improving the efficiency of growing our business, delivering and Legal.
The leadership structures our model as we position the business efficiencies, optimising profitability for Akron Brass and MDD, the other for the future.
With the transformation and delivering free cash flow.
distribution businesses CPC & MCM of the Group underway, the Board remain unchanged.
Since then, we have recommends that the full year dividend completed the design of a proposed We are on a journey to transform is maintained at 10.4p, reflecting our new integrated, global organisational Premier Farnell and have made commitment to shareholder returns.
structure which involved over 70 some positive strides this year.
functional experts from around the Outlook business.
As well as better enabling the The investments planned and As we look to the future, the investments execution of our strategy, the simplified implemented this year have enhanced we have made will enable us to accelerate global structure will deliver operating our customer proposition for all three the execution of our strategic growth efficiencies, economies of scale and our of our target customer segments, initiatives as we strive to become the ability to better leverage our global assets thereby supporting our ambitions to global destination for electronics in serving all our customers.
By delivering this vision, remaining focused on costs and Through this rigorous design process, The global rollout of our new web platform completing the global transformation we have identified efficiency savings is now complete and performing as of element14, we believe that Premier beyond those initially anticipated.
The new web platform Farnell will be well positioned to are now targeting total annual cost provides us with the foundation on deliver enhanced medium term benefits of 10m to 12m, once the which to drive our eCommerce agenda financial performance.
new structure is fully implemented, and attain our eCommerce and Active with approximately 3m to 4m of Customer Base targets.
And we have benefit in 2015 16 and the further now embarked on the rationalisation of 7m to 8m of benefit in 2016 17. our operating model as we transform the regional element14 businesses into a new globally aligned organisation.
In June 2014, we announced our move to
