58 Premier Farnell Directors Report The Directors of Premier Farnell plc present their report and The Premier Farnell Executive Trust EBT or Trust holds the audited financial statements of the Group and Company ordinary shares in the Company acquired in the market for the year ended 1 February 2015. in order to meet obligations under the Companys executive share plans.
Throughout the year under review, a waiver by The Directors Report comprises these pages 58 to 61 and the Trusts right to receive dividends on ordinary shares held the other sections and pages of the Annual Report crossby it was in place further details are set out in note 20 page referred below which are incorporated by reference.
126 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Trustees of the EBT may vote or abstain from voting shares held in the As permitted by legislation, certain disclosures normally Trust in any way they see fit.
included in the Directors Report have instead been integrated into the Strategic Report pages 2 to 39.
These disclosures Who are the members of the Board?
include information relating to future business developments The names and biographical details of the Directors who references throughout the Strategic Report and the Groups are standing for election or re-election at the June 2015 AGM principal risks and uncertainties pages 24 and 25. appear on pages 44 and 45.
Information relating to Directors interests in the Companys shares is included in the What profit was made during the year?
The Directors who The Groups total operating profit for the financial year was held office during the year under review were: 83.1 million 2013 14: 91.5 million and its adjusted operating profit was 88.0 million 2013 14: 93.0 million.
Current year Val Gooding adjusting items comprise restructuring costs of 5.1 million, a Laurence Bain net gain on the disposal of certain US property of 0.3 million Mark Whiteling and acquisition costs of 0.1 million.
Profit attributable to Andrew Dougal owners of Premier Farnell plc for the financial year to 1 February 2015 was 47.5 million 2013 14: 51.4 million.
Gary Hughes appointed 1 November 2014 Dennis Millard stood down 31 January 2015 What final dividend are the Directors recommending?
Tom Reddin The Directors recommend that a final dividend equivalent Peter Ventress to 6.0 pence per ordinary share be paid on 25 June 2015 to those shareholders on the register of members at the close Paul Withers of business on 29 May 2015.
If this is approved, this will result in a dividend on the ordinary shares for FY14 15 of: Are the Directors indemnified?
The Company provided indemnities to each of its Directors during the year ending 1 February 2015 in accordance with Ordinary shares m the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, Interim dividend of 4.4p per 16.2 allowing the indemnification of Directors out of the assets share paid on 23 October 2014 of the Company to the extent permitted by law.
These 2013 14: 4.4p per share indemnities constitute qualifying indemnities for the purposes Proposed final dividend of 6.0p 22.0 of the Companies Act 2006 and remain in force at the date per share of approval of this report without any payment having been 2013 14: 6.0p per share made under them.
Total ordinary dividend of 10.4p 38.2 per share Have the Directors disclosed information to the 2013 14: 10.4p per share Companys Auditors?
Each of the Directors confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and that he or she has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as auditor and to authorise the Directors to determine the auditors remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 59 What classes of shares does the Company have Are there any significant agreements or agreements and do they have any rights or restrictions?
to provide compensation upon takeover?
The Companys authorised share capital comprises ordinary There are no agreements between any Group company shares of five pence each in nominal value and cumulative and any of its employees or any Director of the Company convertible redeemable preference shares of 1 each in nominal that provide for compensation to be paid to the employee or value.
As at 1 February 2015, the ordinary shares and preference Director for termination of employment or for loss of office shares represented 85.16% and 14.84% respectively of the as a consequence of a takeover of the Company, other than Companys total share capital.
Details of the Companys issued provisions that would apply on any termination of employment.
share capital, including any changes which have taken place during the year under review, are set out in notes 16 page 115 The Companys multi-currency bank facilities and its private and 20 page 123 to the consolidated financial statements.
note placements are subject to provisions allowing the lenders to terminate the facilities and demand repayment following The rights attached to the Companys ordinary shares and a change of control.
its preference shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Who are the major shareholders and what are their Association the Articles, a copy of which can be obtained interests in the Company?
on request from the Company Secretary.
A summary of the The table below shows the notifiable voting rights in the rights attached to the preference shares appears in note 16 Companys ordinary share capital disclosed in accordance to the consolidated financial statements.
with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR5 at 1 February 2015 and any The Articles contain certain restrictions on the transfer of changes up to and including 15 April 2015. ordinary and preference shares and on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, including where the Company has % holding % holding exercised its right to prohibit transfer following the omission as at as at of their holder or any person interested in them to provide the Company with information requested by it in accordance with Company 01 02 2015 15 4 2015 Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006.
Holders of preference M&G 9.21% 9.21% shares are entitled to receive notice of but not attend or vote UBS Global Asset 5.13% 5.13% at general meetings of the Company other than in limited Management circumstances.
The preference shares are not classed as J O Hambro Capital 5.08% 5.08% equity for the purposes of financial reporting.
Management Harris Associates Ltd 5.04% 5.04% Does the Company have powers to buy back its own shares?
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company Baillie Gifford & Co Below 5% Below 5% on 16 June 2015, the Company will seek authority from its BlackRock Inc Below 5% Below 5% shareholders to purchase its ordinary and preference shares.
Newton Investment 4.97% 4.97% Authorities were previously granted at the Annual General Fidelity International FIL 4.90% 4.90% Meeting in 2014 and expire at the close of the forthcoming meeting.
The authorities sought will, if granted, empower Artemis Investment 4.86% 4.86% the Directors to exercise them on behalf of the Company.
Schroders plc 4.84% 4.84% Standard Life 4.76% 4.76% During the year ended 1 February 2015 the Company did Investments Limited 3.05% Direct and 3.05% Direct and not purchase, acquire or dispose of any ordinary shares.
The 1.71% Indirect 1.71% Indirect Company exercised its authority to acquire and subsequently Old Mutual Global 4.60% 4.60% cancel 712,948 cumulative convertible preference shares for a Investors UK Limited total consideration of 11,442,815.
These shares had a nominal Legal & General 4.03% 4.03% value of 712,948 and represented 18.1% of the cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares in issue prior to the Norges Bank 3.92% 3.92% purchase.
The purchase was considered to be beneficial to the ongoing earnings and cash flow profile of the Group.
Further details are set out in note 16 page 115 to the consolidated financial statements.
60 Premier Farnell Directors Report continued Is there anything else we should know?
Directors Statements Greenhouse gas emissions disclosures on greenhouse gas emissions and environmental matters can be found in Statement of Directors responsibilities the Sustainability Report on page 33.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements Employees and diversity information about the in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Under that Companys employees and the Groups policy on diversity law the Directors have prepared the consolidated financial can be found on pages 38 to 39 of the Strategic Report.
statements and Annual Report in accordance with International Political donations the Groups policy is not to make Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the contributions to political parties and no donations were European Union and parent company financial statements in made during FY14 15. accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
Under company law the Directors must not approve Group subsidiaries details of the Groups principal the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give trading subsidiaries can be found on page 143 note D a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and to the Companys financial statements.
the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Research and development the Groups expenditure on product research and development activities is included on In preparing these financial statements the Directors are page 106 note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
required to: Financial Instruments information on the Groups select suitable accounting policies and then apply financial risk management objectives and policies and them consistently: on the exposure of the Group to relevant risks in respect make judgements and estimates that are reasonable of financial instruments is set out on page 118 note 19 and prudent: to the consolidated financial statements.
state that the consolidated financial statements comply with Disclosure of information under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the parent information on allotments of shares for cash pursuant to company financial statements comply with UK GAAP: and the Groups employee share schemes can be found on prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, page 123 note 20 to the consolidated financial statements.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will Publication of unaudited financial information the continue in business.
Company published two Interim Management Statements 15 May 2014 and 14 November 2014 and a trading The Directors confirm that they have complied with the statement 5 February 2015 containing unaudited financial above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
information relating to the financial year ended 1 February The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 2015.
The actual audited figures for the same period are records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys included in the consolidated financial statements pages transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 92 to 138. time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 61 Directors responsibility statement pursuant to DTR 4 Each of the Directors, as listed on pages 44 and 45, confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: a. the consolidated financial statements in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, and the Company financial statements in this report which have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group taken as a whole: and b. the management report Strategic Report contained in this Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Going concern The Directors have assessed, in the light of current and anticipated economic conditions, the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, including its solvency and liquidity.
The Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements.
By order of the Board Steven Webb Company Secretary Premier Farnell plc Farnell House, Forge Lane Leeds LS12 2NE 24 April 2015
