Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 65 Remuneration Committee overview Remuneration Committee overview Paul Withers Chairman Who else was on the Committee?
To monitor the reward policies and structure for the RemCo population and the Group as a whole - Andrew Dougal To approve the design of and oversee awards under - Gary Hughes from 1 November 2014 employee share schemes, including satisfaction of - Dennis Millard to 31 January 2015 performance conditions - Peter Ventress To operate any rights of clawback or scaleback under the short or long-term incentive schemes Steven Webb acted as Secretary to the Committee throughout the year.
To approve pension benefits additional to those under the Companys pension schemes The Committee members are all independent NonTo oversee changes to employee benefit structures Executive Directors.
There are a number of regular attendees at Committee meetings, including the Group To consider risks to the Group as a result of the Policy Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Board and the or its implementation Chief People Officer.
No individual is present when his or To report on the Companys remuneration, including her own remuneration or fees are discussed or decided.
Key objective: The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually To develop policy on Executive remuneration, linking and are available on the Governance section of our website remuneration and performance, fix the remuneration of at www.
individual Executive Directors, the Chairman of the Board and executive team immediately below Board level and New Bridge Street NBS has been appointed by the administer the Companys share plans.
Committee to provide Executive remuneration advice to the Committee and to the Company.
NBS has not provided Responsibilities: any other services and has no other connections with the To determine remuneration for Executive Directors and Group.
The Committee Chairman and other members of the executive team the RemCo population consistent the Committee have direct access to advice from NBS and with the Policy the Committee Chairman is informed of all material advice NBS provides to the Company.
New Bridge Street is a To review and have regard to remuneration trends founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group across the Group when setting the Policy and and a signatory of its Code of Conduct setting out the role remuneration practice for the RemCo population of Executive remuneration consultants and the professional To approve design of and targets for performancestandards by which they advise their clients.
NBS charges related pay for the RemCo population, approving any for its advice on an hourly basis and the amount paid to payments to be made based on performance them for their advice during the year was 70,000 excluding VAT.
The appointment of NBS as advisers and the level of To determine the fees of the Chairman fees paid to them are reviewed by the Committee annually.
To approve contracts of employment with Executive The Committee members also use their experience serving Directors and any termination arrangements on other boards to assess the objectivity and independence of the advice they receive.
