42 Operating review continued Global Products Global Products combines cutting-edge technologies with an intimate understanding of customer problems and strong productisation skills to deliver innovative solutions to meet customer requirements.
The division also undertakes contract-funded research and development, developing intellectual property in partnership with key customers, with potential for new revenue streams.
To reduce the volatility of its revenue profile over time, QinetiQ is seeking to increase its portfolio of products and to find new markets and applications for its existing offerings.
Financial performance Despite the continued prevalence of  acquisitions in the US, careful cost control and a reduction of headcount The performance of Global Products continued to be impacted by the provided some protection to profitability, with the division delivering ongoing reduction of US military forces deployed to Afghanistan and an underlying operating profit margin of 13.2% 2014: 15.4%.
reduced funding for US military operations which depressed demand for conflict-related products.
2015 2014 m m Revenue was 138.2m 2014: 175.6m primarily due to reduced sales Orders 152.0 149.1 of conflict-related products.
Revenue 138.2 175.6 Orders grew by 2% to 152.0m 2014: 149.1m as demand for EMEA Underlying operating profit 18.3 27.0 products offset the slow order intake in the US products business.
Underlying operating margin 13.2% 15.4% The Global Products division had more than half of its FY16 revenue Book to bill ratio 1.1x 0.8x already under contract at the beginning of the new financial year, Funded backlog 116.7 97.1 slightly better than at the same time last year.
Definitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary on Underlying operating profit was 18.3m 2014: 27.0m, page 141. impacted by the reduction in revenue and by approximately $5m of additional one-off costs associated with separating from P93 Financial statements US Services infrastructure.
Markets and outlook Our value pipeline In January 2015, Jeff Yorsz took up his appointment as President of Our Organic-Plus strategy prioritises active portfolio management.
QinetiQs US products business, joining from Northrop Grumman.
All of our business operations are graded within a value pipeline which Jeff is leading the realignment of the business in response to structural gives us full visibility and direction over our assets and capabilities.
changes in its core markets.
This will result in a greater focus on Core Explore Test for value contract-funded research and development and US DoD Programs of Record, as well as on commercial and international markets.
TALON robots OptaSense ASX In Global Products, newer products are recording notable milestones Survivability Space Products SPO and the amount of revenue under contract at the start of FY16 is up products Robotic appliqu kits MEWS slightly on a year ago, but the drawdown of American overseas military Contract-funded DriveRobotics Linewatch forces is continuing to depress demand for conflict-related products.
R&D Commerce High density As the division has a lumpy revenue profile which is dependent on Decisions AWARD generator the timing and shipment of key orders, there is a range of possible outcomes for the performance of Global Products in the current year.
P6 Market overview P12 Our Organic-Plus strategy Understanding our business What we do Approximate Approximate total Key sites annual revenues employees UK unless stated Contract-funded research and development Waltham, US products and innovative products that protect people Massachusetts, c. 60m c. 250 and assets, such as military robots.
US Core A bespoke fibre sensing business that delivers under Farnborough, Winfrith OptaSense Decision Ready Data to multiple vertical markets.
and Portishead, UK Houston, US 25m c. 150 Calgary, Canada Dubai, UAE Explore Provides satellites, payload instruments, under Antwerp, Belgium Space Products sub-systems and ground station services.
Farnborough c. 150 25m Explore EMEA products Provides research services and bespoke solutions N A developed from IP spun out from the core.
c. 40m N A Test for value QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 43 Year in review national infrastructure also increased demand.
At the end of the year, Core OptaSense signed a framework supply agreement to protect US Global Products continues to meet the US Department for Defence critical national infrastructure including pipelines, airports and DoD requirements for maintenance, repair and overhaul for military other facilities for a customer in the Middle East.
When complete, robots, demonstrating the customers commitment to keeping the two-year project could involve 200 units and encompass up unmanned systems as a principal part of Explosive Ordnance to 8,000km of assets.
The business won $24m of orders to reset TALON QinetiQs Space Products business provides satellites, payload robots, modernising them for future operations.
These reset awards instruments, sub-systems and ground station services.
At the end position the business well for future US DoD Programs of Record, of the year, it was awarded a contract worth 16m over three years although to date these have been slow to emerge.
The fifth to develop the computer and avionics for the European Space generation of TALON was launched during the year, incorporating Agencys ESAs Proba-3 satellites that will fly in formation and use the ability to use third-party commercial components to capitalise on an eclipsing mechanism to study the Sun.
The business is also playing the continued convergence of military and civil robotic technologies.
a vital role in ESAs IXV mission launched in February 2015, as its In addition, $14m of orders for unmanned systems were won from technology will be responsible for guiding the space taxi, a smaller international customers.
In response to the growing use of robotics in version of the US space shuttle, safely back to Earth.
the construction and demolition industries, the US products business TM launched DriveRobotics, an appliqu kit that transforms existing Subsidiaries Boldon James and Commerce Decisions are reported and new Bobcat vehicles into unmanned vehicles.
Demand for in Global Products.
Commerce Decisions delivered record revenue survivability products continues to be impacted by the drawdown and profit in 2015, securing an enterprise-wide contract for the third of US military operations, although new orders were received for year from the MOD for its AWARD procurement software, as well armour for the C-130 aircraft.
as delivering growth in the UK health and transport markets.
The business also secured its first order in Canada shortly after year end.
The sale of QinetiQs US Services division, completed in May 2014, removed organisational conflict of interest OCI barriers that prohibited the US Global Products business from pursuing Test for value strategically important DoD research and development contracts.
The business is now building on its base of contract-funded R&D In the Test for Value category, field evaluations are underway for TM projects both as an alternative revenue stream and as a source the Linewatch power line sensor system, which precisely measures of future intellectual property: it saw a modest increase in these voltage and currents on power grids.
The product is designed to meet activities during the year.
For example, it was one of two suppliers emerging Smart Grid requirements for the detection of faults and power to receive a contract from the Defense Advanced Research Projects theft, condition-based maintenance, and distributed power generation.
Agency DARPA for the first phase development of the Hydra In addition, the US products business is developing a High Power programme to develop a distributed undersea network of modular Density Generator which can provide the modular roll-on roll-off unmanned platforms and payloads.
This positions the business well power required for emerging defence and civil applications.
for follow-on phases of the programme and other projects with the QinetiQs UK business has world-leading capabilities in electronic US Office of Naval Research.
TM signals intelligence and during the year it launched ASX, a small sensor that delivers airborne surveillance capability.
The MOD TM selected QinetiQs Modular Electronic Warfare System MEWS Explore ahead of more established products to form the basis of its OptaSense is a Distributed Acoustic Sensing DAS business which Medium Weight Electronic Surveillance Capability for expeditionary is organised around market-facing business development units and operations.
Further milestone orders won during the year included a single technical Centre of Excellence now incorporating the laser a $3m contract with the US Transportation Security Administration TM manufacturer Redfern Integrated Optics RIO acquired this year.
to develop the next generation of QinetiQs SPO stand-off The business made progress implementing its strategy of developing Millimetre Wave threat detection system.
partnerships with leading industry players to exploit its key markets.
In rail, OptaSense continues to work with German rail operator Deutsche Bahn and also won a $5m initial award from the Saudi Rail Organisation to provide security monitoring for over 1,000km of rail line.
In oil and gas, the product development agreement with Shell continues to deliver significant technical progress.
This year, the fall in the oil price, and consequent capex reductions by Oil Majors, slowed the adoption of DAS for well completion but improved the economics of its use for flow monitoring and seismic profiling.
Immediately after year end the business entered into a non-exclusive strategic alliance with Weatherford to deliver solutions to optimise well planning, construction and production.
In infrastructure security, the delivery of some key projects was interrupted by a worsening security situation particularly in the Middle East, however the increased threat to QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
