52 Corporate governance statement continued The Board as a whole is informed on a regular basis about the views Relations with shareholders of key shareholders, including their concerns.
The Investor Relations The Company attaches significant importance to the effectiveness Director reports to the CEO, and provides regular updates to the of its communications with shareholders and sets itself the target of Chairman and Non-executive Directors by way of face-to-face providing information that is timely, clear and concise.
Responsibility briefings, email updates and a section in the Executive Directors for maintaining regular communications with shareholders rests with report which is included in the Board papers as a standing item.
the Chief Executive Officer CEO and the Chief Financial Officer CFO, The following information is included in these reports: assisted by the Investor Relations Director.
financial calendar and draft material: An investor perception audit was conducted during the financial share price performance: year by an independent third party comprising interviews with a dozen leading institutional shareholders in July and August 2014 the composition of the shareholder register: controlling some 45% of the issued equity.
The results of this feedback from investor meetings, including key questions: audit were considered by the Board as part of its review of Group strategy in October, and when setting the criteria for the new CEO covering sell-side analysts, their recommendations and recruitment process.
expectations: and According to the audit, the QinetiQ investor relations team had peer group news.
met with over 100 institutional contacts in the preceding 12 months, accounting for more than three-quarters of QinetiQs institutional Other investor activity during the last financial year included: shareholding base.
More than 70 of these meetings were hosted telephone briefings for analysts and investors, at least six times by the Executive Directors, who met with eight out of ten top per year in conjunction with key financial announcements and shareholders and 21 out of the top 30. financial period ends: The Chairman proactively offers to attend meetings with key face-to-face presentations of full year and half-year results, shareholders, and their corporate governance teams, on a regular in May and November respectively, where the Chairman and basis.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and Directors were available for discussions with investors: Non-executive Directors routinely attend key financial calendar events such as presentations of interim and preliminary results live and post-event webcasts of key presentations such as the and make themselves available to meet shareholders as required.
full year and half-year results: investor road shows held in London, Edinburgh, and the east Following the announcement of the resignation of the Chief Executive and west coasts of the United States in May, June, November Officer, the Chairman and Investor Relations Director engaged with and December: top shareholders, subsequently meeting with a number of them face-to-face.
All top shareholders were also proactively contacted visits, sales team briefings, group lunches, conference following the announcement of the appointment of Steve Wadey presentations and ad hoc meetings on request: as the Groups new CEO.
web-based investor centre optimised for mobile devices and iPad app updated regularly and incorporating best practice: and the Annual General Meeting held on 22 July 2014.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 53 Annual General Meeting Website information The Code notes that the Board should use the Annual General All shareholders and potential shareholders can gain access to the Meeting AGM to communicate with investors and encourage their Annual Report, presentations to investors, AGM documentation, key participation.
The Board invites holders of ordinary shares to attend financial information, regulatory news, financial calendar, share and the Companys AGM each year and to ask questions.
The Chairs of dividend data and other significant information about QinetiQ in the the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations, Risk & CSR and Security Investors section of the Companys website, www.
Committees are available at that meeting to answer any questions The site also provides contact details for any investor-related queries, on the work of the Committees.
by telephone and by email.
The 2014 AGM was held at Pennyhill Park Hotel, Bagshot, Surrey on The Company continues to look at ways of improving the quality 22 July 2014 and, with the exception of Noreen Doyle, who had a of its engagement with shareholders and to explore with investors prior engagement, each member of the Board attended the meeting any additional practical means by which it can give effect to the and was available to take questions.
requirements of the Financial Reporting Councils UK Stewardship Code for institutional investors, and of the Code.
The 2015 AGM is scheduled to be held at the same venue, Pennyhill Park Hotel, Bagshot, Surrey, on 22 July 2015.
The Company confirms Details of the Companys share capital, which are required to be that it will send the Notice of Meeting and relevant documentation to disclosed in accordance with rule 7.2.
6 of the Financial Conduct all shareholders at least 20 working days before the date of the AGM.
Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules, and the For those shareholders who have elected to receive communications Directors powers in relation to issuing and buying back shares electronically, notice is given of the availability of documents in the can be found on pages 88 and 86 respectively in the Directors Investors section of the Groups website.
All shareholders will be report section of this Annual Report.
entitled to vote on the resolutions put to the AGM and, to ensure that all votes are counted, a poll will be taken on all of the resolutions in the Notice of Meeting.
The results of the votes on the resolutions will be published on the Companys website, www.
com, in the Investors section.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
