38 Operating review EMEA Services EMEA Services combines world-leading expertise with unique facilities to provide technical assurance, test and evaluation and training services, underpinned by long-term contracts.
The most significant of these contracts is the Long Term Partnering Agreement LTPA for test, evaluation and training services which has delivered an improved service and significant savings for the MOD over the last 12 years.
Capital expenditure is likely to increase in the future as we continue to invest in the LTPA contract.
EMEA Services is also a market leader in research and advice in specialist areas such as C4ISR, procurement advisory services and cyber security.
Financial performance 2015 2014 EMEA Services delivered a strong performance in 2015.
Each of the m m core Air, Weapons and Maritime businesses performed well despite 1 Orders 461.6 447.8 the uncertainty in the UK defence market resulting from the MOD Revenue 625.6 607.0 transformation programme and forthcoming Strategic Defence and Underlying operating profit 93.0 86.7 Security Review.
Underlying operating margin 14.9% 14.3% Orders, excluding the 998m third term of the LTPA contract, grew 1 Book to bill ratio 1.1x 1.1x 3% to 461.6m 2014: 447.8m demonstrating the unique strengths 1 Funded backlog 678.6 661.0 of the division and its highly differentiated position in its markets.
1 Excludes the 998m third term of the LTPA contract.
B2B ratio is orders won Revenue grew 3% on an organic basis at constant currency, building divided by revenue recognised, excluding the LTPA contract.
on the 3% increase last year.
At the beginning of the new financial Definitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary year, 80% of the divisions FY16 revenue was already under contract, on page 141. a similar level to a year ago.
Underlying operating profit increased 7% to 93.0m 2014: 86.7m assisted by an insurance recovery and the completion of a final milestone on an international project.
P93 Financial statements Markets and outlook Our value pipeline The Front Line Commands Navy, Army, Air and Joint Forces Our Organic-Plus strategy prioritises active portfolio management.
are exercising their newly delegated powers to shape future All of our business operations are graded within a value pipeline which capabilities.
QinetiQs business units are aligned closely to gives us full visibility and direction over our assets and capabilities.
these Commands and so are well placed to help them with their growing procurement responsibilities.
Core Explore Test for value During the year our Cyber, C4ISR and Training businesses were aligned to meet the requirements of the recently created Air Training International Joint Forces Command, such as the need for information procurement advice Weapons Cyber Security superiority, as well as demand from other government and Smart metering Maritime Cyveillance commercial customers.
assurance C4ISR Procurement Directed Energy Defence transformation, the forthcoming comprehensive spending Advisory Services Australia Weapons review and SDSR are expected to have an impact on the UK defence International ranges Secured navigation market this year.
This will provide future opportunities for EMEA UAS Services systems Services to build on its strong record of delivering more for less, whilst recognising that in FY16 there will be uncertainty and the potential for interruptions to order flow.
The portion of revenue under contract at the start of FY16 was similar to a year ago and the balance is supported by a pipeline of opportunities but order flow and contract cover will be watched closely over the coming months.
Overall, given the opening backlog position, expectations for the performance of EMEA Services in the current financial year are unchanged.
P6 Market overview P12 Our Organic-Plus strategy QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 39 Year in review QinetiQs C4ISR business provides research, advice and bespoke Core solutions for secure communications, command and control, surveillance sensors and information management.
It is the MODs QinetiQs Air business fide-risks complex aviation programmes.
It works leading supplier of C4ISR research, which underpins the advice with supply chain partners and signed new long-term agreements with capability of the business as well as future opportunities to support key suppliers to deliver additional flexibility for customers.
During the customers transformation and innovation needs.
In the UK, recent year it secured a 16m extension to its largest MOD test and evaluation funding rounds and announcements have protected or enhanced contract, and a four-year 5m contract for research into aircrew budgets for C4ISR.
The UKs Joint Forces Command provides a focus performance.
The business also continued to grow its engineering for multi-billion pound procurements of enabling capabilities that services offering and now provides maintenance, repair and overhaul have not existed before and C4ISR is now aligned with the Cyber and services for fixed and rotary wing aircraft across three main contracts, Training businesses to meet these requirements.
In addition, ongoing with opportunities to take this capability into new international markets.
instability in the Middle East is increasing opportunities from QinetiQs Weapons business supplies independent research, evaluation governments in the region.
and training services for integrated weapons systems.
The business delivers the MODs conventional weapons research programme Explore through the Weapons Science and Technology Centre, which secured 17m of orders during the year.
In response to the growing complexity In the Explore category, QinetiQs Training business uses of weapons systems trials work, major infrastructure improvements  COTS technology to connect people took place at a number of the ranges that the business runs under the and assets for mission rehearsal and tactic development.
The business LTPA contract including new communications infrastructure in the secured its largest ever contract for the continued provision in the Hebrides and a new range control centre at Aberporth in Wales.
UK of Distributed Synthetic Air Land Training valued at 33m over QinetiQs expertise continues to attract international customers with five years.
It also beat a number of competitors to win the next work undertaken for the South Korean government as well as European stage of a core research programme worth 3m over four years.
The Weapons business has a long track record of delivering As a result, the business is well positioned for future opportunities complex managed services in high risk environments and is pursuing a as the MOD moves towards its vision of a network of simulators number of outsourcing opportunities.
across the UK to augment live training.
Having established an office The Maritime business delivers operational advantage to naval in Orlando, Florida, the heart of the US training and simulation market, clients worldwide through the provision of independent technical the business has secured a position on three IDIQ contracts working advice and support, particularly in the areas of platform performance, in partnership with established prime contractors such as Alion stealth, command information systems and systems integration.
and developing a promising pipeline of opportunities in the US.
The business won a 5m contract from a competitor to deliver the Cyber Security is an Explore business with opportunities in critical MODs mobile underwater targets service at the BUTEC range it national infrastructure, as well as defence and security.
It won a new operates off North West Scotland, which also benefited from over 3m contract to deliver secure monitoring and hosting services for 20m of investment to modernise its acoustic measurement system, a major financial institution.
In recognition that compliant systems enhancing QinetiQs ability to deliver stealth-related services.
During alone do not necessarily reduce business risk, the business is the year the business supported the integration of a new radar on integrating QinetiQs human science expertise into its consultancy Type 23 frigates and a new Command System for the helicopter offering and is investing in its cyber intelligence capabilities.
This expertise underpins a new mission systems alignment with the Training business will ensure that QinetiQ is integration service to meet demand from international customers, better able to meet the demand for cyber training.
QinetiQs cyber particularly in the Asia Pacific region.
The business was also awarded intelligence business, Cyveillance, launched a cloud-based cyber a contract to deliver technical support for ship procurement for threat centre that monitors the internet, provides alerts and delivers the Canadian government.
QinetiQs Portsdown site was selected data on domain names, IP addresses, phishing and malware attacks.
to host the Defence Growth Partnerships Centre for Maritime This provides direct access for customers to its monitoring and Intelligent Systems which will help UK industry meet customer investigative tools and complements its existing consultancy-based interest in emerging technologies such as autonomous systems.
QinetiQs suite of cyber security offerings is completed by QinetiQ Australia provides impartial advice and services predominantly its wholly-owned subsidiary Boldon James, which provides data to government customers.
The business is underpinned by two long-term classification and secure messaging solutions and is reported as contracts with the Commonwealth Government of Australias Department part of the Global Products division.
of Defence the Defence Science and Technology Organisation Procurement Advisory Services was established as a stand-alone DSTO contract which is focused on provision of engineering services Explore business in 2014.
It provides tender assessment, cost and workshops and the Aircraft Structural Integrity contract which supports analytical services principally to support complex procurement the airworthiness of military aircraft.
QinetiQ Australia delivered a programmes in highly regulated markets.
During the year, the business steady performance against a background of fiscal pressures and provided horizon scanning for the UK Cabinet Office, cost forecasting defence reform, securing a two-year extension to the services services to the MOD, and won a 2m MOD contract for business case it delivers at DSTO Fishermans bend in Melbourne.
Greg Barsby, support to help address frontline challenges such as the supply of water, a former KBR executive, took up the role of Managing Director in fuel and power.
Procurement Advisory Services is spear-heading QinetiQs December 2014.
His remit is to target long-term contracts through presence in Canada, where an office was opened during the year.
improved commercial and business development capabilities as well as to reinforce partnerships with government and industry.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 40 Operating review continued Within the Air business, QinetiQ delivers turnkey services for customers Test for value using Unmanned Aerial Systems UAS to meet growing demand particularly from international organisations such as the United EMEA Services is testing for value a number of early stage offerings.
The business has developed commercial relationships with These include the provision of technical services in support of Directed the three largest manufacturers of unmanned aircraft outside the Energy Weapons DEW and the delivery of secured navigation systems US and in September opened the UKs first airfield capable of such as the secure signal processing already being provided for the operating large UAS at Llanbedr in Wales.
During the year, it was Galileo constellation of satellites the European Union version of GPS.
awarded a competitively-won contract to provide manpower for a short duration service for an international institution.
Understanding our business What we do Approximate annual Approximate total Key sites Key contracts revenue employees UK unless stated fide-risk complex aviation Boscombe Long Term Partnering Air programmes by testing Down Agreement LTPA c. 190m c. 1,600 military aircraft and Farnborough equipment, evaluating the risks and assuring safety.
Core Weapons Supplies independent Shoeburyness LTPA research, evaluation Fort Halstead Combined Aerial c. 200m c. 1,200 and training services Farnborough Targets Service CATS for integrated Hebrides Weapons, Science and weapons systems.
Aberporth Technology Centre Pendine Core West Freugh Delivering operational Portsdown LTPA Maritime advantage to naval Technology Park Maritime Strategic c. 75m c. 700 clients worldwide PTP Capabilities Agreement through the provision Haslar MSCA of independent technical Naval Combat System advice and support.
Integration Support Services NCSISS Core Delivers impartial advice under Melbourne, DSTO munitions Australia and services predominantly Australia ASI airworthiness c. 200 to government customers.
Canberra, 25m Australia New South Wales, Australia Core C4ISR A leading supplier of Malvern DSTL research research and advice on Farnborough c. 450 sensors, communications Core and intelligence.
Uses technology to reduce Farnborough Distributed Synthetic Training the cost of training, drawing Malvern Air Land Training 2 c. 100 on training capability from c. 120m across QinetiQ.
Explore Protects critical national Malvern Cyber Security infrastructure through the Farnborough c. 100 provision of consultancy, managed security services, secure information exchange, and threat and risk assessments.
Explore Provides decision support, under Bristol, Operational Support Procurement cost, analytical and tender Farnborough Programme Customer Advisory Services c. 150 assessment services.
Boscombe Friend 25m Down Malvern Explore Provides open source threat under Reston, Cyveillance intelligence and remediation Virginia US c. 100 to customers across the 25m world including many of the Fortune 500.
Explore QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c re rep po or rt t Go Gov five er rn na anc nce e F Fin inan anc ci ial al s st ta at te em me en nt ts s A Ad dd di it ti io on final al in inf fo or rm ma at ti io on n 41 Defence More flexible and realistic training drives mission success Employees World-leading simulation and synthetic training from domain experts Fraser Bruce, DSALT Programme Technical Manager With UK Armed Forces no longer in Afghanistan, requirements shifted from specific predeployment training to training for contingent operations.
We adapted and configured systems and services, listening to the customer and using virtualisation technologies to address obsolescence and deliver savings.
Dawn Harrison, QinetiQ Training, sums it up This is testament to our ability to seamlessly pull together subject matter experts and sub-contractors: the customer comes to QinetiQ because they trust our team.
Customers Growth Orientation Meeting and exceeding customer needs A flexible resource for tomorrows needs Under a five-year contract that runs from Russ Cole, Flight Simulation and Synthetic 2014, QinetiQ is delivering the Distributed Trainers Team Leader at MODs Defence Adaptability is fundamental to DSALT: Synthetic Air Land Training 2 capability for Equipment and Support Simulation reconfiguration means training can UK MOD, building on successful delivery and synthetic training is an extremely evolve to meet changing operational of a previous five-year contract.
Operating important part of trainingthe ability to needs.
The move into contingent from the Air Battlespace Training Centre practise and train in highly realistic but safe operations required an even more in Lincoln, the 33m DSALT2 training environments is a vital, life-saving capability proactive approach, working with the programme provides the UK Army and essential to effective mission preparation.
customer to deploy training to best effect Royal Air Force with extremely realistic while future proofing the capability for and flexible representations of operating later programmes.
This capability is also environments.
Our bid was supported fully transferable to address a range of by a pan-QinetiQ team and includes commercial requirements.
Q Qi in ne et ti iQ G Q Gr ro ou up p p pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5
