04 Our business model Understanding what QinetiQ does The technical expertise and domain know-how of our people QinetiQs level of customer intimacy has been developed over many differentiate our customer offerings from our peers.
Our specialist know-how about customer domains is nurtured by working in partnership to understand their problems, shape their QinetiQ is trusted, impartial and independent we are not a needs and deliver solutions that help meet their challenges now and manufacturer.
We rarely compete directly with aerospace and for the future.
defence companies, but instead work in partnership with them.
Our principal revenue streams are research, technology, advice, test We also work in partnership with customers, leveraging our assets, and evaluation, technology solutions and the royalties from licensing.
facilities and capabilities to deliver rigorous independent thinking that ensures they meet their goals.
What makes QinetiQ different How we generate value How we deliver Principal markets Divisions Business units Defence Security Aerospace Commercial Air Weapons Maritime Research Australia Technical EMEA Procurement Advisory Services Services expertise Advice Training Working in partnership Rigorous to shape independent C4ISR Test & Evaluation needs and deliver thinking solutions Cyber Security Domain Unique Technology Solutions Cyveillance know-how facilities EMEA products Licensing US products Global OptaSense Products Space Products Enhances skills, specialist domain understanding and reputation.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 05 Our business model is robust and sustainable because our As a business whose reputation and achievements are centred knowledge base is constantly refreshed.
As well as enhancing around our people, QinetiQ has low capital and resource the domain know-how and reputation of our people, our work requirements.
Our future success is primarily dependent on provides a dynamic source of new intellectual property and our ability to recruit, develop and retain exceptional employees, future technology-based offerings.
subject matter experts and world renowned specialists.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
