Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 63 c Senior management succession planning Accountability The Committee continues to maintain oversight of the processes for ensuring that succession plans are in place for the top layer of Board review of the effectiveness of risk management and management, with a focus on improving the talent pipeline and internal control processes diversity.
This process includes ensuring that the Board as a whole The Board confirms that it has conducted a review of the effectiveness meets with senior management, that remuneration policy and of the Companys risk management and internal control systems in long-term incentives for senior management are reviewed by the operation during the year, as required by the Code.
The details of the Remuneration Committee and that the Chairman works with the CEO review and its findings can be found on page 64. to review succession planning and to ensure the right mix of skills and experience at OpCo level.
At the executive level, the Capability Directors responsibilities Director works with the Governance Committee to ensure that Statements explaining the Directors responsibilities for preparing succession plans for the top layer of management are in place the Groups Annual Report and financial statements and the auditors and this is reported to the Risk & CSR Committee by the CEO.
responsibilities for reporting on those statements are on pages 88 and 89.
Board Diversity Policy Going concern During 2013 the Board approved a Board Diversity Policy.
The key A statement regarding the business as a going concern can be found statement and objectives of that policy the full text of which is on page 88. available on the Groups website www.
com about-us Board responsibility for risk management and internal control corporate-governance are as follows: The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness in safeguarding shareholders Statement: interests and the Companys assets.
The system is designed to manage The QinetiQ Board recognises the benefits of diversity.
Diversity and mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve of skills, background, knowledge, international and industry business objectives, and, like any appropriate or proportionate experience, and gender, amongst many other factors, will be taken system of corporate internal control, cannot provide absolute into consideration when seeking to appoint a new Director to the assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, all Board appointments will always be made on merit.
Identification and review of risks QinetiQ managers are responsible for the identification and evaluation Objectives: of significant risks, both financial and non-financial, applicable to their The Board should ensure an appropriate mix of skills and experience areas of business, together with the design and operation of suitable to ensure an optimum Board and efficient stewardship.
internal controls to ensure effective mitigation.
These risks, which are The Board should ensure that it comprises Directors who are sufficiently related to the achievement of business objectives, are assessed on experienced and independent in character and judgment.
a continual basis and may be associated with a variety of internal and external events, including control breakdowns, competition, disruption, The Board aims to increase the proportion of women on the Board regulatory requirements, and natural and other catastrophes.
Thereafter, subject always to ensuring The Board, the Audit Committee and the Risk & CSR Committee that all Board appointments are made on merit, the Board aspires regularly review significant risks to the business.
to maintain a minimum Board composition of 25% women, such QinetiQs risk management processes are defined in the Groups percentage to be reviewed annually.
Operating Framework and mirror the Institute of Risk Managements Progress against the policy: guidance as detailed in the figure on page 64.
The appointment of Susan Searle in March 2014 brought the Risk reporting is embedded in the management of the business proportion of women on the Board to 25%, which was in line with through the Operating Committee and Quarterly Business Reviews our objective.
In July 2014, Noreen Doyle retired from the Board and feeds into Group strategy at the executive and Board level.
after over eight years in office, reducing the proportion of women Directors to 12.5%.
We will aim to ensure that gender diversity Risk assurance activity conforms to the three lines of defence model will be taken into consideration for any future appointments, detailed on the following page and is performed by the businesses, with the proviso that appointments will always be made on merit oversight functions and Internal Audit, reporting to the Governance and will continue to take into account diversity, not only in terms Committee and the Boards Audit Committee in respect of financial of gender, but also in terms of the appropriate mix of background risks, and Risk & CSR Committee in respect of non-financial risks.
Details of key risks can be found in the Principal risks and uncertainties We have issued a Company-wide diversity policy and details can section of this Annual Report on pages 32 to 37. be found in the Responsible business section on pages 24 to 29.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 64 Corporate governance statement continued Internal control Our businesses are responsible for ensuring that a robust risk and control environment is in place as part of their day-to-day operations.
Establishing the context Business assurance managers oversee this process and a clear set of delegated authorities is in place, covering financial and non-financial activities, and is consistent with effective operational control and risk management and the Boards risk appetite.
The business is guided by Risk assessment two key documents which are managed by our Safety and Operational Assurance team: The Way We Work is applicable to all staff and covers three key pillars of the way we operate: Organisation, Risk Management Risk identification and Assurance, and Key Business Processes.
It is underpinned by key business policies, the Operating Framework referred to below and our culture, values and brand: and Risk analysis The Operating Framework Business Management System, which contains the policies, procedures and codes of practice Risk evaluation which are expected to be complied with across the business.
The internal audit function, which is independent of the business and has a direct reporting line to the Audit Committee, provides assurance to the Board and its Committees over the effectiveness Risk treatment of the internal control environment.
The programme of work undertaken by the internal audit function is approved in advance by the Audit Committee.
It is prioritised according to risks identified by the Group through its risk management processes.
Additionally, Risk assurance activity during 2015 covered the following areas: regular discussions are held between the internal audit function and the external auditor regarding internal audit reports, risks, internal Quarterly updates in respect of general risk governance from audit plans and the wider control environment.
the Safety and Assurance Director.
The risk management process and the system of internal control Quarterly reviews of divisional risk registers and moderation necessary to manage risks are managed by the Audit Committee to form the Group Risk Register.
financial risks and the Risk & CSR Committee non-financial risks.
Quarterly reports from the Internal Audit function in respect The full Board attends these Committee meetings, either as a of the effective management of Group risks and the risk Committee member or a guest so as to receive at first-hand the management process.
Details of the Committee memberships are set out on page 55.
The internal audit function independently Challenge to risk identification by business divisions and reviews the risk identification and control processes implemented functions.
by management and reports to the respective Committee.
Use of the Business Assurance Tool to manage effective internal The Audit Committee and the Risk & CSR Committee also review control against regulatory and operational risks.
the assurance process, ensuring that an appropriate mix of Regularly requiring risk owners to report their activity to the techniques is used to obtain the level of assurance required by Risk & CSR Committee see page 70. the Board.
At its meeting in March 2015, the Board reviewed the effectiveness Self-certification process of the system of internal control that was in operation during An annual process of hierarchical self-certification, which provides the financial year ended 31 March 2015.
Details of specific risk a documented and auditable trail of accountability for the operation review activity undertaken during the year by the Audit and Risk of the system of internal control, is in operation.
This self-certification & CSR Committees, together with the current risk registers, were process is informed by a rigorous and structured self-assessment that presented by the CEO.
The Board confirmed its approval that the addresses compliance with Group policy.
It provides for successive risk review activities undertaken during the year under review, as assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of management presented by the CEO, amounted to an effective system being in and, finally, to the Board.
place to ensure that all aspects of risk management and internal control had been considered for the year under review.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Communication and consultation Monitor and review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 65 The Board also routinely challenges management to ensure that US Global Products business and the Proxy arrangement the systems of internal control are constantly improving to maintain The US Global Products business, trading as QinetiQ North America, their effectiveness.
The internal control and risk management systems is managed via Foster-Miller, Inc. FMI, a wholly-owned subsidiary described above, as well as finance policy and codes of practice, of QinetiQ in the US.
It has been placed under a Proxy arrangement apply to the Companys process of financial reporting and the as it is required by the US National Industrial Security Program to preparation of consolidated accounts.
A structured approach maintain facility security clearances and to be insulated from foreign to the review and challenge of financial information is also an ownership, control or influence.
Under the new Proxy arrangement, essential element of the process.
FMI and the US Department of Defense DoD are parties to a Proxy agreement that regulates the management and operation of FMI.
Anti-bribery and the prevention of corruption Pursuant to this Proxy agreement, QinetiQ has appointed three US QinetiQ has internal procedures in place that are designed to ensure citizens who hold the requisite US security clearances Len Moodispaw, compliance with the UK Bribery Act 2010, and other international David Carey and John Currier as Proxy holders to exercise the regulations and best practice relating to the prevention of corruption, voting rights in FMI.
The Proxy holders are also directors of FMI and, which are applicable to its business.
in addition to their powers as directors, have power under the Proxy Whistleblowing arrangements to exercise all prerogatives of share ownership of FMI.
The Company has in place a whistleblowing process which is detailed The Proxy holders have a fiduciary duty, and agree, to perform their on the Companys intranet.
If an individual does not feel that they role in the best interests of QinetiQ as shareholder including the can resolve any concerns with the Company directly, either through legitimate economic interest, and in a manner consistent with the discussions with their line manager, or directly with the Company national security interests of the US.
QinetiQ Group plc does not have Secretary or Group Internal Audit Manager, they can use the any representation on the Board of FMI.
QinetiQ Group plc may not whistleblowing hotline an externally provided confidential internet remove the Proxy holders other than for acts of gross negligence or and telephone reporting system.
All concerns are passed by the wilful misconduct or for breach of the Proxy agreement and always external third party to the Group Internal Audit Manager who will only with the consent of the US Defense Security Service.
ensure that they are held in strict confidence and are properly In terms of the power to govern, the Proxy agreement vests certain investigated.
Reports on whistleblowing activity and the outcome powers solely with the Proxy holders and certain powers solely with of investigations are regularly reported to the Audit Committee.
For example, the Proxy holders cannot carry out any of the The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups below without QinetiQs express approval: whistleblowing process during the year.
sell or dispose of, in any manner, capital assets or the business Ethics of FMI: The Company provides employees with guidance to assist them in making informed ethical decisions on a day-to-day basis, including the pledge, mortgage or encumber assets of FMI for purposes other Companys Code of Conduct, annual ethics training for all employees than obtaining working capital or funds for capital and links to the country risk table and review panel processes for improvements: doing business in high risk countries.
merge, consolidate, reorganise or dissolve FMI: and Further details regarding activity in respect of corporate responsibility, file or make any petition under the federal bankruptcy laws including in respect of business ethics and anti-bribery risk management, or similar law or statute of any state or any foreign country.
can be found in the Responsible business section on pages 24 to 29.
Management and control of US subsidiaries Unlike minority interest holders with protective veto rights, Following the sale of the US Services division in May 2014, the US QinetiQ can unilaterally require the above to be carried out and operations retained by QinetiQ comprising 9% of the turnover of these are, therefore, considered to be significant participative the QinetiQ Group as a whole have been split, with the US Global features.
In addition, QinetiQ can require the payment of dividends, Products business, trading as QinetiQ North America and comprising and the pay-down of parent company loans, from FMI.
approximately 84% of the total US turnover at 31 March 2015, The Company maintains its involvement in FMIs activities through placed under a new Proxy arrangement, as detailed below, and normal business activity and liaison with the Chair of the Proxy Board.
with the remainder of the US business operating outside the Proxy FMI commercial and governance activity is included in the business regime and therefore following the same reporting lines and update provided in the regular executive report to the Board.
This processes as the Groups other, non-regulated businesses.
activity is subject always to the confines of the Proxy regime to ensure that it meets the requirement that FMI must conduct its business affairs without external control or influence, and the requirements necessary to protect the US national security interest.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 66 Corporate governance statement continued Report of the Audit Committee Membership and attendance during the year Paul Murray Audit Committee Chairman Member Attendance Paul Murray Committee Chair 5 5 Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 5 5 # Noreen Doyle 2 2 Michael Harper 5 5 Ian Mason 3 3 Susan Searle 5 5 # Noreen Doyle retired as a Director on 22 July 2014.
Ian Mason was appointed as a Director on 3 June 2014.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Paul Murray.
The Board considers him to have recent and relevant financial experience.
He was formerly Group Finance Director of Carlton Communications plc and LASMO plc, and he is currently Audit & Risk Committee Chairman at Royal Mail Group plc.
The Committee focuses specifically on the effectiveness of the The Board considers the members of the Committee to be independent.
management of financial risks and the integrity of financial reporting.
They bring extensive experience of corporate management in senior This report describes the work of the Committee in discharging its executive positions to the Company.
Details of their background and responsibilities, including: experience can be found on pages 58 and 59.
The CEO, CFO, Group the significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to Financial Controller, Group Internal Audit Manager and representatives the preparation and reporting of the full and half-year financial of the external auditor normally attend Audit Committee meetings.
statements, and how these issues were addressed: Main responsibilities assessing external audit effectiveness and the approach taken The Audit Committee monitors the Groups integrity in financial for the reappointment of the external auditor: reporting and reviews the effectiveness of the financial risk management framework.
The Committee has an annual calendar of the review of the provision of non-audit services and activities, in addition to which it identifies particular areas of focus safeguarding auditor independence: and during the year.
The Audit Committee meets as necessary and at least overseeing the work of the Internal Auditor.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2015, the Committee met on five occasions.
The external auditor has the right to In last years report, I stated that I aimed to encourage an open but request that a meeting of the Audit Committee be convened.
During challenging dialogue between the Committee, management, and the past financial year, and in accordance with its terms of reference, internal and external auditors.
This way of working continues, with the Committee met with each of QinetiQs external auditor and the reports from the executive and internal and external auditors being Group Internal Audit Manager on two separate occasions, without scrutinised and challenged where appropriate, and I intend to Executive Directors present, to discuss the audit process and assure continue with this robust approach.
itself regarding resourcing, auditor independence and objectivity.
With the disposal of the US Services business, the US Group has been Overview re-shaped and a new Proxy Board appointed to oversee the US Global Key areas of focus during the year were: Products business.
We have been working with the Proxy Board and a the review of the audit process for the full year and half-year with US colleagues to achieve, where possible, consistency between results, a review of the accounting policies and an assessment the US and the UK in respect of the assessment and reporting of of the estimates and judgments made by management.
internal controls, risks and governance arrangements generally.
b a review of the fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Annual Report: c a regular review of the effectiveness of internal controls including working arrangements with the US Proxy regime: d a review of Group Tax policies and issues: e the effectiveness of external audit, non-audit services, contractual arrangements with the external auditor and the re-tender of the external audit: and f the effectiveness of governance arrangements.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 67 Further details are set out below.
The Group has a clear strategy, which is presented to the Board for review each year by business leaders, with interim updates a Financial statements: during the year.
The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted, whether management has made appropriate Quarterly business reviews are undertaken by senior estimates and judgments, and also seeks support from the external management which include monitoring business progress auditors to assess them.
The Committee reviewed the following main against budget.
issues for the periods ended 30 September 2014 and 31 March 2015: Business performance is monitored by the Board as detailed on IFRS 10 criteria in respect of the consolidation of the US Global page 55.
Products business operating under a Proxy Board into the Key individuals from appropriate business divisions and functions Groups results: contribute to, or are involved in the verification of, the content the basis for, and judgments made by management in determining, of the Annual Report.
the liabilities recorded for litigation, onerous contracts, potential The Company has an Annual Report working group, comprising claims and other disputes: individuals from the Finance, Investor Relations, Assurance, HR, the provisions for income tax and deferred tax, specifically Group Strategy, Company Secretariat and Communications the recognition of a deferred tax asset of 25.2m in respect functions, which adheres to a timetable of actions for the of UK tax losses: production and review of the Annual Report.
the carrying values of the Groups cash generating units CGUs, The Annual Report working group is aware of the fair, balanced specifically the 67.2m of goodwill associated with the US Global and understandable requirements and is tasked with ensuring Products CGU.
The major assumptions impacting on the NPV that the Annual Report takes account of those requirements.
of future expected cash flows were also discussed.
Certain A checklist of considerations to ensure the requirements were discount rate assumptions and market growth forecasts are met was completed by the working group and presented to the advised by external consultants: Committee in order to provide assurance to the Committee assumptions used to value the net pension liability of 39.4m and to the Board.
as advised by the Companys external actuaries : and c Review of internal controls: the disclosures in the Preliminary Announcement and Annual The Committee monitors the effectiveness of the systems of internal Report and Accounts, in particular those relating to risk, goodwill control to gain assurance that an effective control framework is and discontinued operations.
Reports on the effective operation of the control framework are received from management and reviewed by the The review was carried out by way of papers presented by the CFO, Committee along with key policies and processes.
the external auditor and the internal auditor, and through discussions with management.
Based upon the business assurance process At four meetings during the year, reports on the operation of internal and discussions with management and the external auditors, the controls and risk management processes are also received from the Committee was satisfied that the disclosures and assumptions were internal audit function, including whistleblowing arrangements as reasonable and appropriate for a business of the Groups size and detailed on page 65. complexity, that the auditors had fulfilled their responsibilities in Particular attention is given to the timely and effective implementation of scrutinising the financial statements for any material misstatements remedial actions, either identified by the business directly, or by Internal and that the disclosures were satisfactory.
The Internal Audit risk based strategic and annual plan is presented b Assessment of the fair, balanced and understandable to, and scrutinised twice a year by, the Committee to provide assurance requirement: that resources are adequate and directed towards key risk areas.
Regarding the provision of advice to the Board to meet with The annual plan is structured to ensure that all significant financial the requirements of the Code on whether the Annual Report and and non-financial risks are reviewed within a rolling two-year strategic Accounts, taken as a whole, provide a fair, balanced and plan.
In the last 12 months, the results of 20 completed internal audits understandable assessment of the Companys financial position were reported to the Committee, detailing all significant findings and and future prospects and provide all information necessary to a management action taken to address the issues identified.
The audits shareholder to assess the Groups performance, business model included the review of financial systems, programmes and projects, as and strategy, the CEO and members of management presented to well as the management of specific risks identified through the Groups the Committee details of the processes followed by management risk management processes.
Internal audit activity in the year continued in preparing the accounts, and in particular the Committee noted: to indicate that overall an effective control environment was in place with an open culture of continuous improvement being demonstrated by regular management requests for internal audits to be undertaken.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 68 Corporate governance statement continued The Committee also regularly reviews the effectiveness of the The outcome of the review was considered at the May 2015 Committee financial risk management framework, including reviewing key meeting and the following were noted and reported to the Board: financial risks and assessing the effectiveness of managements the independence and objectivity of the external auditor were remedial action plans.
The financial risk register is presented strongly reaffirmed: by management to the Committee at four meetings each year, noting i risks being actively managed through internal mitigation the external audit process was considered to be effective activity, including the timeframe for current mitigation to improve and robust: the risk position, ii risks managed at post-mitigation levels but communication with the Audit Committee was effective: and heavily influenced by external factors and or that require ongoing monitoring, and iii retired risks.
more regular technical and other relevant training would be provided to the Board and its Committees.
The process in respect of the US Global Products business is adjusted to take into account the Proxy arrangements referred to on page 65.
External auditor independence: non-audit services The executive management function have regular contact with the At its September meeting the Committee reviewed the Companys Chair of the Proxy Board and with US executive management, and the Code of Practice relating to the principles for regulating the award of Groups internal controls have been applied as far as possible within the non-audit work to the external auditor and for the employment of the requirements of the Proxy regime.
The internal audit function continues external auditors staff, and considered that it remained appropriate.
to work closely with US management to gain assurance that an effective Details of non-audit fees are tabled at three Committee meetings control environment is in place.
A full external audit in respect of the each year.
US Global Products business was undertaken during the year.
In the last financial year, there have been non-audit services The Committee confirms its view that it has received sufficient, conducted by KPMG that exceeded 50,000 in value.
These fees reliable and timely information from management in the last financial related predominantly to the investor perception audit referred to year to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
on pages 52 and 56 carried out by KPMG Makinson Cowell and also to d Review of Group Tax priorities and issues: the disposal of the US Services business.
The Committee concluded, The CEO presented a paper to update the Committee on the Groups prior to engaging KPMG for the provision of these services, that there tax priorities and issues.
The Committee considered these in the light had not been any conflict of interest that might compromise the of regulatory requirements and the Groups profit mix.
Among more independence of KPMGs audit work.
general matters, procurement rules, R&D tax relief, the use of tax The Company views it as essential that the external auditor is losses and the effective tax rate were discussed.
both independent of any conflict of interest and perceived to be so.
e External audit: Its effectiveness, the provision of non-audit To safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, the Company services, QinetiQ provision of services to the external auditor, has embedded the Code of Practice which sets out the principles for auditor re-appointment and the re-tender of the external audit: regulating the award of non-audit work to the external auditor within The Committees September meeting had considered the approach its Operating Framework.
The policy clearly articulates the non-audit for monitoring the effectiveness and independence of the external services which are prohibited, the non-audit services which can be audit process in the light of the requirements of the Code and FRC purchased and the key approval requirements for non-audit work.
At this meeting, it was agreed that an effectiveness In line with this policy, the Committee ensures that any other review would be undertaken by way of questionnaire and would advisory and or consulting services provided by the external auditor include collecting the views of management and employees do not conflict with its statutory audit responsibilities and are involved in supporting the external audit work, feedback from conducted through entirely separate working teams: such advisory the CFO and Group Financial Controller and an open Committee and or consulting services generally only cover regulatory reporting, discussion without external auditors being present.
tax, and mergers and acquisitions work.
The cost and nature of The review covered a range of topics, including: non-audit work undertaken by the auditor is regularly reviewed by the Committee during the financial year and is included at regular the audit partner and the audit team: intervals in its annual schedule as a standing item.
This process the audit approach planning and execution: enables the Committee to take corrective action if it believes that there is a risk of the auditors independence being undermined communication with the Audit Committee: through the award of such work.
supporting the work of the Audit Committee: It is also QinetiQs policy that no KPMG employee may be appointed insights and adding value: to a senior position within the QinetiQ Group without the prior approval of the CFO.
Any non-audit services conducted by the independence and objectivity: and auditor require the consent of the CFO or the Chairman of the Audit formal reporting.
Committee before being initiated: any services exceeding 50,000 in value require the consent of the Audit Committee as a whole.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 69 Auditor re-appointment The Committee also noted that the feedback from customer At its May meeting, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness satisfaction questionnaires which were issued on completion and the independence of the external auditor during the year, of each audit to the auditee indicated that the service was well as detailed on the previous page.
The members of the Committee received within the business.
have declared themselves satisfied with the performance of KPMG As reported on page 60, due to the change of CEO during the year, as the Companys auditor in the last financial year and therefore it was decided that it would not be appropriate to undertake an the Committee has recommended to the Board that KPMG be external review of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees reappointed for the financial year ending 31 March 2016. including therefore the Audit Committee, but that an evaluation At its meeting in March, the Committee considered the timings would be carried out by way of an externally provided online for the tender of the external audit.
questionnaire tool which was circulated to Board and Committee members for completion.
The Committee Chairman had evaluated the The Company notes the provision in the UK Corporate Governance results and reported on them at the Committees March 2015 meeting.
Code that FTSE 350 companies should put the external audit out to tender at least every ten years.
KPMG has been the auditor of The questionnaire had asked the Directors to give their views on the QinetiQ Group since its formation in 2001 as the result of a progress against the actions from the previous years effectiveness competitive tender, and the Companys auditor since its incorporation review, the Committees prior year performance, Committee training, in 2002.
During that time, there have been periodic changes in audit an assessment of key challenges for the year ahead and the partners in accordance with professional and regulatory standards identification of future deep dives.
to protect independence and objectivity.
It was noted that, following completion of the US restructuring, A rotation of KPMGs lead audit partner was last undertaken during oversight of the US governance arrangements had been re-established 2012, at which time the second audit partner was appointed since with the Proxy Chair, and direct access gained into the US for the the Companys flotation in 2006. internal audit function.
The Company stated in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts The following key actions were noted from the review: that it was its intention to align the process for putting the external the Committee members would seek to undertake routine, audit contract out to tender with the conclusion in 2017 of the externally-sourced training to keep up to date with changes five-year tenure of the audit partner.
in regulation and guidance: Following the approval of the EU audit regulation which takes effect the Committee would review the annual calendar of activities in member states from June 2016, the Committee will continue to to ensure the most efficient and effective way to complete its monitor developments in the implementation of this regulation in the oversight activities: and UK and will adjust the timings for the external audit tender process where necessary.
the Committee would continue to support the Remuneration Committee in assessing quality of earnings decisions that drove The Committee will continue, however, with the annual review long-term incentive and bonus outcomes.
of the performance of the external auditor and act accordingly.
f Governance reviews: The Committees September meeting had considered the processes to be followed for the various governance reviews.
The process for the external audit review is detailed on the previous page.
As regards the UK internal audit function, the Committee had agreed that there would be a self-assessment on progress being made against the internal audit continuous improvement programme which had been updated to take account of the recommendations of the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors, following their effectiveness review of Internal Audit during 2014, together with feedback from the Companys management on their experience of internal audit.
At the Committees March meeting, it was noted that progress had been made through the year in implementing the suggested actions, most notably the alignment of internal audit plans to strategy-related and other risks.
In addition, it was agreed that consideration would be given to the secondment of talented individuals into the internal audit function as part of their career development.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 70 Corporate governance statement continued Report of the Risk & CSR Committee Membership and attendance during the year Admiral Sir James Member Attendance Burnell-Nugent Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 4 4 Committee Chair Risk & CSR Committee Chairman # Noreen Doyle 1 2 Mark Elliott 4 4 Michael Harper 4 4 Ian Mason 3 3 David Mellors 4 4 Paul Murray 4 4 Leo Quinn 2 3 Susan Searle 4 4 Steve Wadey N A # Noreen Doyle retired as a Director on 22 July 2014.
She was unable to attend the July meeting due to a prior engagement.
I am pleased to report that, during the year, the Committee Leo Quinn ceased to be a Director on 31 December 2014 and was unable to attend one meeting due to a prior engagement.
continued to carry out its core functions with the support of the Steve Wadey became a member of the Committee in April 2015 and will attend executive Governance Committee in respect of risk management and future meetings.
The annual calendar of activity, together with the in-depth Overview review of red risks and deep dives into key risk areas, has continued During the year, the Committee continued to carry out its core functions to provide a firm basis on which the Committee is able to oversee the by way of regular reporting in accordance with its annual calendar.
operation of the non-financial risk management processes within the The Committee continued to oversee health, safety and environment, Group.
Regular updates from management responsible for specific trade controls, corporate responsibility, ethics and security through areas such as sustainability or international trade, coupled with quarterly reports from the heads of those functions in the business.
presentations from external specialists, serve to further the A summary of the key focus and activities of the health, safety and Committees understanding of risks and how they are mitigated.
environment and ethics functions is set out in the Responsible business Main responsibilities section on pages 24 to 29.
The Committee has three primary functions: Key areas of focus during the year were: to oversee the sound operation of the Companys risk a a review of the Groups risk management processes including management systems: working arrangements with the US Proxy regime: to monitor non-financial risk exposures, including security, b the operation of the generic MOD compliance system: trade controls, ethics, corporate social responsibility and health, safety and environment: and c a review of the Group Risk Register in accordance with FRC recommendations: and to monitor adherence to the generic compliance system.
d the effectiveness of the Committees performance during the year.
The Committee has an annual calendar of activities and meets Further details are set out below.
Details of the principal risks and as necessary, although normally not less than four times a year.
uncertainties can be found on pages 32 to 37 of the Strategic report.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2015, the Committee met on four occasions.
a A review of the Groups risk management processes: The Governance Committee continued to report to the Risk & CSR The Committee receives a report at each meeting from the Safety and Committee and covered areas such as the status of non-financial Assurance Director with regard to key areas of risk management activity, risks identified on the Group risk register, assurance around such as health and safety, international trade controls and Proxy regime regulatory compliance and emerging risks.
Typically a report includes a high level summary of changes to non-financial risks, an overview of assurance and audit activity, and any other items to bring to the Committees attention.
Following the disposal of the US Services business, work has progressed to establish, where possible, a consistency of approach by the US Global Products business, as far as it is able to do so having regard to the US Proxy regime, in respect of areas such as risk appetite, the risk register and internal control, and the internal audit function is able to visit and undertake work at the business, both in respect of financial and non-financial risks.
In addition to the report from the Safety and Assurance Director, QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 71 a series of deep dives are scheduled for the course of each year, Recent activity included the adjustment of the financial reporting to facilitate an in-depth review and discussion of key risks.
The following system to ensure that the sales lead is required to make a specific are examples of deep dive reviews carried out during the year: notification of the ultimate customer and the setting up and closing down of firewalls in response to changes in bid activity.
The review of emerging reputational related risks considered how these are detected and managed within the Company.
The Committee addresses any issues that would arise if QinetiQ were The review included a presentation from the senior manager to fail to comply with the requirements of the generic compliance responsible, on latest thinking around reputational risk, impact system.
No breaches were noted during the year.
on other organisations and how emerging reputational risks are c A review of the risk register in accordance with FRC currently detected and monitored.
recommendations: Continuing the focus on cyber risk, an external specialist on how The review of the Risk Register is a standing item on the Committees boards should address cyber issues gave a presentation to the agenda, with amendments being made to reflect changes in the Committee on current threats and set out some of the questions Groups business and strategy.
Further details can be found in the which boards are facing.
As a result of the presentation, a series Risk management section on pages 30 to 31 of the Strategic report.
of actions were agreed, including testing of the Companys I. T. Red risks are made the subject of a report to the Committee or resistance to cyber attack, metrics to measure improvement actions become the subject of a deep dive review as part of the Companys and a segmentation of security risks for review by the Governance risk management processes.
Committee prior to agreeing a risk appetite for each segment.
d Effectiveness review: As reported on page 60, due to the change of CEO during the year, b Generic compliance system: it was decided that it would not be appropriate to undertake an The Committee continues to monitor the generic compliance system, external review of the effectiveness of the Committee itself, but which is designed to give the MOD customer confidence that QinetiQ that an evaluation would be carried out by way of an externally is able to provide impartial advice during any competitive evaluation provided online questionnaire tool which was circulated to Committee of a procurement where the Group wishes to operate on both the members and key executives for completion.
The Committee Chairman buy and the supply sides.
The aim is to achieve a balance between had reviewed the responses and reported on them at the Committees meeting the needs of the procurement customers in the MOD May 2015 meeting.
principally Defence Equipment & Support and the need to allow QinetiQ the flexibility to exploit research into the supply chain and The review noted that there was generally a good level of satisfaction pursue its planned commercial activities, without compromising the with the work and processes of the Committee.
Areas noted for defence or security interests of the UK.
The Board nominates two improvement were: senior executives to act as Compliance Implementation Director and improved clarity and brevity in reporting to allow the Committee Compliance Audit Director.
Oversight of the operation of the system to focus on key issues: is provided by the Committee.
The Committee receives a bi-annual report on the compliance areas that it monitors from the internal increased liaison with the US business: and audit function.
A typical report includes a summary of the scope considering risk appetite in relation to risk areas, such and an executive summary of the findings with an audit opinion.
The report includes specific findings with agreed associated time-bound action plans.
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent Report of the Security Committee Security Committee Chairman Membership and attendance during the year The Security Committee is chaired by Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent and the other Committee members during the year were Michael Harper, Ian Mason from 3 June 2014, David Mellors, Paul Murray, Leo Quinn until 31 December 2014 and Susan Searle.
Steve Wadey became a member of the Committee on 27 April 2015.
There was no requirement for the Committee to meet during the year.
Main responsibilities The Committee was established in June 2009 to enable UK nationals on the Board to consider matters of a UK national security dimension that have an impact on QinetiQs UK business.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
