60 Corporate governance statement continued Performance of the Board Effectiveness QinetiQ continues each year to evaluate the performance of the The Board considers that the skills and experience of its individual Board and its Committees.
The most recent external evaluation members, particularly in the areas of UK defence and security, of the Boards effectiveness was carried out by Independent Audit the commercialisation of innovative technologies, corporate finance Limited in 2012 and reported in that years Annual Report and Accounts.
and governance, mergers and acquisitions, and risk management, In 2013 and 2014, the Boards effectiveness was assessed internally have been fundamental in the pursuit of QinetiQs strategic initiatives by way of a questionnaire completed by Board members and as described on pages 10 to 19 of this report in the past year.
individual performance reviews carried out by the Chairman In addition, the quoted company experience of members of the Board and the Senior Independent Director.
in a variety of industry sectors and international markets has also For the year ended 31 March 2015, the Company was due to carry been invaluable to the Group as it seeks to consolidate its position out an external evaluation of the performance of the Board, however, in its core markets and geographic territories.
owing to the change of Chief Executive Officer during the year, it was Director training and development considered appropriate to defer the external review by one year, to On appointment, Directors receive a tailored induction programme, allow time for the incoming Chief Executive Officer to take up his new comprising site visits, meetings with management and training where role.
Accordingly, to ensure an external and independent perspective required.
On an ongoing basis, Directors receive appropriate training on the self-assessment, the Company used an online questionnaire tool about the Company and their duties.
The Company Secretariat organises provided by Independent Audit Limited which was completed by Board site visits and training to suit individual requirements.
Recent training members, coupled with individual performance reviews carried out by has included regulatory updates presented at Board meetings by the the Chairman.
Independent Audit Limited had no other connection with Companys legal advisors and by the auditor.
the Company during the period, other than the provision of advice to the Audit Committee on the continued independence of the external Independence of Non-executive Directors auditor in connection with contractual arrangements.
Of the current Directors of the Company, the Board considers all the Non-executive Directors to be independent of QinetiQs executive In terms of the fulfilment of its governance responsibilities, the overall management and free from any business or other relationships that conclusion of the 2014 review had been that the Board was satisfied could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent that it continued to be effective in executing its duties and that judgment.
The Board considers that more than half its members were progress had been made in a number of areas since the last review.
independent Non-executive Directors throughout the last financial year.
Following on from the 2014 review, the Board had undertaken during The Non-executive Directors bring independent judgment on key 2015 a programme of continuous improvement, as follows: issues affecting the Group and its business operations including strategy and succession remained key priorities for the Board.
strategy, performance, resources including key appointments With regard to strategy, the Board required improved reporting and standards of conduct.
Their independence of character and of daily activity implementing the strategy, with the preparation integrity, together with the experience and skills that they bring to of a note of achievement against strategy by the use of milestones their duties, prevent any individual or small group from dominating and the preparation of key objectives against which plans are the decision making of the Board as a whole.
These details have since been included in the regular updates on progress against strategic targets provided to the Board by the Group Strategy Director: alignment of Board risk appetite as it related to the Companys growth strategy: the Company Secretariat facilitates site visits for the Non-executive Directors at their request and there were visits to five sites by Non-executive Directors during the year: Board training continuation of the focus on individual training requirements.
Recent training included a group training session on cyber risk management and a formal presentation to the Board by the external auditor on the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code: QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 61 To build upon the continuous improvement programme which had continue the practice of making key senior management begun during the year, the 2015 effectiveness review had covered available to the Board during site visits and other Company the following main areas: events, and the focus on inviting some of them to attend the Board to report on progress on key Company programmes The role of the Board and the skills mix: during the year under review, Board meetings were held at The effectiveness of decision-making processes and the quality the Companys Aberporth and Farnborough sites: of supporting documentation: continued efficiencies in the provision of Board materials, The level of risk appetite and oversight: and by the use of a standardised layout for Board and Committee Engagement with stakeholders.
papers, including an executive summary and clear indication of the action required or purpose of the materials: and The general outcome was that the Board was operating effectively and carrying out its duties appropriately.
There had been improved identification by the Board of a consolidated set of key objectives reporting in the papers for the Board, allowing for a greater and responsibilities for the Board each Director had been asked understanding and support.
Following the recent changes in the to provide to the Chairman their view on three main objectives Board membership, and with the arrival of the new CEO, it was for the Board.
The Chairman had collated these and worked with agreed that steps would be taken to integrate all members of the the CEO and CFO to finalise a consolidated set of objectives Board and also to facilitate further attendance at Board meetings which included: by members of the Operating Committee and senior management Shareholder perspectives to commission an external report to enhance the Boardbusiness relationship.
to capture shareholders views as to the Companys strategy and investment proposition and their attitudes on growth, risk and resource allocation.
The report was commissioned and details of the results of this review considered at the Boards October strategy meeting: Strategy development to review progress and future development of the Companys strategy in the context of the new portfolio of assets, focusing on means to accelerate value creation including through growth, balanced with shareholders and the Boards appetite for risk: Board operations to continue to focus on improving Board operations, including disciplined use of time and making papers fit for purpose, recognising that papers for issue resolution or decisions might differ from those intended to update or inform the Board: and Succession planning to continue to improve on succession planning with the review of comprehensive succession plans for the Companys top 12 to 15 executive positions with a focus on improving the talent pipeline and diversity.
In addition, to continue to focus on the succession plans for the NEDs to ensure the alignment of Board skills with the needs of the Companys strategy.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 62 Corporate governance statement continued Report of the Nominations Committee Main responsibilities Mark Elliott The role of the Committee is to ensure that the composition of the Nominations Committee Chairman Board and Committees has the optimum balance of skills, knowledge and experience, and to oversee succession planning for the Board and senior management.
It considers diversity, including skills mix, international industry experience and gender, when seeking to appoint a new Director to the Board.
The Committee meets as necessary and when called by its Chair.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2015, the Committee met on four occasions.
Overview Key areas of focus during the year were: a Succession planning at Non-executive Director level.
b Succession planning at Executive Director level including the review and preparation of a memorandum setting out the role and capabilities required for a new CEO to lead the organisation I am pleased to report that the Nominations Committee addressed through the next phase in its development.
succession planning as a priority during the year, with the appointment of Ian Mason as a Non-executive Director and the search for a new c Succession planning at senior management level.
Chief Executive Officer and subsequent appointment of Steve Wadey being completed during the year.
Going forwards, we have identified a Appointment of Non-executive Directors succession planning as one of the Boards primary objectives and we In 2014, to ensure the alignment of Board skills with the needs of the will continue to focus on this.
Diversity is a fundamental element of Groups strategy, the Committee had agreed to focus on the search the succession planning process and remains an area of focus.
in the UK for potential Non-executive Director candidates, which was being undertaken by the Zygos Partnership.
The firm is a signatory Membership and attendance during the year to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms, which requires them to ensure that at least 30% of the candidates are women, Member Attendance and it has no other connections with the Company.
This led to the Mark Elliott Committee Chair 4 4 appointment of Susan Searle in March 2014.
A further Non-executive Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 4 4 Director was sought, again with assistance from the Zygos Partnership, Noreen Doyle 1 1 and we were delighted to appoint Ian Mason as an additional Michael Harper 4 4 Non-executive Director in June 2014.
Details of the background # Ian Mason 3 3 and experience for both Susan and Ian can be found on page 59.
David Mellors 2 2 Susan brings wide experience of the new technologies sector and Paul Murray 4 4 Ian brings experience of business transformation, eCommerce and international development.
Susan Searle 4 4 Leo Quinn 1 2 b Appointment of CEO Steve Wadey N A In October 2015, we announced the resignation of Leo Quinn as CEO and began the search for a new CEO.
As part of this process, Noreen Doyle retired as a Director on 22 July 2014. the Chairman and the Investor Relations Director engaged with and # Ian Mason was appointed as a Director on 3 June 2014.
David Mellors was interim CEO during the period from 1 January 2015 to 26 April 2015 met top shareholders.
JCA Group was appointed to carry out the and attended meetings in that capacity.
The firm is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct Leo Quinn ceased to be a Director on 31 December 2014. for Executive Search Firms and it has no other connection with the Steve Wadey became a member of the Committee in April 2015 and will attend Company.
The Chairman worked with investors, the Board, senior future meetings.
management and JCA Group to identify the qualities which would be required in a new CEO to take the Company forwards.
The general theme that emerged was that the Company required an accomplished leader with the character, drive and skills to lead the business through its growth agenda in challenging market conditions.
The search resulted in the appointment of Steve Wadey, which was announced in January 2015, and he joined the Company as CEO on 27 April 2015.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
