58 Board of Directors Mark Elliott Steve Wadey David Mellors Michael Harper Ian Mason Admiral Sir James Paul Murray Susan Searle Jon Messent Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Deputy Chairman and Non-executive Director Burnell-Nugent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Company Secretary and Senior Independent Non-executive Director Group General Counsel Non-executive Director Appointment Appointed Non-executive Appointed Chief Executive Appointed Chief Financial Officer Appointed Non-executive Appointed Non-executive Appointed Non-executive Appointed Non-executive Appointed Non-executive Appointed Company Secretary to the Board Chairman in March 2010: Officer in April 2015. in August 2008.
Interim Chief Director in November 2011.
Director in March 2014. and Group General Counsel in Non-executive Director between Executive Officer from 1 January Appointed Deputy Chairman January 2011.
2015 until 26 April 2015. and Senior Independent Non-executive Director in February 2012.
Independent Independent on appointment Not applicable Not applicable Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Not applicable Skills and experience Extensive experience in the In-depth experience Extensive experience A depth of operational and Considerable experience Significant experience A broad range of experience Extensive experience of the Extensive experience as technology services sector of the defence industry of working in a listed corporate experience and in strategy, business of the defence industry, in finance and corporate new technologies sector.
a General Counsel and having worked for IBM for over and technology.
stewardship, including in transformation, eCommerce contracting with government governance from a range Company Secretary in A founder of Imperial 30 years in a number of senior the engineering sector.
Extensive operational Knowledge of the Innovations Group plc.
and corporate experience defence, technology The Board considers The Board considers The Board considers that The Board considers Background in legal The Board considers Experience of a variety and stewardship.
that Michaels wealth of that Ians experience Sir James expertise in the that Pauls experience private practice.
Susans strong experience of industry sectors from operational and corporate in strategy, business Government contracting in finance and corporate Fellow of the Royal A member of the Institute of commercialising new membership of the boards experience, including transformation and domain, particularly with the governance from a Academy of Engineering.
of Chartered Accountants technologies and intellectual of FTSE listed companies.
listed company governance international development UK MOD and HM Treasury, cross-section of industries, in England and Wales.
property of particular relevance Fellow of the Institution experience, enables him is of significant benefit is highly beneficial in the context all of which leverage The Board considers that to QinetiQ as it pursues its of Engineering and to make a significant to the Board.
of QinetiQs governmenttechnology, and including Marks extensive experience, Organic-Plus strategy.
listed company governance including listed company Fellow of the Royal experience, is of significant governance experience, is a Aeronautical Society.
valuable asset to the Group in terms of leadership and of addressing the strategic issues that affect the Group.
a External appointments Non-executive Director Co-chair of the Defence None Non-executive Director None High Sheriff of Devon.
Non-executive Director Benchmark Holdings plc.
None of G4S plc, where he is the Growth Partnership.
of the Aerospace and Chair of the Audit & Risk Horizon Discovery Senior Independent Director Technology Institute.
Committee at Royal Mail a Non-executive director Group plc.
and Chairman of the Group plc.
of the MOD Research Chair of Woodford Patient Remuneration Committee.
Director of Independent Capital Trust plc.
Chairman of Kodak Alaris Oil and Gas plc.
Holdings Limited appointed Director of Ventive Ltd. during the year under review.
Member of the international Director of Naked Energy Ltd. advisory board of PTT.
Trustee of Fight for Sight.
Past roles Non-executive Director Various roles with MBDA Deputy Chief Financial Chairman of Ricardo plc Group Chief Executive 37-year career in the Director of Knowledge CEO of Imperial Innovations Joined QinetiQ from of Reed Elsevier Group plc from 2001 to 2014, most Officer of Logica plc.
He was from November 2009 until of Electrocomponents plc Royal Navy that culminated Peers plc.
Group plc from 2002 Chloride Group plc.
and also Chairman of its recently as Managing also Chief Financial Officer November 2014, having from 2001 until 31 March in his appointment as to July 2013.
Senior Independent Director General counsel and company Remuneration Committee Director, MBDA UK and of Logicas international joined that Board in 2003.
2015, having joined that Commander-in-Chief Fleet.
of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc.
Previously Susan has secretarial experience in and Reed Elsevier NV from Technical Director for division, covering operations company in 1995.
Chairman of BBA Aviation plc Commanded the aircraft served on a variety of other FTSE250 companies.
Non-executive Director of April 2003 until April 2013. the MBDA Group.
in North America, Australia, from June 2007 until May Non-executive Director carrier HMS Invincible private company boards Thomson SA.
the Middle East and Asia and, Worked for IBM for over Matra BAe Dynamics 2014, having joined that of the Sage Group plc and three other ships in engineering, healthcare before that, was the Group Non-executive Director of 30 years where he occupied various roles in Board in 2005. from 2007 to 2013. and submarines.
a number of senior management engineering held Chairman of Vitec Group Between operational positions, including General from 1996 to 2001.
Various roles with CMG Group Finance Director of plc from 2004 to 2012. duties, several positions a Non-executive Director and Chair Manager of IBM Europe, plc, Rio Tinto plc and Carlton Communications plc.
Various roles with British at the MOD and gained Director of Williams plc of the Remuneration Committee.
Aerospace held from 1989 cross-Whitehall experience Group Finance Director of b where, at the time of the Deputy Chair and Chair of the Member of IBMs worldwide to 1996. while on secondment to LASMO plc.
demerger in 2000, he Management Council.
Co-Chair of the National became CEO of Kidde plc.
Defence Industries Research & Development Group.
Committee membership Nominations Committee Nominations Committee Risk & CSR Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Chairman Audit Committee Chairman Risk & CSR Committee Security Committee Nominations Committee Nominations Committee Nominations Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Security Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Risk & CSR Committee Risk & CSR Committee Chairman Risk & CSR Committee Risk & CSR Committee Chairman Risk & CSR Committee Nominations Committee Risk & CSR Committee Security Committee Security Committee Chairman Security Committee Security Committee Security Committee QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 59 Mark Elliott Steve Wadey David Mellors Michael Harper Ian Mason Admiral Sir James Paul Murray Susan Searle Jon Messent Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Deputy Chairman and Non-executive Director Burnell-Nugent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Company Secretary and Senior Independent Non-executive Director Group General Counsel Non-executive Director Appointment Appointed Non-executive Appointed Chief Executive Appointed Chief Financial Officer Appointed Non-executive Appointed Non-executive Appointed Non-executive Appointed Non-executive Appointed Non-executive Appointed Company Secretary to the Board Chairman in March 2010: Officer in April 2015. in August 2008.
Committee membership Nominations Committee Nominations Committee Risk & CSR Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Chairman Audit Committee Chairman Risk & CSR Committee Security Committee Nominations Committee Nominations Committee Nominations Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Security Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Risk & CSR Committee Risk & CSR Committee Chairman Risk & CSR Committee Risk & CSR Committee Chairman Risk & CSR Committee Nominations Committee Risk & CSR Committee Security Committee Security Committee Chairman Security Committee Security Committee Security Committee QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
