16 Our strategy in action Defence Transportable ranges protect vessels and save money Employees An expert stealth team Neil Allan, QinetiQ project manager We minimise a ships signature both magnetically and acoustically, making an 8,500-tonne Type 45 Destroyer virtually unrecognisable by a mine.
Rob Wild, MOD Operational Signature Services The service includes managing all the associated and wide ranging logistics in getting equipment into theatre, managing subcontractors such as divers and providing the specialist, knowledgeable and highly experienced QinetiQ staff.
Customers Making an 8,500 tonne destroyer look like a much smaller vessel Growth Orientation Often delivered in difficult conditions and them, and then calibrate onboard systems World-class capabilities to protect vessels under severe time pressures, our Maritime to avoid detection by aggressors.
Stealth Information and Range Services Independent of manufacturers and Mechanical Engineering Officer, HMS team provides the UK Royal Navy with proven in the field we are already the Shoreham Ranging highlighted issues world-class stealth management capabilities, go to solutions provider for a leading we were unaware of... identifying defects helping to make vessels combat ready.
navy these services are available to that may otherwise be missed.
Rather than sailing mine-hunters out and other navies, subject to MOD approval.
back for six-month tours in the Middle East, Weapons Engineering Officer, Potential customers recognise our ranges our in-theatre expertise saves the customer HMS Shoreham I consider the level are among the worlds most sensitive more than 85,000 nautical miles, allowing of support received from QinetiQ and, coupled with our high performance four vessels to be based in the region for during the magnetic ranging to be of modelling software, far superior to years.
We place magnetic and acoustic the highest level: very proactive.
sensors in the water, sail a vessel over Q Qi in ne et ti iQ G Q Gr ro ou up p p pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c re rep po or rt t Governance Financial statements Additional information 17 Security Protecting the public in soft target mass transit locations Employees Innovative technology from expert engineers Weve been developing passive millimetre wave technology for many years, initially to see through dense foggy environments, and earlier versions of SPO were used in operational trials, informing the next generation.
Colin Cameron, QinetiQ Technical Lead: Through constant contact with the customer and exploring how the product can be used successfully, weve directly helped the TSA plug a real capability gap.
Customers Detecting threats for the US Transportation Security Administration TSA Growth Orientation The TSA has awarded QinetiQ a $3m without people needing to stop.
Travellers Addressing terrorist threats in new two-year contract for an innovative threat are not inconvenienced, the system doesnt ways and more locations detection system that uses our passive emit harmful radiation, and no privacy laws We aligned our experience, know-how millimetre wave technology: SPO-NX.
and innovation with this customers active With the TSA concerned about terrorist With earlier versions deployed in participation and investment to develop threats to targets like railway stations, ferry locations including New Jersey, Washington next-generation threat detection.
With and bus terminals, it wanted leading-edge and Los Angeles, QinetiQ also provides SPO-NX intended for a mass market, technology to help secure these venues.
maintenance, support and end user we plan to expand its reach and deliver Working at a range of up to 15 metres, our training.
Crucially, the TSA itself is actively larger quantities to customers in the US SPO technology scans a crowd and detects involved in developing the system.
and organisations in Europe and the if a person is hiding something under Middle East that face security challenges.
clothing perhaps an explosive device Q Qi in ne et ti iQ G Q Gr ro ou up p p pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 18 Our strategy in action continued Defence Innovation in aerial targets: delivering accuracy worldwide Employees Customers Delivering customer-focused Combined Aerial Target Service CATS builds on unparalleled weapons know-how target solutions Under a 20-year contract, we provide for the US Air Force, Swiss MOD, Danish In this heavily regulated environment, aerial targets worldwide for the UK Army, Navy and BAE Systems.
our experience in aviation, engineering Royal Navy, RAF and project teams working Steve Attrill, MOD The CATS contract and operations management means on new weapons.
Previously, the MOD has been a success for the MOD, and we can organise the complex logistics had several contracts with different QinetiQ is delivering a high level of service.
required for the most accurate aerial providers, including ageing and soon-to-be QinetiQ makes available an extremely target engagements for our customers obsolete systems.
With reduced military flexible and responsive service, often worldwide while continuously improving spending and increased emphasis on reacting at short notice to Armed Forces safety and compliance.
Mark Sydenham, affordability, it decided to bring all aerial requirements.
During this contract, both QinetiQ Target Services Manager: target needs under a single contract with customer satisfaction and reliability have Our 40-strong team works around one provider: QinetiQ.
We have also consistently increased.
the world, is highly mobile and deploys completed successful aerial target projects fast, often at short notice.
Growth Orientation Continuing innovation in the air Demand for our services is rising: a recent contract for Sweden involved working with a US target manufacturer to deliver launchers and operators, and we are now exploring opportunities to bring other suppliers targets into CATS to offer even better performance and value for money to customers.
Q Qi in ne et ti iQ G Q Gr ro ou up p p pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c re rep po or rt t Governance Financial statements Additional information 19 Aerospace Leading-edge satellite technology breaks new ground in space Employees Pushing the boundaries of the possible Frank Preudhomme, QinetiQ Space Weve established an enviable track record through our work on previous missions such as Proba-2, which captured the famous image of Marchs solar eclipse.
ESA chose QinetiQ because Proba-3 requires a small and agile platform at an affordable price, and we can deliver cutting-edge technology in shorter time scales and at lower cost.
Customers Compact, highly complex avionics power a remarkable spaceflight The European Space Agency awarded QinetiQ Space a 16m three-year contract to develop the computer and avionics for its Proba-3 mission: two satellites making a virtually fixed structure in space by precise formation flying only 150 metres apart.
Proba-3 will study the Suns corona using an eclipsing mechanism, with a camera fixed on one satellite and an occulting disk on the other and flying Growth Orientation at the optimal distance apart to shield the camera from the Sun and create A future in space conditions usually only observable during a solar eclipse.
This mission will demonstrate the importance Our Belgium-based team is creating of formation flying for scientific research, highly compact avionics able to process with QinetiQ expertise contributing to millions of instructions per second while the success of future missions.
Our Space also operating effectively in the punishing business is currently running four additional high-radiation environment of space.
ESA satellite studies, expected to feed Affordability was a critical element in into future missions, with each project this technically challenging project.
Q Qi ine net ti iQ G Q Gr ro ou up p p pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5
