12 Our Organic-Plus strategy Our value pipeline Operated under strict rigour Organic-Plus strategy Core Explore Test for Value The objective of our Organic-Plus strategy is to 85% 10% 5% deliver growing sustainable earnings by optimising Revenue Revenue Revenue Increased market share Growth in new markets Commercial traction our portfolio.
We aim to win market share in core markets and Sustainable and defensible businesses, focused on growing market share.
nurture Explore opportunities to deliver growth This is the engine on which our reputation and customer relationships particularly beyond defence, all underpinned by are built, the driver for continual renewal of our expertise and technology, continued financial discipline.
and the source of the majority of our profit and cash flow.
The Group is sufficiently cash generative and disciplined about capital allocation to support Our core businesses are focused on relatively resilient sectors in which ongoing investment in growth opportunities, the technical expertise and domain know-how of our people is used a progressive dividend policy and the maintenance to provide trusted independent advice and solutions for our customers of a strong balance sheet.
These are our sustainable and defensible core capabilities, mostly Value pipeline comprising EMEA Services, and operating largely in the defence, security Our Organic-Plus strategy prioritises active and aerospace markets.
All of our business operations are graded within a value pipeline Much of the revenue is derived from longer-term contracts, with known which gives us full visibility and direction over dates for renewal and re-tender.
These contracts exhibit relatively low risk our assets and capabilities.
characteristics with low capital requirements and strong, predictable cash Whether they are well-established business models flows that can be invested for future growth.
Our core businesses also provide or new capabilities with as yet unclear commercial a dynamic source of new intellectual property that is initially collected and potential, we manage and invest in them according categorised in Test for Value and managed through the value pipeline.
to three criteria: Representing around 85% of our revenue, the performance of the core is Maturity: how ready is our offering the main driver of the future value of the Group and the majority of capital and is there an attractive market?
investment is focused on these businesses.
We are investing selectively in key capabilities to win market share in existing markets Potential scale: can it one day earn and to deploy these capabilities in new sectors and significant profits?
Investment: how much will it cost to achieve success?
The Groups principal role is to optimise business returns by allocating resources appropriately.
IP as an additional benefit Strategic Priorities Employees Customers Growth Orientation QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 13 Operated under strict rigour Core Explore Test for Value 85% 10% 5% Revenue Revenue Revenue Increased market share Growth in new markets Commercial traction Our Explore businesses are high potential, emerging Test for Value offerings are early-stage options that businesses, typically with a proven competitive offering in are typically based around innovative technology growth markets, often beyond defence.
the best opportunities for future growth, to at least These technologies are often developed under customer- $100 million revenue a year, from both our services funded programmes, so the portfolio can be likened to a and products divisions.
drug pipeline for a pharmaceutical company, except that These are established, commercially viable businesses that development takes place in partnership with customers have proven technology and customers.
In many cases, they who provide the majority of early-stage funding.
have been separated out as Explore business units in their Investment is required to achieve full commercialisation own right, with appropriate support from the corporate team.
and so we rigorously assess the viability of these options The challenge they face is to evolve a business model that can and their markets to determine how best to realise their achieve significant scale in order to become the sustainable, potential.
Technologies are often licensed out to reduce value-accretive core businesses of the future.
By meeting implementation and sales risks, or taken to market with this challenge we will deliver a broader base of significant partners.
They can also be integrated to Explore and businesses, thereby increasing the diversification of the Group.
receive investment, divested or closed.
We are selectively investing in these businesses to determine their ability to deliver growth both in the UK and overseas.
Investments can include new leadership and skills, accelerated business development, strategic acquisitions, alliances and partnership as appropriate to build momentum.
IP as an additional benefit Strategic Priorities Employees Customers Growth Orientation QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
