02 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 GOvERNANCE Board of Directors Directors Executive Directors Independent Non-executive Directors Richard Harvey Alex Kanellis Mr Harvey was appointed a Non-executive Director of Chief Executive Officer PZCussonsPlc in January 2010 and took up the position of Mr Kanellis has a Phd in mechanical engineering.
He joined Chairman on 1 July 2010.
A Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, PZCussonsin 1993.
He was appointed Managing Director of Mr Harvey became Group Chief Executive of Norwich Union the Groups business in Thailand in 1998 before becoming plc in 1998 and subsequently Group Chief Executive of Aviva Managing Director of Indonesia in 2001.
He was appointed plc, initially branded CGNU, after the merger of Norwich Union to the Board in 2003 as Regional Director of Asia before with CGU.
He has worked extensively overseas in both mature becoming Chief Executive in June 2006.
Mr Kanellis is a and emerging markets and was Chair of the Association of member of the Nomination, Group Risk and CSR Committees.
Since retiring from Aviva plc in 2007, Mr Harvey has spent time in Africa supporting Chris Davis charitable initiatives and has also worked on other projects to Chief Operating Officer accelerate business development in Africa, including work for After working in senior Sales & Marketing roles for various the Africa Progress Panel and the World Bank.
He is a NonConsumer Goods companies, Mr Davis joined PZCussonsfrom executive Director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Plc.
Mr Harvey the BTR Nylex Group in 1993 and became Managing Director is the Chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Groups business in Australia in 2001.
He was appointed of the CSR and Group Risk Committees.
to the Board in 2006 as Regional Director of Africa and became Group Commercial Director in 2008.
He was Professor John Arnold appointed Chief Operating Officer in 2013.
Mr Davis Professor Arnold is Emeritus Professor of Accounting and is a member of the Group Risk and CSR Committees.
Financial Management at Manchester Business School and has been a Non-executive Director of PZCussonsPlc since Brandon Leigh January 2007, assuming the role of Senior Independent Chief Financial Officer Director in September 2014.
A chartered accountant, his Mr Leigh qualified as a chartered accountant with Deloitte previous experience includes spending twelve years as & Touche in 1996.
He joined PZCussonsin 1997 and was Director and Dean of Manchester Business School.
Professor appointed to the Board in 2006.
Mr Leigh is a member Arnold is currently Chairman of the Co-operative Performance of the Group Risk and CSR Committees.
Committee of Co-operatives UK and Chairman of Feelgood Theatre Productions.
Professor Arnold is Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Group Risk Committee and a member of the Nomination, Remuneration and CSR Committees.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 03 Ngozi Edozien Caroline Silver Ms Edozien was appointed a Non-executive Director of Mrs Silver was appointed a Non executive Director of PZCussonsPlc in January 2012.
She was Head Chief Executive PZCussonsPlc in April 2014.
She is Partner and Managing Officer, Actis West Africa of the firm Actis LLP, a leading Director at Moelis & Co, the global investment bank.
private equity investor in emerging markets based in the UK.
A chartered accountant, she has worked within the As Head, West Africa, she was responsible for all aspects of the investment banking sector for over 25 years and has companys business in the region.
Prior to this, Ms Edozien was previously held a number of senior corporate finance and VP Strategic Planning and Business Development for Pfizer Inc M&A positions at Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch.
She was transferred to Nigeria in 2005 to a wealth of international experience, including substantial run Pfizers businesses in East, West and Central Africa, before exposure to a number of African markets.
Mrs Silver is a being appointed in 2008 as Chief Executive of the Equity Trustee of the victoria & Albert Museum.
She is a member vehicle for Health in Africa, an investment company focused of the Nomination, Remuneration, Audit, Group Risk and on investing in private healthcare businesses in the continent.
She has a background in management consulting and banking, having spent seven years with McKinsey & Co, working The Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts.
principally in the consumer products and healthcare sectors.
Details of the letter of engagement relating to each are set out A US Nigerian citizen, she was educated in the United States at under the heading Terms and Conditions for Non-executive Harvard University and started her career in corporate finance Directors within the Report on Directors remuneration.
She is a Non-executive Director of Diamond Bank Plc, a company listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange, and Under the Companys present Articles of Association, all vlisco Group, a company based in the Netherlands and a leader Directors are subject to annual re-election by Shareholders.
in the textile and fashion industry in Africa.
Ms Edozien is Chair Each of the Directors will retire immediately prior to the 2015 of the CSR Committee and a member of the Nomination, Annual General Meeting and, each, being eligible, will offer himself or herself for re-election at the meeting.
Remuneration, Audit and Group Risk Committees.
Helen Owers The evaluation of the Board, as reported within the Report on Corporate Governance, concluded that each of the Directors Mrs Owers was appointed a Non-executive Director of continues to demonstrate effectiveness and commitment PZCussonsPlc in January 2012.
She was previously Chief to his or her particular role and the re-election of each Development Officer for Thomson Reuters, with responsibility is accordingly recommended by the Board.
for the companys expansion in Rapidly Developing Economies.
She played an important role in the development of the companys digital strategy and, as President of Global Businesses for Thomson Reuters Legal, she built new businesses in a number of emerging markets, balancing local consumer insights and needs with the globalisation of the business and key products.
Before joining Thomson Reuters, Mrs Owers worked as a consultant with Gemini Consulting, developing and implementing corporate and operational strategies for a number of consumer products clients.
She is a Non-Executive Director of Informa plc, Wragge Lawrence Graham & Co LLP and of the Eden Project.
Mrs Owers is Chair of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nomination, Audit, Group Risk and CSR Committees.
