86 Directors report Branches Statutory information contained elsewhere in the Annual Report The Company and its subsidiaries have established branches in a Information required to be part of this Directors report can be found number of different countries in which they operate: their results elsewhere in the Annual Report as indicated in the table below and is are, however, not material to the Groups financial results.
incorporated into this report by reference: Location in Share capital Information Annual Report As at 31 March 2015, the Company had allotted and fully paid up page 48 Corporate Governance Statement share capital of 608,610,004 ordinary shares of 1p each with an page 55 Directors details aggregate nominal value of 6m including shares held by employee share trusts and one Special Share with a nominal value of 1. page 81 Directors interests in shares page 26 Employees Details of the shares in issue during the financial year are shown in note 28 on page 127. page 120 Financial instruments: Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, Share buyback and its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, interest At the general meeting of the Company held on 13 May 2014 relating rate risk and foreign currency risk to the sale of the US Services business, shareholder approval was page 29 Greenhouse gas emissions given for the Directors to purchase ordinary shares up to 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital.
The Company resolved to use this Likely future developments in the business pages 2 to 47 authority to effect a 150 million return of capital to shareholders of the Company or its subsidiaries by way of an on-market share buyback, subject to prevailing equity page 45 Results and dividends market conditions, as this was considered to be a flexible distribution method which was simple to execute, easily understood by the market Management report and provided shareholders with a choice as to whether to participate.
The Strategic report on pages 2 to 47 and the Directors report, During the financial year, the Company purchased 52,384,634 ordinary as detailed on pages 86 to 89, including information which has shares in the capital of the Company representing 8.6% of the issued been incorporated into those sections by reference, comprise the ordinary share capital as at 31 March 2015 at an average price of management report specified by rules 4.1.
Since the year end, the buyback programme has FCAs Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules.
continued and, as at 15 May 2015, a further 10,483,111 ordinary shares Research and development have been purchased representing 1.72% of the issued share capital, One of the Groups principal business streams is the provision of at an average price of 202 pence per share.
All of these shares have funded research and development R&D for customers.
Subject to prevailing market conditions, it is intended also invests in the commercialisation of promising technologies across that the buyback will remain ongoing until the 150 million return of all areas of business.
The majority of R&D-related expenditure is incurred in respect of In the financial year, the impact of the share buyback has been to specific research contracts placed by customers.
R&D costs are increase basic underlying earnings per share from 14.7p to 15.2p, included within operating costs in the income statement and R&D for total shareholder return to remain unchanged and for net asset income is reflected within revenue.
In the financial year, the Group value to reduce by 107.1 million.
In accordance with the Investment recorded 306.6m 2014: 314.6m of total R&D-related expenditure, Associations guidelines, the effect of the share buyback has been of which 285.8m 2014: 288.7m was customer-funded work and neutralised in incentive schemes, such that for calculation purposes 20.8m 2014: 25.9m was internally funded all comparative figures the number of shares in issue is regarded as the same at the end exclude discontinued operations.
Additionally, 0.4m 2014: 2.1m of the three-year performance period as at the beginning.
of late-stage development costs was capitalised and 0.6m 2014: 0.3m Accordingly, no benefit has accrued under the incentive schemes of capitalised development costs was amortised in the year.
as a consequence of the share buyback.
Political donations Rights of ordinary shareholders QinetiQ does not make political donations to parties as that term The rights of ordinary shareholders are set out in the Articles of would be commonly recognised.
The legal definition of that term is, Association.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive however, quite broad and may have the effect of covering a number the Companys Reports and Accounts, to attend and speak at general of normal business activities that would not commonly be perceived meetings of the Company, to exercise voting rights in person or by to be political donations, such as sponsorship of events.
appointing a proxy, and to receive a dividend where declared or paid out of profits available for that purpose.
These may include legitimate interactions in making MPs and others in the political world aware of key industry issues and matters that Rights of special shareholder affect QinetiQ, and that make an important contribution to their The Special Share is held by HM Government through the Secretary understanding of QinetiQ, the markets in which it operates and of State for Defence the Special Shareholder and it may only be held the work of their constituents.
by and transferred to HM Government.
It confers certain rights which QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 87 Major shareholdings are set out in the Articles of Association to protect UK defence and The Company has been notified of the following interests of 3% security interests.
These include: or more in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company being the promotion and reinforcement of the MOD compliance voting rights over such share capital pursuant to Rule 5.1 of the principles which require QinetiQ to be an impartial, ethical and Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules: responsible contractor by avoiding conflicts of interest in its # At 31 March 2015 At 15 May 2015 dealings with the MOD: % of issued share % of issued share Name of shareholder capital capital the protection of defined strategic assets of the Group, such as certain testing facilities, by providing the Special Shareholder Schroders 10.00% 11.08% with an option to purchase those assets in certain circumstances: Ruane Cunniff & Goldfarb 9.71% 9.71% the right to require certain persons with a material interest in Investec 5.02% 5.02% QinetiQ to dispose of some or all of their ordinary shares on the Artisan Partners 5.01% 5.01% grounds of national security or conflict of interest: and Norges Bank 4.24% 3.93% nationality of directors provisions whereby at least the Chairman or Chief Executive must be a British citizen.
as notified by the shareholder.
# being the latest practicable date prior to the issue of this report.
The Special Share carries no financial and economic value and the Directors conflicts of interest Special Shareholder is not entitled to vote at a general meeting of the The Company requires Directors to disclose proposed outside Company.
At any time the Special Shareholder may require QinetiQ business interests before they are entered into.
This enables prior to redeem the share at par and, if wound up, the Special Shareholder assessment of any conflict, or potential conflict, of interest and any would be entitled to be repaid at its nominal value before other impact on time commitment.
An annual review of all external shareholders.
Any variation of the rights attaching to the Special interests is carried out by the Board.
Share requires the written approval of the MOD.
Further details can be found in note 28 on page 127.
Directors interests in contracts At the date of this report, there is no contract or arrangement with Restrictions on the transfer of shares the Company or any of its subsidiaries that is significant in relation As detailed above, the Special Share confers certain rights under the to the business of the Group as a whole in which a Director of the Companys Articles of Association to require certain persons with an Company is materially interested.
interest in QinetiQs shares that exceed certain prescribed thresholds to dispose of some or all of their ordinary shares on the grounds of Indemnities national security or conflict of interest.
The Articles of Association of the Company entitle the Directors of the Company, to the extent permitted by law, to be indemnified Employee share schemes out of the assets of the Company in the event that they suffer any The QinetiQ Group plc Employee Benefit Trust the Trust holds shares expenses in connection with certain proceedings relating to the in connection with QinetiQs employee share schemes, excluding the execution of their duties as Directors of the Company.
As at 31 March 2015, the Trust held 5,139,557 ordinary shares of 1p each the Trust Shares.
The Trustees of the In addition, the Company purchases directors and officers liability Trust have agreed to waive their entitlement to dividends payable insurance.
Where it is not possible for directors and officers to be on the Trust Shares.
The Trust holds further ordinary shares in respect indemnified by the Company, such directors and officers of the of deferred shares held on behalf of participants in the Companys Company benefit from the directors and officers liability insurance Deferred Annual Bonus Plan.
Dividends received by the Trust in respect cover in respect of legal actions brought against them.
This insurance of the deferred shares are paid direct to the plan participants on protection is also provided to the Company and its subsidiaries where receipt and are not retained in the Trust.
they have provided an indemnity.
Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited acts as Trustee in respect of all The directors of QinetiQ Pension Scheme Trustee Limited, a Group ordinary shares held by employees under the QinetiQ Group plc Share company and the Trustee of the QinetiQ Pension Scheme the Incentive Plan the Plan.
As at 31 March 2015, 304,324 ordinary Scheme, benefit from an indemnity contained in the rules of the shares of 1p each were held in trust under the Plan.
The indemnity would be provided out of the Scheme assets.
Plan Trustees Limited will vote on all resolutions proposed at general Articles of Association meetings in accordance with voting instructions received from Changes to the Articles must be submitted to shareholders for approval.
Save in respect of the rights attaching to the Special Share, the Company Corporate sponsored nominee has not adopted any special rules relating to the appointment and In circumstances where ordinary shares are held by the corporate replacement of Directors or the amendment of the Companys Articles sponsored nominee service, Equiniti Corporate Nominees Limited will of Association, other than as provided under UK corporate law.
vote on all resolutions proposed at general meetings in accordance with voting instructions received from shareholders using such corporate nominee service.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 88 Directors report continued Appointment and replacement of Directors During the year under review, the Company re-financed its multicurrency revolving credit facility and entered into a new five-year According to the Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to facility, with a US$100m tranche and a 166m tranche, provided election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting following by a consortium of banks, that expires on 29 August 2019.
Under their appointment, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no the terms of the facility, in the event of a change of control of the more than three years.
In line with best practice reflected in the Company, any lender may give notice to cancel its commitment Code, however, the Company requires each serving member of the under the facility and require all outstanding amounts to be repaid.
Board to be put forward for election or re-election on an annual basis at each annual general meeting.
The Directors contracts contain no provisions for compensation Powers of the Directors: allotment purchase of own shares for loss of office on a change of control of the Company.
As noted on page 86, at the general meeting of the Company held Annual General Meeting on 13 May 2014, shareholder approval was given for the Directors The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday, to purchase ordinary shares up to 14.99% of the issued ordinary 22 July 2015 at 11.00am, at Pennyhill Park Hotel, London Road, Bagshot, share capital.
The Company has used this authority to effect a Surrey, GU19 5EU.
Details of the business to be proposed and voted on 150m return of capital to shareholders by way of an on-market at the meeting are contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, share buyback, subject to prevailing equity market conditions.
which is sent to all shareholders and is also published on the Companys website, www.
com in the Investors section.
At the Companys Annual General Meeting held in July 2014, the shareholders passed resolutions which authorised the Directors to Auditor allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 4,403,174 KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as 2,197,537 pursuant only to a rights issue and to disapply pre-emption auditor and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the rights up to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital.
Resolutions in respect of the allotment of relevant securities, the Going concern disapplication of pre-exemption rights and the purchase of own The Groups activities, combined with the factors that are likely to shares will be laid before the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
affect its future development and performance, are set out on pages 2 to 47.
The Chief Financial Officers review on pages 44 to 47 sets Change of control significant agreements out details of the financial position of the Group, the cash flows, The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling committed borrowing facilities, liquidity, and the Groups policies the counterparties to require prior approval, exercise termination, and processes for managing its capital and financial risks.
alteration or other similar rights in the event of a change of control of the Company, or if the Company ceases to be a UK company: Note 26 on page 120 to the financial statements also provides The Combined Aerial Target Service contract is a 20-year contract details of the Groups hedging activities, financial instruments, and awarded to QinetiQ by the MOD on 14 December 2006.
The terms its exposure to liquidity and credit risk.
The market conditions in of this contract require QinetiQ Limited to remain a UK company which the Group operates have been, and are expected to continue which is incorporated under the laws of any part of the UK, or an to be, challenging as spending from the Groups key customers in overseas company registered in the UK, and that at least 50% of its primary markets in the UK and the US remains under pressure.
the Board of Directors are UK nationals.
The terms also contain Despite these challenges, the Directors believe that the Group is well change of control conditions and restricted share transfer conditions positioned to manage its overall business risks successfully.
After which require prior approval from HM Government if there is making the appropriate enquiries, including a review of the latest a material change in the ownership of QinetiQ Limiteds share two-year budget, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the capital, unless the change relates to shares listed on a regulated Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence market material is defined as being 10% or more of the share for the foreseeable future.
Consequently, the Annual Report and capital.
In addition, there are restrictions on transfers of shares to Accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.
persons from countries appearing on the restricted list as issued Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report by HM Government.
and financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The Long Term Partnering Agreement LTPA is a 25-year the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance contract, which QinetiQ Limited signed on 28 February 2003, with applicable law and regulations.
to provide test, evaluation and training services to the MOD.
This contract contains conditions under which the prior approval Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent of HM Government is required if the contractor, QinetiQ Limited, company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that ceases to be a subsidiary of the QinetiQ Group, except where law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in such change in control is permitted under the shareholders accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and Agreement to which the MOD is a party.
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 89 Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view Annual Report of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their The Directors in office as at the date of this report confirm that profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and to the best of their knowledge: parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the Company, and the undertakings included in the consolidation for the Group financial statements, state whether they have taken as a whole: and been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: the Directors report includes a fair review of the development for the parent company financial statements, state whether and performance of the business, and the position of the applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal company financial statements: and risks and uncertainties that they face.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis In addition, all Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the parent company will continue in business.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
In this context, the The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting coordination and review of the Group-wide input into the Annual records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys Report is a vital part of the control process upon which the Directors transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the rely and is an exercise which spans a period wider than the timetable financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure for compiling the Annual Report itself.
Critically these processes that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. include the controls the business operates throughout the year to They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably identify key financial and operational issues.
Further details can be open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent found in the report of the Audit Committee on pages 66 to 69 of the and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also By order of the Board responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors report, Directors remuneration report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Jon Messent The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Company Secretary the corporate and financial information included on the Companys Cody Technology Park website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and Ively Road dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Farnborough in other jurisdictions.
Hampshire Statement of disclosure of information to the auditor GU14 0LX The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors 21 May 2015 report have confirmed that, so far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Directors have taken all the steps they reasonably should have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
