06 Market overview Understanding our markets Market drivers UK Ministry of Defence budget m The world is an increasingly uncertain and less In the US, the Federal Government continues to secure place.
Technology proliferation has lowered pursue technological superiority in response to the 39,035 37,980 36,436 36,181 the bar for terrorism, organised crime and conflict, deteriorating security situation and as its principal 35,874 meaning that threats to security are increasing source of military advantage.
President Obama in number and diversity.
recently requested an 8% increase to the US defence budget for 2016, forcing the Republican majority to At the same time, technology proliferation weigh up competing concerns about defence and enables governments to spin-in technologies tackling the ongoing fiscal deficit.
from the commercial sector with the help of organisations like QinetiQ which are independent Elsewhere, governments and commercial organisations from the supply chain and experts in the continue to build capability and balance budgetary application of technology.
QinetiQs ability to innovate and apply technology These fiscal pressures, both in the UK and worldwide, FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 to mitigate security threats, enables us to work are no longer new.
Despite reduction in the UK defence Outturn Plans smarter and to leverage available resources to help budget over the last parliamentary term, QinetiQ Source: HM Treasury Public expenditure statistical analysis customers deliver when budgets are under pressure.
was able to improve its financial performance.
The UK Government continues to face a significant budget deficit, and a further period of fiscal austerity looks likely following the 2015 election result.
Defence expenditure is not protected by Government ring-fencing, unlike spending on healthcare, schools and international aid, but the UK Ministry of Defence MOD has made significant progress over the last P4 Our business model five years in balancing its budget.
UK defence market QinetiQ business units are aligned closely To date, the UK Government has aimed to spend Joint Forces Command has been created to bring 2% of GDP on defence and 1.2% of the budget on improved focus to technological enablers and to the Front Line Commands science and technology, although these commitments give intellectual energy to how warfare should be are likely to be considered as part of the Strategic conducted in the information age.
With its own Front Line QinetiQ Defence and Security Review SDSR expected in procurement arm and multi-billion pound budget, Command business 2015.
As in 2010, we expect the SDSR to include Joint Forces Command provides a more focused Training consultation with industry to help the Government channel for our Cyber Security, C4ISR, and Training meet the challenges facing UK defence, and look businesses which were aligned during the year.
C4ISR Joint forward to contributing to topics including test and Forces Revised single source regulations and pricing terms Cyber Security evaluation, and research and technology.
QinetiQ for single source contracts are now in place under has maintained the capability to carry out work not the new Orange Book.
They cover new contracts Maritime required to be undertaken within Government and worth 5m or more, requiring additional reporting the rationalisation of defence budgets and structures Navy and tightening definitions of allowable costs.
Our could provide further opportunities in this area.
combination of capabilities is unique in the UK and, Defence transformation has been a priority since 2010, consequently, 33% of EMEA Services revenue is Weapons incorporating a number of significant programmes.
derived from single source contracts, excluding the Army For example, the MODs procurement agency Defence non-tasking element of the Long Term Partnering Equipment and Support fide&S is transforming its Agreement LTPA.
Greater transparency and an operating model and has been given access to private independent regulator the Single Source Regulations Air sector expertise to help improve its performance.
Office SSRO will help demonstrate the value for Air money the Government derives from single source The Front Line Commands Navy, Army, Air and contracts.
The SSRO has confirmed the Government Joint Forces are exercising their newly delegated profit formula for 2016 is broadly consistent powers to shape future capabilities and our with 2015 but has stated it will be reviewing the business units are aligned closely to these methodology for this formula for future periods.
Commands and are well placed to help them P38 EMEA Services with their growing procurement responsibilities.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 07 Global markets Breakdown of revenue by customer In May 2014, we completed the sale of the US Although our traditional markets are the UK Services division and are no longer active in the and US, many of our unique capabilities are 2015 % US federal services market.
Our Global Products transferable to other geographies.
For example, UK MOD 67 division has a significant US footprint, providing a as the Canadian and Australian Governments pursue US Department route to the worlds largest defence market.
similar defence transformation programmes to the of Defence DoD 6 UK, they value our independent advice, test and The US Government is continuing to drawdown the Government agencies 11 evaluation in support of better procurement.
number of troops deployed on Overseas Contingency Commercial defence 6 Operations OCO and reduce the accompanying Governments in Europe, the Middle East and Asia Commercial 10 OCO procurement budget.
Although there are reset are building their defence capabilities in response to opportunities, this continues to depress demand for the increasing volume and diversity of the threats to conflict-related products.
security, increasing the demand for C4ISR, cyber and training expertise.
US military customers are assessing their post-war requirements and formulating new Programs of Amongst the prime contractors, competition is Record which will determine the peacetime demand becoming fiercer.
They are liaising with the supply for products, such as unmanned systems.
Our US chain to find new sources of competitive advantage.
products business is responding to these opportunities Much of QinetiQs innovation is created from solving with a greater focus on these Programs of Record, a specific set of customer problems, and at the same contract-funded research and development, and time generating technology and expertise with the non-defence markets.
The disposal of US Services potential to be transferred into new sectors offering has helped to facilitate this renewed focus by removing higher growth potential.
any customer concerns about Organisational Conflict of Interest.
P42 Global Products Impact on our business 2016 Outlook Breakdown of revenues by key domains We rarely compete directly with aerospace Defence transformation, and the forthcoming Comprehensive Spending Review and SDSR are and defence companies but instead provide expected to have an impact on the UK defence 2015 % client-side support through the domain know-how market this year.
This will provide future opportunities Air 25 and technical expertise of our people.
In general, for EMEA Services to build on its strong record of Weapons 26 we are not significantly impacted by changes in delivering more for less, whilst recognising that in FY16 there will be uncertainty and the potential for individual procurement projects.
Instead we provide Maritime 10 interruptions to order flow.
The portion of revenue research, technical advice, and test and evaluation Cyber, C4ISR under contract at the start of FY16 was similar to a across all military domains and the majority of and Training 15 year ago and the balance is supported by a pipeline equipment programmes through the LTPA and Other EMEA Services 6 of opportunities but order flow and contract cover other key contracts.
will be watched closely over the coming months.
Global Products US 8 Overall, given the opening backlog position, Global Products EMEA 10 Our position, independent from the supply expectations for the performance of EMEA Services chain, means we bring unique, impartial skills that in the current financial year are unchanged.
help our customers meet the dual challenges of In Global Products, newer products are recording declining budgets and increasing security threats.
notable milestones and the amount of revenue Although the MOD transformation programme, under contract at the start of FY16 is up slightly on a year ago, but the drawdown of American overseas the election of a new Government and SDSR may military forces is continuing to depress demand for slow decision-making this year and create some conflict-related products.
As the division has a lumpy short-term uncertainty in the UK, they also provide revenue profile which is dependent on the timing opportunities for us to build on our strong record and shipment of key orders, there is a range of of a smarter way of working and efficient and possible outcomes for the performance of Global Products in the current year.
This track record underpins our ability to increase the scope of existing contracts, In balancing the market uncertainties with the win new outsourcing opportunities and take our strength of the Groups operations, the Board is maintaining its expectations for Group performance capabilities to new international markets.
in the current financial year.
P20 Key performance indicators QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
