EXECUTIVES tahirou Ballo Chiaka Berthe Gm louloGounKoto Gm operations mine Complex West afriCa A mining economist engineer with 21 years With a Masters degree in geological engineering sebastiaan experience, mainly in Mali.
Tahirou started his career from the Malian National School of Engineering, Bock as a short term planner with BHP Billiton at the Chiaka has more than 19 years experience in the Syama mine and served as mining superintendent industry.
He is a member of the Australian Institute Group Gm from 1999 for Randgold at Syama.
Tahirou was of Mine and Metallurgy and the Geostatistical finanCe appointed to his current position as general manager Association, and was appointed to his current of the Loulo-Gounkoto complex in 2015. position as general manager operations West Africa in 2015.
Sebastiaan is responsible for the management of the groups operations financial functions and the groups corporate finance management.
Hes a chartered accountant with 15 years experience and has been with the group for seven years.
Joel is a geologist with 19 years experience on Luiz is a metallurgist with exploration projects in Europe, South America and 30 years experience in Joel holliday luiz Correia across Africa.
He joined Randgold in 2004 and the gold mining industry, until recently worked as exploration manager for and has a BSc Eng as Group Gm Gm tonGon West Africa following several years as exploration well as a BCom degree.
exploration mine manager for the Loulo district in Mali, during which He joined Randgold in time the Gounkoto and Loulo 3 deposits were 2005 and in 2006 was discovered.
Joel has a BSc Hons Geology.
appointed operations manager at the Loulo mine.
He was appointed general manager at the Tongon mine during adama Kone its construction phase in 2010.
Gm morila mine With a BPL Hons and DCom, he has served as Adama joined Randgold in 1996, responsible for a director of listed and private companies in the Willem grade control at the Syama mine.
In 2000, he joined areas of mining, engineering and manufacturing in Jacobs the mineral resources department at the Morila mine, Southern, Central and Eastern Africa for the past becoming manager of the department in 2006.
Gm operations a geological degree from the Malian National School of Engineering, he gained early experience as a Central and field geologist for BHP Billiton Minerals Exploration.
east afriCa Adama has been the general manager of the Morila mine since 2011.
Sam was a professor mahamadou of company law at sam samak the University of Mali, and was instrumental Group in writing the Malian reGional mining legislation.
He manaGer West is the resident executive manager in Mali and afriCa is responsible for government liaison in West Africa and is the John was responsible ngolo groups West African for the successful legal counsel.
sanogo construction and commissioning of Gm mali Randgolds Morila, Loulo, Tongon and Gounkoto mines and led the development and commissioning of the Kibali mine in the DRC.
He also continues to Ngolo has a Masters degree in economics from John steele provide operational and the National School of Administration of Bamako, engineering oversight to Mali, as well as several business qualifications.
John has a joined BHP Billiton Mali in 1995 and was appointed and Capital BSc Hons in Chemical the management accountant at the Syama mine in proJeCts Engineering and MBL 2001.
In 2004 he joined Randgold as Mali financial exeCutive UNISA.
controller and was appointed Mali general manager in 2009.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 20 A mining engineer, Ted has extensive experience in mining operations, mining contracting and ted fide villiers consulting.
He joined Randgold in 2010, with executive responsibility for the groups rapidly Group Gm expanding mining operations, tasked with ensuring mininG a consistent production stream.
Ted has an HNDP Mining Metalliferous and a Mine Managers Certificate of Competency South Africa.
tania fide paul Gillot Welzim Group metallurGist, Group deputy Gm finanCial Capital manaGer proJeCts Having served as group Paul has 26 years operational and management riaan Grobler financial controller, Tania experience in the mining industry and moved was appointed to her into the projects arena for the group with the Group Gm current position in 2009. commissioning of the Tongon mine.
He obtained CommerCial A Chartered Accountant his NHD in Extractive Metallurgy from the University and supply with 17 years financial of Johannesburg.
He is responsible for the groups Chain experience, 15 of these metallurgical activities.
in the mining industry, she is responsible for technical financial reporting and procedures Riaan holds an Honours degree in finance and has victor for the group.
17 years experience in the gold mining industry.
He matfield was initially appointed financial projects manager East Africa in early 2012 and was involved in the financial Group Gm management side of the construction of the Kibali Corporate mine before his promotion in January 2014 to group finanCe general manager commercial and supply chain.
A chartered accountant, philip lois Wark Victor was appointed pretorius corporate finance Group Gm manager in 2001.
Corporate Prior to this he served Group human CommuniCations as financial manager resourCes of both the Syama and exeCutive Morila mines.
He has 26 years Lois has been with Randgold since its inception human resources experience, the last 20 spent and assumed management of the cartography exclusively with the gold mining industry in Subdepartment in 1995.
She is responsible for the Saharan Africa.
He has a postgraduate diploma coordination of the groups communications and in management practice and is responsible for investor relations programmes and holds a diploma in the groups human resources and human capital land surveying: cadastral and topographical.
A geologist with an MSc Geology and 22 years experience in the gold mining industry.
Rod joined rod Quick Randgold in 1996, and has been involved in the exploration, evaluation and production phases of Group Gm all Randgolds projects since Morila.
He became evaluation responsible for all project development and evaluation for the group in 2009.
Martin joined Randgold in 2011 and in 2012 was Charles Wells martin Welsh appointed the groups company secretary and Gm KiBali mine General general counsel.
He Counsel and qualified as a solicitor in seCretary 1998 and before joining Randgold, worked in London for the city law firms Dickson Minto WS and Linklaters.
Martin Charles has an MSc in environmental biotechnology holds BA Hons and LLB and 18 years experience in environmental degrees and a diploma management.
He joined Randgold in March 2012 with in legal practice from the responsibility for the groups sustainability programme University of Strathclyde.
before being appointed the general manager of the Kibali mine in 2014.
