Left to right: Standing: Karl Voltaire, Kadri Dagdelen, Mark Bristow, Jamil Kassum, Safiatou Ba-NDaw and Norborne Cole.
Sitting: Christopher Coleman, Jeanine Mabunda Lioko, Andrew Quinn and Graham Shuttleworth.
Photo: David Woolfall Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 16 BOaRd OF dIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 17 STRATEGIC REPORT BoaRd of diRectoRs Continued 47 Board committees Chairman of the governance & nomination committee Christopher L Coleman and member of the remuneration committee non-exeCutive Chairman Christopher is the head of banking and a director of NM Rothschild & nationality United Kingdom Sons Limited.
He is also chairman of Rothschild Bank International in the appointment date 3 November 2008 Channel Islands and serves on a number of other boards and committees of the Rothschild Group, which he joined in 1989.
A BSc Econ graduate from the London School of Economics, he was a non-executive director of the Merchant Bank of Central Africa from 2001 to 2008.
He is a nonexecutive director of Papa Johns International Inc. 1 other directorships Papa Johns International, Inc NASDAQ 57 Mark has been the chief executive since the incorporation of Randgold, Mark Bristow which was founded on his pioneering exploration work in West Africa.
Chief exeCutive He has subsequently led the companys growth through the discovery nationality South Africa and development of world class assets into a major international gold mining business.
Mark has also played a significant part in promoting the appointment date 11 August 1995 emergence of a sustainable mining industry in Africa.
A geologist with a PhD from Natal University, South Africa, he has held board positions at a number of global mining companies and is currently the non-executive chairman of Rockwell Diamonds Inc. 1 other directorships Rockwell Diamonds Inc TSX 47 Graham joined Randgold as chief financial officer and finance director in Graham Shuttleworth July 2007 but has been associated with the company since its inception, finanCe direCtor and initially as part of its management team involved in listing the company Chief finanCial offiCer on the London Stock Exchange in 1997, and subsequently as an advisor.
nationality South Africa A chartered accountant, Graham was a managing director and the New York based head of metals and mining for the Americas in the global appointment date 3 July 2007 investment banking division of HSBC before taking up his current position at Randgold.
Graham is a graduate of the University of Cape Town, South Africa, with a bachelor of commerce degree and an honours degree from the University of South Africa.
1 other directorships None 74 Board committees Member of the remuneration committee and member Norborne P Cole Jr of the governance & nomination committee senior independent non-exeCutive direCtor Norb started working for the Coca-Cola Company as a field representative nationality USA in the USA in 1966 and advanced steadily through the organisation becoming chief executive of Coca-Cola Amatil in Australia in 1994, a appointment date 3 May 2006 position he held until 1998.
Under his leadership, Coca-Cola Amatil grew into the second largest Coca-Cola bottler in the world.
Now based in San Antonio, Texas, he serves on the boards of a number of US companies including Papa Johns International Inc. 1 other directorships Papa Johns International, Inc. NASDAQ Board committees Chairman of the audit committee and member of the Jemal-ud-din Kassum governance & nomination committee 67 Jamil Kassum independent Jamil is a former World Bank vice president for the East Asia and Pacific non-exeCutive direCtor region.
Before that, he had a 25 year career with the International Finance nationality USA Corporation.
He sits on the board of Thien Minh Group and Khan Bank.
appointment date 31 January 2014 Based in the USA, he now provides strategic advice to international financial institutions and governments.
He was educated at Oxford University and holds an MBA from Harvard University.
1 other directorships None Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 18 61 Board committees Member of the governance & nomination committee Kadri dagdelen independent A professor and previously the head of the department of mining non-exeCutive direCtor engineering at the Colorado School of Mines, USA, Kadri began his nationality Turkey professional career as a mining engineer at Homestake Mining Co now Barrick Gold Corporation and was the technical services manager when appointment date 29 January 2010 he left for academia in 1992.
With a PhD in mining engineering and a ME in geostatistics, Kadri has been involved in numerous research and consulting projects worldwide.
He also served on the board of directors of the Society of Mining, Exploration and Metallurgy in the USA for six years and has chaired other professional societies that support the mining industry.
1 other directorships None 62 Board committees Chairman of the remuneration committee and andrew J Quinn member of the audit committee independent non-exeCutive direCtor Andrew retired at the end of 2011 from his position as head of mining investment nationality United Kingdom banking for Europe and Africa at CIBC after 15 years in the role and more than 35 years experience of the mining industry.
With a BSc Hons in mineral appointment date 1 November 2011 exploitation mining engineering from Cardiff University, Andrew began his career in Anglo Americans gold division in 1975, holding various management and technical positions in South Africa, and worked briefly for Greenbushes Tin in Australia before joining The Mining Journal in 1982 as editor of its gold publications.
In 1984 he entered the financial services industry joining James Capel later HSBC Investment Banking and then joining CIBC in 1996.
1 other directorships None Board committees Member of the audit committee Jeanine Mabunda 51 Lioko Jeanine has spent a number of years working in the Democratic Republic of Congos finance industry including with Citi Group and as an advisor to independent the Governor of Banque Centrale du Congo.
A former Minister of Portfolio non-exeCutive direCtor of the DRC, a position which she held for over five years, she is now a nationality Democratic Republic of serving member of the National Assembly of the Democratic Republic Congo of Congo, representing the Equateur Province.
Jeanine is also a special appointment date 28 January 2013 advisor to the DRC government to prevent violence against women and the recruitment of children for war.
She was educated in Brussels, Belgium, and holds a law degree from the Catholic University of Louvain and a postgraduate degree in commercial science from the ICHEC Brussels Management School.
1 other directorships None 65 Board committees Member of the audit committee and of the Karl Voltaire 2 remuneration committee independent non-exeCutive direCtor A graduate in mineral resources engineering from the Ecole des Mines nationality France in Paris, Karl holds an MBA and PhD in economics and finance from the University of Chicago.
He started his career as a mining engineer appointment date 3 May 2006 in Haiti and subsequently spent 23 years with the World Bank Group in Washington DC, including the International Finance Corporation where his last position was that of director of global financial markets.
Thereafter Karl was appointed a director of the Office of President at the African Development Bank.
He was CEO of the Nelson Mandela Institution from 2005 to 2009, and is currently a member of the Board of Trustees of the African University of Science and Technology.
1 other directorships None 3 63 Board committees Member of the audit committee Safiatou F Ba-NDaw independent A Harvard University MBA graduate, Safiatou spent 12 years with the non-exeCutive direCtor World Bank as a senior financial specialist for the South Asia region, nationality Cte dIvoire following which she was appointed Cte dIvoires Minister of Energy, a position she held until 2000.
Safiatou was subsequently appointed a appointment date 1 March 2015 director of the United Nations Development Programme for South-South Cooperation formerly the Special Unit: Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries until 2004 when she was appointed deputy chief of staff to the Prime Minister of Cte dIvoire.
She is a managing partner of Alizes Consultants, an international consulting services firm, and deputy chairperson of Niger Omega, a Nigerian and London based oil and gas services company.
1 other directorships None 1 Directorship of public listed companies.
2 Dr K Voltaire will retire from the audit committee and the remuneration committee with effect from 3 May 2016.
3 Mrs Ba-NDaw has been appointed to the audit committee with effect from 2 May 2016.
