directors whether on a short or long term basis.
The BoArD AND coMMITTee eVALUATIoN committee also considered succession planning The performance of the board and the committees for the non-executive directors, including the senior during 2015 was evaluated and the results were independent director.
presented and debated at the boards February 2016 board meeting.
The evaluation process considered The committee continued to look at succession the strengths and weaknesses of the directors, their planning for senior management and in this regard skills, knowledge, independence and experience the ceo presented the committee with his current and how effectively the board and the boards succession plans for the companys key senior committees are working.
The overall aim of the 2015 managers, indicating where successors to key annual board evaluation exercise was to ensure the positions could be sourced and in most instances board works well and that the business continues succession was available internally.
As a result of the 2015 evaluation there were no areas where significant The board has an opportunity to meet with senior change or improvement was felt necessary and the management and see them operate on site when board and the committees were found to be operating they visit the groups operations.
encourages such site visits which are undertaken at least once every year as they allow board members on behalf of the governance & nomination committee to interact with site management, broadening their understanding of the activities of the company.
During 2015 the board visited the Tongon gold mine in cte dIvoire and in February 2016 the board and its committees held their quarterly meetings at the Kibali gold mine in the Democratic republic of congo.
AcTIoN pLAN For 2016 christopher coleman In the year ahead the committee will focus on the Chairman boards and committees composition and will Governance & nomination committee continue to monitor developments in corporate governance to ensure the company remains at the forefront of good governance practices.
The committee intends to continue its overview of the companys succession planning for directors and its senior management.
Disclaimer This annual report has been prepared for, and only for the members of the company as defined in article 25 2 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991, as a body, and no other persons.
The company, its directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
By their nature, the statements concerning the risks and uncertainties facing the Randgold Resources Limited group Randgold in this annual report involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this annual report and the company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
In particular, except for the historical information contained herein, the matters discussed in this annual report are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the US Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and applicable Canadian securities legislation.
Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to the future price of gold, the estimation of mineral reserves and resources, the realisation of mineral reserve estimates, the timing and amount of estimated future production, costs of production, reserve determination and reserve conversion rates.
Generally, these forwardlooking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as will, plans, expects or does not expect, is expected, budget, scheduled, estimates, forecasts, intends, anticipates or does not anticipate, or believes, or variations of such words and phrases or state that certain actions, events or results may, could, would, might or will be taken, occur or be achieved.
Assumptions upon which such forward-looking statements are based are in turn based on factors and events that are not within the control of Randgold and there is no assurance they will prove to be correct.
Forwardlooking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements of Randgold to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to: risks related to mining operations, including political risks and instability and risks related to international operations, actual results of current exploration activities, conclusions of economic evaluations, changes in project parameters as plans continue to be refined, as well as those factors discussed in Randgolds filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
Although Randgold has attempted to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements, there may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended.
There can be no assurance that such statements will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements.
Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
Randgold does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements herein, except in accordance with applicable securities laws.
Nothing in this annual report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Cautionary note to US investors The SEC permits companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proven and probable ore reserves.
We use certain terms in this annual report, such as resources, that the SEC does not recognise and strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC.
Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any parts of our resources will ever be converted into reserves which qualify as proven and probable reserves for the purposes of the SECs Industry Guide number 7.
