DIRECTORS REPORTS Viability statement Viability Statement VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in September 2014 Code, the directors have assessed the viability of the group and have selected a period of five years for this assessment.
While the group maintains a full business model based predominantly on the life of mine plans for each of its significant business units, the group also operates a detailed rolling five year strategic plan which is scrutinised by the board on a quarterly basis.
The plan is used as the basis to undertake the viability assessment on an annual basis.
The assessment conducted considered the groups operating profit, revenue, EBITDA, cash flows, capital investment requirements, dividend cover and other relevant key financial assumptions over the five year period.
These metrics were subjected to downside stress and sensitivity analysis over the assessment period, taking account of the groups current position, the groups experience of managing adverse conditions in the past and the impact of a number of severe yet plausible scenarios, based on the principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 181 to 184 of this annual report.
Although the review considered all the principal risks identified by the group, the following were focused on for enhanced stress testing: gold price, production profile, recovered grade, capital investment, exchange rate, oil price, other mining costs, health and safety, and political environment.
The stress testing considered the principal risks assessed both individually and in combination.
The chairmans statement, the chief executives review, finance review, along with the key performance indicators on pages 8, 12, 22 and 4 and 5 respectively of this annual report, set out details of the groups financial performance, operational performance, capital management, business environment and outlook.
The groups business model has proven to be strong and defensive in the long term and the group has consistently demonstrated its ability to manage costs whilst retaining solid capital investment in future operations during challenging market conditions.
During 2015 cash generated from operations was $397.0 million and for the past five years the cash generated from operations has never been less than $317.6 million per annum and has averaged $451.6 million with a peak of $582.0 million in 2011.
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2015 were $213.4 million and the group has access to an unsecured revolving credit facility of $400.0 million which matures in December 2018 and at the date of this annual report remained undrawn.
During 2015 cash costs per ounce were $679 oz and from 2011 the cash cost per ounce has never been more than $735 oz and has averaged $701 oz.
The group operates in dynamic geographical markets and derives all of its revenues from the production and sale of gold and therefore is subject to the risks associated with commodity price fluctuations.
The groups viability depends on the global economy and markets continuing to function.
The directors believe that the group would remain viable even in the event of the current depressed gold price being sustained as it would be able to continue to operate based on its current business model which is predominately based on a gold price of $1 000 oz.
however, long term significant devaluation of the gold price and long-term cost inflation would cause a threat to the group please refer to the gold market overview on page 28 of this annual report.
The group has a robust risk control framework which has the objectives of reducing the likelihood and impact of: poor judgement in decision making: risk-taking that exceeds the levels agreed by the board: human error: or control processes being deliberately circumvented which enhances its viability.
During 2015 and in making this statement, the companys board of directors carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group, including those that would threaten the groups business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The board confirmed that its assessment of the principal risks facing the company was vigorous and remains appropriate.
While this review does not consider all the risks that the group may face, having taken into account the current economic outlook and the inherent uncertainty involved, the companys directors believe that the group is well positioned to manage its business risks successfully.
Taking into account the companys current position, principal risks, and the analysis outlined above, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities over the five year period.
