Strategic report Business model Creating value for our customers Our aim is to be the UKs leading multi-channel gaming operator.
How we create value Our aim is to be the UKs leading multi-channel gaming operator, creating value for our shareholders by having strong brands which meet customers needs and delivering operational excellence in venues and digital channels.
Pages 15 to 19 outline our five strategic pillars that will deliver our aim.
Inputs Our multi-channel offer Financial capital We have a strong balance sheet and anticipate signing new replacement facilities shortly.
Human Digital We employ 11,000 talented and dedicated individuals who have a desire to create the best experience for our three million customers.
Strong brands We own a number of well-known brands with a strong af nity amongst certain customer segments.
Social We are valued by the communities we operate in, providing fun and exciting experiences for our three million customers.
Ranks supplier relationships form part of our strategic plans and are a key component of delivering a quality product and service to our customers.
Retail How we run our business The Rank Group is a well-established gaming operator which operates across multiple channels.
Our business model shows how the different parts of the Group work together and create value.
Operating responsibly Risk management We understand that our success as a business is Our approach to risk is fundamental to how we operate.
dependent upon societys view of our role in the communities we serve.
Operating responsibly 33 Risk management 20 10 THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Our key differentiators our multi-channel offer In the markets where we operate, Rank is one of the few gaming companies in a position to offer customers a genuine multi-channel gaming offer.
We have a number of key assets, including a portfolio of more than 150 venues, our membership systems and rewards programmes and high levels of engagement that our team members enjoy with our customers.
Our 3 million customers Outcomes Financial capital We aim to deliver sustainable shareholder returns through focused investments which Customer Customer address our customer needs whilst generating wins keeps suitable returns.
winnings Human We provide rewarding and ful lling careers with a high level of engagement with our customers.
Strong brands Customer Customer Through operating responsibly we maintain loses recycles our brand strength and good reputation.
winnings Customers Experiences that meet our customers expectations and needs by providing a market leading experience.
Customer Customer entertained contributes to group revenue Key performance indicators Corporate governance Our KPIs outlined on pages 15 to 19 are embedded within The board is committed to ensuring that our activities our business and provide insight into our progress against are well managed and that rigorous and transparent our strategic roadmap.
procedures allow this to happen.
Key performance indicators 15 Corporate governance 45 THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 11
