Strategic report Strategy and key performance indicators making good progress ON OUR STRATEGY 1 Creating acompelling multi-channeloffer In the markets where we operate, Rank Tri-channel launch of content: Grosvenor Casinos loyalty scheme: is one of the few gaming companies in a Grosvenor Casinos had its first ever During the year Grosvenor Casinos simultaneous launch of a tri-channel position to provide customers a genuine loyalty scheme, Play Points, was rolled game.
Prowling Panther was launched multi-channel gaming offer.
We have out across a further 14 venues taking across retail, mobile and desktop a number of key assets, including a the total venues participating to 46. supported by a cross-channel portfolio of more than 150 venues, This was in addition to the previous promotion.
Revenues for each our membership-based model with years roll out across its digital channel channel exceeded typical levels.
approximately three million members, to create the Groups first cross-channel Progress towards a new digital our loyalty and rewards programmes rewards programme.
platform: In January 2015, we and the high levels of engagement that Grosvenor Casinos Black & Gold announced that we would be working our team members enjoy with customers.
cards: During 2014 15 both card with Bede Gaming to develop a new schemes were launched, targeting We will build on this position by investing platform for our digital business.
As part higher spending customers.
The scheme in a range of improvements designed of the selection process, we conducted provides improved customer bene ts an extensive technical and business to make it simpler, more convenient and and aims to improve customer spend, evaluation of a number of platform more rewarding for customers to engage retention and visit frequency.
providers and Bede Gaming was chosen with us across multiple channels.
These on the basis of the quality of its product, improvements include the development Priorities for 2015 16 its open architecture allowing a linking of a single customer account, a single of systems and multiple sources of Digital platform migration: customer wallet and a single customer games content and its willingness to Preparation for the migration of rewards programme, as well as a number enter into a collaborative partnership meccabingo.
of other contentand technology-related which gives Rank the ability to own its com websites is underway and the initiatives.
These are large and complex technology in the future should it Group is targeting a full migration programmes which will take time to choose to do so.
A more modern and to Bede Gamings platform by deliver but which we believe will give functional digital gaming platform will Q3 2015 16.
Rank an important competitive advantage.
drive additional digital revenue and will Mecca Services app: During the be a key component in creating a 2015 16 year we plan to launch a Activity in 2014 15 multi-channel offer.
Mecca version of the My Casino app Grosvenor Casinos service app: A new Bring Your Own Device BYOD to bring the same useful tool to our app, My Casino, was launched in Q4 trial in Mecca: Four venues took part Mecca customers.
The app provides customers in offering customers Mecca Max Progress towards single account with information on all our UK casino content on both customer and club and single wallet: Work will start venues from location and directions to Android devices.
The trial has provided on upgrading and integrating virtual tours of every casino.
Mecca with clarity over where Grosvenor Casinos and Mecca investment and further development are required prior to a programme retail management systems.
being rolled out across the remaining retail estate.
Key performance indicators Grosvenor Casinos Mecca cross-channel cross-over cross-channel cross-over 9.1% 2.3% 15 9.1 15 2.3 14 14 7.5 1.5 13 5.8 13 1.3 12 12 5.0 0.6 11 Percentage of venue customers who are also digital customers.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 15 Strategic report Strategy and key performance indicators continued 2 Building digitalcapability Rank has built strong positions in Continued focus on digital customer Priorities for 2015 16 venue-based gaming which we seek acquisition conversion and Digital Poker product development: to replicate across our digital channels retention: This contributed to digital As the UKs leading land-based poker online and mobile.
In 2014 15, our revenue increasing by 21% and now operator we are looking to upgrade digital operations generated 12% of accounts for 12% of Group revenue.
and improve our digital poker offer.
Group revenue whereas digital channels Work will commence on this in the Single teams across marketing, now represent around 30% of Great 2015 16 financial year.
mobile, design and user experience: Britains gambling market excluding Following the appointment of Colin Sports betting product: Rank is National Lottery, presenting a Cole-Johnson as group director of looking to complement its leading signi cant growth opportunity.
We digital and cross-channel services, gaming offer with a sports betting recognise that we need to enhance our a shared service digital team was product via a third party partnership.
capability in this area if we are to meet created across our brands to develop We do not see this as a signi cant the changing needs of our customers centres of expertise and remove revenue opportunity for the Group and to capture a greater share of the unnecessary duplication.
but believe it will improve our offer digital market.
to customers and can be done Expansion of talent: In addition to without signi cant cost.
building a stronger cross-brand team Activity in 2014 15 the Group has hired a number of New digital brands: Work will Bede Gaming appointment: Please individuals with speci c functional commence on creating additional see Creating a compelling multiexperience who have been involved brands for our digital channels.
in growing and transforming digital These new brands will provide an New Mecca website with a single gaming businesses.
opportunity to attract customers who responsive and adaptive front end are looking for something different Decision to move Enracha to Bede for desk top, tablet and mobile to Mecca and Grosvenor Casinos.
Gaming: As with Mecca and devices: Through Meccas insight into Grosvenor Casinos, it is important customer behaviour and preferences, that Enrachas online operations are Mecca was able to design, create and hosted on a suitable platform and launch one of the UKs first responsive, cost ef ciencies are realised.
Therefore adaptive and customisable digital during the year the decision was made bingo services consistent across all to also migrate Enrachas digital digital channels.
Enrachas digital channel is planned to be re-launched by 2016 17.
Key performance indicators Digital customer visits Digital customer numbers 5,880k 381k 15 15 5,880 381 14 14 5,262 279 13 13 5,342 277 12 12 4,539 226 These gures do not exclude the duplication of customers who are customers of more than one brand.
16 THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 3 Developing ourvenues Our casinos and bingo venues remain Oldbury casino licence: As part of Priorities for 2015 16 the bedrock of Ranks business, providing the Groups strategy to fully utilise Commitment to three new bingo entertainment for millions of customers its existing assets, a previously venues: In line with our continuing each year and generating the majority commitment following the reduction non-trading casino licence was opened of the Groups revenue and profits.
By in December 2014 alongside Meccas in bingo duty, Mecca will continue to continuing to invest in our venues develop its venues offer with at least Oldbury venue.
in terms of product, environment and one new format venue to be opened Refurbishment of our Bournemouth service and by creating new ones, we are in 2015 16. casino: 1.4m was spent in the year constantly evolving and enhancing the Expansion of key casino sites: As on refurbishing the Bournemouth experiences that we offer to customers, part of Grosvenor Casinos on-going casino which was one of the 19 and in doing so growing our revenue.
refurbishment programme, and acquired from Gala Coral.
dependent on planning, we expect to Luton 2005 Act: Following Ranks Activity in 2014 15 upgrade three to five existing casinos successful bid for the 2005 Act casino New casino opened in Southend: within the next financial year.
As with licence in Luton, works are underway In September 2014 Grosvenor Casinos previous casino refurbishments the to refurbish and extend the current opened a new 26.5k sq ft venue in aim will be to provide our customers Luton casino to accommodate the Southend at a capital cost of 6.1m, with more modern product and permitted additional product.
The comprising table gaming, slots and an enhanced gaming experience.
total capital cost will be approximately poker, with a restaurant area and bar These upgrades will include our 4.8m and is due to be completed by outside the licensed gambling oor.
London Park Tower, Coventry September 2015.
Initial trading has been slower than and Nottingham casinos.
Light refurbishment of eight Mecca expected since opening, but in recent Grosvenor sparkles: 18 Grosvenor venues: Capital investment into our months we have seen an improvement Casinos venues will be enhanced in Mecca venues was increased in the in trading.
the year at a total cost of 4.5m.
Each year following the reduction in bingo Refurbishment of the Gloucester sparkle will comprise numerous low duty, with eight venues undergoing Road casino: During the year our cost investments ranging from new refurbishments at a total capital successful Gloucester Road casino in uniforms and carpets to upgrades of cost of 1.3m.
London was refurbished at a capital smoking terraces in each venue.
This investment Enracha rebrand: During the year Light refurbishment of eight Mecca enabled us to protect one of our three further venues in Spain were venues: The increased capital key venues within the competitive rebranded to Enracha at a capital investment in Mecca venues will London casino market.
continue into 2015 16 with eight additional venues receiving a refurbishment in the year at an estimated total capital cost of 2.1m.
Key performance indicators Venue customer visits Venue capital investment Venue customers 22,112k 24.7m 2,973k 15 15 15 22,112 24.7 2,973 14 14 14 22,691 22.4 2,918 13 13 13 21,591 31.6 2,522 12 12 12 22,551 42.9 2,520 11 These gures do not exclude the duplication of customers who are customers of more than one brand.
2012 13 & 2011 12 customer data excludes the acquired casinos from Gala Coral.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 17 Strategic report Strategy and key performance indicators continued 4 Investing in brands and marketing The development of a group of wellNew advertising agency Priorities for 2015 16 appointed across both brands: This Continue to incrementally increase dened, relevant and resonant brands is critical for the success of our ambition.
will result in a more productive and marketing spend: Overall marketing ef cient relationship.
expenditure will increase but will be in At Rank, we enjoy ownership of a keeping with increases in revenues and number of well-known brands with New Mecca and Grosvenor Casinos ensuring a return on marketing strong levels of afnity amongst TV adverts: New adverts were aired in investment.
We intend to invest more the period promoting both our digital in the development of our brands and and retail channels.
Review of our customer relationship management, business intelligence in the marketing support required to New Grosvenor Casinos logo design: release their potential.
and insights capability: The Group Following consultation with our has access to a signi cant amount of customers we took the step to data on how our customers interact Activity in 2014 15 simplify the Grosvenor Casinos logo with each of its brands.
We will be A single cross brand digital to improve its recognition and better starting work on implementing new marketing team: Please refer to accommodate its digital format.
ways of storing, accessing and the Building digital capability Increased VIP teams in Grosvenor section above.
interrogating this data, thus enabling Casinos: During the year VIP us to react better to our customer New Mecca marketing director managers were deployed across our needs and behaviours.
appointed: Anna Shirley joined Mecca London venues.
The managers are focused on improving customer care Review sponsorship opportunities: in August 2015 as marketing director for Mecca with responsibility for both levels and VIP customer retention.
The Group will look at further Meccas retail and digital channels.
Increased marketing spend: Total opportunities in the coming year Anna brings a wealth of experience marketing spend, including free bets, to build on the sponsorship activity of both national and local marketing increased by 19% to 75.5m in the carried out in 2014 15 which from some of the UKs leading brands year with a particular focus on TV contributed to improved brand such as Sainsburys and Freemans.
awareness and in club events.
18 THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 5 Using technologyto drive efficiency and improve customer experience The customer is at the heart of our focus Mecca Max roll out: Mecca Max is Priorities for 2015 16 on increasing the use of technology in a key component in the delivery of iBeacon trial: iBeacon technology our business and driving efficiency.
By improved ef ciency and pro tability enables us to communicate with our speeding up processes we can remove within Meccas venues.
By increasing customers via their mobile devices on customer frustrations and by removing the capacity more customers have entering one of our venues.
A low cost costs we can offer better value.
Together, the opportunity for electronic bingo, trial will be carried out with an initial these will create important competitive therefore reducing cash handling focus on establishing how many of advantages.
We have identied a number costs.
5,600 units were purchased our customers devices are open to of opportunities to harness technological in the year of which 2,200 units this method of communication.
developments to offer our customers were incremental.
Improved electronic roulette: To more engaging experiences and to Bring Your Own Device BYOD increase spin rates and improve table achieve sustainable growth in trial: Please refer to the Creating choice, the Group is looking at ways operating margins.
a compelling multi-channel offer to broadcast electronic roulette game section above.
play from one casino to another.
Activity in 2014 15 Labour scheduling in Grosvenor Cashless systems in our venues: Server-based slots roll out in Mecca: Casinos venues: A central rota Mecca will be looking at ways to 1,000 new and 1,315 upgraded system for Grosvenor Casinos was further reduce the amount of cash server-based machines were rolled implemented in the year.
The system that is handled within its venues to out across 81 Mecca venues in the enables management to monitor decrease cash handling costs and year, representing 44% of Meccas labour scheduling per venue and meet our customers growing needs.
These will hence optimise allocation of Launch of progressive Blackjack provide an enhanced customer labour resources.
jackpot: We are rolling out a new experience with high fide nition progressive jackpot across our UK screens offering a wide choice of casino estate.
content and access to promotional features.
These machines have Ticket In Ticket Out TiTo functionality to reduce cash handling costs.
2012 13 & 2011 12 data excludes the acquired casinos from Gala Coral and Blue Square Bet.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 19
