Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Debbie Hewitt Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present the Directors The Annual Remuneration Report pages 75 to We adopt clear, simple and market competitive We will continue to keep our policies under EPS of 44.5p and ROCE of 22.8% in 2015 Shareholder Engagement Remuneration Report for the year ended 83 provides details on the remuneration we remuneration arrangements.
The alignment of review to ensure they remain appropriate in were both significantly above the targets We remain committed to an ongoing and 30 June 2015. paid in respect of 2015 and how we intend executive remuneration with the objectives of the face of evolving best practice, regulatory for maximum vesting of 30.0p and 18%, transparent dialogue with our shareholders on to operate our policies in 2016.
It will be our shareholders has been the principal focus, developments and market data.
The Committee therefore the issue of executive remuneration.
In putting At the Annual General Meeting on submitted to an advisory shareholder vote ensuring remuneration structures are fully determined that the 2012 LTIP award in place our current policy, I engaged with a 10 November 2014, our Directors 2015 Outcomes Aligned to at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
attuned to the business strategy.
We aim to should vest in full on 23 October 2015. number of our major shareholders and their Remuneration Policy was put to a binding Strong Performance balance the short, medium and long term valuable feedback was taken into account by shareholder vote, which was approved by Our Philosophy Aligning As described in detail on pages 3 to 55 of The Committee has considered and recomponents of our remuneration, to ensure the Committee in finalising the policy.
The Remuneration Reward with Performance this Annual Report, 2015 was an outstanding affirmed the policy that, given the highly that we motivate and retain our executives and Committee believes that this approved Policy Our Remuneration strategy has been designed year for Redrow, which saw: competitive nature of the sector, annual At the Annual General Meeting in November keep them focused on delivering long term, continues to reflect our overall remuneration to reflect the needs of a UK based, capital bonus performance targets remain 2015, the Annual Report on Remuneration will sustainable growth.
The annual bonus Record profits of 204m before tax philosophy set out below, and we are intensive, house builder, with ambitious commercially sensitive immediately following be put to an advisory vote.
The year ended encourages performance in key areas of therefore not proposing any changes to our growth plans.
We make long-term Legal completions increasing by 12% the year end.
Therefore, subject to the 30 June 2015 was a great year of progress for strategic focus for the business and the Long Remuneration Policy this year.
The full Policy investments, which are successfully Committee determining that they are no Redrow and in this context, we look forward to Term Incentive Plan LTIP reflects our market Record turnover of 1.15bn, up 33% is not included in this years report but an differentiated by the constant innovation and longer commercially sensitive, it is intended receiving your support on our approach to related growth and return ambitions.
Underlying EPS increasing to 44.5p extract of the policy table which explains quality of our product.
Successfully acquiring that bonus targets will be disclosed on a two remuneration at the Annual General Meeting.
ROCE increasing to 22.8% how our framework operates is set out on land, building quality homes and selling and Based on these principles, our remuneration year delayed basis.
In line with this policy, the Debbie Hewitt pages 72 to 73. handing them over on time, are all critical framework, as codified in our Remuneration targets for 2015 will be disclosed in the 2017 Closing private order book increasing Chairman of the Remuneration Committee success factors and feature as part of our Policy, includes the following components: report, and this report contains the bonus to 524m management incentive programmes.
targets for the 2013 financial year.
c. 5,900 plots added to the current land bank Remuneration Decision for 2016 The alignment between performance and Fixed components Variable components The Committee has decided to award salary reward which underpins our executive increases to the Chairman, Chief Executive remuneration framework is reflected in the Salary Benefits Pension Annual Bonus LTIP and Finance Director in line with all other outcomes for the annual bonus and LTIP: Market competitive Maximum 100% of salary Maximum 100% of salary employees, in line with our Policy.
Salary increases of 2.8% for the Chairman, Chief Based on exceptional performance, with the R eflect nature of role, and skills B alanced scorecard of key performance B ased on stretching long-term EPS Executive and the Finance Director will be targets for maximum payment exceeded for and experience measures PBT, ROCE, land bank, and ROCE targets effective from 1 July 2015. all four of the annual bonus measures PBT, order book S ubject to clawback for five years ROCE, land bank, order book, the Committee 5 0% deferred into shares half vest following vesting The annual bonus and LTIP will operate in determined that the annual bonus should pay after one year and half after two years line with the Policy.
The EPS and ROCE target out at the maximum level of 100% of salary C ash and shares subject to clawback for ranges for the 2016 LTIP award are set out for all of the Executive Directors.
50% of this five years following payment vesting on page 78 of this report.
will be paid in shares and half of these will be deferred for a period of one year and the Shareholding guidelines remaining half deferred for two years: and 100% of salary to be built up over five years from appointment This report has been prepared in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the relevant provisions of the Listing Rules and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
70 71 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015
