Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Report of the Directors The Directors submit their Annual Report and audited Financial Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles, the Statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015 to the Companys Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the members of the Company.
Directors There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate The Directors who held office during the year and those serving at the upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover, such as date of this report are: commercial contracts, bank agreements, property lease arrangements and employee share plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant in Name terms of their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Adrian Bellamy There are no significant agreements between the Company and its Jaspal Bindra Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office Nicandro Durante or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid, except that Peter Harf resigned 21 December 2015 provisions of the Companys share plans may cause options and awards Mary Harris appointed 10 February 2015 granted under such plans to vest on a takeover.
Adrian Hennah Ken Hydon There is no information that the Company would be required to Rakesh Kapoor disclose about persons with whom it has contractual or other Pamela Kirby appointed 10 February 2015 arrangements which are essential to the business of the Company.
Andr Lacroix Dividend Sue Shim In July 2015, the Directors resolved to pay an interim dividend of 50.3p Christopher Sinclair appointed 10 February 2015 per ordinary share 2014: 60p.
The dividend was paid on 25 September Judy Sprieser 2015.
The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 88.7p Doug Tough per share 2014: 79p which, together with the interim dividend, makes Warren Tucker a total for the year of 139p per share 2014: 139p.
The final dividend, if approved by the Shareholders, will be paid on 26 May 2016 to Shareholders on the register at the close of business on 15 April 2016.
Biographical details of the current Directors are set out on pages 46 to 49.
Share capital As at 31 December 2015, the Companys issued share capital consisted A statement of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company of 736,535,179 ordinary shares of 10p each, of which 708,073,029 is shown on page 78. were with voting rights and 28,462,150 ordinary shares were held in Treasury.
Details of changes to the ordinary shares issued and of Details of Executive Directors options to subscribe for shares in the options and awards granted during the year are set out in Notes 23 and Company are included on page 77 in the audited part of the Directors 24 to the Financial Statements.
The rights and obligations attached to the Companys ordinary shares No Director had a material interest at any time during the year in any are set out in the Articles.
derivative or financial instrument relating to the Companys shares.
Thedetails of the Directors remuneration and service agreements are There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 84.
Companys ordinary shares or the transfer of securities in the Company except, in the case of transfers of securities: No Director has a material interest in any contract of significance asthat term is defined by the FCA to which the Company, or any that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws ofitssubsidiary undertakings is a party.
and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Takeover directive Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require the The Company is required to disclose certain additional information approval of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
required by s. 992 of CA 2006 which implemented the EU Takeover Directive.
The following sets out disclosures not covered elsewhere No person holds securities in the Company which carry special voting inthis Annual Report.
rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Board power to appoint Directors, but also require Directors to submit themselves for election at the first AGM following their Allotment of shares appointment.
Under the Articles, allDirectors are required to Under the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 or the Act, Directors may offer themselves for re-election every three years.
However, in only allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance into, shares if authorised to do so by Shareholders in general meeting.
Code the Code, Directors submit themselves annually.
The authority conferred on the Directors at the 2015 AGM under s. 551 CA 2006 will expire at the conclusion of this years AGM.
At the AGM, The Board is responsible for the management of the business of the Directors will ask Shareholders to renew their authority to allot equity Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject shares representing approximately one-third of the Companys issued tothe provisions of the Companys Articles.
share capital as at the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
In accordance with the Investment Association The Articles contain specific provisions and restrictions regarding the Share Capital Management Guidelines, Directors will once again seek Companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating to the alteration authority to allot further ordinary shares, in connection with a of share capital are also included in the Articles and Shareholders are pre-emptive offer by way of a rights issue, up to a further one-third of asked to renew such authorities each year at the AGM.
A copy of the the Companys existing issued share capital on the same date.
The Articles is available from the Companys website at www.
com or can authorities sought would, if granted, expire at the earlier of 15 months be obtained on written request from the Company Secretary or from from the date on which the resolution is passed, or at the conclusion of the UK Registrar of Companies.
the AGM of the Company held in 2017, whichever is the sooner.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 85 Report of the Directors continued Under s. 561 CA 2006, Shareholders have a right of first refusal in their jobs or to provide retraining in suitable alternative work.
It is relation to certain issues of new shares.
A special resolution will also essential to the continued improvement in efficiency and productivity be proposed to renew the Directors power to make non-pre-emptive throughout the Group that each employee understands the Groups issues for cash up to a nominal amount representing less than 10% strategies, policies and procedures.
Open and regular communication of the Companys issued share capital as at the latest practicable with employees at all levels is an essential part of the management date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
A continuing programme of training and development would also permit Directors, within the same aggregate limit, to sell reinforces the Groups commitment to employee development.
for cash, shares that may be held by the Company in treasury.
In accordance with the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles and Regular departmental meetings are held where opinions of employees the Investment Association and the Pensions and Lifetime Savings are sought on a variety of issues.
The Group operates multi-dimensional Associations supporting guidelines, the Directors confirm their internal communications programmes which include the provision of a intention that, other than in relation to a rights issue, no more than Group intranet and the publication of regular Group newsletters.
5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, exclusive of treasury shares, will be issued for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis Group incentive schemes reinforce financial and economic factors and no more than 7.5% of the share capital of the Company, exclusive affecting the performance of the business.
Employees typically have of treasury shares, will be allotted for cash under a non-pre-emptive three to five performance objectives which are directly linked to their basis over a rolling three-year period without prior consultation with job and their specific contribution to the overall performance of the Shareholders, in each case other than in connection with an acquisition Group.
In addition, presentations and videos are given to employees or specified capital investment which is announced contemporaneously around the Group on publication of the Groups financial results.
with the allotment or which has taken place in the preceding sixmonth period and is disclosed in the announcement of the allotment.
The Board encourages employees to become Shareholders and to participate in the Groups employee share ownership schemes, should The Directors have no present intention of exercising the authority they so wish.
Savings-related share plans covering most of the world sought under the resolutions other than to fulfil the Companys give employees the opportunity to acquire shares in the Company by obligations under its executive and employee share plans, and this means of regular savings.
authority will maintain the Companys flexibility in relation to future share issues, including issues required to finance business opportunities, Political donations should appropriate circumstances arise.
Authority is sought each year from Shareholders, on a precautionary basis, to approve political donations and incur political expenditures in Authority to purchase own shares accordance with the requirements of Part 14 CA 2006 as the definitions Following the Companys announcement on 12 December 2014 in the Act are broad.
No political donations or expenditure of the type of its intention to commence a share repurchase programme for requiring disclosure under s. 366 and s. 367 of CA 2006 were made in 2015 to offset the dilutive impact of employee share schemes, on the year ended 31 December 2015 nor are any contemplated.
11 February 2015 the Company confirmed that the 2015 300 million repurchase programme would be supplemented by an Independent Auditor additional repurchase programme of up to 500 million of ordinary The External Auditor,  LLP PwC, has indicated shares during the year.
In accordance with those announcements its willingness to continue in office and a resolution that PwC be and subsequent announcements made on 30 April 2015, 30 June reappointed will be proposed at the AGM.
2015 and 30 September 2015, during the period from 2 January 2015 to 25 November 2015, a total of 13,615,832 ordinary shares Further disclosures of 10 pence representing 1.8% of the ordinary shares in issue on Further information, including information fulfilling the further 31 December 2015 were repurchased for a consideration of 802 disclosure requirements contained in the Companies Act 2006, million, including expenses, and subsequently transferred to be held Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups in treasury for the purpose of satisfying the Companys obligations Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and the FCAs Listing Rules under employee equity incentive schemes.
On 30 December 2015 and Disclosure and Transparency Rules can be found in the following the Company announced its intention to commence a 2016 ordinary sections of the Annual Report for the period ended 31 December 2015 share repurchase programme for up to a maximum consideration which are incorporated into the Report of the Directors by reference: of 800 million in order to offset the dilutive impact of employee schemes and to maintain borrowings at around current levels.
Page Acquisitions and disposals 135 The authority granted to Directors at the 2015 AGM to repurchase shares in the market remains valid until the conclusion of this years Awards under employee share schemes 131-134 AGM.
At the 2016 AGM Directors will seek to renew the authority Corporate Governance Report including internal control and risk management statements 52-58 granted to them.
Such authority, if approved, will be limited to a Directors interests in the share capital of the Company 78 maximum of 69 million ordinary shares, representing less than 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares Directors Statement of Responsibilities, including disclosure of information to the Auditor 88 calculated as at the latest practicable date prior to publication of the Disclosure of greenhouse gas GHG emissions 27 Notice of AGM, and sets the minimum and maximum prices which may Employment policy and employee involvement 24-25 be paid.
The Companys present intention is to hold shares acquired Environmental, social and governance ESG matters 24-29 under such authority in treasury to satisfy outstanding awards under employee share incentive plans.
Financial risk management and financial instruments 119-123 Future developments in the business 35 Employees Post Balance Sheet events 137 During 2015, the Group employed an average of 34,700 2014: Research and development activities 103 37,200 employees worldwide, of whom 3,176 2014: 3,400 were Shareholder information 166 employed in the UK.
The Group is committed to the principle of equal Sustainability and corporate responsibility 165 opportunity in employment: no applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of nationality, age, gender, There is no additional information requiring disclosure under Listing religion, race, ethnicity or disability.
The Group recognises its Rule 9.8.
responsibilities to disabled persons and endeavours to assist them to make their full contribution at work.
Where employees become disabled, every practical effort is made to allow them to continue in 86 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Substantial shareholdings As at 22 March 2016, pursuant to DTR5 of the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Company had received the following notices of substantial interests 3% or more in the total voting rights of the Company: Nature of % of voting Holder Date of last TR-1 notification interest rights JAB Holdings B. V. 27 January 2016 Direct 8.93 Massachusetts Financial Services Company and or 1 its subsidiaries 16 January 2013 Indirect 5.00 1.
Under a s. 793 CA 2006 request Massachusetts Financial Services Company confirmed on 13 January 2016 that their holding had increased to 7.48%, of which they had the ability to vote 6.18%.
Corporate Governance Statement In compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2.
1, the disclosures required by DTR 7.2.
7 are set out in this Report of the Directors and in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 52 to 59 which together with the Directors Statement of Responsibilities are incorporated by reference into this Report of the Directors.
Annual General Meeting The ninth AGM of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc will be held on Thursday 5 May 2016 at 11.15 am at No.
The Notice of Meeting, setting out the resolutions to be proposed, is contained in a separate document for Shareholders and is also available at www.
The Board considers that each of the resolutions is in the best interests of the Company and the Shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that Shareholders vote in favour of all the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
By Order of the Board Christine Logan Company Secretary Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 103-105 Bath Road Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH Company registration number: 6270876 22 March 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 87
