Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information DESIGN THE EFFICIENT DESIGN OF OUR HOMES MEANS AS WELL GOOD DESIGN CAN HELP CREATE HEALTHY, AS ENJOYING COSY LIVING SPACES, OUR CUSTOMERS ALSO SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES FOR ALL BENEFIT FROM LOWER RUNNING COSTS In a statement issued in July 2015, the Government announced further measures PLANS FOR 2016 DESIGNING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES Objective 2014 2015 2018 target Progress as part of its Productivity Plan to reduce net 110 209 Continual regulation on housebuilders.
These included Public open space Continue to collate data on our design, hectares hectares investment cancelling the introduction of the zero carbon construction and verification processes Allowable Solutions offsetting scheme and the 54% better 54% better 66% better to inform improvements and refine the Heat loss from home proposed 2016 increase in on-site energy than 1970s than 1970s than 1970s quality of design and construction of efficiency standards.
Nevertheless, we will our new homes in response to the Zero % of homes incorporating continue to work to improve on the quality Carbon Hub led project Designed 23% 19% 75% renewable technologies and performance of our build specifications.
versus As-Built Performance Reduce water usage BIM Update 105 105 80 Develop Building Information litres head day Development work on BIM continues and Modelling BIM with the emphasis 98% of all our designs are now drawn through on integration with existing Homes including domestic Autodesk Revit, enabling us to quantify all 47% 56% 75% information structures alongside recycling facilities required elements from the house type BIM-ready tools such as Autodesk models created.
Homes fitted with Revit and Navisworks: and work 67% 79% 100% smart meters closely with all our supply chain Smartroof partners to develop information We have trialled a number of modern Building information flow and improve the format in Level 2 Level 2 Level 3 construction methods this year including the modelling BIM development which we receive our data innovative Smartroof system.
This involves the off site manufacture of a patented Improvement level maintained Decline pre-insulated panel system which simply slots together, spanning from gable to gable to Summary of Progress charity RSPB: and it is pleasing to see the provide a complete, structural room in roof The controlled growth of the business and the total space we provided rise to 209 hectares solution.
This provides our customers with a rise in completions has been mirrored by an 2014: 110 hectares.
highly insulated living space in what would increase in the public open space delivered to have been their attic.
Encouraging sustainable living within the home communities in association with our Castle Fields, Barton Seagrove, Northamptonshire is just as important as providing the right This method of construction brings a number The consistent quality developments.
We pride ourselves on the Our Castle Fields and River View developments at Barton Seagrave provide perfect external environment and were pleased to of specific benefits to Redrow in terms of site quality of our landscaping designs, which make of our design sets examples of how we help our customers to be environmentally friendly, help them report a 9% increase in the number of homes safety, thermal performance, consistent an intrinsic contribution to the overall to save money and provide substantial benefits for the community.
we constructed which included domestic quality, speed of construction and reduced character of a development and the amenity our product apart recycling facilities to 56% 2014: 47% : and, waste.
The design simplifies scaffolding, for our customers.
We have sought to improve The 54 acre site will deliver up to 450 new homes meeting Code for Sustainable Homes from the rest with the assistance of our partners Eon, a 12% reduces the amount of time spent working at the value of our open space contribution level 4 compliance, achieving a minimum 25% reduction in carbon emissions over relevant rise in the number of smart meters fitted to height and susceptibility to wind damage and through our partnerships with the Bumblebee building regulations, as well as meeting a site-wide 30% energy reduction target, assisted 79% 2014: 67%.
The Conservation Trust and birds and wildlife by high quality photovoltaic installations on all homes.
system also encourages a tidier site, reducing Residents are encouraged to use pedal power to get around, as individual homes include the risk of slips and trips.
cycle storage facilities and the design of the development includes a comprehensive cycle path network.
The latter takes in a series of landscaped public open spaces with individual character, together with play areas and a large attenuation pond that forms part of the 209 56% 79% sustainable urban drainage system SuDs.
In addition Redrow has protected and enhanced 67% the nearby Southfield Farm Marsh, which is a Site of Special Scientific Interest due to its 47% rich and diverse rare vegetation and important wildlife habitat.
110 Customers can also take comfort in the fact that their new homes are helping to provide a package of community benefits worth 6m.
As part of this commitment we are building a new community centre and extending an existing allotment site to the 14 15 14 15 14 15 north of the development with the gift of a 7,592 square metres parcel of land, which Hectares Percentage of Homes Percentage of Homes will provide an additional 27 allotments and will be managed by the local council.
PUBLIC OPEN HOMES WITH INTEGRATED HOMES FITTED SPACE CREATED RECYCLING FACILITIES WITH SMART METERS Fitting Smartroof panels at Goetre Uchaf, Bangor 46 47 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015
