Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Reasons why RB delivers Performance-driven culture Our culture is central to our outperformance, because our strategy becomes real when we execute it with excellence.
We live our values of Achievement, Ownership, Entrepreneurship and Partnership.
Our compensation approach and industry-leading share ownership requirement for senior management encourage our people to act as Shareholders and to treat the Company as their own.
Share ownership requirement of Top40 management 185m Read more on pages 1011 Right portfolio strategy We identify unmet consumer needs in underpenetrated, higher-growth and highermargin categories.
We drive growth through innovation, penetration-building programmes, scaled distribution, consumer education and in-store excellence.
We invest disproportionately behind our high-potential markets Powermarkets and our faster growing brands Powerbrands.
Our growth is broad based and we do not rely on any one market or brand.
Powerbrands Powermarkets 19 16 Read more on page 16 Successful innovation Virtuous earnings model Value creation Continuous, successful innovation is the Our virtuous earnings model starts with Gross We are primarily an organic growth key to long-term success.
We listen to Margin, which we constantly seek to grow company and have created significant our consumers and develop products that by targeting higher-margin segments, led by value from successful innovation, create healthier lives and happier homes.
consumer health, and optimising cost investing behind our brands and in-store We then invest heavily behind these throughout our supply chain.
However, the consumer initiatives, with category and penetrationtight fixed-cost containment, this provides room health market is fragmented, which building and consumer education activities in our Income Statement to invest for growth gives us the opportunity to acquire we call Brand Equity Investment BEI.
through our short and long-term BEI initiatives, strong brands.
In recent years we enabling us to drive Net Revenue and expand have made important, value-accretive our Operating Margin.
Converting our profit acquisitions, which have enhanced our into cash is an important part of our culture organic growth platform and provided and compensation ethos.
All our operational significant returns for our Shareholders.
management teams have revenue, profit and net working capital objectives built into their annual bonus targets.
Scholl Velvet Smooth Total Shareholder Return since 2012 Gross Margin Express Pedi rolled out in announcement of new strategy 140bps 50markets 126% Read more on pages 3033 Read more on pages 2223 Read more on page 3435 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 7
