Executive Committee Rakesh Kapoor Amedeo Fasano Roberto Funari Rob fide Groot Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Supply Category Development ENA Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Indian British Italian Brazilian Dutch British Belgian British Australian Company tenure Company tenure Company tenure Company tenure Company tenure Company tenure Company tenure Company tenure 28 years 18 years Two years 27 years Two years 14 years One year 11 years Experience Experience Experience Experience Experience Experience Experience Experience Rakesh joined Reckitt & Colman Amedeo joined in 1997 as Supply Roberto rejoined RB in February Rob joined Reckitt & Colman in Adrian joined the Company in Frederic joined the Company in Darrell joined RB in September Deborah joined RB in 2004 in in 1987, serving in various roles Director Italy.
After the Reckitt & 2013 following two years at 1988.
After international roles in January 2013 as Chief Financial 2001 as Marketing Director for 2014 from Marks & Spencer the Australian business.
She has including Regional Sales Manager, Colman and Benckiser merger, Imperial Tobacco where he was marketing and sales he became Officer Designate, and was Malaysia-Singapore.
In 2003, plc, the UK-headquartered worked in Australia, the USA, North India, General Manager, he was appointed Manufacturing Group Marketing Director and an General Manager The Netherlands, appointed as CFO in February he was promoted to Regional international clothes and food the UK and The Netherlands Indian Southern Region and Director for Central, South Executive Committee member.
He joined the Company Marketing Director for East Asia retailer.
Darrell was responsible since joining RB.
Deborah was Regional Marketing Director, Western and Southern Europe In his prior 12-year career with Eastern Europe and was appointed following six years at Smith & and in 2005 became Global for the development of Marks appointed Global HRD Finance South Asia.
In 2002 he became Reckitt & Colman and RB, Global Category Officer, Surface Nephew plc, as CFO.
Previously Category Director for Vanish.
& Spencers global online and IS in 2009, Regional HRD appointed Global Category Regional Supply Director North Roberto rose rapidly through the and Dish, before being appointed he was CFO for four years at He was appointed General platform.
Importantly, Darrell also ANZ in 2011, Regional HRD Director, Pest Control.
Following America and in 2003 SVP Supply organisation, holding increasingly EVP North America & Australia.
lnvensys, the international Manager for Brazil in February has experience of successfully North America in 2012 and the merger, he assumed the Australia and New Zealand.
In senior marketing and general As part of RBs new strategy for engineering company.
Adrian also 2008 and in October 2009, delivering global ERP and Area HRD Europe and North role of Senior Vice President, 2007 he took over the role of management roles in both continued outperformance, in spent 18 years at GlaxoSmithKline Frederic was promoted to SVP, supply chain systems, including America in 2013.
He was appointed SVP Supply Developing Markets emerging and developed markets, January 2012 Rob became EVP plc, one of the worlds largest Regional Director, Latin America.
Prior to this, Darrell spent Deborah was appointed SVP SVP, Regional Director, Northern and in March 2009 Amedeo including Brazil, The Netherlands, of the newly created ENA area.
pharmaceutical companies, five years with Vodafone in a HR.
Before joining RB, Deborah Europe in 2001 and in July was appointed as EVP Supply.
South Africa and Central Europe.
holding a number of senior In January 2012, Frederic was number of increasingly senior worked in a variety of industries 2006 he was promoted to EVP, He previously worked for Pirelli His last role was as Global management and financial roles.
appointed to the position of roles culminating as Global in HR in Australia including Category Development.
Rakesh Tyres in multiple supply roles.
Category Officer, Fabric and Home He has previously worked at SVP, Regional Director, North Director Information Technology, News Limited, George Weston became CEO in September 2011.
He was appointed to his PwC then Price Waterhouse America.
He was appointed as Strategy and Planning.
He also Foods and Qantas Airways.
current role in January 2015. for four years in both audit EVP in June 2013 before taking spent five years at Ernst & Young and consultancy, and also for up his current role in January as a Programme Manager Stadtsparkasse Koeln, the German 2015.
Before joining RB, Frederic and two years at Mars Inc. as regional bank.
He is a Nonworked for Procter & Gamble.
Executive Director of RELX Group plc, RELX NV and Indivior PLC.
50 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Adrian Hennah Frederic Larmuseau Darrell Stein Deborah Yates Chief Financial Officer Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, HR DvM Information Services Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Indian British Italian Brazilian Dutch British Belgian British Australian Company tenure Company tenure Company tenure Company tenure Company tenure Company tenure Company tenure Company tenure 28 years 18 years Two years 27 years Two years 14 years One year 11 years Experience Experience Experience Experience Experience Experience Experience Experience Rakesh joined Reckitt & Colman Amedeo joined in 1997 as Supply Roberto rejoined RB in February Rob joined Reckitt & Colman in Adrian joined the Company in Frederic joined the Company in Darrell joined RB in September Deborah joined RB in 2004 in in 1987, serving in various roles Director Italy.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 51
