Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors have pleasure in presenting to The Executive Directors have formal service Directors will be seeking new authorities as in the case of employment needs, persons products.
In addition, the Company has a Going Concern the shareholders their report and audited agreements and termination of their set out in the Notice of Meeting.
who become disabled whilst employed by centralised Environmental and Sustainability The Directors have acknowledged the consolidated financial statements for the employment may be effective by 12 months the Company where requirements may be Team, of which issues play a prominent role in the guidance on going concern and financial Voting and Transfer of Shares 12 months ended 30 June 2015. notice given by the Company, except for Steve adequately covered by these persons and Companys activities.
The Company recognises reporting published by the Financial The Companys Articles of Association do not Morgan where the notice period is six months.
to comply with any current legislation its responsibilities to the community as a whole Reporting Council in October 2009.
Results and Dividends contain any specific restrictions on the size with regard to disabled persons.
and has adopted an environment strategy which The Group made a profit after tax of 162m In accordance with the UK Corporate of a shareholders holding or on the transfer As explained in the Financial Review on pages is a core part of the Companys objectives.
An interim dividend of 2.0p Governance Code, all the Directors will retire of shares.
The Company places considerable importance 34 to 37, the Group maintains adequate 2014: 1.0p per share was paid on 1 May 2015. at the Annual General Meeting to be held on on the provision of training and development: The charge to the income statement in respect of committed banking facilities.
As stated in note The Company is not aware of any The Board proposes to pay, subject to Tuesday, 10 November 2015, and, being training@redrow, a purpose built in-house research and development in the year was 1m.
14 to the financial statements, at 30 June 2015, agreements between shareholders that shareholder approval, at the 2015 Annual eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.
training facility at Tamworth, completed the Group had 215m of undrawn committed may result in restrictions on the transfer Greenhouse Gas Emissions General Meeting, a final dividend of 4.0p 2014: 3,859 training days during the year ended borrowing facilities available.
Directors Interests of securities and or voting rights.
This disclosure in the table below includes final dividend: 2.0p per share in respect of the 30 June 2015, including those which support Details of the Directors interests are shown all of the emission sources required under the After making appropriate enquiries, the year ended 30 June 2015 on 13 November 2015 The Companys Articles of Association do the Companys induction process.
in the Directors Remuneration Report on Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors consider they have a reasonable to shareholders on the Register as at the close not contain and the Company is not aware of pages 70 to 83.
Related party transactions The Directors recognise the importance of Directors Report Regulations 2013.
These expectation for stating that the Group and the of business on 25 September 2015.
The any restrictions on voting rights, including any are disclosed in note 22 to the Financial good communications with employees.
The sources fall within our consolidated financial Company have adequate resources to continue dividend re-investment plan gives shareholders limitations on voting rights of holders of a given Statements.
A summary of remuneration Divisions are encouraged to make their statement and we do not have responsibility trading for the foreseeable future.
These the opportunity to re-invest their dividends.
percentage or number of votes, deadlines for provided to key management personnel is employees aware of the financial and economic for any emission sources that are not included enquiries consisted of a detailed review the exercising voting rights and arrangements by A review of the performance of the Group and provided in note 7. factors affecting their respective Divisions and in our consolidated statement.
Groups financial forecast for the period to which the Companys co-operation, financial its future prospects is included in the Strategic the Company as a whole.
The forecasts take into Powers of the Directors rights carried by securities are held by a person This inventory of greenhouse gas emissions has Report on pages 3 to 55.
Details of the financial through the medium of regular management account current market trends with reasonable Subject to the Companys Articles of other than the holder of the securities.
been verified by SGS to a limited level of risk management objectives and policies and meetings, staff publications, its internal staff judgements and estimates applied to arrive at Association, UK legislation and any of the assurance, in accordance with ISO 14064-3:2006, associated risk exposure is given The voting rights attaching to the shares held InSight Magazine and the Redrow intranet.
As part of the directions given by Special Resolution, the as meeting the requirements of The Greenhouse in note 14: Financial risk management.
by the Companys Employee Benefit Trust are Employees are consulted on a regular basis review, the Group analysed its forecast business of the Company is managed by the Gas Protocol - A Corporate Accounting and exercisable by Abacus Trust Company Isle of so that employee views may be taken into covenant compliance over this period linked to Annual General Meeting Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Reporting Standard.
Emissions have been Man, the Trustee of the Trust.
account when decisions are made that its banking facility, arriving at an assessment of Notice of the 2015 Annual General Meeting to Company.
Directors have been authorised to calculated using the UK Governments GHG may affect their interests.
the headroom evident between the forecast be held on Tuesday, 10 November 2015 is set allot and issue shares and to make market Conversion Factors for Company Reporting: Substantial Holdings in the Company covenant test outturn and the outturn out on pages 125 to 128.
Members wishing to purchases of the Companys ordinary shares Employee share ownership is encouraged 2014 and 2015 respectively.
As at 7 September 2015, the Company has necessary to achieve covenant compliance.
vote should return forms of proxy to the and these powers may be exercised under through savings related schemes.
been advised of the following notifiable Independent Auditors The review confirmed headroom within both Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours authority and Resolutions of the Company interests of 3% or more in its ordinary shares: Charitable and Political Donations A resolution to reappoint Pricewaterhouse financial covenants and facilities.
before the time for holding the meeting.
passed at its Annual General Meeting.
The Company made no political donations Coopers LLP as external Auditors will be Bridgemere Securities Accordingly, they continue to adopt the Corporate Governance The rules in relation to the appointment and but paid 0.8m in charitable donations during proposed at the Annual General Meeting on Limited including going concern basis in preparing the The Board remains committed to high standards replacement of Directors are as set out in the the year, being 0.7m in respect of national Tuesday, 10 November 2015.
of corporate governance, details relating to the Companys Articles of Association.
charities and 0.1m in support of local Toscafund Asset Provision of Information to Auditors: Companys compliance with the UK Corporate charities.
The Company and its employees are By order of the Board Management LLP 36,427,860 9.85% Capital Structure In the case of each Director in office at Governance Code are given in the Corporate actively involved in fundraising activities for Schroders plc 19,855,864 5.37% The Company has an authorised share capital the date the Directors report is approved, Graham Cope Governance Report on pages 56 to 88. specific charities.
The Company made a 0.7m FIL Limited 17,343,977 4.69% of 480,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each of confirm that: Company Secretary donation during the year to the Morgan BlackRock Inc 15,277,577 4.13% Directors which 369,799,938 have been issued.
The Redrow plc Foundation, a UK registered charity of which a so far as the Director is aware, there is no Caledonia Private The Directors of the Company during the year to Company has one class of ordinary shares Registered no: 2877315 Steve Morgan is a Trustee.
This is included relevant audit information of which the Investments Pty Limited 11,321,760 3.06% the date of signing are listed on page 75 of the which carry ordinary rights to dividends within the charitable donations in respect of Companys Auditors are unaware: and Directors Remuneration report and the current subject to the Companys Articles of 7 September 2015 The persons set out in the table above have national charities noted above.
Directors are also listed, together with their Association.
Each share carries the right to one b he has taken all of the steps that he notified the Company pursuant to Rule 5 of biographical details on pages 60 to 61. vote at general meetings of the Company.
ought to have taken as a Director in order Research and Development the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of to make himself aware of any relevant The Company has a centralised Product their interests in the ordinary share capital No person has any special rights of control Details of Directors pay, service contracts audit information and to establish that Development Team charged with identifying of the Company.
over the Companys share capital and all and Directors interests in the ordinary shares the Companys Auditors are aware of and evaluating new construction techniques and issued shares are fully paid.
of the Company are included in the Directors At 7 September 2015, no change in these that information.
Remuneration report on pages 70 to 83. holdings had been notified, nor, according Authority was given to the Directors at last Greenhouse Gas Emissions to the registrar of members, did any other years Annual General Meeting to allot unissued Formal appraisals of the Executive Directors Greenhouse gas emissions data for the year 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015. shareholder at that date have a notifiable shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of were undertaken during the Financial Year.
Current Reporting Year Comparison Year holding of issued share capital.
12,326,665 equivalent to approximately 33% All the Non-Executive Directors underwent Emissions from: 1 July 14 to 30 June 15 1 July 13 to 30 June 14 Units of the Companys issued share capital and up to an annual appraisal conducted by the Senior Employees Scope 1 activities: a further aggregate nominal amount of Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Companys employment policies do not Combustion of fuel at our offices and sites 8,636 7,240 tonnes of CO e 2 12,326,665 in connection with an offer by way The Board confirms that Steve Morgan, John discriminate between employees or potential Business use of Redrow-owned and leased vehicles of a rights issue.
The authority was not exercised Tutte and Barbara Richmond, who stand for employees on the grounds of gender, sexual Scope 2 activities: 2,899 2,770 tonnes of CO e during the year ending 30 June 2015 or prior to 2 re-appointment as Executive Directors and All purchased electricity orientation, age, colour, creed, ethnic origin, the date of this Report.
The Company has no Debbie Hewitt, Nick Hewson, Liz Peace and Sir religious beliefs, pregnancy or maternity Total Greenhouse gas emissions: 11,535 10,010 tonnes of CO e current intention of exercising the authority but 2 Michael Lyons who stand for re-appointment Scope 1 Scope 2 or trade union membership.
It is Company nevertheless as this authority expires at the as Non-Executive Directors, continue to be policy to give full and fair consideration to Our preferred intensity ratio: forthcoming Annual General Meeting the effective and demonstrate the appropriate 2 applications for employment by, and the Total Greenhouse gas emissions relative to build: 2.57 2.64 tonnes of CO e per 100m of build 2 commitment to their roles.
employment needs of disabled persons and 84 85 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CO N T I N U ED Riverside View, Lancaster, Lancashire 86 87 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015
