Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY Component Purpose link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance framework The Remuneration Policy became effective following shareholder approval at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
An extract of the remuneration Annual A variable pay The Committee determines participation levels 100% of salary Performance is assessed against key policy table with updated references, where relevant and supporting disclosures is re-produced below for information only.
The full Remuneration bonus opportunity which each year.
Targets are set by the Committee at financial and operational performance Policy is contained on pages 62 to 68 of the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts which is available in the investor relations section of the Groups motivates and rewards the start of the relevant financial year and are measures linked to the delivery of the website, http: investors.
annual performance assessed following the year end.
strategy and shareholder value and delivery of determined each year by the Committee.
A portion currently 50% of any bonus earned the strategy on Policy Table for Executive Directors will be deferred into Redrow shares, which are The current performance measures are an annual basis.
awarded in the form of nil-cost options which disclosed on page 76 of the Annual Component Purpose link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance framework Deferral aligns reward vest after a period set by the Committee.
with long term value Currently, half of the deferred shares vests Base To provide a market Salaries are determined by the Committee There is no prescribed N A The Committee retains discretion to of Redrow shares.
after one year and half after two years, salary competitive element taking into account all relevant factors such maximum salary.
Any salary adjust the measures and or weightings subject to continued employment.
of fixed remuneration as: the size and complexity of the Company, increases will normally be in future years to reflect prevailing to attract and retain the scope and responsibilities of the role, in line with those of the Following exercise of a vested deferred share financial, strategic and operational leaders of the required the skills and experience of the individual wider workforce.
award, participants will be entitled to receive objectives of the business or of the calibre to deliver and performance in role.
an amount equal to the aggregate of any individual.
However, a minimum of 50% The Committee has discretion the strategy.
dividends which they would have been of the total will always be based on key The Committees assessment of the to award larger increases entitled to receive as a shareholder during financial measures.
competitive market positioning of base salaries where it considers this the period between the grant and satisfaction is based on consideration of market data from appropriate, such as to The Committee has discretion to adjust of the award.
UK companies of similar size and complexity, reflect for example : the level of pay out if the outcome from and companies in the house-building sector.
In future years, the Committee retains the a formulaic assessment does not a significant change in discretion to change the deferred amount appropriately reflect underlying Salaries are normally reviewed annually, the size and complexity and or lengthen the deferral period.
with any changes effective at the start of of the Company: the financial year.
Where appropriate, the Committee may an increase in scope and determine that deferral is in the form of an Salaries effective from 1 July 2015 are shown responsibility of the role, equivalent cash award which in all other on page 76 of the Annual Remuneration Report.
or a change in role: respects mirrors the terms of the deferred share awards.
an Executive Director being moved to market positioning Clawback provisions apply to both the cash over time: and and deferred elements see section below.
an Executive Director falling Long Term Designed to motivate Awards may be made under the Redrow plc The maximum award The LTIP is based on performance below competitive market Incentive and reward long-term 2014 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
which may be granted measures aligned to the creation of positioning.
Plan LTIP performance and in respect of a long-term shareholder value, measured Awards are normally in the form of nil-cost delivery of the financial year will over a performance period of at least Benefits To provide a market Benefits may include: a company car or Benefit provision, for N A options and vest subject to the satisfaction of strategy, and provide normally not exceed three years.
The current performance competitive benefits equivalent cash allowance, private medical which there is no prescribed performance conditions measured over a period alignment with 100% of salary.
measures are: package to support insurance, permanent health insurance, monetary maximum, is set of at least three years.
the Director in fixed term group income protection and at an appropriate level for However, in 50% based on earnings per share fulfilling their role.
the specific nature and The Committee may also determine that exceptional EPS : and location of the role.
awards are made in the form of conditional circumstances only, Executive Directors may also participate in share awards or as an equivalent cash award 50% based on return on capital the Committee may all-employee share plans on the same basis Participation in all employee which in all other respects mirrors the terms employed ROCE make awards of up as other employees.
share plans is subject to of the LTIP.
For threshold performance, 20% The Committee has discretion to include, Clawback provisions apply see section below.
where it considers it appropriate to do so, other benefits to reflect specific individual Awards under the 2014 LTIP may incorporate The Committee retains discretion circumstances, such as housing, relocation, the right to receive in cash or shares the to include additional or alternative travel, or other expatriate allowances.
aggregate value of dividends paid on vested financial performance measures and shares between the vesting date and the date or adjust the weightings in future years Pension To provide a market Individuals are eligible to participate in The maximum DC contribution N A on which the awards are satisfied, on such basis to reflect prevailing strategic or competitive element the Companys Defined Contribution DC cash supplement in respect as the Committee may determine, which may operational objectives of the business of fixed remuneration pension scheme or receive a pension of a financial year is 20% of assume the reinvestment of these dividends in aligned with shareholder value creation.
for retirement allowance cash supplement.
Performance conditions applicable to Executive Directors who are members of Dividend amounts are not paid on any awards 2015 LTIP awards may be amended the Companys Defined Benefit DB pension until such time as the performance conditions if an event occurs which causes the scheme will continue to receive benefits are achieved and shares vest.
Committee to consider that an under the terms of that scheme.
There will amended performance condition be no new entrants or accrual of future would be more appropriate and not benefits under the DB scheme.
materially less difficult to satisfy.
72 73 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015
