Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information OUR STRATEGY DELIVERING A PREMIUM BRAND WITH A HIGH QUALITY PRODUCT FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND GROWING RETURNS FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS STRATEGY MEASURE 2018 OBJECTIVES KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Performance 2015 2014 Comment We are focused on using our expertise to acquire sufficient quality Land bank years Maintain land bank 3.9 years 4.0 years Land bank maintained to support increasing land in appropriate locations on competitive terms to deliver our at c. 4 years legal completion numbers growth objectives.
Ensuring that we obtain current and forward land with suitable planning potential are fundamental in delivering our strategy.
Sales outlets Increase sales outlets 117 103 Outlets up 14% MAINTAIN A QUALITY LAND BANK We aim to deliver well designed, well built, attractive homes.
We are Private reservation rate Maintain an appropriate 0.68 0.70 Private reservation rate marginally down on continuing to develop our portfolio of brands to enable us to increasingly balance in availability of prior year levels We have a clearly defined strategy, experienced personnel and the ability to deliver more choice for our customers in both product and location.
our portfolio of brands act quickly if required, enabling opportunities and returns to be optimised.
in the right locations PRODUCE A QUALITY PRODUCT We continue to enhance our customers interaction throughout their home Revenue Revenue increasing 1,150m 864m Revenue up 33% buying journey and beyond.
Customer feedback, both formal and informal, to 1.6bn We have a clearly defined strategy, experienced personnel and the ability to is important in helping us evolve our offering to benefit future customers, act quickly if required, enabling opportunities and returns to be optimised.
from an enhanced online experience through an increased array of INDUSTRY LEADING SALES & MARKETING customer options to an improved handover experience.
We are focused on developing the skills of our current team and ensuring Number of trainees M aintain level of trainees 243 202 Trainee numbers up 20% and maintained at we attract both experienced talent and new and enthusiastic young representing 15% of 15% of an increased workforce We have a clearly defined strategy, experienced personnel and the ability to people into our business to underpin our growth objectives.
Our training increasing workforce act quickly if required, enabling opportunities and returns to be optimised.
centre, dedicated training team and innovative graduate and apprentice TRAINING FOR THE FUTURE programmes play an important role in delivering our strategy.
Over the last year we have undertaken a fundamental review of this Five star customer M aintain HBF five 5 star 5 star Five star HBF customer satisfaction rating achieved important aspect of our business.
We will shortly be implementing satisfaction rating star customer for five consecutive years We have a clearly defined strategy, experienced personnel and the ability to comprehensive improvements to our customer service to ensure we satisfaction rating act quickly if required, enabling opportunities and returns to be optimised.
are well placed to deliver the best possible customer experience as our EXCELLENT CUSTOMER number of customers increases in line with our growth strategy.
SERVICE We are dedicated to maintaining the highest standards of health and Accident incident A ccident incident rate 0.23 0.37 38% improvement in accident incident rate safety as our business grows.
We have expanded our own in-house rate by site by site maintained at We have a clearly defined strategy, experienced personnel and the ability to dedicated team of Health and Safety professionals to ensure that our 0.3 or below act quickly if required, enabling opportunities and returns to be optimised.
teams on site are appropriately trained, supported and audited.
HIGH STANDARDS IN HEALTH & SAFETY We have a clearly defined growth strategy, to increase revenue, profits EPS EPS increasing to 62p 44.5p 28.6p Up 56% and returns to shareholders by increasing outlets and legal completions ROE ROE of 25% 20.5% Up 29% 26.4% over the medium term.
IMPROVE ROCE ROCE of 21% 22.8% 18.0% Up 27% RETURNS 8 9 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Read Glossary on page 129 to see how we calculate our key performance indicators
