Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information 5 4 3 1 STEVE MORGAN 62 JOHN TUTTE 59 BARBARA RICHMOND 55 GRAHAM COPE 51 CHAIRMAN GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR COMPANY SECRETARY ROLE: He is primarily responsible for ROLE: He is responsible for the ROLE: She is responsible for the ROLE: He is responsible for the effective working of the Board, operational management of the financial management of the Group governance structures and taking a leading role in determining Group, the implementing of strategic in its broadest sense.
mechanisms, corporate conduct the Boards composition and plans and reporting on these to the within the Companys regulatory STRENGTHS AND SKILLS: Barbara structure and ensuring that effective Board.
environment and circulars to Richmond joined the Board of communications are maintained shareholders and is the primary STRENGTHS AND SKILLS: John Tutte Redrow in January 2010, bringing with shareholders.
source of advice on the conduct of joined the Board of Redrow in July with her a proven track record, with the business.
In September 2009 he was over 20 years experience as Group Morgan founded Redrow in 1974 and promoted to Group Managing Finance Director at a number of UK Graham is Company Secretary to led the business from a small civil Director and in July 2014 became listed companies including Inchcape the Main Board and Secretary to engineering contractor to become Group Chief Executive.
plc, Croda International PLC and all Committees.
one of the UKs leading home Whessoe plc.
John qualified in civil engineering STRENGTHS AND SKILLS: Graham builders.
He floated the Company in and has amassed more than 35 She has a strong background in both Cope joined Redrow as Head of 1994 and eventually stepped down years experience within the manufacturing and retail as well as Legal in November 2002 and was as Chairman in November 2000, industry, having previously held having completed a number of major appointed Company Secretary two returning to the helm in March 2009. the position as Chief Executive of acquisitions and disposals months later.
He has over 20 years Steve is also Chairman of Wilson Connolly plc.
experience in the housebuilding Wolverhampton Wanderers, Carden sector, either working in-house or John was appointed to the board Barbara was appointed a NonLeisure and Trinity Aviation.
He set for clients in private practice.
of the Home Builders Federation Executive Director of Lonza Group up The Morgan Foundation in 2000, in February 2015.
Ltd with effect from 16 April 2014.
Graham qualified as a Solicitor in 1989 which is one of the largest charitable and is a member of the Law Society.
M trusts in the north of England.
Barbara is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England Steve is a Fellow of the Chartered and Wales and a graduate of the Institute of Building and holds four University of Manchester.
M 2 1 6 7 8 7 6 8 2 3 5 SIR MICHAEL LYONS 65 LIZ PEACE 62 DEBBIE HEWITT 52 NICK HEWSON 57 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR ROLE: The Non-Executive Directors are members of the Board but do not form part of the Executive Management team.
They have responsibility to constructively challenge and contribute to the development of strategy, scrutinise the performance of management, satisfy themselves that financial BOARD OF DIRECTORS information is accurate and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and are responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration of the Executive Management team.
AN ACTIVE, COMMITTED BOARD OF DIRECTORS STRENGTHS AND SKILLS: Sir Michael STRENGTHS AND SKILLS: Liz joined STRENGTHS AND SKILLS: Debbie STRENGTHS AND SKILLS: Nick joined the Redrow Board in January the Redrow Board in September 2014. joined the Redrow Board in August joined the Redrow Board in WITH DIVERSE AND COMPLEMENTARY SKILL SETS 2015.
He recently chaired the Lyons She spent 13 years as the CEO of the 2009.
She has a wealth of board December 2012.
His business career Housing Commission to produce a British Property Federation and also experience in executive and to date has been spent mainly in the road map for increasing house had a long and distinguished career in non-executive roles.
property industry, from commercial building in this country.
She is currently the Non-Executive He is also Chairman of the English She is currently a Non-Executive Chairman of Moss Bros plc, Evander Nick is currently a Non-Executive Cities Fund, which undertakes large Director of Morgan Sindall Group plc Group, White Stuff and Visa UK.
Director of Croma Security Solutions scale urban regeneration schemes in and The Howard fide Walden Estate.
She is also Non-Executive Director a number of places and is Chairman She is also a member of the Peabody of NCC plc, The Restaurant Group Nick is a Fellow of the Institute of of SQW Group and a strategic Trust and a trustee of the property PLC, BGL and Domestic & General.
Chartered Accountants in England adviser to CBRE.
and Wales and has a degree in Law Debbie has an MBA from Bath Prior to this, following a long and Liz was awarded the CBE in the 2008 from Cambridge University.
University, is a fellow of the distinguished career in local New Years Honours List.
M A N R Chartered Institute of Personnel and government, Sir Michael completed M A N R S Development and was awarded the a four year term as Chairman of COMPOSITION LENGTH OF TENURE OF MAIN BOARD MBE in 2011 for services to business the BBC and has held a range of OF THE BOARD NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS BY GENDER and the public sector.
non-executive positions across the three sectors.
M A N R M A N R Non-executive 4 Executive 3 One to three years 3 Three to six years 1 Female 3 Male 4 Board Experience: Finance Property Operational Sustainability M A N R S Main Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Sustainability Committee Committee membership: 60 61 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Details of internal control and risk Each Committee reports to and has Terms The Chief Executive is responsible for: The table below sets out the current position The Board continued Board Performance Evaluation and management processes are included in the of Reference approved by the Board and the of the Company on a gender basis.
Debbie Hewitt has already served a term Professional Development operational management of the Group: Audit Committee report on pages 64 to 67.
Minutes of the Committee meetings are of 6 years as a Non-Executive Director but The Board undertook an internal formal Female Male circulated and the Committee Chairmen the Board considers that it is appropriate that evaluation of its own performance during the implementing strategic plans: and Board Balance and Independence provide reports to the Board.
she continues for a further term of three years year ended 30 June 2015.
This started with a Executive reporting on these to the Board The Board considers that it is of a size and has bearing in mind the relatively new members questionnaire designed to assess performance management team 2 20% 8 80% a balance of skills, knowledge and experience The Audit Committee is chaired by who have recently joined the Board and to and ongoing effectiveness across key areas in The Senior Independent Director supports the Redrow employees that is appropriate for its business.
The Nick Hewson, the Remuneration and the give some continuity.
the financial year ended 30 June 2015 and to Chairman in ensuring the Board is effective and at June 2015 536 32% 1,115 68% Executive Team provides the Board with an Nomination Committees are chaired by maintain visibility and progress during the that constructive relations are maintained.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary appropriate view of the detail of the business Debbie Hewitt and the Sustainability financial year.
Following the completion of the In addition to acting as a Senior Independent Shareholder Engagement to the Board and its Committees and his and the benefit of their significant collective Committee by Liz Peace.
questionnaire, a report was presented to Director, in which capacity she leads the The Company announces its financial results appointment and removal is a matter for the experience of the UK house building industry the Board and discussed and, as a result, the annual performance evaluation of the The Board completed a performance evaluation half-yearly and, immediately following their Board as a whole.
The Company Secretary is a and that enables it to discharge their respective Board considers that it continues to operate Chairman she also provides an additional of its Committees during the financial year publication, undertakes formal presentations Member of the Executive Management Team duties and responsibilities effectively.
The effectively with meetings to facilitate debate point of contact for shareholders.
ended 30 June 2015 and it was concluded to equity analysts.
These presentations are and all Directors have access to his advice and Non-Executive Directors bring a wealth of and decision making.
they were contributing and functioning available on the Companys website.
In certain circumstances, Board experience and understanding from outside the The Company has Directors and Officers effectively and were complying with their Committees and individual Directors may wish Company which enables them to challenge and The evaluation also considered succession insurance in place which insures Directors During the year ended 30 June 2015, the terms of reference.
to take independent professional advice in help develop proposals on the Companys planning for the Executive Team.
against certain liabilities, including legal costs.
Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and the connection with their responsibilities and strategy.
All Non-Executive Directors holding Governance at Work in the Business Group Finance Director, together with the The Board recognises that a structured duties, and, in this regard, the Company will office during the year ended 30 June 2015 are Appointments and Re-Elections to The Board aims to meet governance Senior Independent Director, also held a appraisal process and good training are meet the reasonable costs and expenses considered to be independent.
the Board best practice where it fits with the number of meetings with significant important requirements across the Group.
Where appropriate, the Board The Nomination Committee has recommended Companys business.
shareholders and subsequently briefed the Details of the Directors respective experience The Board receives regular presentations and delegates decisions to the Executive the re-appointment of the Executive and Board on issues discussed at these meetings.
is set out in their biographical profiles on pages briefings from those responsible for key Group Management Team and other relevant Non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination The Board has a formal schedule of matters 60 to 61. disciplines.
In addition, the Board maintains management bodies.
Committee report can be found on page 68. reserved specifically for its decisions.
Following the full year and half-yearly results close working relationships with Divisional The matters reserved include: announcement in September 2014 and Under the Code, at least half the Board, Board Meetings Management Teams.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, February 2015, the Chairman, Group Chief excluding a Non-Executive Chairman, should The Board meets regularly and frequently, all Directors are subject to re-election at their approval of Redrows long term objectives Executive and Group Finance Director met comprise Non-Executive Directors determined All Directors undertake a comprehensive not less than six times during the year and first General meeting after appointment.
The and strategy: current and potential significant shareholders.
by the Board to be independent.
The Board induction programme following their maintains a close dialogue, as appropriate, Board having been informed of the conditions approval of the Annual Report, preliminary This embraced visits to London and Edinburgh currently comprises three Executive and four first appointment.
Board meetings are held of the Code on election and re-election, and half-yearly financial statements, interim and feedback from these meetings is Independent Non-Executive Directors in at Head Office or Divisional Offices when including that there should be a formal, The programme for the Non-Executive management statements, trading updates independently collated and disseminated compliance with the Code.
visits are frequently made to a selection rigorous and transparent procedure for the Directors is specifically designed to encompass and the recommendation of dividends: to the Board.
of developments accompanied by the local appointment of new directors to the Board, The Board considers that each Director is able the full breadth of the business and includes Management Team.
Board papers are approval of any significant changes in and that re-election is subject to continued The Annual General Meeting takes place at a to allocate sufficient time to the Company to visits to operating businesses.
distributed in advance of the meetings to allow accounting policies or practices: any changes satisfactory performance, has decided that venue close to the Companys Head Office.
All discharge their responsibilities effectively.
adequate time for review and preparation and relating to capital structure: approval of all Directors will be submitting themselves During the year the formal appraisals of the Directors attended the Annual General Meeting include key strategic, operational and financial treasury policies: for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance on 10 November 2014.
Attendance by individual Directors The Board has satisfied itself all Directors who Director were undertaken by the Chairman.
encouraged to attend the Annual General ensuring the maintenance of a sound system at Board meetings are set out below: will be submitting themselves for re-election Meeting, which represents an opportunity for of internal control and risk management: continue to perform satisfactorily.
Details of All Independent Non-Executive Directors had all shareholders attending to table questions approval of corporate acquisitions or appropriate Annual General Meeting an annual appraisal conducted by the Senior formally during the meeting and informally disposals, significant land purchases Resolutions can be found on page 125.
afterwards to the Companys Directors.
Table of Attendance or contracts: Committees Capital Structure changes to the size, structure and Formal notification of the Annual General Name Role Attendance at Meetings The Board is supported by Audit, Nomination, The information of the capital structure of the composition of the Board: Meeting, through the Annual Report, is sent Remuneration and Sustainability Committees Company is included in the Directors Report Steve Morgan Chairman 6 6 to shareholders at least 21 working days in approval of significant policies, including and their memberships, roles and activities are on pages 84 to 85. advance.
It is the Companys policy to propose John Tutte Group Chief Executive 6 6 Redrows Health and Safety policy: and set out in separate reports: the Audit a separate Resolution at the Annual General Barbara Richmond Group Finance Director 6 6 Diversity Committee Report can be found on pages 64 to review of overall corporate governance Meeting on each substantive issue.
The principle of Boardroom diversity is strongly 67: the Nomination Committee Report on page Debbie Hewitt Senior Independent Director 6 6 arrangements.
It is the Boards policy 68: the Remuneration Committee Report on Redrows website, www.
co. uk, Nick Hewson Non-Executive Director 6 6 that appointments to the Board will always be The Chairman is primarily responsible for: pages 70 to 83: and the Sustainability gives access to current financial and based on merit, so that the Board has the right Liz Peace Non-Executive Director 6 6 Committee Report can be found on page 69. corporate information.
effective working of the Board: individuals in place, and recognises that Sir Michael Lyons Non-Executive Director 3 3 diversity is seen as an important consideration Graham Cope taking a leading role in determining the as part of the selective criteria used to assess Company Secretary Boards composition and structure: and All details for the Directors are provided on pages 60 to 61. candidates to achieve a balanced Board.
ensuring that effective communications 7 September 2015 are maintained with shareholders.
62 63 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015
