Directors Statement of Responsibilities Going concern The Directors are responsible for preparing the The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 45.
The financial position of the Group Report and the Financial Statements in and Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities, accordance with applicable law and regulations.
as well as the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial Statements for financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the risk and liquidity risk are described in the Strategic Report on pages 36 Group Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial to 45 and in Note 14 to the Group Financial Statements.
Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the Company Financial Statements in accordance with United Kingdom The Group has considerable financial resources together with a diverse Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting customer and supplier base across different geographical areas and Standards and applicable law.
In preparing the Group Financial categories.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group and Statements, the Directors have also elected to comply with IFRSs, issued Company are well placed to manage their business risks successfully by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Under despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
company law the Directors must not approve the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence Group for that period.
In preparing these Financial Statements, the for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going Directors are required to: concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual Financial select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Statements in accordance with the FRCs Guidance on risk management, internal control and related financial business reporting.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and This statement is also made to fulfil the requirements of Listing Rules prudent: 9.8.
state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs issued by IASB and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been Disclosure of information to Auditor followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, state that: in the Group and Company Financial Statements respectively: and 1 so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless information of which the Auditor is unaware: and it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will 2 each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have continue in business.
taken as a Director to make him herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that information.
that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of By Order of the Board the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply Christine Logan Company Secretary with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Reckitt Benckiser Group plc Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible 103105 Bath Road for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Company registration number: 6270876 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 22 March 2016 Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the position and performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 46 to 49 confirms that, to the best of his her knowledge: the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and IFRSs as issued by the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
88 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
