Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information CUSTOMERS WE WANT TO PROVIDE OUR CUSTOMERS WITH THE WE ARE BROADENING ENGAGEMENT WITH OUR BEST POSSIBLE HOME-BUYING EXPERIENCE CUSTOMERS ON SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES our sales teams require a thorough understanding of the sustainable features of PLANS FOR 2016 INVESTIGATING CUSTOMER ATTITUDES Objective 2014 2015 2018 target Progress our new homes and associated communities TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT No.
1 in to be able to effectively communicate the customer Embed and refine our benefits to our customers.
To support the Independent customer service Customer First brand 5 stars 5 stars With an estimated 220,000 new homes required each year to meet household projections, training already rolled out this year in satisfaction HBF rating for home sustainability should be a fundamental consideration in the design and construction of all conjunction with our principal photovoltaic building in Continue to update and new homes and communities.
Housing can have profound effects on how people live as a suppliers, JJM Building Supplies, sustainability the UK roll-out sustainability training society, as well as having significant impacts on the environment.
Despite this, there has training modules have been developed and for sales teams % of our customers recommending 93% 90.2% 95% been little research undertaken within the industry to examine the views of prospective added into the Sales, Construction and us to a friend per NHBC research Review strategies with our customers on sustainable homes, their attitude to sustainable features and purchasing intent.
Sales and Marketing team based Acknowledging this lack of data, Redrow has undertaken an in-depth research project led by My Redrow Registrations 11,149 13,774 15,000 How to Videos on the results of our customer its Sustainability Manager Nicola Owen, which has considered the purchase intentions of To complement our customer guidance we attitudes research customers in respect of sustainable homes and the factors influencing their subsequent Customer extras 6m 10m 15m have created a series of short informative choices and decisions.
How to videos, available on Redrow TV, Contacting prospective customers on Redrows database elicited 1,730 responses and which provide easily understood information, NHBC Pride in the Job Awards 14% of sites 15% of sites 20% of sites highlighted that customers are increasingly focusing on the value of sustainable development.
advice and demonstrations for our customers on the operation and maintenance of internal 82% of respondents indicated a willingness to pay extra for a sustainable home Improvement level maintained Decline and external home features.
They also include 60% agreed that they would be more likely to buy from a company building sustainable homes sustainability features such as photovoltaics, 7 7.5% indicated they were confident about the positive environmental impact such a composting and rain water harvesting.
Customer First designed our new Made for You customer purchase was likely to have Customers are our first priority at Redrow, journey, which guides and supports our Overall, the responses show that there is a growing customer preference towards sustainable Build Quality so we are delighted to report that for the fifth customers throughout the home buying homes and communities, but they also indicate that some uncertainty exists surrounding the Quality of build lies at the heart of customer year running we received a 5 star independent process in five different steps from Exchange choice of sustainable features.
The data from this comprehensive study will be fed into our satisfaction and at Redrow we pride ourselves HBF Customer Satisfaction rating.
Not content of Contracts to Move in Day.
product design and sales and marketing strategies and will also inform further research to on both the quality of design and construction with this we have progressively rolled out our help us to deliver the homes our customers want and to encourage them to lead more of the homes and developments we build.
Customers are Registrations for My Redrow, our award winning Customer First strategy during the year with sustainable lives.
direct internet channel to our customers, have the aim of becoming Number 1 in customer our first priority at The NHBC Pride in the Job Awards are the increased 24% to 13,774 in the year.
This has led service for home building in the UK.
We believe house building industrys long standing and to a strong increase in sales of customer extras, Redrow and we strive that great customer service will sell homes and which have already exceeded our 2018 target of most prestigious recognition of site managers that customer service is our culture, not simply 10m.
We have therefore increased our 2018 to deliver an exemplary who achieve the highest standards and have a department.
been instrumental in driving up the quality of customer service new homes over the last 35 years.
Success is Our customers are fundamental to the Sustainability Training Modules not only an accolade for the site manager, his business so we endeavour to listen and do Our sales teams are often the first point of team and the associated trades, but also everything we can to make sure that buying contact with our customers, who may use the provides our customers with a measure of opportunity to ask detailed questions about and owning their Redrow home is the best it the quality of our products.
Our commitment the sustainable features of their potential new can be.
To deliver this commitment we have to quality is underlined by the quality of our home.
We have previously highlighted that construction teams.
This year we congratulate 14 of our site 10m 13,774 5 5 5 5 5 managers who collected Pride in the Job 11,149 Quality Awards in 2014 and in particular Paul Greenaway South West, Rob Summers and 6m Syd James South Wales, Dave Williams NW and Stuart Bullough Lancashire who went on to collect Seal of Excellence Awards.
11 12 13 14 15 14 15 14 15 Special mention goes to Rob Summers who once Customer Extras 5 Satisfaction Rating Since 2011 Number of My Redrow Registrations again collected a Supreme Award, the ultimate accolade, for his site at Cwm Calon, Ystrad CUSTOMER EXTRAS INDEPENDENT CUSTOMER MY REDROW Mynach.
The first round of 2015 Pride in the Job ON MY REDROW SATISFACTION HBF RATING REGISTRATIONS has just been announced, with Redrow site Customers views drive our specification managers securing a record 18 Quality Awards.
48 49 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015
