Strategic Risks The Groups activities expose it to a number of other risks which, while also actively managed, may still adversely impact the business and its Our framework financials.
A more detailed consideration of a broader range of risks faced by the Group appears on pages 158 to 164 of this report.
for risk management Group major risks 5.
Cyber Security and Data Protection 1.
Loss of Key Management of Licensed Products The following table provides a 7.
Supply Business Continuity performance Planning summary review of the principal 8.
Non-Compliance with strategic risks and uncertainties that 9.
Major Tax Disputes Quality Standards 10.
ERP IT Systems Failure could affect the Group, as identified Compared with a year ago, the Cyber Security and Data Protection risk by management and the Board.
is now considered sufficiently material to include this for the first time RB operates a major risk assessment as a Group major risk, while Activities Upscheduling has been downgraded and removed from the list, as the materiality of the process to periodically identify, exposure has reduced significantly.
assess and mitigate those risks Exchange rate risk it considers to be most significant A description of the exchange rate risk to the Group, and the means used to mitigate that risk, appears on page 164 General Financial Risks to the successful execution of of a Global Company and on pages 163 to 164 Currency Exchange.
Viability statement The most senior leaders of our business dedicate time each year, Management conducted a viability review covering a five-year period.
in a facilitated discussion with the Group risk team to consider the This period was selected as it is the period covered in the Groups risk environment for their particular functional or geographic area long-term forecasting process.
This period covers the introduction of responsibility and how their emerging or known risks could to market of the current product pipeline.
impact on the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
The five-year viability review first looks at the Groups ability to Similar sessions are held with the Groups external advisors.
continue in operation if it performs in line with the Group forecast.
The key content from these sessions is then synthesised into the This assumes that normal market conditions continue and current Groups top risks, with each risk having an Executive Committee trends remain.
The evaluation takes into account the Groups cash EC owner, who is accountable for executing the current control flow, historic Group planning accuracy, available banking facilities strategy and for compiling and executing a plan of mitigating and interest cover ratios in connection with financial covenants.
The actions to properly manage the Groups exposure to that risk.
analysis concluded that if RB performs in line with forecast it would Progress is reviewed periodically and the full output from the have sufficient funds to trade, settle its liabilities as they fall due, and major risk assessment process is formally submitted annually remain compliant with financial covenants.
by the EC to the Board for its consideration and endorsement.
Through the course of each year, the EC and Board agendas The analysis goes on to consider the viability of the business should address all of the top risks through specific deep dives to adverse unexpected events arise.
To illustrate this, a sensitised view of ensure proper focus and progress with mitigation.
the Group forecast was produced.
The adverse assumptions are based primarily upon the realisation of key Group Strategic risks, which have the most relevant potential impact on viability see risks marked on opposite and following pages.
The sensitivity assigns each adverse assumption an estimated annual monetary value and estimates the impact on interest cover ratios and headroom over available borrowing facilities.
The analysis concludes that even with the occurrence of key unexpected scenarios, RB would still have sufficient funds to trade, settle its liabilities as they fall due, and remain compliant with financial covenants.
Management has further considered the occurrence of a Black Swan Event: an event with sufficient potential impact to risk the future of RB as a strong and independent business operating in its chosen markets.
The occurrence of a major issue could result in significant reputational impact, a catastrophic share price fall, significant loss of consumer confidence and inability to retain and recruit quality people.
Such an event could have an impact on the viability of the business.
As there are a number of mitigating controls in place across the business, the occurrence of a Black Swan event is considered sufficiently unlikely that it has not been factored into the sensitivity analysis.
As a result of the Viability Review, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year period covered in the Viability Review.
40 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements MAJOR RISK DESCRIPTION CONTEXT MITIGATION Risk that non-compliance Regulation is imposed in respect The Group has quality and 1.
Non-Compliance with regulations e. g. licences, of, but not limited to, ingredients, compliance structures in manufacturing, products and manufacturing standards, labour place with teams focused of Licensed laws results in significant standards, product safety and on driving adherence to the Products financial losses arising from quality, marketing, packaging, business management and regulator-enforced factory labelling, storage, distribution, quality systems company wide.
closures, product recalls, delayed advertising, imports and exports, Control programmes in place betterfinancials launches, fines, penalties, etc.
social and environmental to manage compliance risks Also, reputational damage with responsibility and health & include: Regulatory Excellence consumers and regulators.
These regulations can marketing authorisations, change and may become more Product Vulnerability stringent.
Additionally we are formulation assessments, required to obtain, maintain Core Company Data legislative and update licences for such requirements, Pharmacovigilance products.
If we are found to be adverse events monitoring non-compliant with applicable and Consumer Care laws and regulations, we could complaints call line.
be subject to civil remedies or regulatory actions, such as fines, RB employs senior regulatory injunctions or product recalls, and legal specialists at a Group, and or criminal sanctions.
regional and local level who are responsible for setting policies and ensuring that all employees are aware of, and comply with, both Group policies and the laws and regulations relevant to their roles.
A Governance Framework Team has recently been established to oversee and coordinate this broad-based agenda.
There has been no change to the assessed profile of this risk in the last year.
Risk that our business continuity We may face risks to continuity Suppliers of key raw and 2.
Supply Business plans BCPs, including monoof supply arising from certain packaging materials, cosourcing materials and specialised suppliers, both of packers of finished product Continuity products do not adequately raw materials and of third party and the Groups manufacturing Planning address all risks facing the manufactured items.
Significant facilities and key technologies Group, resulting in unforeseen disruptions to our own, or are risk assessed for their business disruption.
our suppliers operations, may potential impact on supply betterfinancials affect our ability to source disruption for our products.
raw materials and negatively Business continuity plans are impact our costs.
Suppliers may in place throughout the Group fail to fulfil their contractual and major sites are routinely obligations.
Replacing suppliers and independently assessed may require them to be qualified towards achievement of a highly under industry, governmental protected risk HPR site status.
or our own standards, which could require investment and Our consumer product recall may take time to resolve.
process was fully tested and proven as effective during an incident in the USA.
The concern level over this risk has reduced, with no significant further actions outstanding.
Increased No change Decreased Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 41 Strategic Risks continued MAJOR RISK DESCRIPTION CONTEXT MITIGATION Risk of non-compliance Various factors may adversely The Group has a comprehensive 3.
Non-Compliance with quality standards, most impact on our reputation, suite of policies, processes and notably Good Manufacturing including product quality systems to drive compliance with Quality Practices GMP, which are inconsistencies or contamination with good manufacturing Standards being increasingly audited by resulting in product recalls.
practice and monitor quality health agencies from multiple Reputational risks may also arise assurance, together with routine jurisdictions, restricting our from our third parties labour KPI reporting.
An appropriately betterfinancials ability to produce or sell key standards, health, safety and resourced global quality audit brands, particularly Healthcare.
environmental standards, raw team covers factories coThe span of this risk covers the material sourcing and ethical packers, distribution centres complete product lifecycle: standards.
We could also be the and commercial units.
Audits global regulated process victim of product tampering or by regulatory bodies FDA, compliance, R&D, factories, counterfeiting or grey imports.
and external manufacturing facilities notified bodies SGS, DGM are co-packers and in-market comprehensively prepared for execution non-compliance.
The manufacturing of Personal Hygiene products has been integrated into the Healthcare cluster this year, driving stronger regulatory disciplines.
The potential impact of this risk has been assessed slightly higher than previously, having analysed the Mucinex product recall experience, but its profile otherwise remains unchanged.
Risk of IT disruption or Failures or disruptions to our The Group is engaged in a rolling 4.
ERP IT Systems accounting error, due to legacy systems or the systems of ERP update programme.
Disaster Enterprise Resource Planning third parties on whom we rely, recovery plans are in place and Failure ERP and IT systems, impacts due to any number of causes, are tested periodically.
It also business operations in a particularly if prolonged, or, invests in security measures number of areas, e. g. through if any failure or disruption and anti-virus software to betterfinancials unavailability of key management were to impact our backup or safeguard against this threat.
information or disruption to disaster recovery plans, could Maintenance of current systems transactional processing.
result in a loss of key data throughout the execution of the and or affect our operations.
ERP programme implementation Sub-optimal implementations is an ongoing priority.
of new systems could occur.
Our computer systems, SAP manufacturing and software and networks may commercial templates have be vulnerable to unauthorised now been successfully put in access, computer viruses or place in some locations.
This other malicious code and other has resulted in the potential cyber threats that could have impact of this risk being assessed a security impact.
All of these lower than previously, as more could be costly to remedy and elements of the programme we may be subject to litigation.
have been proven to be robust.
42 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements MAJOR RISK DESCRIPTION CONTEXT MITIGATION Risk that RB is subject to While this risk is not new, the The Group has strengthened 5.
Cyber Security increasingly sophisticated context for its inclusion is the controls and defences around cyber attacks aimed at causing increased business appetite this area of increasing risk.
A data and Data business disruption, capture of for consumer personal data to protection programme has been Protection data for financial gain, general drive sales and growth.
The established to drive compliance.
embarrassment and reputational potential impact of the threat damage or that RBs data is also now greater due to An update of systems patching betterfinancials protection is considered by the reliance on an increasing against cyber threats has been regulators to be inadequate.
undertaken and improvements to approaches to protect The legislative environment has against data loss and manage also been strengthened with privileged access to systems significant financial penalties are currently under way.
now enforceable to penalise Broader awareness training data protection breaches.
also continues to be a focus.
This risk has been included in the Group major risks for the first time.
It has been assessed as having a potentially major impact with a medium possibility of that occurring.
Risk that RB cannot implement The market for talent is intensely The Group structures its reward 6.
Loss of Key its strategies and meet objectives competitive and we could face programme to attract and Management as a result of key management challenges in sourcing qualified retain the best people.
The leaving the business who cannot personnel.
If we are unable to formal succession planning be readily replaced by equally achieve our performance targets, process continues to evolve betterfinancials experienced qualified candidates.
our management would not be with plans being reviewed and entitled to their variable pay, updated regularly for all key which is a significant element positions and individuals.
This could operate as a disincentive The concern level over this for them to continue their risk has reduced, due to a employment with us.
consistently high retention level for key management.
Risk of material impact on A variety of factors may adversely The Group has developed a 7.
Significant Group growth and profit affect our results of operations robust strategy to drive margin of under-performance or and financial condition during expansion and enable continued Country Underextreme foreign exchange periods of economic uncertainty investment behind our brands.
performance volatility in certain markets or instability, social or labour Both financial results and e. g. China, Russia and Brazil.
unrest or political upheaval in the currency volatility are closely markets in which we operate.
Partnerships are betterfinancials Such periods may also lead to strengthened with distributors government actions, such as to better manage local risks.
imposition of martial law, trade restrictions, foreign ownership This risk is spread over many restrictions, capital, price or varied markets, and is considered currency controls, nationalisation business as usual as our strategy or expropriation of property or gives us increased protection other resources, or changes in against market uncertainty.
legal and regulatory requirements As such, the potential impact and taxation regimes.
of this risk has been assessed as lower than previously.
Increased No change Decreased Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 43 Strategic Risks continued MAJOR RISK DESCRIPTION CONTEXT MITIGATION Risk that we are not fully Failure to comply with applicable The Group is proactive 8.
Legal compliant with relevant laws anti-trust and competition in addressing legal risks and regulations, including laws, rules and regulations internally, through mandatory Non-Compliance anti-corruption laws and global in any jurisdiction may result online training undertaken competition laws, resulting in civil and or criminal legal by employees and countryin damage to RBs reputation proceedings.
We are subject to based legal oversight.
We betterfinancials and significant potential the UK Bribery Act 2010, the also respond to government fines and other penalties.
US Foreign Corrupt Practices authorities in a forthright Act of 1977, as amended, and and co-operative manner.
Given our extensive international A Legal Academy was launched operations, we are exposed to this year that will provide significant risks, particularly with enhanced training on a wide respect to parties not subject to range of topics, including our direct control, such as agents compliance.
The whistleblowing and joint venture partners, hotline was also relaunched and and also through businesses strengthened from the start of we acquire.
Any violation of the year with a new supplier.
applicable sanctions, money laundering or other relevant There has been no change laws could also have a negative to the assessed profile of impact on our reputation.
this risk in the last year.
Risk of significant unprovisioned We are subject to tax laws and The Group has the appropriate 9.
Major Tax cash outflows as a result transfer pricing regulations in risk framework in place to Disputes of tax authority challenge multiple jurisdictions, including monitor, assess and mitigate to filed tax positions in those relating to the flow of operational tax risk.
funds between RB and its betterfinancials subsidiaries.
Our effective tax rate The Board considers that tax in any given financial year reflects exposures are adequately a variety of factors that may not provided for, while recognising be present in succeeding financial that an element of risk will years, and may be affected by always remain.
changes in the tax laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
There has been no significant change to the assessed profile of this risk in the last year.
An absolute worst-case scenario Significant reputational impact as A strong governance framework 10.
Black Swan with sufficient potential impact a result of a major issue resulting and operating model are to risk the future of RB as in multiple fatalities, possibly applied to drive compliance, Event a strong and independent compounded by apparently transparency and oversight.
business operating in its chosen negligent management Robust Group policies are betterfinancials markets.
This could arise or be behaviour: extreme adverse maintained and a programme amplified by adverse economic press coverage and viral social of rolling independent audits or social conditions, political media linking the RB name to operated to ensure their proper upheavals or natural disasters.
consumer brands, leading to application.
Comprehensive a catastrophic share price fall, crisis management training very significant loss of consumer programme and support tools are confidence and inability to retain in place and regularly updated.
44 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements DESCRIPTION CONTEXT MITIGATION We are subject to a range of In order to manage the more This consists of a full set Routine Risks compliance and routine risks numerous and routine risks, the of policies, processes and as part of everyday business.
Group maintains a complete and systems covering all aspects of robust governance framework.
compliance, with international betterfinancials and local laws as well as with the Groups stated minimum control standards.
Management provide primary assurance by driving risk compliance through their respective area, regional or functional responsibility.
This is done through regular and detailed business reviews.
Secondary assurance is provided independently through a combination of Internal and External Audit covering all aspects of the Groups operations.
By order of the Board Christine Logan Company Secretary 22 March 2016 Increased No change Decreased Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 45
