Our world is changing Our market and resources Our consumer landscape Our environment is changing is changing We are Our incomes Healthcare costs are rising living longer are rising Access to healthcare is not only a human need it is a basic human right.
The current Life expectancy is rising around the An expanding middle class, particularly infrastructure and health delivery systems are world.
Between 2015 and 2030, the in developing markets, means more creaking under the strain of ever-increasing number of people aged over 60 is people have money to spend on demand as they face a perfect storm of expected to increase to more than 1.4 health and hygiene products after pressures: burgeoning population, increased billion.
Ageing populations are putting meeting their essential needs.
Increased longevity, and resource shortfalls among ever greater demands on healthcare income also spurs development of doctors, nurses and other health professionals.
services and motivating people to look better infrastructure such as sanitation for new ways to promote wellbeing as systems, which further drives demand.
As the boundaries of science get pushed well as wellness.
back, we are able to offer more solutions for health needs but that adds cost.
As costs spiral and resources diminish, what we can least afford to do is reduce the healthcare that people can access.
We need a radical rethink to find more cost-effective ways to help consumers protect and manage their health.
We are more Our lives are busier proactive about health Modern life brings more opportunities at work and at home but also more Longer life expectancies and rising demands on our time.
This encourages incomes are encouraging more of consumers to use easily accessible overus to actively look after ourselves Regulation is changing the-counter health products, rather and prevent health issues before than wait for a doctors appointment, they occur, for example through The ever-changing global consumer landscape to seek out the fastest-acting hygiene better hygiene and healthier home exposes potential gaps in regulation in or laundry product and to look for environments.
We believe that self-care environmental stewardship, patient safety and personal grooming and beauty is the new frontier of healthcare.
In response, governments treatments that can be used at home.
are demanding more responsible behaviours and accountability from all stakeholders.
Evolving laws and regulations mean companies the world increasingly act on this must innovate to keep pace and adapt their We are always information by buying products online.
products to exclude ingredients that may affect connected safety or the environment and to reduce the E-commerce enables companies to environmental footprint of their operations.
This gather data about consumers and Advances in digital technology, favours forward-thinking companies who strive their preferences, to tailor offers that particularly mobiles, mean consumers for transparency and continuous improvement.
are specific to them, and to provide a can make ever-greater use of online consistent customer experience across resources and e-commerce to manage different countries and to increase lifestyles and healthcare.
This requires companies as WebMD enable us to learn about to have robust systems and processes health and wellbeing, while Facebook for gathering data and the ability to and other social media help us to analyse it to derive valuable insights interact with brands and to exchange while protecting consumer privacy.
information with people with similar issues and interests.
Consumers around 14 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Our environment Society and Shareholders is changing expect more The licence to operate for companies like RB now encompasses We recognise the need to balance our desire for delivering stakeholders expectations that can go beyond the letter of the sustainable financial outperformance for our Shareholders with law and regulations.
Continuous improvement on environmental delivering meaningful employment and economic viability for and social metrics is expected of responsible companies.
the communities where we live and operate and protecting our precious environmental resources.
One particularly strong trend is a growing focus on tackling the causes of easily preventable deaths and illness.
For example, Business must be a force for good across all three metrics.
each year around the world there are over 84,000 deaths from prioritising one over the other is not sustainable.
sexually transmitted diseases, over half a million deaths of children under the age of five from diarrhoea and over 610,000 deaths from malaria, which can all be prevented.
How this links to our strategy Our emphasis on an agile, responsive organisation enables us to We believe we are uniquely placed anticipate and address consumer needs quickly and effectively.
Consumer health is higher margin, which helps give us the financial to respond to these global trends headroom to invest in innovation and in building brands, so that through our betterbusiness strategy.
consumers have access to the next generation of products that meet their changing needs.
Our focus on Health, Hygiene and Home categories helps consumers protect and improve their health and wellbeing as they enjoy longer This approach drives financial outperformance, with revenues and more prosperous lives.
growing faster than the market and increasing margins creating value for our investors.
Our Powermarkets address the countries with the fastest growing demand for these products.
For example, we expect that in India At the same time, we know that growth and responsibility go hand there will be 100 million more toilets by 2020 and we want to be in hand.
Our betterbusiness strategy therefore also encompasses there and elsewhere to fulfil increased sanitation needs.
our role in society through the way we look after our people and our community programmes and our drive to continue to reduce We continue to expand our e-commerce capabilities and to invest our environmental impact.
Our betterbusiness strategy inspires us in our IT and data analysis.
This will help us exploit opportunities in to do the right thing every day.
We believe that digital capability will revolutionise health monitoring and we are committed to be at the forefront of this trend.
In fact, 25% of all sales in China today are via e-commerce and we anticipate this to be over 50% by 2020.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 15 Why we can deliver betterfinancials Our strategy to deliver The betterfinancials element of our strategy has four pillars, which focus our business on faster-growing markets and categories and enable us to outperform.
THESE PILLARS ARE: Organisation Powermarkets Powerbrands Virtuous earnings model We organise our business Gross Margin into two geographical 1 areas 16 19 ENA DvM Powermarkets Powerbrands UNIQUE Net Fixed cost Revenue 1 CULTURE spread across This helps us to allocate We have selected 16 resources effectively and Powermarkets, the Health to scale our blockbuster majority of which are in Operating innovations.
Margin BEI invest in and evolve our Hygiene organisation, to ensure They benefit from higher speed of decision making growth, rising middle classes and execution.
and opportunities to increase Our virtuous earnings model Home penetration.
In addition to gives us the capacity to their growth potential, our invest in top line growth, Powermarkets are those while expanding our where we see the ability These Powerbrands provide operating margins.
over 80% of our revenue and enable us to achieve higher growth and higher margins.
See pages 1718 See page 19 See pages 2021 See pages 2223 16 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Organisation As well as creating a simpler, more agile organisation, Supercharge is DESCRIPTION providing substantial cost savings.
We estimated these savings at the For our business to continue to thrive, we need to organise it for time of announcement of the project as 100 million 150 million continued success.
Growing organisations can become more complex a year by 2017.
The speed with which our people have embraced and slower to react, which is a major disadvantage in a fast-moving Supercharge accelerated delivery of savings in 2015, contributing to our industry.
We therefore focus on how we can remain agile so that our operating margin enhancement this year see page 22 for more details.
creativity is unleashed and we can be even more customer centric.
Creating a connected company To improve our efficiency and support our ability to grow, we are PROGRESS focusing our information technology investment into three main areas.
At the start of 2015, we announced Project Supercharge.
This is primarily a cultural programme, born from our desire to always First, we have introduced a global process for managing our investment be better.
It is designed to fight the complexity that arises in so we create a standard set of systems.
This ensures we only spend big companies, which means we must constantly simplify and money in one place and can then scale that system as required, rather reduce the layers of decision making.
Supercharge does this than duplicating investments in similar systems in different countries.
by ensuring we focus on the two things that really matter: the consumer and the retail customer.
A full description of Supercharge We are also enhancing the connectivity between our systems, so we can be found on page 17 of our 2014 Annual Report.
can generate insights more quickly.
For example, connecting our sales systems with our factories enables us to respond faster to changes Supercharge is already delivering substantial benefits for us, examples in demand for a product.
This improved connectivity will enable us of which include: to share data wherever it is needed in the business.
During 2015, Streamlining our portfolio of initiatives in support of blockbuster we have also rolled out collaborative tools such as telepresence units innovations has enabled us to increase the average size of our and document sharing.
This helps create a more collaborative and top 10 projects by 27% during 2015. productive environment, in which people can work more closely together, while reducing travelling costs.
Changing our geographical structure from the start of 2015, combining our two areas focused on developing markets into a In addition, we are improving efficiency by negotiating global deals single DvM area, and moving Australia, New Zealand, Russia, CIS with IT suppliers and beginning to standardise and globalise our back and Israel into our ENA area.
Organising our business around clusters of similar consumers and bringing developing markets under one leadership supports our ability to deliver bigger, better and more scalable innovation, OUTLOOK combined with improved in-market activation at a country level.
After a highly successful first year of Supercharge, we are well Simplifying and delayering our structure has also provided funds positioned to continue to reap the benefits in its second year and we to reinvest in growing our revenue.
We are already seeing benefits are now targeting the upper end of the initial 100 million 150 from the new structure, including faster growth in Australia and million annual savings target.
Russia, as a result of grouping them with similar countries, and the ability to streamline decision making and share information between markets more effectively.
Deploying Power of 1 teams in both ENA and DvM, helping us to deliver more efficient, effective and scalable roll-outs of our innovations.
Each Powerbrand is assigned a lead market.
The Power of 1 team in that market is now responsible, with input from the other countries in its area, for developing a master launch package for that innovation.
This ensures consistency across the area and avoids the time and cost of reworking the launch package for individual countries.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 17 Why we can deliver betterfinancials Organisation continued Adjusted Operating Profit increased by 19% constant to ENA 528 million: the adjusted operating margin was 210bps Rob fide Groot Executive Vice President, ENA higher at 19.6%.
This was due to strong gross margin expansion, combined with Supercharge initiatives.
PROGRESS Our priorities for 2016 include continuing to enhance distribution and penetration to enable our products to reach even more consumers, Total Net Revenue was 5,830 million, with LFL growth of 5%.
as well as continuing to build our e-commerce capabilities.
All European regions had a strong finish to the year, completing a year of broad-based growth.
Absolute growth was led by our larger markets UK, France, Germany and Spain whilst smaller markets in Eastern and South Eastern Europe had strong rates of growth.
Australia performed Food well throughout the year.
Operational performance in Russia and CIS was strong with an improved go-to-market model for our Consumer Health business but the outlook remains uncertain given the current PROGRESS market and currency issues.
Total Net Revenue was 349 million, a 4% LFL increase versus prior year at constant exchange rates.
In North America growth was led North America had a good year with 3% LFL growth driven by the by Franks RedHot and the launch of Frenchs ketchup.
Growth in launch of our successful Velvet Smooth Express Pedi under the new North America was partially offset by share losses in Frenchs mustard brand name, Amop, and in the second half, our new electronic nail due to a competitive entry.
Increased distribution drove growth file.
VMS brands were mixed with good growth in Digestive Advantage outside the USA.
Operating margins improved by 230bps to 29.2% and Move Free offset by weakness in Megared and Airborne.
Mucinex due to pricing initiatives and Project Supercharge efficiencies.
had a strong end to the year, benefitting from the launch of new liquid filled caplets across the adult Fast Max Multi-Symptom and Sinus variants.
Lysol performed well, driven by health education programmes, offset by competitive market conditions for Finish.
Adjusted Operating Profit increased 10% constant to 1,744 million: the adjusted operating margin increased 210bps to 29.9%, due to strong gross margin expansion and Project Supercharge initiatives.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Our priorities for 2016 include continuing our drive towards healthcare brands, with a focus on higher-margin channels, as well as continuing Like-for-like Net Operating margin to build our e-commerce capabilities.
Revenue growth Expansion DvM Frederic Larmuseau Executive Vice President, DvM 6% 210bps 2015 target: 4% 2015 target: Moderate PROGRESS to nice expansion 2016 target: 4-5% at Total net revenue was 2,695 million, with LFL growth of 9%.
constant exchange rates 2016 target: Moderate Growth came from all regions.
In South Asia, India continued to deliver improving growth trends.
Our penetration-building margin expansion Target to 2020: Total Net initiatives within Dettol and Harpic support the Governments Revenue growth which Target to 2020: Moderate health and hygiene initiatives.
China had a strong performance outperforms the markets margin expansion with Durex and e-commerce driven initiatives leading the in which we operate growth.
Middle East, Turkey and South Africa also had strong performances.
Brazil remains challenging, although strong pest demand in the second half helped mitigate some of the weakness.
Thailand, Indonesia and West Africa also remain challenging.
PERFORMANCE Exceeded our like-for-like Net Revenue growth target.
Gross margin expansion 140bps to 59.1%, driven by mix, commodity costs and cost optimisation initiatives.
Adjusted Operating Margin up 210 bps to 26.8%.
18 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Powermarkets DESCRIPTION Case study Our Powerbrand approach, where we disproportionately invest resources and management talent behind our higher-growth, China higher-margin brands, has been successful for us.
This success encouraged us to adopt the same mindset to our markets, making our Powermarkets one of the four pillars of our betterfinancials strategy.
While the full list of our Powermarkets is commercially sensitive, These are markets where we see the highest potential for absolute we have said that China is one of them.
So how have we treated growth and where we have the capability and infrastructure to win.
China differently since it became a Powermarket?
By looking at our markets through this lens, we have identified First, we promoted it within our organisational structure, 16 Powermarkets.
A significant proportion of these are developing from being designated as a small country within our hierarchy markets, due to their higher growth potential and better penetration to being its own region.
This has reduced the number of opportunities for our brands.
Our Powermarkets also include a number touch points and layers of management between it and the of our larger developed markets, which will be significant contributors CEO top management.
Powermarkets receive priority for our top-rated We then upscaled both the seniority and reward structure of and high potential people, and like our Powerbrands, we will invest the management team.
China is now a market where we put disproportionately for growth.
our more senior and high potential people.
It is also a stepping stone for further promotion within RB.
For example, our General Manager in China has recently been promoted to lead our Consumer Health division within our global category function.
We also prioritise investment behind our brands, distribution and equity building capabilities.
In fact China now has its own dedicated digital media team.
This means that China will be slightly dilutive to our operating margin in the short-term but we are happy to invest for growth.
China, in due course, will be a large market for us, with the right KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS product portfolio, strong gross margin and a similarly strong operating margin.
Proportion of total Net In summary, our strategy is simple we aim to be a self-help Revenue from DvM company.
By investing disproportionately behind, and moving our centre of gravity towards, higher growth markets our Powermarkets and higher growth brands our Powerbrands, we should become a higher growth business over the 30% long-term, even if market and category growth rates do not materially change.
2014: 30% Target to 2020: 40% PERFORMANCE Delivered broad-based growth across ENA 5% like-for-like and DvM 9% like-for-like.
Made further progress towards our target for the percentage of total Net Revenue from DvM, with good progress from strong, organic growth offset by unfavourable foreign exchange impacts from many emerging markets.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 19 Why we can deliver Health betterfinancials Hygiene Health Powerbrands OUR POWERBRANDS ARE: Health Hygiene Home Durex, Cillit Bang, Air Wick, Gaviscon, Clearasil, Dettol, Calgon, Vanish, Nurofen, Mucinex, Finish, Harpic, Lysol, Woolite Scholl, Strepsils Mortein, Veet Portfolio Hygiene Home including Food Frenchs KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Health Health 33% Home of Net Revenue Proportion of total Net Revenue from Health DESCRIPTION and Hygiene Health and wellbeing are the key to happiness.
Our health brands are generally sold over the counter and include products targeting everyday issues such as pain, fever, cold, flu, sore throat or heartburn.
Our sexual wellbeing products, including condoms, lubricants and other aids, promote 74% safe and pleasurable sex.
The Health category also includes footcare, with 2014: 72% products to address hard skin and other foot and nail conditions.
Target to 2020: 80% PROGRESS Total Net Revenue was 2,942 million, with LFL growth 14% total 14% an exceptional year of growth and outperformance relative to our markets.
Growth was driven by a number of factors: PERFORMANCE Strong category growth, towards the high end of the 4-6% medium-term category growth trends.
This is due to a strong Continued to benefit from strategy of focusing on Health cold and flu season at the beginning of the year.
and Hygiene, which delivered like-for-like Net Revenue Innovation within the Scholl franchise, in particular our Velvet growth of 14% and 3% respectively.
Smooth Express Pedi, a series of insole initiatives, and the Hygiene High quality, Health and Hygiene led growth of LFL 8%.
Velvet Smooth Electronic Nail Care System.
This has delivered an outstanding performance throughout many ENA markets and a number of DvM markets.
A full year of contribution from the successful Amop franchise in North America following its initial launch in Q4 2014.
Broad based growth across all of our Health Powerbrands, driven by innovation eg: Durex RealFeel, Strefen Direct Spray.
Consumer education programmes eg: Nurofen Express, improved go-to-market capabilities Russia and Turkey and improved distribution and in-store execution programmes in pharmacies and online Durex China.
VMS performance was mixed, with good growth in Digestive Advantage and Move Free offset by weakness in Megared and Airborne.
We believe we are well positioned to outperform long-term category growth within Consumer Health, driven by our market leading, trusted brands, strong consumer centric innovation pipeline, and significant investment behind medical professional and consumer education programmes.
We do not believe, however, that the current level of Home growth is sustainable.
20 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Health Health Case study Hygiene 41% Hygiene Dettol Squeezy of Net Revenue We all understand the importance of hand washing DESCRIPTION in leading a healthier life and preventing dangerous Hygiene is the foundation for healthy living.
However, in developing markets, hand personal hygiene for good health and home hygiene, to create a safe washing is not yet a regular habit.
Our range includes disinfectant cleaners, multipurpose and speciality cleaners, lavatory care, automatic dishwashing Our research shows that consumers know that liquid detergents, pest control, depilatory products and acne treatments.
hand wash is more hygienic than bar soap, which turns soggy and germ ridden over time.
However, PROGRESS consumers can struggle to afford liquid hand soaps.
Total Net Revenue was 3,589 million, with LFL growth of 3%.
DvM We therefore took up the challenge to produce a weighted brands of Dettol and Harpic led the growth in this category liquid hand soap for the price of a bar of soap.
behind both penetration-building programmes and innovations such as our new Dettol Squeezy hand wash and Harpic bathroom cleaner The result is the innovative delivery mechanism for in India.
Our pest franchise led by Mortein and SBP had a mixed new Dettol Squeezy, which comes in a squeezable performance, with innovations and strong demand in Brazil and Australia bottle and is loved by kids and adults alike.
It gives offset by weakness in India behind competitive activity.
Finish also had consumers the same superior Dettol protection and a mixed performance with strong growth across emerging market is proven to kill 100 illness-causing germs.
India is countries and the UK offset by competitive market conditions in the our largest hand wash market and we achieved one US.
Finish continues to be heavily weighted to developed markets.
of our most successful launches there, when we Home We continue to work on penetration improvement programmes with introduced Dettol Squeezy in March 2015. dishwasher machine manufacturers in order to drive category growth.
Home 19% Home of Net Revenue DESCRIPTION Home is the centre of family life.
Our brands help create the right environment for families to enjoy their time together.
Products in this category include air care, water softeners, garment care and fabric treatment.
PROGRESS Total Net Revenue was 1,715 million with LFL growth of 2%.
Our largest Powerbrands of Air Wick and Vanish led the growth driven by fewer but larger innovations Air Wick Life Scents range and Vanish Gold range and scaling of these innovations across many markets.
The roll-out of Air Wick Pure and launch of Wax Melts in the second half of 2015 are also showing strong in-market results.
Vanish in Brazil had a challenging year due to both market conditions and competitive activity.
7% Portfolio including food of Net Revenue DESCRIPTION Portfolio includes the laundry and fabric softener business as well asFood brands.
PROGRESS Total Net Revenue was 628 million, with LFL performance of 1%.
The laundry detergents and fabric softener market in Southern Europe remains weak and competitive.
However, the organisational changes made a year ago have helped stabilise the performance of our brands inthis challenging category.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 21 Why we can deliver betterfinancials Virtuous earnings model DESCRIPTION PROGRESS We focus on higher-margin initiatives and rigorous control of our costs.
Through our virtuous earnings model, this funds Our virtuous earnings model continued to deliver in 2015. our investment in our brands, capabilities and development, and enables us to deliver operating margin expansion.
Increased gross margin 140bps We increased gross margin by 140bps actual, driven by mix, commodity costs and cost optimisation.
Reduced fixed costs -50bps We reduced fixed costs excluding exceptional items by 50bps, largely as a result of accelerated benefits from our Supercharge programme.
Increased BEI KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Adjusted Operating Margin 48m We increased investment behind our brands, increasing BEI by 48 million at constant exchange rates, which equated to 26.8% 12.7% -20bps of Net Revenue.
The efficiencies we have driven from our Supercharge programme have been reinvested back 2015 target: Moderate to nice into brand equity building initiatives throughout the year.
operating margin expansion Medium-term target: Net Revenue growth Moderate operating margin expansion We expect this to be supplemented in 2016 by part 6% of the remaining Project Supercharge efficiencies.
We grew Net Revenue by 6% on a like-for-like basis.
Increased Adjusted Operating Margin 210bps The outcome was an increase in the operating margin of 210bps, to 26.8%.
22 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Gross Margin Brand Equity Investment BEI Our ethos is that the virtuous earnings model starts at gross margin.
There are many ways to invest behind brands.
We focus our Gross margin creates room in the income statement to fund investment investment on consumer education and penetration-building and deliver operating profit growth.
We drive gross margin expansion activities, to build long-term brand equity.
BEI includes our TV through our focus on higher-margin brands, which results in a superior and print media spend, digital and social media investment and sales mix, stronger pricing and by continuing to optimise our cost of consumer and medical education.
goods sold, an ongoing process we call Project Fuel.
Net Revenue Fixed cost BEI helps us to drive Net Revenue growth, in particular as we We always invest appropriately behind our people, capabilities and invest disproportionately behind our Powerbrands and in our infrastructure.
However, we deliberately keep our organisation lean and Powermarkets, ensuring we put our investment where it can encourage our people to focus and prioritise.
We constantly seek to have the greatest effect on the top line.
avoid duplication, inefficiency and waste.
Operating Margin Our operating margin is already best in class, but we believe that our virtuous earnings model means our ability to further expand our margins is far from over.
Gross Margin Net UNIQUE Fixed cost Revenue CULTURE Operating Margin BEI Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 23 Why we can deliver bettersociety Workplace DESCRIPTION PROGRESS Our trademark is to attract great people, give them a career packed Health & safety with global challenges and experiences, inspire them with stretching Protecting our people is our priority.
During this year a key initiative has performance-based rewards, and nurture an achievement-focused been launched to further increase safety for our commercial offices and culture where winning is critical.
At the same time, we look after our staff: this has included enhancing accountability, staff training and the people and contractors through high standards of health & safety release of global minimum safety standards.
Research and Development and adherence to RBs code of conduct.
We expect our suppliers R&D has completed a global risk register highlighting clear functional to take similar care, and our human rights programme includes risks and mitigation in place: this work has led to the closing of gaps a range of measures to facilitate this.
and will inform priorities for continually improving safety into 2016.
After an initial pilot in 2014, we have expanded our process safety management programme into Africa, Latin America and India.
This programme considers the risks and controls needed to manage catastrophic risk at our aerosol and chlorine manufacturing facilities.
We have also reviewed our behavioural safety programme across our factories, which included us focusing the safety observation programme to encourage workers to challenge known poor behaviours and become a key tool leading to a continually enhanced safety culture.
The outcome has been a further reduction in our lost work day accident rate, which fell by 13.9%, giving us an aggregate reduction since 2012 of 25.4%.
A diverse and global workforce We value diverse backgrounds and experiences, which bring different perspectives and new ideas.
Our Executive Committee EC is made up of seven nationalities and its members have had experience in multiple countries during their RB careers.
Our Top400 executives include 49 nationalities and 69% of our General Manager, marketing and sales leaders are working outside their country of origin.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS International assignments are part of our way of life and range from the most strategic to the most operational roles.
Being immersed in different cultures and ways of working helps our top people to Increased supplier audits since 2014 challenge conventional thinking.
We are confident that those who consistently succeed at these challenges become global leaders of distinction.
51% Diversity of course includes gender and this year we launched Project DARE, which aims to develop, attract, retain and engage talented women.
Initiatives include more options for flexible working and a global maternity policy, which sets a minimum standard and makes us one of only a handful of employers with such a policy.
1 Lost work day accident rate Gender diversity The percentages of female members in the Groups director, senior manager and all employee populations at 31 December 2015 were 29%, 19% and 42% respectively.
The Group has designated the 0.080 members of its Top40 and Top400 populations as RBs senior managers for the purposes of the gender split disclosure required by 2014: 0.093 the Companies Act 2006.
Of Board Directors, 10 were male and 4 female, of senior managers, 339 were male and 78 female, and 15,027 Target: continual reduction year-on-year of all employees were male and 10,723 female.
There is a variance in total employee numbers from those reported in note 5 on page 111, 1.
At manufacturing, warehouse and R&D sites.
in respect of contracted labour for which gender split information is not available.
24 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements We take on around 200 graduates each year, placing them in our larger STRETCHING PERFORMANCE-BASED REWARDS markets, where we have the critical mass to develop them.
We put Our reward system is designed to attract and inspire a highconsiderable effort into identifying which universities will provide our achievement talent base.
We provide competitive base salaries and next generation of leaders, considering not just their academic prowess significant short and long-term incentives, which are set to deliver but also their fit with our entrepreneurial culture.
Measures are simple, unambiguous and concrete.
Average performance results in Succession planning is a key focus and we review our plans at each average bonuses, while top performance results in excellent rewards.
The EC oversees planning for all Top40 and We believe this unique approach ensures we attract the right people.
Top400 roles, while regional leaders plan for middle manager Our annual performance reviews assess both what our people have positions, which are those below our Top400.
Our aim is to grow achieved and how they have done it.
The how is defined by the half our middle managers ourselves and to recruit the remainder from behaviours expected in our culture and our Leadership Charter.
outside, ensuring we bring in people who think differently.
We have a career tool, which helps our people to identify the functional Read more in our Sustainability Report and leadership development they need.
Training follows our 70 20 10 model, with 70% on the job, 20% learning from others and 10% HUMAN RIGHTS formal training.
On-the-job training mostly consists of stretch assignments, since we believe people learn best when challenged.
RB has had a human rights programme in place for some years and in 2015 undertook a review of its approach against industry comparators and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights UNGPs.
UNDERSTANDING ENGAGEMENT We have established a range of mechanisms that use cross-functional We use a bespoke survey, which we call our Culture Pulse, to measure support to engage on human rights with suppliers and to identify and how well our people think we are doing.
This measures our address any issues identified.
These measures focus on our own performance against our Culture and our Leadership Charter, which operations and supply chain and include due diligence, self assessments, sets out how we behave and how we deliver.
The survey identifies the audits, internal and external training and other capacity building areas that are most important to our people and where we are doing initiatives.
We acknowledge the growing importance and complexity least well, relative to the other areas.
We then formulate action plans at ofhuman rights and are committed to continuously improving our a local level to address these issues.
The results show that our people programme of activity in this area.
are highly engaged to work at RB, and that they value both our culture and our Leadership Charter.
Case study Lost Work Day Accident Rate The LWDAR is the number of workplace accidents Our Shangma site in China has led the way in proactively improving resulting in at least one day of lost time that safety and reducing the number of accidents on site.
An innovative and focused approach on legal compliance, worker participation, occur per 100,000 hours of work.
procedures, health initiatives and leadership enabled the site to 1.5 achieve 5 million hours worked without a lost work day, by the end of 2015.
In November, the site held a safety week to celebrate this 1.340 achievement and to look at how it could drive its health & safety culture forward in 2016 and beyond.
Our community TARGET to 2020 initiatives support our vision of a world 115 million people with sexual health People reached with health where people are healthier and live better.
messaging: and 1 We do this by promoting health and and hygiene messaging 20 million people with malaria dengue hygiene messages, bringing together the prevention education programmes.
awareness and education work of our Dettol, Lysol, Harpic, Mortein and Durex Save a Child Every Minute is our diarrhoea 200m brands, and through our partnership eradication programme with Save the with Save the Children, which aims to 1.
This goal has been increased to 400 million.
In March 2015, we unveiled eradicate child deaths from diarrhoea.
two innovative products to support the 2 PERFORMANCE: programme a low-cost germ protection bar and a toilet powder which makes PROGRESS pit latrines more hygienic.
Profits from Our aim is to reach over 200 million these products will be reinvested in the 237m people by 2020, to help them improve programme and they will be produced their health and hygiene.
This includes locally, to encourage entrepreneurship and since 2013 delivering hygiene, sanitation, sexual health reduce their environmental footprint.
Total number of people reached is lower than the sum of the programmes to account for possible programmes.
These programmes support In 2015 we committed 6.5 million to double counting.
the UNs Sustainable Development goals.
the programme, of this 3.25 million was Our progress has been rapid and this year raised through RB events worldwide, plus Save a Child Every Minute we exceeded our 2020 target, which is a corporate donation of 3.25 million.
why we have decided to increase the goal to reach 400 million people by 2020.
TARGET Remove diarrhoea as one of the top killers of children PERFORMANCE: Committed 6.5 million to the programme in 2015 Products We have a proactive programme of assessing DESCRIPTION the ingredients of our products and have KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS We are committed to advancing global a restricted substances list, which contains health, consumer safety and environmental ingredients we have phased out or are in the protection by continuously optimising process of phasing out.
Towards the end of TARGET to 2020 our products and aim to increase the the year, we introduced a new policy covering Net Revenue from more proportion of our revenue that comes restricted substances.
We provide ingredients sustainable products from products that weve made more information to consumers on packs, via our sustainable.
We are focused on ingredient consumer care lines and, in some countries, innovation and increased transparency through ingredients websites.
We continue and aspire to provide 100% transparency to roll-out new websites, so more consumers 1 3 about the ingredients in our products.
of Net Revenue PROGRESS The proportion of Net Revenue from more sustainable products rose to 6%, from 5% PERFORMANCE last year.
To ensure our products are fit for the future, our primary focus has been on improving the sustainability profile of our innovations.
By the end of 2015, almost 6% of Net Revenue 70% of our pipeline consisted of more sustainable products, up from 50% last year.
up from 5% of Net Revenue From 2016, we will also include existing products where we have made changes that have a meaningful sustainability impact.
26 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements betterenvironment Greenhouse gas emissions DESCRIPTION PROGRESS We look to reduce our greenhouse gas GHG emissions by Our GHG emissions for 2015 were made up of: designing more sustainable products and by continually improving 1.
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Scope 1 our manufacturing processes.
Sustainability is a key element of our 79,502 tCO e 2014: 86,235.
2 innovation process as we look at the carbon footprint of our products 2.
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for our across their entire lifecycle, from the sourcing of raw materials to the own use Scope 2 : 214,586 tCO e 2014: 219,202.
2 way they are manufactured, used and disposed of.
Our total carbon footprint per dose has remained broadly unchanged since 2012.
While Our total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in 2015 were therefore we are making good progress in the areas within our control, like 294,087tCO e 2014: 305,437.
2 manufacturing, we have not seen material reductions from the largest part of our footprint those associated with consumers using our We calculate our emissions intensity per unit of production.
We are reducing carbon emissions associated with energy equated to 0.0389 tCO e per unit of production in 2015 2014: 0.0410.
2 use by focusing on energy efficiency programmes, investing in on site Footnote renewable technologies and procuring energy from renewable sources.
Our GHG data includes all GHG emissions from operations covered by the Group Financial Statements for which we have operational control.
We include emissions for businesses we acquire in the first full calendar year of our ownership.
We calculated CO e emissions using 2 internationally recognised methodologies from the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol and International Energy Authority IEA.
Scope 2 GHG emissions reported in 2015 are net emissions which equals gross emissions from renewable electricity purchased 7,542t.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS TARGET to 2020 PERFORMANCE Carbon footprint per dose of product Increase since 2012 1 3 1% reduction TARGET to 2020 PERFORMANCE GHG emissions per unit of production Reduction since 2012 40% 14% reduction Case study Scholl Velvet Smooth Express Pedis reduced packaging Following the success of the Scholl Velvet Smooth Express Pedi in 2014, we challenged ourselves to think bigger in a way that would drive even stronger growth.
Aligned with our FUEL programme, we chased product improvements that improved sustainability while simultaneously delivering cost savings, focused on two areas.
Packaging adaptation improved the products visibility at the point of sale while decreasing the amount of materials used.
Product improvements decreased the complexity of the device, while increasing durability.
In total, we made a 26% reduction in material weight per product, saving approximately 300 tonnes of PET and 137 tonnes of paper and board each year.
Combined, these changes will save over 5 million and 3,500 tonnes of CO per year.
2 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 27 Why we can deliver betterenvironment Water DESCRIPTION KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS We seek to reduce the water impact of all our products throughout their lifecycle, from raw materials sourcing through to the way they are TARGET to 2020 PERFORMANCE manufactured, used and disposed of.
We also Water impact per dose of product Reduction since 2012 consider water scarcity in specific locations.
PROGRESS 1 3 9% We continued our ongoing initiatives to reduce the water impact of our operations, reduction including identifying sites in areas of water scarcity, so we can plan ahead.
While we are making good progress in the areas within our TARGET to 2020 PERFORMANCE control, the majority of our total water impact Water use per unit of production Reduction since 2012 comes from the water used by consumers for our hygiene products, especially bar soap in developing markets, which creates a tension for us as our drive to improve peoples 35% 30% lives through better hygiene inevitably results in greater water use for washing.
reduction Waste DESCRIPTION KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Our aim is for none of our waste to go to landfill.
We also look to reduce the waste created by our manufacturing processes.
We TARGET to 2020 PERFORMANCE are creating a culture of zero waste and look Factories sending zero waste Factories sending zero waste for new revenue streams and disposal options, to landfill to landfill for example where other organisations can use our waste as raw materials.
PROGRESS 100% 89% We made further good progress, with our manufacturing sites showing great motivation to achieve our waste targets.
At some sites, landfill is our only disposal TARGET to 2020 PERFORMANCE option but we continue to develop Manufacturing waste per unit Reduction since 2012 partnerships with others who can use our 1 of production waste, so we do not have to dispose of it.
We are also committed to reducing waste 14% from our products by using less packaging.
Increased 2020 target to 20% reduction over 2012 baseline.
28 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Sourcing DESCRIPTION PROGRESS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS We believe in responsibly sourcing all our We have continued to make good progress natural raw materials.
Our policy clearly against our responsible palm oil sourcing defines the minimum standards expected targets.
Partnering with TFT we have TARGET to 2020 of our suppliers.
We are committed to undertaken a detailed review of our physical All natural raw materials to be zero deforestation, zero development palm oil supply chain, achieving 100% responsibly sourced on peatlands and zero exploitation of traceability to refinery in 2014, and 70% workers or communities, and to being traceability to mill in 2015.
Additionally, we transparent about our requirements completed on-the-ground risk assessments and our progress.
Our responsible for all key suppliers and have Green Palm sourcing programmes focus on high-risk Certificates covering all palm oil procured.
commodities such as palm oil and latex.
During the year, we completed due diligence including on-the-ground field assessments of our latex supply chain.
The findings of these assessments confirm that PERFORMANCE RBs latex has been responsibly sourced, 1 Palm oil traced to mill meeting the requirements of our Natural Raw Material standard.
We are now conducting a scoping exercise to identify opportunities to work with smallholder 70% farmers within our latex supply chain.
Case study Reducing waste to landfill We have a goal of achieving zero waste to landfill by 2020.
To help us reach this target, we are creating partnerships with local businesses and the communities in which we operate, to develop innovative solutions.
In our Jammu pest factory, in India, a local brick manufacturer is now using our briquette ash to make bricks for boundary wall construction.
This has diverted 2,100 tonnes of waste from landfill annually, reducing waste to landfill in our Asia region by 92%.
92% reduction in waste to landfill in our Asia region Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 29
