Board of Directors Adrian Bellamy Rakesh Kapoor Adrian Hennah Jaspal Bindra Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality British Indian British British Indian Brazilian Italian British British British Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure 16 years Four years Two years One year Two years One year 12 years One year Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Nomination, Remuneration Nomination None Audit Remuneration Audit Chair of Audit, Nomination Audit Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Appointed as a Non-Executive Joined the Board in September Joined RB in January 2013 as Appointed as a Non-Executive Appointed as a Non-Executive Appointed as a Non-Executive Appointed as a Non-Executive Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in 1999 and Non- 2011 following his appointment Chief Financial Officer Designate, Director on 1 July 2014.
Director in December 2003 and Director in February 2015.
Pamela Executive Chairman in May as CEO of the Company.
Rakesh and was appointed CFO in served as Group Executive Following a career working in Mary was formerly a Partner at Chairman of the Audit Committee served as Chairman of Scynexis Inc 2003.
Adrian was formerly joined RB in 1987 and served February 2013.
Prior to joining Director to the Board of Standard finance in Brazil, Nicandro joined McKinsey & Company, with a in November 2006.
She was formerly Chairman of The Body Shop in various regional and central RB, Adrian spent six years at Chartered plc from January 2010 BAT in 1981.
He had an extensive particular focus on consumer Senior Independent Director CEO of Quintiles Transnational International plc.
He was appointed Smith & Nephew plc as CFO and to May 2015.
He joined that career with BAT working in and retail businesses in China, between February 2005 and Corporation and held senior directorships include The Gap EVP Category Development four years as CFO at Invensys company in 1998 and held various the UK, Hong Kong and Brazil, South East Asia and Europe.
Kens experience positions at AstraZeneca PLC Inc, Gucci Group NV and The in 2006 with responsibility for plc.
Adrian also spent 18 years at senior positions, including Global including holding the positions of in finance and business includes and Hoffmann-La Roche.
global category management, GlaxoSmithKline plc, holding a Head of Client Relationship for Regional Director for Africa and Mary is a graduate of the working in the electronics, retail, R&D, media, market research number of senior management Wholesale Bank prior to this.
Middle East and COO before being University of Oxford MA Politics, consumer products and healthcare Pamela is a graduate of the Adrian earned his Bachelor of and strategic alliances.
His earlier His earlier career was with UBS appointed to his current role.
Philosophy and Economics and sectors.
Ken was formerly CFO University of London BSc Commerce and Master of Business career was with PwC then Price Investment Banking and Bank of Harvard Business School.
of Vodafone Group plc and a Pharmacology and PhD Leadership degrees from the Rakesh has an MBA from XLRI, Waterhouse in both audit and America where he worked across Nicandro holds degrees in former Non-Executive Director Clinical Pharmacology.
Jamshedpur and a Chemical consultancy, and Stadtsparkasse Treasury Markets and Consumer finance, economics and of Tesco plc and Pearson plc.
Koeln, the German regional bank.
Banking in India and Singapore.
business administration from PUC, Sao Paulo.
Ken is a Fellow of the Chartered Adrian has a degree in law Jaspal is a qualified Chartered Institute of Management from Cambridge University Accountant and Master of Accountants, the Association and is a Sloan Fellow of the Business Administration MBA.
of Chartered Certified London Business School.
Accountants and the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Other current appointments Other current appointments Other current appointments Other current appointments Adrian is Chairman of WilliamsNone.
Sonoma Inc, River Island, Total of RELX Group plc, RELX Wine & More and Chairman NV and Indivior PLC.
of the Supervisory Board of Action Nederland BV.
46 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Nicandro Durante Mary Harris Ken Hydon Dr Pamela Kirby Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality British Indian British British Indian Brazilian Italian British British British Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure 16 years Four years Two years One year Two years One year 12 years One year Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Nomination, Remuneration Nomination None Audit Remuneration Audit Chair of Audit, Nomination Audit Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Appointed as a Non-Executive Joined the Board in September Joined RB in January 2013 as Appointed as a Non-Executive Appointed as a Non-Executive Appointed as a Non-Executive Appointed as a Non-Executive Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in 1999 and Non- 2011 following his appointment Chief Financial Officer Designate, Director on 1 July 2014.
Other current appointments Other current appointments Other current appointments Other current appointments Chief Executive Officer of Non-Executive Director of ITV Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director of British American Tobacco p. l. c. plc and J Sainsbury plc.
DCC plc, Victrex plc and BAT since March 2011. of Supervisory Boards of Unibail Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC.
Rodamco SE and TNT Express NV.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 47 Board of Directors Andr Lacroix Sue Shim Christopher Sinclair Judy Sprieser Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in December 1999.
French South Korean American American Canadian American British He stepped down as a NonExecutive Director and Deputy Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure Length of tenure Chairman of the Company on 21 December 2015.
Seven years One year One year 12 years One year Five years Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Audit, Nomination Audit Remuneration Nomination, Remuneration Audit Chair of Remuneration Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Appointed as a Non-Executive Appointed as a Non-Executive Appointed as a Non-Executive Appointed as a Non-Executive Appointed as a Non-Executive Appointed as a Non-Executive Director of RB in October 2008.
Director in August 2003 and has Director on 1 November 2014.
Warren Andr became the Senior has extensive consumer goods Chris was previously Executive been Chair of the Remuneration Doug was appointed a Nonwas previously a Non-Executive Independent Director in June experience in a range of product Chairman of Scandent Holdings, Committee since June 2004.
Judy Executive Director of International Director and Chairman of Paypoint 2013.
He was CEO of Inchcape categories and cultures, and Executive Chairman of Cambridge was previously Director and Vice Flavors & Fragrances Inc in 2008 plc until May 2015.
He was Chief plc from 2006 until March 2015. held senior positions in Procter Solutions Ltd, Chairman and CEO Chairman at Royal Ahold NV, CEO and acted as Chairman and Financial Officer of Cobham He was previously Chairman & Gamble, including Marketing of Caribiner International, and of Transora Inc. and Executive Vice CEO between 2010 and 2014. plc from 2003 to 2013 and and Chief Executive Officer of Director, Cosmetics & Skincare in President and CEO at Quality President of Sara Lee Corporation Prior to that, he served as CEO previously held senior finance Euro Disney S. C. A.
President North East Asia, Global Marketing Foods Centers, Inc.
Earlier in his and CFO of Sara Lees Food Group.
His positions at Cable & Wireless of Burger King International, Director of Feminine Care and career, he held various senior earlier career was in a variety plc and British Airways plc.
previously part of Diageo, and Skin Care in the USA prior to management positions with Judy has a Bachelors and of executive positions with also held positions at Colgate, joining Samsung Electronics.
PepsiCo, including Chairman Masters degree from Cadbury Schweppes PLC.
Warren is a Chartered Accountant PepsiCo and Ernst & Young LLP.
and CEO of Pepsi Cola Co, and Northwestern University.
and has an MBA from INSEAD.
Sue attended the Harvard Business Chairman of PepsiCo International Doug is a graduate of the Andr is a graduate School Advanced Management Foods and Beverages.
University of Kentucky of ESCP Europe.
Program in 2006 and received a BBA and the University of Global MPA degree from New Christopher is a graduate of the Western Ontario MBA.
York University and University University of Kansas Business College London in 2015.
Administration and the Tuck School at Dartmouth College.
Other current appointments Other current appointments Other current appointments Other current appointments Chief Executive Officer of EVP of Samsung Electronics, Chairman and CEO of Mattel, Inc. Non-Executive Director of Intertek Group plc and Chairman Korea.
Experian plc and Director of Good Restaurants AG.
of Allstate Corporation and InterContinental Exchange Inc. 48 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Other Directors that served in the year Doug Tough Warren Tucker Peter Harf Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in December 1999.
Other current appointments Other current appointments Director of Molson Coors Non-Executive Director of Thomas Brewing Company.
Cook Group PLC, Survitec Limited and the UK Foreign & Commonwealth Office.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 49
