Our unique culture RB has a distinctly different Achievement culture.
Our culture is all Everyone wants a sense of about the people who achievement and for RB that make RB what it is: the means outperformance.
We constantly raise the bar, expecting more from ways in which we improve ourselves and inspiring others to stretch beyond targets.
This hunger is the basis of our drive to outperform.
the health and hygiene of Every day we challenge the tried and tested because we want to be better better innovations, better ways our consumers, and how of doing things and better results.
We explore what it means to be the very best.
We have a unique approach to we work with and develop rewards, where average performance results in average rewards but top performance earns excellent rewards.
our people, suppliers, partners and third parties.
Our culture is captured by our four values Achievement, Ownership, Entrepreneurship and Partnership.
These values are interlinked and together define how we make decisions, how our people act and how we assess and reward them.
Our leaders are role models for these behaviours, so everyone in RB understands the way we work.
Partnership Partnership means leveraging our relationships to drive outperformance.
In todays world, we cannot be the best if we do everything ourselves.
In aggregate, there is far more innovation, creativity and knowledge outside RB than there can ever be inside it.
We therefore partner with organisations who can bring us innovative THE RIGHT VALUES products and help us develop more effective ways of working.
ACHIEVEMENT ENTREPRENEURSHIP We also strive for a spirit of openness in our internal partnerships.
To maximise our potential, we have to seek We dont just aim Daring to be different, help when we need it, share best practice and make each high, we strive for taking calculated risks.
To be a great company, we must outperformance.
be obsessed by making each other the best we can be.
PARTNERSHIP OWNERSHIP Leveraging relationships We treat the Company for outperformance.
10 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Case study Ownership Project Supercharge To build a company focused on achievement, our people need We have focused our innovation pipeline on fewer, bigger, a sense of ownership.
better innovations and it is now stronger than ever.
We have increased investments behind our health products This means our people take ownership of issues, identify and behind those capabilities that are critical to grow our what needs to be done and see ideas through to fruition.
share of the healthcare market and drive our Powerbrands They accept responsibility and own the outcome.
Rather to market leading positions.
than waiting to be told what to do, they act in RBs and We are reducing the number of partners we work with by consumers best interests and when making spending consolidating our creative agencies and point of sale suppliers.
decisions, they spend as if the money were their own.
By involving procurement specialists early in the supplier selection process, we are able to negotiate the best possible We encourage our people to behave as if they own the deals which often results in savings for the same level of business.
The Top40 managers in RB have the highest service.
Procurement have delivered significant savings shareholding requirements in the industry.
Medium to longin freight costs, copy production and Consumer Market term rewards, based on outperformance in earnings per share Insights CMI.
growth, can significantly outweigh short-term bonuses.
Many employees throughout the business also own shares and The benefits: have share-based incentives.
Wherever possible, employees are given the opportunity to participate in share ownership Our resource allocation is now focused on fewer, bigger schemes.
Outperformance therefore has material benefits projects.
We have boosted the average size of our top 10 for our people, by creating value for Shareholders.
projects by 27%, whilst reducing complexity.
In DvM we have set up a centre of excellence for healthcare to boost capabilities.
We have invested in e-commerce in the DvM area.
Through agency consolidation we now have the very best creative agencies working across each of our portfolios.
Our creative communications strategy is working much harder to grow penetration for our Powerbrands.
Through better forward planning of copy production, we have been able to drive efficiencies and we are seeing significant increases in multi country campaigns and also in the average number of copies per TV campaign.
Entrepreneurs challenge the status quo, find fresh approaches and Total share ownership requirement for Top40 management adopt new thinking.
They have more ideas and look for the resources to implement them.
This contrasts with the typical big company, which has 185m more resources than ideas and because it worries more about failure than success avoids taking calculated risks.
We make a conscious effort to breed a culture of entrepreneurship.
By tightly controlling resources, we Nationalities in encourage our people to innovate and find better ways to Top400 management achieve their goals.
We allow passionate people to pursue projects they believe in, knowing they can fail small and will be rewarded if their project is launched.
We create a culture of diversity, so we benefit from different experiences 49 and viewpoints, and encourage people to speak up.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 11
