20 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Risk & Business Analytics Risk & Business Analytics is a leading provider of solutions that In Risk & Business Analytics combine public and industry-specific information with analytics and decision tools.
These solutions assist customers in evaluating weprovide information-based and predicting risk, making more informed decisions, and enhancing operational efficiency.
It serves customers in over analytics and decision tools that 170countries.
enable customers to evaluate Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2015 were 1,601m, compared with 1,439m in 2014 and 1,480m in 2013.
Business Analytics has principal operations in Georgia, Florida, Illinois and Ohio in the US and London, Amsterdam and Shanghai.
70% of car owners in the US have lower premiums t hanks In 2015, 76% of revenue came from North America, 19%from toRisk S olutions products.
Europe and the remaining 5% from the rest of the world.
In 2015, 35% of revenues were derived from subscription sales, 62% from transactional sales and 3% from advertising.
Electronic sales Accuity helps banks and financial institutions b y providing accounted for 89% of Risk & Business Analytics revenue.
Risk & Business Analytics is organised around market-facing industry sector groups: Insurance Solutions, Business Services, Tax Refund Investigative Solution TRIS has saved taxpayers Government Solutions, Health Care Solutions, as well as Major in8 US s tates over $500m.
Data Services including banking, energy and chemicals, human resources and Other Brands and Services.
eCrash cuts the average time ittakes to file a traffic accident Insurance Solutions, the largest segment, provides report from 60 minutes to 19, reducing the threat to life for comprehensive data, analytics and decision tools for personal, policeofficers at the scene.
commercial and life insurance carriers in the US to improve critical aspects of their business, from customer acquisition and More than 800,000 unique visitors per month rely on underwriting to claims handling.
Information solutions, including Flightglobal to deliver the latest news and most reliable data the most comprehensive US personal loss history database, onthe aviation industry.
C. L. U. E. help insurers assess risks and provide important inputs to pricing and underwriting insurance policies.
Additional key products include LexisNexis Data Prefill, which provides information on potential and existing customers directly into theinsurance workstream including mobile platforms, and LexisNexis Current Carrier, which identifies current or previous insurance coverage details as well as any lapses in coverage.
In the US, Insurance Solutions remains focused on delivering innovative decision tools to insurers.
We have continued expansion of driving behaviour products to include two new states in 2015.
These products aggregate state-specificcourt data to provide insurers with vital traffic violation information for use in underwriting.
We are advancing our strategy to drive more consistency and efficiency in the claims workstream through our innovative solution suite, Claims Compass.
In addition, we have launched our Risk Classifier solution, which uses public and motor vehicle records and predictive modelling toallow life insurers to better understand risk and improve underwriting efficiency.
Insurance Solutions also continues to make progress in international markets.
In the UK, the contributory No Claims Discount NCD module, which automates verification of consumers claims history, has achieved data contribution from over 80% of the UK auto insurance sector.
In China, the Genilex joint venture is delivering key vehicle data to auto insurers and is exploring opportunities to add more analytics solutions.
Business Services provides financial institutions with risk management, identity management, fraud detection and prevention, credit risk decisioning and compliance solutions.
These include Know Your Customer KYC and Anti-Money Laundering products.
The business also provides risk and identitymanagement solutions for corporate customers in Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Risk & Business Analytics 21 retail, telecommunications and utilities sectors.
Receivables Major Data Services include Accuity, a provider of services management solutions help debt recovery professionals in the andsolutions to the banking and corporate sectors focused on segmentation, management and collection of consumer and payment efficiency, Know Your Customer, Anti-Money Laundering business debt.
and compliance: ICIS, an information and data service in chemicals, energy and fertilisers: XpertHR, an online service In 2015, Business Services was approved by the Small Business providing regulatory guidance, best practices and tools for HR Financial Exchange, Inc. to be an SBFE Certified Vendor, which professionals: and Nextens, a provider of tools and services to willallow for predictive capabilities combining our extensive allow tax professionals to work efficiently and give advice to their USbusiness and consumer data with SBFEs business customers.
During 2014, Accuity completed the acquisition of payment-performance data.
Recent partnerships will broaden FircoSoft, a leading provider of watch list filtering solutions for theuse of alternative data to identify creditworthy individuals financial institutions and corporates and a focus in 2015 has been whowould otherwise be unlikely to obtain traditional credit.
to leverage the combination to strengthen customer propositions.
Business Services also continues to advance its international Other Brands and Services include Flightglobal, Proagrica and strategy with the expansion of its international sales force, Estates Gazette and deliver a mix of high-quality data, decision upgrades of Bridger Insight XG, aBank Secrecy Act and tools and high-value news, information and opinion to business Anti-Money Laundering solution, the WorldCompliance professionals across many industry sectors while also providing heightened risk individuals database, and thelaunch of a an effective marketing channel for customers.
During the year globalversion of identity verification solution, Instant Verify.
Adaptris Group, a provider of supply chain integration and data Government Solutions provides data and analytics to US federal, solutions for the global agriculture industry, was acquired.
state and local law enforcement and government agencies to Risk & Business Analytics also provides risk-related solutions helpsolve criminal and intelligence cases and to identify fraud, tothe legal industry through LexisNexis Legal & Professional.
waste and abuse in government programmes.
In 2015, the group partnered with five states to launch the National Accuracy The risk and identity management solutions described above Clearinghouse NAC, a cross-state contributory database of utilise a comprehensive database of public records and proprietary benefits information to identify food assistance fraud in real-time.
information with more than two petabytes of unique data, which During the year, Government Solutions also enhanced its makes it the largest database of its kind in the US market today.
investigative offering for law enforcement through the acquisition Our market-leading HPCC Systems technology enables Risk & of Bair Analytics, a provider of crime intelligence analytics.
Business Analytics to provide its customers with highly relevant decision-making insights and to create new, low-cost solutions Health Care Solutions utilises consumer, provider and medical quickly and efficiently.
It is also increasingly used across other claims data to deliver leading identity, fraud and clinical analytics Group market segments, including Scientific, Technical & Medical, solutions across key stages of the healthcare workflow to enable Legal and Exhibitions.
intelligent decision-making for payers, providers, life sciences organisations and pharmacies.
Key developments in 2015 include In 2015, Risk & Business Analytics continued to reshape its successfully launching a health insurance fraud detection portfolio, exiting areas not core to its strategy.
The divestitures of consortium in Ohio and quantifying the socio-economic Cordell in Australia and the remaining stake in RCD completed the determinants of health to help inform the population health exit from construction data markets.
A number of magazine titles programmes of healthcare organisations.
in the UK and Netherlands were also divested.
LexisNexis Data Prefill Payment efficiency solutions, Anti-Money Tool to automate insurance application Laundering and Know Your Customer process providing critical information services andcompliance tools for the banking insurers need to quote and underwrite apolicy andcorporate sectors worldwide within direct, online or mobile transactions C. L. U. E. Data, news and advisory services for Most comprehensive US personal insurance Global provider of news, price benchmarks, professionals working in the global claims database data, analytics and research to the energy, aviation industry chemical and fertiliser industries National Accuracy LexisNexis RiskView Clearinghouse Population Health Monitor Award-winning multi-state contributory A pioneering tool that uses public records and A risk stratification solution powered by solution that helps resolve duplicate non-traditional data to accurately assess the award-winning MEDai Science that uses benefitsand identity-based fraud across creditworthiness of 53m thin file and no file predictive modelling to identify patientfoodstamp programmes individuals 25m individuals with no credit specific risk drivers allowing physicians, history, plus 28m individuals with little case care managers and administrative traditional credit history managers to improve health outcomes through proactive care management 22 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Market opportunities online retail sales and continued high levels of credit card fraud.
Risk & Business Analytics operates in markets with strong Growth in government markets is driven by the increasing use of long-term growth in demand for high-quality analytics based data and analytics to combat criminal activity, fraud and tax evasion, onindustry information and insight including: insurance and to address security issues.
The level and timing of demand in underwriting transactions: insurance, healthcare, tax and this market is influenced by government funding and revenue entitlement fraud: credit defaults and financial fraud: regulatory considerations.
In healthcare, there are numerous growth drivers compliance and due diligence requirements surrounding for identity, fraud and clinical analytics solutions including the customer enrolment: security and privacy considerations: expansion of insurance coverage under the Affordable Care Act anddata and analytics for the banking, energy and chemicals, and the focus on value-based care and better patient outcomes.
human resources and aviation sectors.
Growth in the global energy and chemicals markets is driven by In the insurance segment, growth is supported by increasing increasing trade and demand for more sophisticated information transactional activity in the auto, property and life insurance solutions.
Risk & Business Analytics aviation information markets and the increasing adoption by insurance carriers markets are being driven by increases in air traffic and in the ofmore sophisticated data and analytics in the prospecting, number of aircraft transactions.
underwriting and claims evaluation processes, to assess underwriting risk, increase competitiveness and improve Strategic priorities operating cost efficiency.
Transactional activity is driven by growth Risk & Business Analytics strategic goal is to help businesses in insurance quoting and policy switching, as consumers seek andgovernments achieve better outcomes with information better policy terms.
This activity is stimulated by competition anddecision support in its individual markets through better among insurance companies, high levels of carrier advertising, understanding of the risks and opportunities associated with and rising levels of internet quoting and policy binding.
individuals, other businesses, transactions and regulations.
Byproviding the highest quality industry data and decision A number of factors support growth in banking and financial tools, we assist customers in understanding their markets and services markets, including cross-border payments and trade managing risks efficiently and cost-effectively.
To achieve this, finance levels, new credit originations, continued high fraud losses, Risk & Business Analytics is focused on: delivering innovative stringent regulatory compliance requirements and increasing newproducts: expanding the range of risk management solutions anti-money laundering fines.
In receivables management, demand across adjacent markets: addressing international opportunities is driven mainly by levels of consumer debt and the prospect of in selected markets to meet local needs: further growing its data recovering that debt, which is impacted by employment conditions services businesses and continuing to strengthen its content, in the US.
In corporate markets, demand is supported by growth in technology and analytical capabilities.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET Rest of world 1,601m 1,601m Print 9% 5% Face-to-face Europe 2% 19% North America Electronic 76% 89% GROWTH IN DRIVER BEHAVIOUR TRANSACTIONS INCREASING KYC DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE VIA ACCUITY 48% 20% 2014 2015 2014 2015 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Risk & Business Analytics 23 Business model, distribution channels and competition which in many cases address different activities in these Risk & Business Analytics products are for the most part segments as well.
solddirectly, typically on a subscription or transactional basis.
Major Data Services and Other Brands and Services compete Pricing is predominantly on a transactional basis for insurance witha number of information providers on a service and carriers and corporations, and primarily on a subscription basis title-by-title basis including: Platts, Thomson Reuters and IHS for government entities.
aswell as many niche and privately owned competitors.
In the insurance sector, Verisk sells data and analytics solutions Across Risk & Business Analytics, transactional and subscription toinsurance carriers but largely addresses different activities.
revenues now account for 97% of the total business with the Principal competitors in business services and government remaining 3% derived from advertising.
segments include Thomson Reuters and major credit bureaus, 2015 financial performance 2015 2014 Underlying Acquisitions Currency Total m m growth disposals effects growth Revenue 1,601 1,439 7% -1% 5% 11% Adjusted operating profit 575 506 7% 0% 7% 14% Underlying revenue growth accelerated in 2015, with strong home insurance.
The international initiatives continued to progress growth across all key segments.
Underlying profit growth well, with strong growth in the UK, albeit from a small base.
In Business Services, growth was driven by demand for identity Underlying revenue growth was 7%.
The difference between authentication and fraud detection solutions across the financial thereported and underlying growth rates reflects the impact of services and corporate sectors.
exchange rate movements and a minor effect from portfolio The state and local and federal government segments achieved changes.
Underlying operating costs grew 7%, in line with revenue.
strong growth, and expansion in healthcare is progressing well.
Underlying adjusted operating profit growth was 7%.
Major Data Services saw strong underlying revenue growth, Thereported margin expansion reflected a small underlying andOther Brands and Services remained stable.
improvement together with a benefit from currency effects.
2016 outlook The insurance segment continued to see strong growth, driven The fundamental growth drivers of Risk & Business Analytics byvolume growth in the US auto underwriting business, strong remain strong.
We expect underlying revenue and operating profit take-up of new products and services across the insurance growth trends to continue.
workflow, and expansion in adjacent verticals including life and REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m m Underlying growth 7% Underlying growth 7% 1,601 575 1,439 506 2014 2015 2014 2015 24 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 LexisNexis Risk Solutions: helping provide affordable loans In 1940, employees of the Hughes Aircraft Company were spending too much of their lunchtime driving to downtown Los Angeles to handle their finances, so they started acredit union at the plant.
75 years later, Kinecta Federal credit union is now one of theleading credit unions in the US, with morethan $3.8bn in assets and serving over270,000 member-owners nationwide.
Kinecta acquired Nix Check Cashing in 2007 and changed the name to Nix Neighborhood Lending in 2014 to reflect the wider array of consumer financial products and services offered by Kinecta to underserved communities in Los Angeles.
Kinecta, along with its wholly owned subsidiary Nix Neighborhood A Nix branch in the greater Los Angeles area Lending Nix, sought to disrupt the US $46bn, short-term lending industry by giving low-income borrowers an alternative to relying on high, and in some cases triple-digit, interest rate loans to pay everyday expenses.
Kinecta innovated the Payday Payoff loan that eliminates a consumers costly short-term loans and replaces that debt with a much As a credit union, our fundamental objective is more affordable installment loan that fully amortises in six to 24 months.
We saw a great need in Short-term loan borrowers are vulnerable to small swings in their the community to offer a smart and responsible income and often do not have traditional credit files: therefore creating alternative to payday loans, which snared people areliable underwriting system for these borrowers is challenging.
into a cycle of never getting ahead.
LexisNexis LexisNexis Risk Solutions and Kinecta worked together to develop a Risk Solutions is a critical partner for us as model to qualify applicants and manage default risk using LexisNexis Risk Solutions RiskView Score.
Since June 2014, Nix has issued over we utilise RiskView to better society at large 9,500 loans that have helped thousands of low-income families get out by having an expanded view into a borrowers ofhigh-cost debt and build their credit history.
creditworthiness, beyond just a traditional creditbureau score.
With RiskView and the Payday Payoff loan, we can treat people with respect asthey navigate often confusing financial waters.
Luis Peralta President of Nix Neighborhood Lending Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Risk & Business Analytics 25 9,500 loans issued to help low-income families A Nix branch in the greater Los Angeles area About LexisNexis Risk Solutions RiskView LexisNexis Risk Solutions RiskView is a suite of FCRA-regulated credit risk scores and attributes based on alternative data that leverages hundreds of data sources, including property records, court records, professional licences and other public record data.
It is recognised as a tool that enables financial services companies to expand their addressable market to include more people in the financial system while not adding in additional risk to the financial system.
A Nix teller assisting a customer with a check cashing 26 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Flightglobal: innovation for key players inaviation Bombardier is one of the worlds leading innovators and manufacturers of transportation and mobility solutions.
The 70-year-old Montreal-based company employs 74,000 people with 80 production and engineering sites in 28 countries.
Bombardier is a leading provider of aviation solutions with an award-winning aircraft portfolio.
An effective way to enhance this position is to use the most up-to-date intelligence, analytics and datasets to make better business decisions.
Choosing a data provider is an important decision that can influence the efficiency and overall effectiveness of Bombardiers aerospace professionals.
Bombardier relies on Flightglobals Fleets Analyzer.
Marketing, business development, technical and customer service professionals use the product to gain a complete understanding of the global aircraft fleet.
The quality of the data and market-leading analysis helps them identify new business opportunities, understand the event history of individual aircraft and forecast strategic growth within critical market segments.
The new Bombardier CS300 aircraft displaying at the 2015 Paris air show About Fleets Analyzer Fleets Analyzer gives todays aviation professionals access to the industrys most trusted, reliable andtimely aircraft data.
The new platform helps professionals gain a complete understanding of the global fleet with access to the most comprehensive aerospace database in the world, refreshed daily, onone simplified platform.
Business review Risk & Business Analytics 27 350,000 aircraft in Fleets Analyzer database Fleets Analyzer has brought a significant amount of ease and efficiency to my colleagues at Bombardier.
We always relied upon Flightglobal for the most respected, accurate fleet data, and now with online access were able to move quickly with a clear understanding of where the real opportunities are.
We have definitely noticed the difference and have experienced positive change since migrating our employees to the new platform.
Nicolas Daigle Manager, Technical Services & Customer Analytics Bombardier Commercial Aircraft Nicolas Daigle working with Fleets Analyzer
