12 Our Business Model How we create shareholder value What we offer What we do Rentokil offers a complete range of pest control services, 1 from rodents to flying and crawling insects, to other forms We train, develop and equip of wildlife management.
our people with the best skills Different countries have their individual challenges from and tools to offer outstanding snakes in South Africa to termites in North America.
technical centre provides effective and innovative solutions forpest control with a specific emphasis placed on health, safetyand protection of the environment.
2 Initial Hygiene provides We develop, procure and a dedicated and expert hygiene manufacture products service.
It offers the widest range that we sell, rent or apply of washroom hygiene services for customers.
including the provision and maintenance of products.
These include air fresheners, sanitisers, feminine hygiene units, hand dryers, paper and linen towel dispensers, soap dispensers, toilet paper dispensers and floor protection mats.
This is a complementary business to Pest Control with a compatible 3 operational model and a strong profit contribution.
We market, sell and provide retained services to customers.
Initial Workwear specialises in the supply and laundering of workwear, uniforms, cleanroom uniforms and protective equipment.
4 We support some of Europes largest hospitality and industrial organisations to ensure that their employees have the right workwear to support safe and effective working.
This business is We innovate, creating a good complementary fit with Hygiene, benefiting from a shared products and services brand, linked service and integrated route-based operations.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 13 Our Business Model Why were different RIGHT PEOPLE Our colleagues as experts Rentokil Initial employs 31,442 experts and management development programmes and invests in training and development to ensure have begun to offer our customers access to their know-how is unrivalled.
We choose some of our own training programmes.
people who live our values of Service, In the UK our Technical Academy is designed Relationships and Teamwork.
Experience is to deliver professional industry-accredited less important in some roles as we provide the training to service colleagues through best training in our industries.
Learning and coordinated training courses, Technical development is delivered primarily through U, Performance Assessment training and support our in-house university, as well as through on through the Technical Field Consultant the job training.
In 2015 we created nearly 600 network.
In 2015 our UK operations delivered courses and videos internally around topics over 3,250 days of technical training in pest such as sales, technical and operations for our control, hygiene services and property care.
We also undertake dedicated RIGHT THINGS Industry leadership Rentokil is the global and brand leader in and increasing retention.
We achieve high commercial pest control.
We gain leverage customer satisfaction levels and believe this is through our business model founded on the a key competitive advantage.
best people, tools and training in the industry.
Initial Workwear is the No.
2 player in the Our training programmes focus on safety, European workwear market and the only service, technical excellence and innovation to operation with scale across the four big generate future growth.
Since 2012 we have Continental markets.
We are creating a acquired 68 businesses, principally in business that has clear market differentiation Emerging and Growth markets.
through the highest level of product and Initial Hygiene is the worlds leading hygiene service quality, thus driving greater customer services brand.
Our focus is on product and satisfaction and in turn generating improved service quality to sell more services per revenue and margins.
customer: targeting higher-margin customers RIGHT WAY Strong regional business and lean, multi-business operations Central functions are kept lean, providing We have five strong geographic regions: focused Centres of Excellence, group North America, Europe, UK & Rest of World, governance and sharing best practice to Asia and Pacific.
Rentokil Initial has unrivalled support our regional businesses and their expertise in the delivery of its route-based customers.
Underpinning it all is a One business model.
We have a clear operating Rentokil Initial culture a one team mentality model single-country management teams with a common set of values and promises to leading integrated, multi-service operations.
our colleagues and customers, delivering great Common back office functions, systems and customer experience and shareholder value.
processes leverage our strong expertise in running route-based businesses such as route optimisation and measurement of customer satisfaction.
We are also one of the largest users of Google Apps, Hangouts and social media.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015
