62 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY N Sir David McMurtry John Deer Ben Taylor CBE, RDI, FRS, FREng, CEng, FIMechE CEng, FIMechE Chairman and Chief Executive Deputy Chairman Assistant Chief Executive Formerly employed by Rolls-Royce plc, Trained as a mechanical engineer and Was the Director of Engineering at Bristol, for 17 years, holding the positions worked for Rolls-Royce plc, Bristol, for Sheffield Measurement, USA, before of Deputy Chief Designer and Assistant 14 years.
joining Renishaw, Inc. as President in 1985.
Chief of Engine Design for all Rolls-Royce Co-founded Renishaw with Sir David Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc engines manufactured at Filton, Bristol.
McMurtry in 1973, serving as Managing in 1987.
Invented the original measuring probe in Director from 1974 to 1989.
Responsible for Group marketing, the early 1970s and co-founded Renishaw Primarily involved in the commercial international operations, human with John Deer in 1973. direction of the Group, with particular resources and metrology regulatory Responsible for Group technology.
emphasis on marketing and the quality assurance.
establishment of the Groups whollyReports to the Board on corporate social owned subsidiaries.
Responsible for Group manufacturing and Chair of the overseas marketing subsidiaries.
Allen Roberts Geoff McFarland Dr David Grant A R N FCA CBE, FREng, FLSW, CEng, FIET Group Finance Director Group Engineering Director Senior Independent Director Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc Qualified as a chartered accountant Graduated with a BEng in computer-aided inApril 2012. in 1972 and is a Fellow of the Institute mechanical engineering at Heriot-Watt of Chartered Accountants in England University, and subsequently worked for Vice-Chancellor of Cardiff University and Wales.
several years as a research associate.
from 2001 to 2012 and previously held leadership positions at Dowty Group Joined Renishaw in 1979 and appointed After working briefly in the high-volume and GEC.
tothe Board of Renishaw plc in 1980. manufacturing electronic sector, joined Renishaw in 1994.
Currently senior independent director Heads Group finance, business systems of IQE plc, non-executive director of and Wotton Travel Ltd.
Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc the Defence Science and Technology in 2002.
Laboratory Dstl, chair of STEMNET, and Responsible for the healthcare regulatory chair of the National Physical Laboratory.
Responsible for Group engineering and Group IP and patents.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 63 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Notes: Notes: Notes: 3D angle: 3D angle: 3D angle: -135% -135% -135% 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 10pt 10pt 10pt No shadowing No shadowing No shadowing Board nationality Board tenure Board balance UK 6 03 years 4 Chairman 1 USA 2 10 years 5 Executive 4 Ireland 1 Non-executive 4 A R N R N A R N Carol Chesney Kath Durrant John Jeans FCA CBE, CEng Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc Appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc inOctober 2012. inJanuary 2015. inApril 2013.
Chartered accountant who worked Held a variety of senior positions at Currently chair of the Council of Cardiff at Arthur Andersen for seven years in AstraZeneca plc, including Vice President, University, Imanova and UK Biocentre Ltd. audit services.
HR and Communications for its research Board member of the University and and development division.
Worked for some time in the Group College Employers Association.
accounts function at English China Until recently was the Group HR Director Leads Innovate UKs Stratified Medicine Clays plc.
at Rolls-Royce plc and a member of the Advisory Board.
Currently Company Secretary of Appointed advisor to the Prime Minister at Halma plc, having also been Group Currently an Advisory Board the Office of Life Sciences in June 2014.
member for the Lancaster University Management School.
Norma Tang General Counsel and Company Secretary Joined Renishaw plc in 2001.
Qualified as a solicitor in 1988 and since then has specialised in company and commercial legal matters, advising business clients and as an inhouse counsel.
Audit committee A Remuneration committee R Nomination committee N Heads the legal and company secretariat function, advising the Board on legal Carol Chesney Chair David Grant Chair Sir David McMurtry Chair compliance and governance matters.
David Grant Carol Chesney Carol Chesney John Jeans Kath Durrant Kath Durrant John Jeans David Grant John Jeans
