8 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 RELX Group business overview Our goal is to help our customers make better decisions, get better RELX Group is a global provider results and be more productive.
We do this by leveraging a deep understanding of our customers to create innovative solutions ofinformation and analytics which combine content and data with analytics and technology inglobal platforms.
These solutions often account for about forprofessional and business 1% ofour customers total cost base but can have a significant andpositive impact on the economics of the remaining 99%.
The Group serves customers in more than 180 countries and has offices in about 40 countries.
It employs approximately 30,000 people of whom half are in North America.
We operate in four major market segments: Scientific, Technical &Medical: Risk & Business Analytics: Legal: and Exhibitions.
RELX PLCs ordinary shares are listed in London and New York, and RELX NVs ordinary shares are listed in Amsterdam and New York.
In New York the listings are in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs, evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
RELX PLC and RELX NV jointly own RELX Group plc, which, with effect from February 2015, holds all the Groups operating businesses and financing activities.
With effect from 1 July 2015, following a bonus issue of shares in RELX NV, one RELX PLC ordinary share confers an equivalent economic interest to one RELX NV ordinary share.
RELX PLC, RELX NV, RELX Group plc and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are together known as the Group.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review RELX Group 9 Market segments Segment Position Scientific, Technical & Medical helps customers advance science and improve healthcare by Global #1 providing world-class information and analytical solutions that enable them to make critical decisions, enhance productivity and improve outcomes.
Risk & Business Analytics provides solutions and decision tools that combine public and Key verticals #1 industry-specific content with advanced technology and analytics.
These solutions assist business and government customers in evaluating and predicting risk, making more informed decisions, reducing fraud and enhancing operational efficiency.
Legal is a leading provider of information and analytics to professionals in legal, corporate, US #2 government and non-profit organisations.
Outside US #1 or 2 Exhibitions organises over 500 exhibitions a year, attracting more than 7m attendees.
Theevents, Global #1 and information tools provided, help exhibitors generate billions of dollars of revenues while boosting the local economies where the events are hosted.
For additional information regarding revenue from our business activities and geographical markets, see market segments section starting on page 13.
Financial summary by market segment Revenue Adjusted operating profit 2015 Change 2015 Change m underlying m underlying Scientific, Technical & Medical 2,070 2% 760 3% Risk & Business Analytics 1,601 7% 575 7% Legal 1,443 1% 274 7% Exhibitions 857 5% 217 2% Unallocated items 4 5,971 3% 1,822 5% RELX Group uses adjusted and underlying figures as additional performance measures.
Adjusted figures primarily exclude the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and other items related to acquisitions and disposals, and the associated deferred tax movements.
Reconciliations between the reported and adjusted figures are set out on pages 56, 58, 102 and116.
Underlying growth rates are calculated at constant currencies, and exclude the results of acquisitions and disposals made in both the year and prior year and of assets held for sale.
Underlying revenue growth rates also exclude the effects of exhibition cycling.
Constant currency growth rates are based on 2014 full-year average and hedge exchange rates.
REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT 5,971m 1,822m 12% 14% 35% Scientific, Scientific, Technical Technical & Medical 15% & Medical Risk & 42% Risk & Business Business Analytics Analytics 24% Legal Legal Exhibitions Exhibitions 31% 27% 10 R RE EL LX G X Gr ro ou up p A Annu nnual al r re ep po or rt ts s an and d fi fin nan anc ciial al s st ta at te em me en nt ts s 2 20 01 15 5 The Groups open source big data technology, known as HPCC Systems Harnessing High Performance Computing Cluster, allows users to leverage the power of structured and unstructured data, opening up huge possibilities for ourcustomers.
It powers all of the big data across LexisNexis Risk Solutions operations and other businesses across the RELX Group: company are also capitalising on itscapabilities.
HPCC Systems 81% more readers clicking on recommended articles inScienceDirect Librarian using the ScienceDirect platform at Leeds University ScienceDirect Advanced Recommender Elseviers ScienceDirect platform hosts over 13m full-text science, Ever since we changed our approach and technology and medical articles.
When researchers view an article implemented HPCC Systems, nearly twice as many on ScienceDirect, the Recommender provides links to other articles that readers have been clicking on the recommended might be of interest based on the researchers online search behaviour.
articles section on the ScienceDirect article page.
The Recommender was recently made even more effective by using That, together with first-hand user feedback, thepower of HPCC Systems to apply a new algorithm and integrate makes us confident that researchers are noticing theproduct with Scopus, Elseviers citation and abstract database.
the difference and liking it.
The number of readers clicking on recommended articles has almost doubled as a result.
By integrating these online platforms and databases, Craig Scott citation information can also be used on top of measuring reading Head of Product Management Capabilities behaviour to make even more accurate recommendations to the &Innovation, Elsevier readerson ScienceDirect.
B Bu us sin ine es ss s rev reviie ew w R RE EL LX X Gr Grou oup p 11 $500m cost savings across the US by using NAC Mississippi State Capitol Building National Accuracy Clearinghouse NAC The National Accuracy Clearinghouse NAC shares data about federal food stamp programme enrollees to ensure that participants do not fraudulently receive benefits in two or more states.
Led by Mississippi, it is a growing consortium of five states including Alabama, Florida, Georgia and Louisiana.
The NAC taps into a wealth of identity data and leading analytics by leveraging HPCC Systems to compare information about applicants in one member state with dataabout programme recipients in the other member states, in near real-time.
Using the NAC has resulted in cost savings of $500m nationwide.
The success of the NAC to date has been overwhelming and when implemented nationwide the NAC is estimated to save millions.
Joel T. Savell NAC Project Director, Mississippi Department of Human Services 12 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information B Bu us sin ine es ss s rev reviie ew w R RE EL LX X Gr Grou oup p 13 Market segments
