28 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Legal Serving customers in more than 130 countries, LexisNexis In Legal markets, we are a leading Legal& Professional provides resources and services that informdecisions, increase productivity and drive new business.
global provider of information and Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2015 were 1,443m, analytical tools to professionals in compared to 1,396m in 2014 and 1,567m in 2013.
LexisNexis Legal & Professional is headquartered in New York and has legal, corporate, government and principal operations in the New York area, Ohio and North Carolina in the US, Toronto in Canada, London and Paris in Europe, and non-profit organisations.
cities in several other countries in Africa and Asia Pacific.
By destination, 68% of revenue in2015 was derived from North MedMal Navigator identifies the ideal experts and locates America, 21% from Europe and theremaining 11% from the rest full text journal articles for medical malpractice lawyers.
In 2015, 79% of therevenue came from subscription sales and 21% from transactional sales.
LexisNexis publishes many of the worlds primary laws.
LexisNexis Legal & Professional is organised in market-facing Almost 4bn people around the world live outside the groups.
These are supported by global shared services protection of the rule of law.
We continue our collaboration organisations providing platform and product development, with the United Nations to develop the Global Rule of Law operational and distribution services, and other support Business Principles.
In North America, electronic information solutions and innovative More than 4bn connections within t he LexisNexis database tools from Research Solutions help legal and business are continually explored and updated t o deliver the latest professionals make better informed decisions in the practice of legal information via computer, tablet or smartphone.
law and in managing their businesses.
Flagship products for legal research are Lexis.
com and Lexis Advance, which provide federal and state statutes and case law, together with analysis and expert TolleyGuidance offers online access tothe most up-to-date commentaries from sources such as Matthew Bender and Michie UK tax information, combining expert commentary with and the leading citation service Shepards, which advises on the practical advice.
continuing relevance of case law precedents.
Research solutions also include news and business information, ranging from daily news to company filings, as well as public records information and analytics.
LexisNexis also partners with law schools to provide services to students as part of their training.
In 2015, LexisNexis continued to release new versions of Lexis Advance, an innovative web application designed to transform howlegal professionals conduct research.
Built on the New Lexis advanced technology platform, Lexis Advance allows primary researchers within legal and professional organisations to find relevant information more easily and efficiently, helping to drive better outcomes.
Future releases will continue to expand content and outreach and add new innovative tools.
LexisNexis employs lawyers and trained editors with professional legal backgrounds who review, annotate and update the legal content to help ensure each document in the collection is current and comprehensive.
This domain expertise combined with the application of the Groups big data HPCC Systems technology means LexisNexis is able to update its entire legal collection faster and more efficiently, while also identifying and linking content, enabling customers to identify previously undiscovered relationships between documents.
New analytical tools and content sets are regularly introduced onLexis Advance.
For example, in 2015 LexisNexis launched newLexisNexis Practice Pages, which bring together solutions, authoritative legal and news sources, analysis and insights that are most relevant to specific practice areas or jurisdictions.
LexisNexis also continued to enhance its web-based practical guidance product Lexis Practice Advisor, a tailored solution forattorneys who handle transactional matters.
In addition, LexisNexis released Lexis Advance Quicklaw in the Canadian market in 2015.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Legal 29 LexisNexis Business & Litigation Software Solutions provides law authoritative content is provided through multiple formats firms with practice management solutions, including time and lexisnexis.
These content sources are, asin billing systems, case management, cost recovery and document the UK, being combined with new content and innovative decision management services.
Its litigation software provides lawyers tools to develop practical guidance and practice management with a suite of tools covering case preparation to processing and solutions.
In 2015, LexisNexis France launched new versions review to trial preparation.
During 2015, LexisNexis released andadditional packages to enhance Lexis 360, the first online multiple enhancements for its existing portfolio of products semantic search tool combining legal information, practical including CounselLink, PCLaw, Sanction andFirm Manager.
content and results from the web by providing tailored solutions for the public sector and the accounting markets.
In international markets outside the US, LexisNexis serves legal, corporate, government, accounting and academic Additional practical guidance solutions were launched in Canada, marketsinEurope, Canada, Africa and Asia Pacific with local South Africa and Australia.
Following the continued success of andinternational legal, regulatory and business information.
Lexis Advance in the US, LexisNexis successfully released its Themost significant businesses are in the UK, France, Australia, commercial offer of Lexis Advance in Australia in February 2015.
In 2015, LexisNexis Legal & Professional strengthened its LexisNexis focuses on providing customers with leading positions in Asia by introducing products created specifically for collections of content and innovative online solutions to help legal professionals and practitioners, corporate counsels, legal legaland business professionals make better decisions more researchers and government institutions in markets including efficiently.
Adoption of online information services has grown India, China and Japan.
New practical guidance modules were strongly and electronic solutions now account for 67% of added to offerings in China, Hong Kong and Japan.
alsocontinued investing to broaden offerings in India, Singapore and other countries in the region.
In the UK, LexisNexis is a leading legal information provider offering an unrivalled collection of primary and secondary Market opportunities legislation, case law, expert commentary, and forms and Longer-term growth in legal and regulatory markets worldwide precedents.
Its extensive portfolio includes a number of leading isdriven by increasing levels of legislation, regulation, regulatory brands: Halsburys, Tolleys and Butterworths.
The content is complexity and litigation, and an increasing number of lawyers.
delivered through multiple formats from print to online to Additional market opportunities are presented by the increasing mobileapps and embedded in customers work practices.
demand for online information solutions, legal analytics and other In 2015, LexisNexis launched a new Public Law module for the solutions as well as practice management tools that improve the UK LexisPSL product suite which provides lawyers with a single quality and productivity of research, deliver better legal outcomes destination for their practical legal information needs with direct and improve business performance.
Notwithstanding this, legal links to the relevant cases, legislation, precedents, forms, activity and legal information markets are also influenced by practical guidance and expert commentary.
economic conditions and corporate activity, as has been seen withthe subdued environment in North America and Europe in In France, LexisNexis is a leading online provider of information theaftermath of the global recession.
JurisClasseur and other leading LexisNexis UK flagship legal online product LexisNexis UK legal practical guidanceservice Matthew Bender Critical analysis, checklists, forms and Premier citations service Leading legal news provider covering the practice guides authored by industry experts entire spectrum of practice areas every covering over 50 major practice areas singlebusiness day Lexis Unparalleled legal, news and public records New online legal research tool that New resource that offers guidance to help content for legal professionals transforms the way legal professionals attorneys handle transactional matters conduct research moreefficiently and effectively 30 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Strategic priorities Outside the US, LexisNexis is focused on growing online LexisNexis Legal & Professionals strategic goal is to enable servicesand developing further high-quality actionable content better legal outcomes and be the leading provider of productivityand decision tools, including the continuous development of enhancing information, analytics and information-based decision practical guidance and practice management applications.
To achieve this, LexisNexis is focused on In2016, LexisNexis will continue to expand the New Lexis introducing next generation products and solutions on the global platformglobally.
Additionally, LexisNexis is focusing on the New Lexis platform and infrastructure: leveraging New Lexis expansion ofits activities in emerging markets.
globally to continue to drive print-to-electronic migration and long-term international growth: and upgrading operational Business model, distribution channels and competition infrastructure, improving process efficiency and gradually LexisNexis Legal & Professional products and services improving margins.
aregenerally sold directly to law firms and to corporate, government, accounting and academic customers on a paid In the US, LexisNexis focus is on the continuing development of subscription basis, with subscriptions with law firms often next generation legal research and practice solutions.
It is also undermulti-year contracts.
conducting a major upgrade in operations infrastructure and customer service and support platforms.
This will provide Principal competitors for LexisNexis in US legal markets customers with an integrated and superior experience across areWestlaw Thomson Reuters, CCH Wolters Kluwer multiple products and solutions.
Over the next few years, andBloomberg.
In news and business information they are progressive product introductions, often based on the New Bloomberg and Factiva News Corporation.
Competitors Lexisplatform, leveraging big data HPCC Systems technology, inlitigation solutions also include software companies.
will combine advanced technology with enriched content,  competitors include Thomson sophisticated analytics and applications to enable LexisNexis Reuters, Wolters Kluwer and Factiva.
customers to make better legal decisions and drive better outcomes for their organisations and clients.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET 1,443m 1,443m Rest of world 11% Print 20% Face-to-face Europe 1% 21% North America Electronic 68% 79% LEXIS ADVANCE CUSTOMER ADOPTION NUMBER OF LEXIS ADVANCE MOBILE SEARCHES 90% 82% 31% 2014 2015 2014 2015 Increasing use of Lexis Advance via mobile.
Increasing uptake of next generation legal platform.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Legal 31 2015 financial performance 2015 2014 Underlying Acquisitions Currency Total m m growth disposals effects growth Revenue 1,443 1,396 1% 0% 2% 3% Adjusted operating profit 274 260 7% -2% 0% 5% Key trends were unchanged in 2015.
Underlying revenue US and European markets remained stable but subdued.
growthremained modest, with efficiency gains driving strong In other international markets we continued to see good growth.
underlying operating profit growth and improved margins.
The roll-out of new platform releases in the US and Underlying revenue growth was 1%.
The difference between internationalmarkets continued, and adoption and usage thereported and underlying growth rates reflects the impact ratesprogressed well.
ofexchange rate movements and minor portfolio changes.
In 2015 we continued to support underlying growth through Underlying adjusted operating profit growth was 7%, and anumber of small acquisitions and disposal of some underlying costs reduced by 1%.
The margin increase of 40 minor assets.
basispoints reflects organic process improvement, and the  of systems, partially offset by 2016 outlook smallportfolio effects and currency movements.
Trends in our major customer markets are unchanged, continuingto limit the scope for underlying revenue growth.
Electronic revenues, which now account for 79% of the total, Weexpect underlying profit growth to remain strong.
sawcontinued growth, partially offset by print declines.
REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m m Underlying growth 1% Underlying growth 7% 274 260 1,443 1,396 2014 2015 2014 2015 32 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Lexis for Microsoft Office: working faster and better CritelliLaw, PC is a specialist law firm of American trial lawyers who have also qualified at the English Bar as barristers.
With offices in Iowa and London, the firm offers a bespoke service helping other lawyers prepare and argue international cases for trial, mediation or arbitration.
Founder Nick Critelli is the first practising American lawyer since 1919 to be Nick Critelli of CritelliLaw designated a Master of the Bench at the Middle Temple, one of the Inns of Court in London.
As recently as five years ago, CritelliLaw was using a large number Lexis for Microsoft Office has reduced the of individual products to draft legal documents.
The information amount of time it takes me to assemble legal was assembled in a piecemeal fashion that was time-consuming documents by about 50%.
It helps me to make and inefficient.
Since selecting Lexis for Microsoft Office as order out of chaos by giving me speed, accuracy itsintegrated legal drafting tool, the firm has seen exceptional and integration.
This technology allows me to results in productivity and cost-effectiveness as the seamless process brings disparate content together in one place.
A legal work faster and better.
memorandum, skeleton argument or brief can be drafted at the Nick Critelli same time that its being researched.
Tasks which used to take Founder and Managing Partner, CritelliLaw, PC several days are now accomplished in a few hours or less.
The ability for Lexis for Microsoft Office to integrate legal research and analysis tools while checking citations and preparing appropriate tables of authorities has also proven critical to the overall quality ofwork produced by the firm.
Middle Temple is oneof the Inns of Court in London Business review Legal 33 About Lexis for Microsoft Office Lexis for Microsoft Office is a drafting and review tool thathelps professionals reduce the time they spend on drafting or responding to legal documents by running the tool within Word documents and Outlook emails.
It is combined with content from Lexis Advance to increase accuracy when accessing forms, researching, checking citations and quotes and building tables of authorities aswell as easily converting PDFs to Word documents.
50% less time taken to assemble legal documents Iowa State Law Library, Des Moines
