64 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2015 Board Directors Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Erik Engstrom 52 Anthony Habgood 69 R Wolfhart Hauser 66 R N C N C Chief Executive Officer Chairman Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Appointed: Chief Executive Officer of RELX Appointed: June 2009 Appointed: April 2013 Group since November 2009.
Joined the Group Other appointments: Chairman of: Court of Other appointments: Chairman of as Chief Executive Officer of Elsevier in 2004. the Bank of England, Preqin Holding Limited FirstGroup plc and a Non-Executive Director Other appointments: Non-Executive and Norwich Research Partners LLP.
of Associated British Foods plc.
Director of Smith & Nephew plc.
Past appointments: Previously was Chairman Past appointments: Chief Executive Officer Past appointments: Prior to joining the Group of Whitbread plc, Bunzl plc and Mlnlycke of Intertek Group plc from 2005 until May was a partner at General Atlantic Partners.
Health Care Limited and served as Chief 2015.
Prior to that hewas Chief Executive Before that was President and Chief Operating Executive of Bunzl plc, Chief Executive of Officer of TV Sud AG between 1998 and Officer of Random House Inc and President Tootal Group plc and a Director of The Boston 2002 andChief Executive Officer of TV and Chief Executive Officer of Bantam Consulting Group.
Formerly Non-Executive Product Service GmbH for 10 years.
Began his Director of Geest plc, Marks and Spencer plc, Formerly a Non-Executive Director career as a consultant with McKinsey.
National Westminster Bankplc, Powergen ofLogicaplc.
Served as a Non-Executive Director of Eniro plc, SVG Capital plc, andNorfolk and Nationality: German AB and Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA.
Education: Holds a BSc from Stockholm Education: Holds an MA in Economics School of Economics, an MSc from the Royal fromCambridge University and an MS in Institute of Technology in Stockholm, and Industrial Administration from Carnegie gained an MBA from Harvard Business Mellon University.
He is a visiting Fellow School as a Fulbright Scholar.
Nationality: Swedish Nationality: British Nick Luff 48 Marike van Lier Lels 56 A Robert Polet 60 R C C Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: September 2014 Appointed: Non-Executive Director of RELX Appointed: April 2007 Other appointments: Non-Executive NV since January 2010.
Appointed as a Other appointments: Chairman of Safilo Director of Lloyds Banking Group plc.
Non-Executive Director of RELX PLC and Group SpA, Chairman of the Supervisory Past appointments: Prior to joining the RELX Group plc on 21 July 2015.
Board of Rituals Cosmetics BV, Chairman Group was Group Finance Director of Other appointments: Member of the ofNSG Apparel BV, and a Non-Executive Supervisory Boards of TKH Group NV, Eneco Centrica plc from 2007.
Before that was Director of Philip Morris International Inc Holding NV and NS Dutch Railways, and ChiefFinancial Officer at The Peninsular and William Grant & Sons Limited.
amember of the Executive Committee of &Oriental Steam Navigation Company Past appointments: President and Chief Aegon Association.
Amember of various P&O and its affiliated companies, having Executive Officer of Gucci Group from 2004 Dutch governmental advisory boards.
previously held a number of senior finance to 2011, having previously spent 26 years at Past appointments: Member of the roles at P&O.
Began his career as an Unilever working in a variety of positions Supervisory Boards of Royal Imtech NV, accountant with KPMG.
Formerly a including President of Unilevers Worldwide Maersk BV, KPN NV and USG People NV, and Non-Executive Director of QinetiQ Group plc.
Ice Cream and Frozen Foods division.
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Education: Has a degree in Mathematics Formerly a member of the Supervisory Board Officer of the Schiphol Group.
Prior to joining from Oxford University and is a qualified of Nyenrode Foundation and a Non-Executive Schiphol Group, was a member of the Executive UKChartered Accountant.
Director of Wilderness Holdings Limited, Board of Deutsche Post Euro Express and Nationality: British Scotch & Soda BV and Crown Topco Limited.
held various senior positions with Nedlloyd.
Nationality: Dutch Nationality: Dutch Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Board directors 65 Adrian Hennah 58 A Lisa Hook 57 R C N C Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Appointed: April 2011 Appointed: April 2006 Other appointments: Chief Financial Officer Other appointments: President and of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and ChiefExecutive Officer of Neustar, Inc and a Director of Vantiv, Inc and Island Press.
Serves Non-Executive Director of Indivior PLC.
on the US Presidents National Security Past appointments: Chief Financial Officer Telecommunications Advisory Committee of Smith & Nephew plc from 2006 to 2012.
NSTAC, and as a member of the Advisory Before that was Chief Financial Officer of Board of the Peggy Guggenheim Collection.
Invensys plc, having previously held various Past appointments: President and Chief senior finance and management positions Executive Officer at Sun Rocket, Inc. Before that with GlaxoSmithKline for 18 years.
was President of AOL Broadband, Premium Nationality: British and Developer Services.
Prior to joining AOL, was a founding partner at Brera Capital Partners LLC.
Previously Chief Operating Officer of Time Warner Telecommunications and has served as Senior Advisor to the Federal Communications Commission Chairman and aSenior Counsel to Viacom Cable.
Formerly aDirector of Covad Communications, Inc, TWTelecom, Inc and The Ocean Foundation.
Nationality: American Linda Sanford 63 A Ben van der Veer 64 A C N C Board Committee membership key Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director A Audit Committees Chairman of the Audit Committees R Remuneration Committee Appointed: December 2012 Appointed: September 2009 N Nominations Committee Other appointments: An independent Other appointments: Member of the C C orporate Governance Committee Director of Consolidated Edison, Inc and Supervisory Boards of Aegon NV, TomTom Committee Chairman Pitney Bowes, Inc, and a consultant to NV and Koninklijke FrieslandCampina NV.
All of the Directors are directors of RELX Group plc, TheCarlyle Group.
Serves on the boards of Past appointments: Chairman of the RELX PLC and RELX NV.
trustees of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Executive Board of KPMG in the Netherlands and the New York Hall of Science.
and a member of the Management Past appointments: Senior Vice President, Committee of the KPMG International board Enterprise Transformation, IBM Corporation until his retirement in 2008, having joined until 2014, having joined the company in 1975.
Formerly a member of the Formerly a Non-Executive Director of ITT Supervisory Boards of Royal Imtech NV Corporation, served on the boards of directors andSiemens Nederland NV.
of The Business Council of New York State Nationality: Dutch and the Partnership for New York City, and on the boards of trustees of the State University of New York and St Johns University.
